
    ----CITATION----
        Dorsey, Anna Hanson, (1815-1896). Woodreve Manor, or, Six Months in Town .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6305 wright2-0775
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               WOODREVE MANOR:
               OR, SIX MONTHS IN TOWN.
               A Tale TO SUIT THE MERITS AND THE FOLLIES OF THE
               TIMES.
               BY MRS. ANNA HANSON DORSEY, AUTHORESS OF "THE STUDENTS OF
               BLENHEIM FOREST," ETC.
               
               PHILADELPHIA:
               A. HART, LATE CAREY AND HART.
               FOR SALE BY ALL BOOKSELLERS IN THE UNITED STATES AND CANADAS.
               
               1852.
            
            
         
         
         
         
            
            RENA:
            OR, THE SNOW BIRD.
            A TALE OF REAL LIFE.
            BY MRS. CAROLINE LEE HENTZ.
            This day is published in one vol., 273 pages., The THIRD EDITION, price 50 cents.
            
               OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
               "An unusually clever tale, that by its sprightliness, its clear delineations of
                  charm and its vigorous and sparkling style, will afford entertainment to every
                  class of reader—Book Trade
               
               "The 'Snow-Bird' elicits a thrill of deep and exquisite pleasure, even exceeding
                  that which accompanied 'Linda,' which was generally admitted to be the best story
                  ever written for a newspaper. That was certainly high praise, but 'Rena' takes
                  precedent even of its predecessor, and, in both, Mrs. Lee Hentz has achieved a
                  triumph of no ordinary kind. It is not that old associations bias our judgment,
                  for though from the appearance, years since, of the famous 'Mob Cap,' in this
                  paper, we formed an exalted opinion of the womanly and literary excellence of the
                  writer, our feelings have, in the interim had quite sufficient leisure to cool;
                  yet after the lapse of years, we have continued to maintain the same literary
                  devotion to this best of our female writers. The two latest productions of Mrs.
                  Lee Hentz now fully confirm our previously formed opinion, and we unhesitatingly
                  commend 'Rena,' now published in book form by A. Hart, Chestnut and Fourth
                  streets, as a story which, in its varied, deep, and thrilling interest, has no
                     superior."—American Courier.
               
               "Rena; or, the Snow-Bird," by Caroline Lee Hentz. This new story, from one of our
                  most fascinating writers of fiction, published by A. Hart, of this city, is a
                  charmin production. It is destined to an equal popularity with
                     "Linda."—Arthur's Home Gazette.
               
               "It will be found to be the best story which Mrs. Caroline Lee Hentz has ever
                     given to the public. In view of the wonderful popularity of
                  her 'Mob Cap,' and her most recent triumph in the universally admired 'Linda,' we
                  express a volume of praise ing 'Rena,' her charming, beautiful
                  'Snowbird,' will be found to excel even those wonderful
                  creations of her genius."—Saturday Courier.
               
               PUBLISHED BY A. HART, PHILADELPHIA.
               And forwarded by mail (free of postage), on receiving 50 cts. post paid.
            
         
         
            
               WOODREVE MANOR:
               OR, SIX MONTHS IN TOWN.
            
         
         
         
            
            
               WOODREVE MANOR:
               OR, SIX MONTHS IN TOWN.
               A Tale of American Life,
               TO SUIT THE MERITS AND THE FOLLIES OF THE TIMES.
            
            BY MRS. ANNA HANSON DORSEY, AUTHORESS OF "THE STUDENTS OF
               BLENHEIM FOREST," ETC.
            
               
                  
                     
                        What is noble? To inherit
                        Wealth, and fame, and proud degree?
                        There must be some other merit
                        Higher yet than these for me.
                        Something nobler far must enter
                        Into Life's majestic span;
                        Something to create and centre
                        TRUE NOBILITY in man!
                     
                  
                  ANON.
               
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               A. HART, LATE CAREY AND HART,
                  
                     126 CHESTNUT STREET.
                  
               
            
            1852.
            
            
         
            
               Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1852, by A. HART, in
                  the Office of the Clerk of the District Court in and for the Eastern District of
                  Pennsylvania.
               PHILADELPHIA:
               T. K. AND P. G. COLLINS, PRINTERS.
            
         
        
      
      
         
            Woodreve Manor, or, Six months in town
            WOODREVE MANOR.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "There hath come a weary day,
                           When, overtasked at length,
                           Both Love and Hope beneath the weight give way;
                           Then with a statue's smile, a statue's strength,
                           Stands the mute sister, Patience, nothing loth,
                           And both supporting, does the work of both."
                        
                     
                     COLERIDGE.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Though haply o'er some of your brows, as o'er mine,
                           The snow-fall of Time may be stealing—what then?"
                        
                     
                     MOORE.
                  
               
               WITHIN a spacious apartment, where every object was thrown into startling clare-obscure by the fitful rays of a lamp which
                  depended by a silver chain from the lofty ceiling, sat a lady, half reclining
                  among the velvet cushions of a luxurious fauteuil. Her face, which was partially upturned to the light, was
                  singularly noble in its outline. The dark, long eyelashes, which swept her cheek,
                  and the heavy masses of pale brown hair, which fell waving over her shoulders to
                  the floor, combined with the sombre color of her robes, and the motionless repose
                  of her features, imparted to them the exquisite whiteness of fine marble. She was
                  apparently tall, and judging from the velvet drapery which fell in folds of
                  unstudied grace around her, finely and beautifully proportioned. One long, fair
                  hand supported her cheek; the other hung by her side, the fingers of which closed
                  and unclosed at intervals with such nervous violence as indicated not only life,
                  but agony.
               The fire, which the first frosts of October had made necessary for comfort, had
                  burned out on the hearth, and only a heap of white ashes remained, bearing witness
                  with the clock, which chimed one, of the lateness of the hour. As the low, sweet
                  echo of Time softly resounded through the silent room, the lady unclosed her eyes,
                  and pressed her hand to her forehead; then sat upright, and looked for a moment around her, as if wondering at
                  the desolation, and the midnight; and obeying some restless impulse, left her
                  cushions and approached the casement. She grasped the heavy draperies, and drawing
                  them quite back, a flood of moonlight, solemn and beautiful, streamed through the
                  rich and transparent coloring of the delineations on the diamond-shaped glasses of
                  the high-pointed windows. She opened the sash; and as a keen, fresh breath of wind
                  stole noiselessly in, she folded her arms, and, unheeding the chill salutation,
                  leaned against the deep embrasure of the window. As she gazed on the glittering
                  frost-gems which quivered on every leaf, faint imitations of the fair jewels which
                  shone in the gardens of heaven above, and heard the gentle breathing of the
                  autumnal winds through the hoary trees of the forest, and the restless heaving of
                  waves on the river's shore, an expression of agony gradually settled on her
                  countenance, only subdued by a proud determination to endure silently, and blended
                  sternly with the lineaments of her intellectual face. Neither Iphigenia at Aulis,
                  nor Athalie in the Temple, looked more coldly beautiful in their hour of
                  sacrifice, nor Zenobia more magnificent in her desolation, when, with a broken
                  heart but untamed spirit, she decked in chains the triumphal procession of
                  Aurelian, than did this silent watcher.
               But the profound stillness was suddenly broken by the sound of wheels rolling
                  rapidly over the gravelled drive, and in a few moments a coach drew up before the
                  hall door; and the four horses, fatigued either by great speed or a long journey,
                  panted and trembled as they stood.
               "Do not ring nor knock," said a gentleman, springing from the coach, to his
                  footman; "it will disturb the family."
               "That voice," thought the unseen watcher, "surely, it cannot be——I have not heard
                  it for years!"
               "I," continued the midnight visitor, "know the place well; and if the night-lock
                  has not been changed or altered, during these long years of absence, I can get in
                  quietly. Aha! the key is at home, and now that I am sure of getting in without
                  making a deuced noise to disturb the house, I will show you the way to the
                  stables, where you fellows can make yourselves and the beasts comfortable."
               He descended the broad stone steps, and preceded his carriage to the stables,
                  where, after giving the necessary directions to his attendants, he returned, and,
                  applying the key to the lock, opened the massive hall door softly, and entered;
                  but started back, as he confronted the lady, who, with a small taper in her hand,
                  had come there to receive him.
               "Jasper!" she said, extending her hand, "welcome."
               "God!" he exclaimed, starting back, "it cannot be Miriam!"
               "Am I then so changed, Jasper? Enter the old homestead, my brother! You are truly
                  welcome, though it is a sad anniversary you have chosen for your visit."
               "You are changed, Miriam!" he replied, grasping her hand, and gazing
                  with admiration on her strange beauty, which would have served the bold chisel of
                  Phidias with a model for Minerva. "A thought too pale and sad-looking for one of
                  your years. When I last saw you—"
               "I was a foolish child; but come into my library. I have passed the night away
                  somehow there, and was standing at the open window when you came. Sit down. I will
                  waken my maid and have a fire lit, and refreshments brought."
               "No, Miriam; for God's sake, don't! I am sorry to disturb you so; I wish I had
                  come in the broad daylight; it looks so deuced like old times here, that I almost
                  fancy I see shadows of the past flitting about me. I'll close that window," he
                  said, shivering as he approached it. "A ghost might glide in with the moonshine,
                  ha! ha! But let me go to my chamber, dear Miriam. I will not keep you up another
                  moment. Such confounded nights as these are enough to change you! You ought not to
                  mope so much alone."
               "Listen, Jasper," she said, laying her cold white hand on his arm, and gazing
                  steadily into his restless and uneasy eyes, "memory will not let me live alone.
                  True, I am not gay; that would be mockery at any time, but madness on such an
                  anniversary as this. Do you remember it?"
               "Ah, yes; poor Vernon," he replied, turning his eyes away.
               "No!" she exclaimed, almost gasping with agony, "poor Vernon's son! This night,
                  twelve years ago, in the bloom of his childhood and beauty, this blossom, this
                  solitary blossom of my lorn heart—this being who filled up the past, present, and
                  future of my life with a quiet rapture—my child, Jasper—my only one, was stolen
                  away; and I live to bear it!"
               "It was a sad thing, Miriam," replied her brother, walking to and fro for a
                  moment, "but cheer up! cheer up, my beautiful sister. Live for others. Make
                  yourself happiness, by bestowing it on others."
               "You will not chide me on the morrow, Jasper," she said, proudly; "I
                     do live for others. The dark shadow of my life falls on none; no
                  eye witnesses my woe save the sad angel who has walked unseen with me through
                  life. I endure it with a semblance of patience and strength every hour throughout
                  the year; but this night! it is sacred to
                  memory and misery. But others sleep while I watch, and the few tears I can shed do
                  not even fall upon a flower. I suffer alone."
               "Pardon me, Miriam; I wish you well, and respect your grief. I am only awkward in
                  expressing what I feel. 'Pon my soul, though, I am sorry I've pained you, by
                  breaking in so suddenly on you. I will not intrude a moment longer. Give me your
                  little lamp; I know the way to my old chamber; good night; rest if you can," said
                  her brother.
               "It is better, perhaps, that we should meet on the morrow," she observed, handing
                  him the lamp; "but pause one moment. Mr. Bedford is at Woodreve, and occupies your
                  room; and Edith, my step-daughter, is in the one adjoining mine, over the
                  drawing-room. Go into any other you may fancy; but do partake of some
                  refreshment."
               "No! no!" he said, hurriedly; "I supped late on the road; I had my own hamper with
                  me. Spare yourself, Miriam, and retire."
               "Say nothing to them on the morrow, dear Jasper, of finding me here thus," said
                  the lady, kissing his cheek. "Good night."
               As the day dawned, and the stars slowly paled amidst the purpled mists, Mrs.
                  Willoughby, the widowed proprietor of Woodreve, retired noiselessly to her
                  chamber, and after bathing her throbbing temples with eau
                     de Cologne, she gathered up her beautiful hair, and wound it around
                  her classically formed head, and lay composedly down, to rest a few moments ere
                  the duties of the day began. And when Mr. Bedford and Edith entered the
                  breakfast-parlor, at the usual hour, she was sitting calmly beside a cheerful
                  fire, looking over the contents of the letter-bag, which had been just brought in.
                  A gray silk morning dress, gathered around her waist by a band of black velvet,
                  set off the fair proportions of her elegant person; and a small, finely wrought
                  lace collar rivalled the whiteness of her faultless throat. No traces of the
                  night's agony was on her countenance, and she returned their affectionate
                  salutation and the compliments of the day with a quiet smile.
               "My brother, Colonel Shirley, arrived last night at Woodreve, Mr. Bedford."
               "Jasper! You amaze me! You had no intimation of his visit; but, God bless us! he's
                  not the less welcome for that! I was awake until after twelve; why did you not
                  send for me?"
               "He would not allow me to waken even a servant, and no entreaty could prevail on
                  him to partake of any refreshment. I am, you know, a late sitter up at times, and
                  recognized his voice when he spoke to his servant, instantly, and met him at the
                  hall door."
               "Well! well!" said Mr. Bedford, rubbing his thin white hands together with an
                  expression of genuine pleasure; "I will be glad to see Jasper once more. Edith,
                  darling! look between the leaves of that Plato, and hand me my spectacles; now the
                  paper; there, thou fairest of Flora's handmaids, go among your flowers again." And
                  then he settled himself comfortably in the beaded chair, and commenced poring over
                  the Daily Chronicle, while Mrs. Willoughby quietly resumed her
                  letter reading. Edith was a tall, splendid-looking girl of some seventeen summers,
                  whose face, moulded in the loftiest and most exquisite style of beauty, indicated
                  an impulsive and ardent temperament, and whose eyes, flashing and black, shone
                  like two stars beneath their long silken fringes, while every perfect lineament
                  revealed high-toned feelings and a refined intellectuality. A joyous smile,
                  native, and seemingly in love with its own sweetness, was ever flitting around her
                  dewy lips, and her rounded symmetrical form displayed an unconscious grace in
                  every movement. Her raven hair, glossy and waving, was gathered up to the back of
                  her head, revealing its fine outline, where it was fastened with a small gold
                  comb; while a few curls, half shading her polished forehead, were carelessly
                  turned behind her delicately and beautifully formed ears. A white morning dress,
                  fastened on the bosom with a few October roses, and confined around the waist by a
                  rich crimson ribbon, formed her becoming costume.
               Mr. Bedford, le vieil ami de maison, pleaded
                  guilty to having witnessed the snows of seventy winters, and his fine silken white
                  hair testified to the truth of his assertion; but, somehow, there seemed to be a
                  perpetual spring-time blooming, and a never wearying spirit, le jeunesse, keeping guard over his heart, which made
                  evergreens of all its tendrils. He could not grow old. Probably his intercourse
                  with the stars, for Mr. Bedford was devoted to the science of astronomy, kept
                  bright within him the wheels of life; and in contemplation, year after year, of
                  these lambent psalmists of the skies, who hymn forever in their Creator's ear
                  their grand and solemn strains, he may have felt those ennobling sentiments of
                  humility and docile faith which burnished up his simplicity of character until it
                  was beautiful. The flowers, the rills, the mountains of earth, the sunlit palaces
                  of the western skies, the busy ocean, and whispering winds, had their own sweet
                  soft echo in the old man's loving heart. He was learned, and delighted most in the
                  annals of classic lore; and if he had a fault on earth, it was a Spartan one, for
                  of the history of that model republic he never wearied; Lycurgus and his wisdom, the bravery of
                  its men, the fortitude of its women, its code of stoical ethics, and its moral
                  grandeur, were themes of unceasing interest to Mr. Bedford. The poet has sung of
                  "faultless monsters which the world ne'er saw," and if he, with all his high
                  excellences of character, had not indulged in a few eccentricities, he would have
                  been the rara avis of mankind.
               It was known that he was of high and ancient lineage, and that he received an
                  annual income from certain properties in England, but this was all; he never
                  talked of the past; and on one or two occasions, when he was questioned indirectly
                  on the subject, he pretended not to understand a word that was said. When not at
                  Woodreve, he lived in his own house in town, with one confidential man-servant,
                  almost as ancient as himself, and a respectable old housekeeper, who enjoyed
                  unusual privileges, and had the freedom of the whole mansion, except the region of
                  telescopes and a mysterious apartment filled with galvanic batteries, retorts, and
                  electrical machines, and whose walls were lined with huge cases containing
                  minerals, musty-looking volumes, and not a few curio's in the shape
                  of frightful reptiles coiled in glass bottles, some fine specimens of chrysolites,
                  and rare gems, whose radiance was rendered more remarkable from being in close
                  companionship with heaps of dusky meteorological stones, which acted as a fine
                  foil to them. And it was well for the peace of Mrs. Grimshaw that these were
                  precisely the two places on earth of which she had the greatest horror, they being
                  associated, in her most unscientific mind, with ideas of demonology and
                  witchcraft. Mr. Bedford took no pains to enlighten her, as he dreaded, more than
                  any other vexation the penates could suggest, a
                  daily irruption of brooms and dustpans within the precincts of his sanctum.
               
               He had never altered the style of his dress, but still wore fine thread cambric
                  wrist ruffles, and frills on his shirt-bosoms, while his small-clothes were
                  fastened at the knees with small diamond clasps, and his square-toed shoes
                  ornamented with a pair of capacious buckles of finely wrought gold; for it was an
                  idiosyncrasy in his character, that, with all his devotion to science, he was
                  fastidiously nice about his personal appearance. Edith sometimes dared to rally
                  him on his antiquated style; but he would pleasantly reply: "The world, my
                  darling, grows wiser every day, and will soon begin to respect me the more, merely
                  because I am a well-preserved relic of antiquity."
               He refolded the paper, exclaiming, impatiently, "One would fancy, who was not
                  acquainted with the modus operandi of the
                  gauntlet which it seems necessary for all our candidates for political honors to
                  run, that all the eminent men and distinguished statesmen are the most monstrous
                  villains living, so liberally does each party bespatter the other with
                  Billingsgate filth. Patriotism is yielding to partisanship—a bad omen in a
                  Republic. Such doings would never have been tolerated in Sparta. Miriam, is Jasper
                  changed?"
               "Yes, yes, my old friend," cried Colonel Shirley, who had entered unperceived, and
                  was now grasping his hands—"changed, indeed. Grace has fled from me, and folds of
                  vulgar fat usurped its place, and my head is sprinkled thick with a premature
                  frost; but my heart, old friend—my heart, my affections, and all that sort of
                  thing, are precisely the better, like old wine, you know, for the lapse of
                  years."
               "You are grown like your father, Jasper," said the old gentleman, warmly; "much,
                  much like my dear Shirley. You are the more welcome for it, boy, for I loved and
                  honored him."
               "Thank you. Would that his virtues and greatness were mine! Miriam, I am so deuced
                  glad to be here, you can't tell. Is this Edith, the baby Edith, whom
                  I have so often tossed in my arms? D'ye remember the devilish romps we used to
                  have together on the lawn? Give me a kiss, sweet Edith, for 'auld lang syne,' and
                  another for myself."
               And there was something so hearty and pleasant in his manner, that the laughing
                  girl allowed him to encircle her in his arms, and press her glowing lips to his
                  own. "God bless my soul, I have not been so happy for years. You're a perfect
                  trump, Edith. Ma belle mère, you have a most
                  charming step-daughter."
               "Edith knows too well, my dear Jasper, the estimation in which I hold her, to be
                  hurt at my silence when she is present," said Mrs. Willoughby, calmly. "But where
                  is your son? He must be grown to man's estate, ere this."
               "Grown! He's half a foot taller than his father, and the handsomest dog in
                  Christendom," exclaimed Colonel Shirley, with pride.
               "Why did you not bring the 'handsomest dog in Christendom' with you to Woodreve? I
                  do not half like it. I suspect you have let the boy forget me," observed the lady,
                  smiling.
               "Deuce a bit of it. I left him in the city, to meet some political friends whom it
                  is absolutely necessary for me to see, and to detain them there, if they come
                  to-day, until my return tomorrow," he replied.
               "To-morrow! The same ignis fatuus as ever,
                  Jasper. It is unheard of," cried Mr. Bedford.
               
               "Your visit is short, indeed, after twelve years' absence," said Mrs. Willoughby,
                  gravely. "Let me replenish your cup?"
               "Now don't; don't, Miriam, for Heaven's sake, put on such a trenchant look. I come to Woodreve to have a little
                  confidential chat with you; but if you look so, I can never have the courage to
                  negotiate with you. I will be frank, good friends, and tell you, as an apology for
                  my flying visit, that I came expressly on business, leaving pleasure for a more
                  unburdened season than I experience now," he said, in a deprecatory tone, and with
                  a half sigh.
               "Pardon me, dear Jasper. We will not cloud our brief interview with regrets,
                  then," replied Mrs. Willoughby, in a kindlier tone.
               "Do you never go to town, Miriam?" inquired Col. Shirley, abruptly.
               "Occasionally on business I do."
               The question, and all that it involved, interested every one. Mr. Bedford had been
                  for the last year venturing quiet hints to Mrs. Willoughby, which she never
                  noticed, about the necessity of introducing Edith into society; and the joyous
                  young creature herself, though never expressing a wish on the subject, often
                  sighed for those enjoyments in the world which are always, and under all
                  circumstances, but too alluring to the inexperienced heart; but such was the
                  exalted opinion she held of her step-mother's judgment and discretion, that,
                  unless she had herself proposed, she would not have raised her finger to signify
                  such a hope. Mr. Bedford set down the cream jug, and looked down very intently at
                  the bubbles on the surface of his tea, and Edith stopped balancing the spoon on
                  the edge of her cup, to listen, with a more roseate flush on her cheek, and a
                  brighter sparkle in her downcast eyes, to the discussion of this interesting
                  question. Her stepmother observed these things without seeming to do so.
               "But do you never spend the winter in town? 'Tis high treason, 'pon my soul it is,
                  to have such a blossom as Edith 'wasting her sweetness on the desert air.' Why
                  don't you rebel, Edith?"
               "There has never been any necessity for rebellion at Woodreve. Mamma always
                  anticipates my wishes; and had I ever expressed a desire to winter in town, I know
                  I would be gratified. But I am very happy here," she answered, smiling.
               "Edith," exclaimed Col. Shirley, pinching her ear, "you know you are insincere,
                  you little rogue; you are dying to be the belle of the town; but, go when you
                  will, la belle mère will be your rival."
               "Never; but always your friend, Edith," exclaimed Mrs. Willoughby, hastily.
               "I do not precisely understand Col. Shirley, mamma; but if he means that you would
                  be more admired than I, I'm sure he's right. Oh, it would be beautiful to hear
                  every one saying: 'There is the elegant Mrs. Willoughby;' 'that is the handsome
                  Mrs. Willoughby;' and 'Mrs. Willoughby is the finest woman in town.'"
               "Edith," interrupted the lady, gravely, "the bare possibility of such notice would
                  keep me at Woodreve forever. Never again, dear, have such fancies about one who
                  cares less for the admiration of the world—nay, values it far, far less than she
                  does the free winds of heaven. But answer me, frankly—are you anxious
                  to go? I have been, perhaps, selfish in my seclusion; but if you express the wish,
                  with the same truthful confidence that you have ever reposed in me, I will thank
                  you."
               "I have been very, very happy at Woodreve, and ought not, perhaps, to wish to
                  leave it; but I will be sincere, mamma, and answer your question in the
                  affirmative. But if I thought it would pain you, or throw you at all out of your
                  way, I would rather a thousand times stay among my birds, and flowers, and the old
                  trees at Woodreve, than go," she replied, looking earnestly in her step-mother's
                  face.
               "I believe you, Edith. Thank you, dear, for your candor," said Mrs. Willoughby,
                  and she was silent.
               "Edith," said Col. Shirley, laughing, "you are the strangest little wretch I ever
                  saw. Were you ever in love?"
               "Yes," she replied, merrily, as she crept behind Mr. Bedford's chair, and softly
                  laid her hands over his eyes and kissed his white head; "I have been, oh, ever so
                  long, in love with Mr. Bedford."
               "You are only biding your time, darling," said the old gentleman, drawing her arms
                  around his neck, and pressing the hands which had blindfolded him to his lips.
               "And what says Mr. Bedford to our forsaking Woodreve?" asked Mrs. Willoughby,
                  recovering from her abstracted mood.
               "Some other time, dear lady, I will tell. Not now," he answered. "Col. Shirley,
                  our lady of Woodreve has letters to answer, I know, by the portentous look of
                  business she wore this morning when I came in. Suppose we leave her, and ride over
                  the estate. It is the finest in Maryland."
               "Yes, with pleasure," he said, pushing back his chair.
               "Shall we not attend first to your business, dear Jasper?" asked Mrs.
                  Willoughby.
               "No, no; after dinner will do. I want a bite of keen air. Edith, come. Have you not a riding-horse? Go with
                  us," he replied, blithely.
               "O yes, dear Colonel, the most spirited, gentle creature in the world. I will send
                  and order her round, and accompany you," she exclaimed.
               "The very thing I was going after myself. Come, Miriam, join the party; a canter
                  over the place, this fine day, would do you good," said the Colonel.
               "Excuse me, dear Jasper. I received a vexatious letter from my agent this morning,
                  and an urgent one from my lawyer; they both require immediate notice. I will be
                  quite disengaged, however, when you return. Edith, show your uncle all the fine
                  views, and prevail on Mr. Bedford to condescend from the scenery of heaven, for
                  one day, to the beauties of our lower world. He has gone round to the stables now;
                  and do you run up and don your riding-habit."
               "Does the old man watch the stars yet? D'ye remember the time, Miriam, I strung
                  two threads of red silk across the lens of his telescope, and he announced gravely
                  the next morning that he had discovered a new planet with a ring like Saturn, near
                  the Bear? He's a regular old quiz," exclaimed the Colonel, laughing.
               "He's an exalted and pure-hearted man, Jasper. I do remember that, and have not
                  forgotten how he shamed your rude humor by presenting you, the very week after, on
                  your birthday, with a handsome watch. You were a good boy for a little while
                  after. But there is Edith at the hall door, equipped for her ride, chatting with
                  Mr. Bedford," said the lady.
               Edith looked beautiful in her close-fitting riding-habit and green velvet cap,
                  from which waved two soft, snowy plumes, in fair contrast to the raven curls with
                  which they mingled. Her eyes beamed with a glad but gentle expression from beneath
                  their heavy fringes, and her ruby lips, half parted, revealed her white, regularly
                  formed teeth; while her cheeks, of a delicate rose hue, were indented with
                  dimples. She held up the ample skirt of her habit with one hand, and was smoothing
                  back with the other a stray curl, when Col. Shirley exclaimed, "By Heaven, she's a
                  splendid creature! I never saw such a magnificent pair of eyes. You
                     must show her in town, Miriam."
               "I will determine in a day or two; but say nothing more to her, dear Jasper, in
                  the way of compliment. Edith is very beautiful; but it would forever mar her
                  loveliness to be too conscious of it. And now, touching your business; remember
                  our old affection, and that we are but two, and be assured of all that you wish,
                  if I can aid you," she said, with an innate feeling of delicacy cacy, suspecting
                  that pecuniary embarrassments had something to do with his sudden appearance at
                  Woodreve.
               "Thank you, Miriam," he said, with a peculiar smile, and grasping her hand a
                  moment, joined Mr. Bedford and Edith, when they mounted their horses and cantered
                  off.
               Woodreve was, indeed, a fine old manorial-looking place. It was situated on a high
                  eminence, which sloped gently down to the picturesque banks of a broad river.
                  Mountains, some few miles off, towered loftily upwards, bathing their tops in the
                  purple mists and clouds of the upper air, and formed a background of singular and
                  romantic beauty. Belting the estate on the left, in solemn and majestic grandeur,
                  stood the old primeval forest, which the proprietors of Woodreve had never
                  desecrated with the woodman's axe; and stretching away to the right, lay rolling
                  and undulating lands, which were fertile and highly cultivated, dotted here and
                  there with clumps of shade-trees, underneath which gleamed the white-washed
                  cottages and small plantations of the negro laborers. The shores of the river
                  presented a continuation of beautiful scenery, sometimes rising in bold headlands,
                  and, farther beyond, receding in lines of graceful loveliness, indented with
                  miniature bays and willow-shaded coves. Vistas had been cut in various places of
                  the estate, revealing glimpses of the distant mountains, the sunny river, and the
                  waving fields, in fine and harmonious perspective, which, lit up by the morning
                  beams, or gilded by the setting sun, presented more exquisite blending of light
                  and shades over the view, than the finest Claude Lorraine ever exhibited. Among
                  the sturdy and centenarian oaks, flourished the white-blossomed dogwood-tree, and
                  the dark-leaved, odorous magnolia; while trailing vines of the yellow jasmine, the
                  scarlet woodbine, and pale honeysuckle, hung their fragrant festoons from one
                  gigantic bough to the other. There, also, 
                     
                        
                           "The trumpet-flower and grape-vine
                           Hung their ladder of ropes aloft like the ladder of Jacob,
                           On whose pendulous stairs, the angels ascending and descending,
                           Were the swift humming-birds that flitted from blossom to
                              blossom."
                        
                     
                     LONGFELLOW.
                   Two or three fountains, supplied from a mountain spring, gurgled forever
                  amidst the shade; and showers of bright, sweet leaves, which every breath of wind
                  scattered over them, made, as they passed over their gravelled beds, a blithe and
                  tuneful accompaniment to the bird-notes which filled the woods with harmony. Like
                  fond affections and tender feelings, gladdening the gathering shadows of age, were all these fair and blooming
                  creatures—these joyous sounds, amidst the hoary trees of that old primeval
                  wood.
               The mansion itself was built of old gray stone, after the quaint fashion of those
                  old Elizabethan manor-houses which are so frequently seen among the secluded
                  garden spots of England. High-pointed gables, and windows set deep within the
                  heavy walls; three square turrets, in one of which was a fine-toned clock; and an
                  observatory, modelled to correspond with the antique style of the building,
                  imparted to it a still more imposing effect. Two gracefully-arched piazzas
                  stretched across the main front of the upper and lower stories, which were well
                  furnished with flowers and delicate shrubbery, and took away much of the otherwise
                  cumbrous and heavy appearance of the mansion. The furniture was of an antique and
                  remote date; the rich silver plate of a by-gone fashion; the china oriental and
                  old, and the household servants gray-headed and respectable. There had been only
                  one addition made to the pile, by the present proprietor of Woodreve, some years
                  ago. This was a spacious and lofty apartment adjoining the western wing, and known
                  by the household as the lady's library; but it was, in fact, a happily conceived
                  idea of music-room, studio, and library combined, a spot where a refined woman's
                  love for the beautiful was concentrated and apparent in every object. The windows,
                  lancet-shaped, opened from the groined roof to the floor, and were filled with
                  diamond-shaped glasses, which had been richly stained at great cost in Florence,
                  with delineations which Mrs. Willoughby's own classical taste had designed. From
                  one of these could be seen, glancing through a thick plantation of arbor vitæ and cypress-trees, an elegant mausoleum,
                  which sheltered the tombs of her parents, the original proprietors of Woodreve.
                  Between these rich windows, in a niche, there was a European copy, in marble, of
                  Niobe, attempting to shield, with her own body, her last living child from the
                  shafts of Apollo. In one recess stood a parlor-organ, with a drapery of crimson
                  velvet thrown over it, almost concealing the exquisitely wrought ebony of the
                  frame, which was elaborately inlaid with pearl. Over this hung, bought at a
                  princely price from the gallery of one of the impoverished nobles of Italy, by
                  herself, an original of Leonardi de Vinci, of Madonna il
                     Dolorosa. A small cabinet, filled with antique coins, cameos, and
                  finely executed miniatures, with a few rare gems, occupied the opposite recess,
                  where, suspended against the wall, set deep in oval frames, were four bijoux of painting, after the old Dutch masters. A
                  spacious Gothic bookstand, well filled with classic and modern lore, in French,
                  Italian, and English; a large circular table, covered with well-used copies of
                  Dante, Milton, and the writings of Madame de Staël, and closely-written papers;
                  seals, and elegant writing implements; a few luxurious fauteuils; a harp, and two or three flower-stands, completed the
                  adornments of this sanctum, whose floor was covered with a Persian carpet, of so
                  soft a woof that the heaviest footfall gave back no echo. The mind of the
                  presiding genius, naturally of a superior caste, had been urged up, and further
                  upwards towards the desolate regions of mere intellectuality, by sorrow which few
                  can bear unsustained by Heaven, until her most beloved associates were the
                  loftiest spirits of literature; and in close communion and with exalted pride,
                  high above mundane pleasures and passions, she walked daily with them.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               
                  
                     
                        Like dewy cobwebs glitt'ring in the sun,
                        His speech was all so fair, that none might see
                        The deadly spider lurking in its cell;
                        And she, meas'ring all natures by her own
                        Proud spirit, listened and believed.
                     
                  
               
               "MIRIAM," exclaimed Col. Shirley, after the servants had been dismissed from the
                  dining-room, and the family at Woodreve lingered over their dessert, "you have
                  wonderfully improved the old place—made a perfect Eden of it! I never saw such
                  system and order as prevail. How in the world do you manage? for your work-people
                  are all negroes, and the cleanest, sleekest-looking devils I ever saw. I'm forever
                  in a deuce of a humor with mine. They steal, idle away their time, and consume
                  altogether much more than they are worth."
               "You, my dear Jasper, are a Southerner by adoption," answered Mrs. Willoughby,
                  smiling, "and will, doubtless, laugh at the secret of the system you so much
                  admire; but as you seem interested, as a slaveholder, I will reveal it. I am, as
                  you know, neither a Methodist nor a religionist of any kind, but believe firmly in
                  the necessity of faith, and in the revelations of Christianity, for our peace here
                  and hereafter. This, mark you, has become a principle, and, as such,
                  I should be more than culpable in not affording my slaves an opportunity to avail
                  themselves of certain established Christian institutions; so, as soon as the
                     idea became fixed in my mind that it
                  was a duty, I engaged the regular services of a legally authorized person to
                  baptize and instruct them and their children, and, by lessons seasonably
                  administered, and precepts adapted to their condition, elevate their feelings and
                  morals. It was an experiment only, but it worked well—quite as well as more
                  expensive ones regarding the improvement of certain breeds of cattle, and the
                  application of foreign and expensive manures to our soil. They are convinced that
                  I estimate them a degree higher than I do my beasts of burden, and endeavor as
                  much to respect themselves as to repay my care. I give them freely the time they
                  would otherwise abstract to cultivate their little gardens and enjoy necessary
                  recreation, and demand from them, in return, perfect regularity in the fulfilment
                  of their duties, and a respectful attendance on the well-meaning man who instructs
                  them. Instead of losing, I gain double. They give me no trouble."
               "Lord!" exclaimed the Colonel, laughing; "I can fancy what a panic the sight of a
                  parson would make among my rascals! The devil in propria
                     personæ in the full insignia of his occupation, with blazing eyes,
                  horns, and a forked tail, would not terrify them half so much! But, do they never
                  require punishment?"
               "The more thoughtless and giddy sometimes do—"
               "Aha! the lash is heard sometimes at Woodreve, then?"
               "Never! Where every moral faculty is degraded by a besotted ignorance of their
                  duties to God and man, it is probably as necessary for the negro as for the mule
                  or ox; but that is a question which each slaveholder must settle with his own
                  conscience. I have pursued a different course with mine, and no other punishment
                  is ever necessary than the disgrace of being excluded entirely from the privileges
                  of the rest—of being banned and losing caste for a little while. It answers the
                  purpose much better, in my estimation, than corporal chastisement. But all this
                  has been the result of patient and resolute efforts for years. Since we cannot
                  remove the chains, let us teach them how to bear them, and be careful how we add
                  scourges," said Mrs. Willoughby, earnestly.
               "You were always a strange creature, Miriam," exclaimed her brother, looking with
                  a dull expression of wonder at her.
               "But," she continued, rising from the table, "a philosophic discussion of the best
                  method of managing a plantation is not the object of your visit, dear Jasper, I
                  fancy. Let us leave Mr. Bedford and Edith to drink each other's health and eat
                  philopenas together, and go into my library to hold our private conference. And,"
                  she said, after they entered it, "give me the pleasure of aiding you, my dear
                  brother. You know my fortune is large and unincumbered—"
               "No; deuce take me, Miriam, it's nothing of that sort, on my honor; but I thank
                  you most kindly for your generous offers. It is quite another affair which has
                  brought me to Woodreve, and one which I shall but awkwardly enough explain," said
                  Col. Shirley, coloring. "My son Walter, you know, is the handsomest, most
                  talented, and chivalric fellow in the whole South; generous-hearted, noble, and
                  all that sort of thing. Well, the fellow wishes to settle himself in his
                  profession, and is wife-hunting; but, fearing he would not make a judicious
                  choice, I volunteered my services to aid him. I do not look like an envoy of
                  Cupidon, with my embonpoint and my gray hairs,
                  eh? I thought of a hundred girls, beauties, heiresses, and some who had only wit
                  and accomplishments for their dower; but there was something to object to in all,
                  for you must know Walter is devilish fastidious about women, and I was hanging on
                  the horns of a dilemma when our little Edith popped into my head, and I determined
                  at once to run up to Woodreve, on my way to Washington, give you a hug, take a
                  peep at her, and if she was just the thing, and Walter fancies her, get your
                  influence in the scale, and your consent for him to address her."
               "And is Edith 'just the thing,' Jasper?" asked Mrs. Willoughby,
                  proudly.
               "Precisely! She goes through all her paces in fine style, and her head sits on her
                  shoulders as proudly and gracefully as an Arabian filly's. She will hit Walter's
                  fancy to a turn; and if we can lay our heads together and arrange the thing—why
                  Walter's a generous fellow; he don't want her fortune; he's enough of his own from
                  his mother; all he wants is a well-born, accomplished, beautiful wife, and to
                  settle quietly down to the practice of his profession; for he's ambitious, and
                  aspires to legal dignities, I must tell you; and, if I am not too partial, I think
                  I may predict his entire success."
               "Jasper," said Mrs. Willoughby, calmly, "you appear very sanguine about this
                  matter; you seem to think there will be no difficulty in the way of Edith's taking
                  the husband that we may provide for her; but it will be prudent, before you
                  exhaust more breath on the subject, as I think I thoroughly understand your
                  proposal, to define my position towards Edith, whose excellences you seem to
                  measure by your beau idéal of a fine horse. She
                  was left, unrestricted by any conditions, with her father's large fortune, to my
                  care—my discretion—my honor—"
               
               "Yes, yes; old Willoughby knew his confidence would not be misplaced."
               "And," continued the lady, in the same calm tone, "revering the memory of this
                  excellent man, and grateful to him for this same confidence, I have ever regarded
                  the trust as a sacred one, and endeavored to perform my duty in the smallest
                  minutiæ towards his child. And it has been no cold task; I have ever cherished for
                  Edith the love of an elder sister, and my affections are returned tenfold by her,
                  enriching my almost barren heart, and driving away an ascetic gloom from my
                  seclusion. No occasion has ever occurred wherein I was compelled to control her
                  inclinations and bend them to my own; she is naturally noble, amiable, and
                  intellectual, and my task has been merely the guidance of a willing and loving
                  heart. Her confidence in my judgment is unbounded, and her gratitude of such a
                  fervid kind, that my slightest wish would be obeyed at any cost."
               "Then there can be no difficulty. Walter will just suit your notions."
               "But," continued the lady, in the same unmoved tone, "with all these advantages,
                  nothing could compel me—no eloquence or interest could persuade me, to make an
                  improper use of my influence. I could not, without infringing on my own pride of
                  character—my own honor, Jasper—compel Edith's inclinations; and the
                  circumstances must be of a most peculiar and forcible kind which will oblige me to
                  disapprove of the object of her choice."
               "You misunderstand me, Miriam; I do not wish you to force your
                  step-daughter to marry Walter; I only asked your permission for him to address
                  her. I fancy his good looks and mental advantages will influence Edith more than
                  even you could do," said the Colonel, seriously.
               "Possibly. Edith, however, is not so full of romance that she cannot discriminate;
                  but there is nothing in your plan, Jasper, to disapprove of; only I thought it
                  would be better for you to understand the position we relatively hold to each
                  other—Edith and I. If your son is the admirable character you represent him to be,
                  he would be a very proper match for her, if she could love him; for, understand
                  me, I am old-fashioned enough to believe that love is a very necessary ingredient
                  to wedded happiness. Indeed, on the whole, if the two who are most interested
                  fancy each other, it would be a desirable thing. My father, our father, dear
                  Jasper, would have had his last days much embittered by thinking that Woodreve
                  would pass away from the possession of the Shirleys; and if this marriage
                     should take place-at some future period, the estate would be
                  secured to them," said Mrs. Willoughby, musingly. "But not even to effect so
                  desirable a thing, would I influence Edith in an affair of such moment as
                  marriage."
               "It's all deuced fair," said the Colonel, rubbing his hands. "This day week he
                  shall come to Woodreve, and show himself—"
               "Hold, my dear brother. Edith has seen nothing of the world yet, and it would be
                  taking an unfair advantage of her inexperience to introduce them
                     here. I will be most happy to see my nephew. I must
                  see him, and consult also with Mr. Bedford, before I can consent to receive him as
                  Edith's suitor. I feel that I have been unjust to Edith, in not giving her all
                  those advantages which her position commands. I had almost forgotten that her
                  young heart was not, like mine, filled with the bitter ashes of past joys; and I
                  have determined, with Mr. Bedford's approval, to spend this winter in town, for
                  the especial purpose of introducing her into society. I have a fine mansion there,
                  in a fashionable quarter, whither I will go, as early as my arrangements can be
                  made to do so. Doubtless her beauty, her fortune, and accomplishments will bring
                  many suitors around her; and it is only among these that I can consent for Walter
                  to introduce himself in that character."
               "I have no fears for Walter. He is just the fellow to please the women. I'm sure
                  Edith will be over head and ears in love with him before she has seen him three
                  times. They were intended for each other, and a beautiful match they'll be," cried
                  the Colonel, in a cheerful voice. "And I'll be frank with you, Miriam; your hint
                  about Woodreve makes me more anxious than ever for this marriage. Of course,
                  Walter would secure it to Edith and her children; he has property enough without
                  incumbering himself with more. It is all right and honorable, as you say, not to
                  influence Edith's affections. I would not have you do it; deuce take me if I
                  would. I must be off in the morning, and this day week I will send Walter to you
                  for a day. You can send Edith off somewhere, if you do not wish them to meet, or
                  lock her up until he goes. I'm for fair play as well as yourself."
               "The subject being disposed of," said Mrs. Willoughby, "I wish you to promise me a
                  long visit when we get to town, if you cannot make me one at Woodreve. I will let
                  you know when we are settled, and hope you will obey my summons without delay. It
                  would be unfair to invite Walter, you know, with you; but I shall expect daily and
                  dutiful visits from him."
               "You'll see enough of Walter—he will be an example to all the undutiful nephews in
                  town; and mind, Miriam, give him a little sound advice sometimes, and counsel him
                  after your kind fashion, for I don't
                  pretend to say he's faultless. You knew his mother died when he was a boy; he
                  never knew her care," said Col. Shirley, in a sentimental voice.
               "I had a son, Jasper—I will love yours," she replied, with emotion. "You proposed
                  sending him this day week to Woodreve. Do so. Edith shall spend the day with a
                  friend—there is no necessity for them to meet until we get to town."
               "Edith, dear," said Mrs. Willoughby one morning, a week after Col. Shirley left
                  Woodreve, "I expect a person on business to-day, and wish to be quite alone. Mr.
                  Bedford has gone to town, and I'd be glad if you'll have Gazelle accoutred, and
                  ride over to Markham's, and inquire how they all are. Markham was your father's
                  confidential man of business for years, you know, and nothing gives them half so
                  much pleasure as a visit from you."
               "Oh, mamma! you don't know how very anxious I am to finish Mr. Bedford's slippers
                  to-day! Will not to-morrow do?" said Edith, as with delicate fingers and exquisite
                  taste she arranged her flowers among some variegated moss with which she had
                  filled a silver tray.
               "No, dear. To-morrow we commence active arrangements for our removal to the city
                  for the winter. You can take the slippers over with you, and learn Amy the
                  stitch," replied her stepmother.
               "So I can. But oh, mamma, I am wild with joy! To the city, did you say, for the
                  whole winter?" she exclaimed, throwing her arms around Mrs. Willoughby; "yes, I'll
                  be off this moment to Markham's—indeed, mamma, you don't know how delighted I am!"
                  she repeated, coming back to kiss her again.
               "There, dear Edith," replied the lady, returning her caress, "hurry off. I doubt
                  much whether you will not long more for the quiet happiness of Woodreve before
                  spring, much more than you now do to leave it. But go, my love; give the good
                  people at the farm time to make a dinner for you, or they'll be miserable."
               Like a rose glowing beneath its leaves, glowed Edith Willoughby's face beneath the
                  dark green velvet of her riding-cap, and the black glossy ringlets which floated
                  carelessly over her cheeks defined perfectly their true oval outline. In graceful
                  folds hung the ample skirt of her habit, sweeping away the dew-drops which still
                  lingered on the grass, as Gazelle, proud of his light burden, cantered swiftly
                  along; and with a color heightened by pleasure and the fresh bracing air, and a
                  smile dimpling her cheeks while she sang gay snatches of song, it would have been
                  difficult for poet or painter to imagine any earthly thing more brightly
                  beautiful. The great trees which stood like Ionic columns on each side of the
                  road, as if to protect the Druidical-looking woods beyond, were rich with the
                  variegated hues of autumn, and, interlacing their giant boughs above, only let
                  through glimpses of sunshine and blue sky; while the birds, the improvident poets
                  of their race, lingered still about their old haunts, now so gorgeously
                  pavilioned, nor heeded the frosts and sharp night winds, but fluttering amidst
                  their glowing coverts sang rejoicing hymns to the sun. Snowy rabbits darted like
                  stray pearls among the long grass that skirted the road, and, looking for a moment
                  with their great soft eyes at the maiden as she sang, sprang back to their
                  hiding-places again; and the busy squirrels, waving their gray plumes like knights
                  at a tourney, sprang from bough to bough, and shook down thick showers of
                  rainbow-tinted leaves over her. Glimpses of the broad bright river shone at
                  intervals between the foliage, and while she gazed with glad heart, and eyes whose
                  depths grew more joyous in the light and beauty around her, Gazelle suddenly
                  halted, and when Edith gently attempted to urge her on, reared and plunged after a
                  strange fashion for one so uniformly gentle and docile.
               "How now, Gazelle," she said, drawing the rein, and patting the graceful creature
                  fondly on the neck, "wouldst throw thy mistress and break her neck, just when she
                  expects to break so many hearts? Fie on thee, Gazelle! what a humor for a genteel
                  pony to get into—there, so, so!" At that moment, she felt the saddle turning in
                  time to spring to the ground and save herself from a severe fall. The sagacious
                  animal stood perfectly still, although she had relinquished the reins, and held
                  its head proudly up, as if indignant that his warnings should have been so
                  slighted.
               "Gazelle, on my honor, thou shalt be sent to college! Thou hast more wit than thy
                  mistress, who might have known there was something wrong," she said, laughing
                  merrily as she turned the light saddle over with her foot, as it lay on the ground
                  where it had fallen, and discovered that the girth was broken. "We are now four
                  miles from Markhams', and as I know nothing of a saddler's craft, and cannot
                  devise any way on earth to cobble this girth together, we'll e'en trudge there
                  afoot like two faithful friends in company. But here the saddle must lie."
               She did not observe a gentleman on horseback, with a short Spanish cloak thrown
                  over his shoulders, who had approached her so noiselessly over the soft-yielding
                  turf that no echo sounded from his beast's hoofs until lifting his cap from a
                  broad, handsome forehead, he accosted her in a courteous manner and proffered his
                  assistance. She looked startled for a moment, the suddenness of the adventure deprived her of her usual well-bred
                  self-possession, and blushing, while a smile lurked in the corners of her mouth,
                  she cast down her eyes; but feeling that she was making her awkward position
                  ridiculous, she raised them to the stranger's, and as courteously as it was
                  offered declined his aid.
               "Nay, lady, I am from a region where an incident like this would destroy at once
                  any conventional objection to a stranger's assistance. I have been a ranger, too,
                  over prairie and through forest, and am never unprovided with ways and means to
                  remedy such ills as this. I am perfectly au fait
                  not only with the art of repairing old saddles, but making new ones. Allow me—it
                  is but a slight thing—only a moment's work."
               And this was all said by the stranger with such a deferential air, and in so soft
                  and pleasant a tone, as he dismounted from his horse—there was such a subdued
                  expression of mirth on his handsome countenance, and a spirit shining forth from
                  his eyes so nearly akin to her own—that she bowed her acquiescence, and allowed
                  him to proceed with his self-assumed task, while she leaned against a tree and
                  watched his movements. The most fastidious taste would have pronounced that his
                  figure was eminently distinguished for its fine and graceful proportions, and his
                  face, in all its lineaments, a perfect model of manly beauty. He took off his cap,
                  and a wealth of dark chestnut curls fell over his temples; then unwound the silken
                  cord which ornamented it; nor replied in any other way to Edith's deprecating
                  gesture at the spoliation than by a careless smile. He next, with the small and
                  highly-tempered blade of his penknife, punctured holes in the broken girth, and
                  with the delicate-looking but strong cord laced the broken band compactly and
                  firmly together; then placing the saddle on Gazelle's patient back, buckled it on,
                  and led him to his mistress.
               "Thank—thank you most sincerely," said Edith, with a beaming face: "I am only
                  pained at the delay I have occasioned you."
               "Delays, lady, are dangerous," he replied, as he stooped to hold the
                  stirrups for her to mount. "I shall be more than rewarded, if you do not regret
                  having allowed me to perform this small service. The chance, or incident rather,
                  has been a providence to me—but I detain you. Allow me, lady, to ask which of yon
                  two roads leads to Woodreve?"
               "The one on the left; and, if you are going thither, ask my step-mother to thank
                  you in proper terms for the service you have rendered Edith Willoughby," she said,
                  as she bowed her graceful head, and galloped off. He looked keenly after her for a
                  moment, then an expression of triumph and pleasure lit up every feature of his
                  face, and he exclaimed: "If this is she whom I am commanded by stern necessity to
                  fall in love with, it is, by Heaven, no Herculean task. She will be a splendid
                  appendage, even as a wife, to her gold and broad acres." This was Walter
                  Shirley.
               "Dear mamma," said Edith that evening, as she sat leaning on her step-mother's
                  knee, "you heard of my adventure this morning? I fancy I looked like Dulcinea
                  della Tobosa, over my broken saddle, and a young knight riding up to my
                  assistance!"
               "Yes, dear. The gentleman mentioned that he had been so happy as to render you
                  some slight assistance," said Mrs. Willoughby, fondly smoothing Edith's hair with
                  her hand.
               "May he never want a friend in his need! He looked like a perfect hero of
                  romance—his portrait would have been a treasure to Mrs. Radcliffe!" replied Edith,
                  laughingly.
               "I hope you did not, my love, after the approved fashion in romances, lose your
                  heart with this handsome stranger?"
               "No. I never wish to be in love, mamma. All that I have read of it is so full of
                  misery, trials, and tears, that it would not suit me. Should I ever chance to
                  love, it must be a being great in virtue and all those qualities and attributes of
                  character which I so much revere in you and Mr. Bedford, mamma. I could not love a
                  commonplace character, or one who was not my superior. I must lean on what I love;
                  I must venerate it next to heaven."
               "Dear child, may the dreams of your noble heart come true!" said Mrs. Willoughby,
                  with emotion. "Love is, indeed, under different circumstances, the bane and
                  antidote of the heart. May yours be happy, Edith! But do you know who this
                  handsome stranger is?"
               "I do not. He did not favor me with his name. Who is he, mamma?"
               "My nephew, Walter Shirley. He spent several hours with me to-day, and I consider
                  him an elegant and polished gentleman. I hope a longer acquaintance will develop a
                  disposition in perfect harmony with his handsome exterior!"
               "Oh, mamma! had I known it was he, I think I should have acted on the Colonel's
                  hint, and rebelled, by returning with him, to show him the way hither. He is
                  very—very handsome—and kind—Oh, I'm very glad we shall meet again!"
               "He left Woodreve at five this afternoon, but you will meet with him again, Edith,
                  and often, when we get to town. He regretted, nay deplored, the necessity of
                  returning this evening. But, Edith, ere we go to mix in the crowded haunts of the
                  fashionable world—ere your heart becomes enchanted with its allurements, and your
                  head dizzy with its homage—ere you have found out and tasted some of the bitter fruits which ripen
                  amidst its glare—I must tell you of some things which have occurred to me—some sad
                  events, which have so sprinkled the lintels of my heart with drops of agony, that
                  joy will never enter it again. I must tell you, Edith—all—all that I have
                  suffered. It may learn you to bear life's trials, at least with a calm appearance
                  of strength. Then, child—when you know all—never—never
                  refer to the subject again. Come to my chamber at ten, and if I cannot tell you,
                  you shall read the pages of a diary, which no human eye has ever looked into but
                  my own, and which is blurred and blotted with tears," said Mrs. Willoughby, with
                  profound emotion.
               With tears starting to her eyes, and her lips trembling with the vain effort they
                  made to say something which might soothe her step-mother's strange mood, she
                  stooped over and kissed her high cold forehead.
               "Say nothing now, Edith—I understand all that you would express—leave me a little
                  while alone, dear, and come to me at ten; and Edith, if I pain you, by drawing
                  aside the veil which hides the wounds of my spirit, think only of the unselfish
                  love which could induce my proud nature to ask for a more tender tie through its
                  sorrows," said Mrs. Willoughby.
               That night, Walter Shirley sat alone in an elegantly furnished room, in one of the
                  most fashionable hotels in town, smoking a choice Havana cigar, while he penned
                  the following letter to his father, who was in Washington:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "DEAR SIR: Ruin or matrimony stared me in the face this morning, and
                              between the two I was unutterably miserable. Your note, describing
                              your cold reception by the President, and the high favor that sneaking
                              Beverly seems to be in, gave me an idea that you are checkmated there,
                              and added no little to my ill humor. I was looking at my pistol, and
                              thinking what a very comfortable thing it would be to get out of the
                              world, beyond the reach of creditors, duns, writs, and all the other
                              cursed plagues of life, when my servant came in with a julep; of
                              course, I drank it; then thought more favorably of matrimony. I went
                              to Woodreve, and a noble domain it is; but, to triumph! the fates
                              befriended me, notwithstanding all the precautions to the contrary. An
                              event, an accident, or a providence, whichever you may please to call
                              it, introduced me to the beautiful Edith, on my way to my aunt's. I
                              rendered her a small service, which she repaid with the brightest
                              smile I ever saw. I'll tell you more about the adventure when we meet;
                              I can only hope I have made an impression. Indeed, sir, if it were not
                              for those confounded mortgages, and my debts of honor, I would
                              consent, almost, to receive this glorious creature dowerless. My aunt
                              received me as kindly as such a Juno can receive a
                              mortal. She is as cold, as beautiful and polished, as an iceberg. I
                              felt a little awed at first, but acting on your most excellent hint,
                              began to talk of my tour through Europe—of Rome and Tasso—of Florence
                              and Dante, whom I quoted freely in Italian—of Venice and the Medici—of
                              Madame Dacier—of Corinne. It took well. I was eloquent. I praised her
                              cameos, her pictures and statuettes, which are really
                              fine. I moralized over the splendid wrecks of the classic ages in
                              Greece. I quoted Childe Harold—and Milton, and the deuce knows who; in
                              short, spent a most fatiguing, laborious day. I did not know I was so
                              fine an actor, and pinched myself twice to ascertain my own identity.
                              There is a splendid place at Woodreve for a bowling-green. I am as
                              happy now as I was miserable this morning; and very well satisfied to
                              become a Benedict. Edith is a magnificent creature, and, when I
                              choose, can amuse me at home, while her fortune will make a free
                              gentleman of me abroad. I raved enough during the day of patriotism,
                              and all such stuff, to convince my handsome aunt that I am a worthy
                              descendant of my grandfather. There was not a word said about
                              business. I fancied she looked vexed when I told her of meeting with
                              Edith—but I am dying for a sherry cobbler, and must conclude.
                           
                              "Truly yours,
                              W. S."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               After Walter Shirley finished scrawling this rambling letter, he took from his
                  mouth his half-consumed cigar, threw himself back in his chair, and, after
                  allowing the volume of smoke to escape slowly upwards in a spiral column from his
                  lips, uttered a loud laugh. He then rang his bell, and when the waiter appeared,
                  ordered a sherry cobbler, and, walking several times to and fro the room, paused
                  before a cheval mirror, and deliberately
                  surveyed his handsome person from head to foot, ran his long white fingers through
                  his hair, and, turning on his heel, went to the table, and, while sealing and
                  directing the letter to Col. Shirley's address, laughed again. When the servant
                  entered with the beverage he had ordered, he gave him the letter, and dispatched
                  him with all speed to the post-office with it.
               In the same hour, Edith went to her step-mother's chamber. There was no light
                  within it, save what the moon shed through the windows, and far from that, back in
                  the shadow, sat the lady. There was something so solemn and still in the aspect of
                  everything, that Edith felt awed, and when she, prompted by feelings she could not
                  control, kissed her cheek, it was wet with tears.
               
               "Take this, Edith," said Mrs. Willoughby, at last, and placing a small package of
                  papers in her hand. "With all my stern resolve to suffer, I cannot talk of the
                  past. Take it, dear, and read it, and whenever you meet with a face which wears a
                  perpetual calm, and can smile with all, and on all, know that it is a mask which
                  hides some terrible suffering. To-morrow, lay it under my pillow. Do not return it
                  to me; put it there; I will get it. I do not wish to cast a shadow over your
                  dreams of life, Edith, but to teach you that it is woman's destiny to love, to
                  suffer, and endure. Good night, my child."
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I look around, and feel the awe
                           Of one who walks alone
                           Among the wrecks of former days,
                           In mournful ruin strewn."
                        
                     
                     P. BENJAMIN.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Thus we're taught in this cold world to smother
                           The feelings our hearts hold most dear."
                        
                     
                     Song.
                  
               
               [Mrs. Willoughby's Diary is not a regular one. She has only noted down incidents
                  which exerted a controlling influence over her life. Many pages were blotted and
                  almost effaced with tears, and some written in such a wild scrawling hand as
                  indicated a distracted mind. At one period, nearly three years elapsed without a
                  line being added; but, at a subsequent time, she resumed her pen, and merely
                  related, without comment, the circumstances which had occurred.—ED.]
               THE family at Woodreve (thus began the diary), is not large; but what it wants in
                  numbers, is made up in happiness. My father, Mr. Bedford, and myself; Winnie, my
                  nurse; Mrs. Crump, the housekeeper, and a few old servants, are all. Winnie is an
                  important personage on the estate. She was my mother's femme de chambre, and was devoted to her service, and attended her
                  faithfully and tenderly through the long period of her failing health. Whenever
                  she travelled, Winnie's care guarded her from every discomfort, and procured for
                  her all the necessary delicacies which her state demanded; and towards the close
                  of her life, watched with the most unwearied love beside her pillow night and day.
                  The legacy she inherited from her grateful mistress was her freedom and an annuity
                  for life; but she begged permission to remain at Woodreve to take charge of me.
                  Her fidelity had been too well and too long tried for her proposal to be slighted;
                  indeed, it was gratefully acceded to by my father, for I was but a babe. She is a
                  large brown woman, the exact color of a ripe hazel-nut, with rather a solemn and
                  dignified look, except when she laughs at what she considers my wit; then her
                  prolonged chuckle, her asthmatic wheezing, and starting eyes are ludicrously
                  fearful. Her queer name is an abbreviation of Winnifride, and is a favorite
                  cognomen among negroes. She always wears a great turban, made of gay-colored
                  Madras handkerchiefs, and from each ear depends a gold hoop, about a quarter of a
                  yard in circumference. Her neck is generally ornamented with a string of large
                  amber beads, which are her especial glory; and her dresses are of the
                  gayest-colored stuffs, made full and rather short to display her clocked stockings
                  and neat shoes. Dear old faithful Winnie! how beautiful you are in my eyes! Your
                  goodness and fidelity make you so. * * * * * *
               I do not remember my mother. She died when I was two, and my brother Jasper
                  twelve, years old; but Mr. Bedford used to show me a beautiful portrait which hung
                  in my father's room; that, he told me, was hers. I loved it, for it looked down on
                  me with such a soft, tender glance, that I used to wish it would stretch out its
                  thin, snowy hands and take me to its bosom. Then he would very often carry me,
                  about sunset, to a great heap of white marble, under a silent pavilion which stood
                  back almost hidden among the trees, and tell me that my mother slept there; but
                  that her soul, in a more perfect and beautiful likeness than when on earth, lived
                  in heaven, where, if I were good, I would one day find her, and be folded forever
                  to her breast. This was beautiful; but I could not then understand how my mother
                  could be in three places at once—in the portrait, under the marble, and in heaven.
                  Why did ye leave me, mother? Why did ye not tarry and save your child from these
                  pangs?
               My father is a silent, and, sometimes I think, a stern man; but his voice was
                  always modulated to a gentler tone, and his brow lost its character of deep
                  thought, whenever he caressed or fondled me. He never spoke to me of my mother;
                  but whenever I alluded to her, the muscles of his face would work, and he
                  generally put me down off his knee and left the room immediately. These two, Mr.
                  Bedford and my father, were the only teachers I had until I was fifteen, and oh!
                  how beautifully near heaven did my childhood pass! I used to think the loving
                  hearts around me were the angels with
                  whom my inner life used to walk ere it descended from its high estate to animate a
                  form of dust and ashes. I thought Woodreve was like heaven, and the
                  bright-plumaged song-birds, floating in the sunshine, like the spirits of happy
                  children who rejoice in that cloudless spirit-land.
               I fancied Mr. Bedford was the genius of the stars, for often on moonlight nights,
                  when he would let me crouch beside him while he made his celestial observations, a
                  glory seemed to shine about his white head, and I, filled with awe, thought he
                  held converse with spirits, and could see through the planets into heaven.
               There are daily contests between Mr. Bedford and Winnie. She declares I am moped
                  with studying outlandish languages, and getting pale and sick from such close
                  confinement; and he calls her an "ignorant person, who cannot be expected to
                  understand such matters." Of course, it affronts her highly. She is only jealous;
                  but I can coax her at any time into a good humor by kissing her smooth brown
                  cheek, and calling her maummy.
               
               To-day I entered my fifteenth year, and to-day occurred my first trial. My father
                  had provided the services of a resident tutor for me, an Italian gentleman, whom
                  he had known in Naples some years before, when he was wintering there with my
                  mother for her health. Count Uberti was then a person of wealth and high position,
                  and bestowed the kindest attentions on my parents. His beautiful villa on the
                  picturesque shore of the Bay of Naples, his carriage and his gondola, were at
                  their service; and not a day passed that he did not send a present of fruit or
                  flowers from his own garden to the invalid. But a great political change occurred
                  in his government subsequently, and his estates being confiscated, he became an
                  exile, beggared, and almost broken-hearted. My father one day met him accidentally
                  in town, whither he had gone on business, and during the day they spent together,
                  learned the sad story of his wrongs. He offered him, in the most delicate manner,
                  an asylum at Woodreve, reminding him of all the favors himself and my mother had
                  formerly received from him, and besought him to accept of his hospitality as a
                  debt of gratitude that was justly due him.
               "Ah, my friend, not as I am. I am too poor—too proud to become your guest," he
                  replied. "Here I teach a few gentlemen my own sweet language, and I have a musical
                  class, which affords me an adequate income for my few wants."
               "Uberti," said my father, grasping his hands, "can I overrule your objections by
                  telling you I have a young daughter who would profit much by your instructions in
                  these two branches? Come to Woodreve. There are some views there which will remind
                  you of bella Italia. Your occupation is
                  honorable; but your feelings are too high-toned and sensitive to be exposed to the
                  chances of a rough world. At Woodreve, my friend, you can have your easel and
                  palette set up anywhere. You will have quiet, while nature will smile around you
                  through beautiful creations; and, best of all, Uberti, you'll have
                     friends by your side."
               "I will come, my friend," he replied, with a burst of tears, for these were the
                  first kind words he had heard for many a weary day; "I will come."
               At first, I bore the confinement which these additional studies imposed on me with
                  patient silence. I loved music, I was passionately fond of it, but could not bear
                  the drudgery of learning it systematically; the study of Italian was rendered
                  comparatively easy, from the fact of my being perfectly familiar with Latin; and
                  then there was a something in my teacher's soft large eyes and musical voice which
                  exerted a fascinating influence over me, and a flitting expression of such
                  unutterable sadness in his countenance at times, which curbed every feeling of
                  impatience and petulance, for fear of wounding him, that I could only sigh and go
                  on with my tasks. But on this sad day, while I was preparing with no willing mind
                  to take my music lesson, one of the harp strings broke, and while Signor Uberti
                  repaired it, I gazed out of the window, while the fresh sweet winds kissed my
                  cheeks, and longed to be as free as the birds flying in the sunshine. The old
                  trees beckoned me to the woods, and the very flowers nodded their heads for me to
                  come. Through the shrubbery at the foot of the lawn the river gleamed restlessly,
                  and seemed to laugh mockingly at my restraints. I determined to be free.
               "I will not practise this morning, Signor."
               "It is the Signor Shirley's orders. Two hours, caro
                     mio. The harp is ready!"
               "Play yourself, Signor. I am longing for fresh air, and go into it I will!"
               Without replying to my rude speech, he brought the harp and placed it beside me. I
                  grasped the strings and broke them with a crash, and snatching the music-book from
                  his hand, tossed it as far out on the lawn as I could. I turned to him with a look
                  of triumph, and saw the warm blood gleaming like fire through the olive of his
                  complexion, but, laughing with derision, I paused not, and leaped through the
                  window, and ran like a lapwing to the forest! But oh, how grimly smiled everything
                  on this my first transgression! how embittered were my joys! what a thick murky
                  veil hung between my vision and the loving face of nature! Everything thing obeyed the law of its being but me—the
                  outcast! Where were the birds? The forest seemed silent, and my favorite wild
                  flowers looked pale and withered. Then I sat down beside the fountain, but from
                  its clear crystalline waters a hideous toad stared at me with its great green
                  eyes. I fled to a more secluded spot, and threw myself on the mossy earth and
                  sobbed. I thought of my father's displeasure, and trembled; I thought of Mr.
                  Bedford's grief, and wept bitterly; but when I thought of the unprovoked insult I
                  had offered a noble and excellent stranger, who, under delicate and painful
                  circumstances, had been driven to accept a shelter beneath our roof, I was humbled
                  to the dust; I would have gone back and knelt to him for forgiveness, but I dared
                  not. I should have been almost frenzied had I known, as I did afterwards, that my
                  father was approaching the music-room at the moment, and through the open door saw
                  all that had occurred. He placed his arm around Signor Uberti's neck, and besought
                  his pardon for the waywardness of his spoiled child, which was readily and freely
                  granted. But there, alone in the forest, I spent the livelong day. No message came
                  for me to return. Winnie was commanded, under pain of my father's severe
                  displeasure, not to seek me, nor was she allowed to send. When the sun was calmly
                  setting, filling the whole earth with the silent rapture of his glory; when the
                  birds returned, uttering low, sweet sounds in their musical throats, as they
                  fluttered down in their nests; exhausted with hunger and grief, I crept away to my
                  mother's tomb, and seated myself on the broad marble step which surrounded it,
                  where I fell asleep. There Mr. Bedford found me, and when I awoke, my head was
                  pillowed on his breast.
               "Do, do forgive me!" I cried, clasping his neck.
               "My poor Miriam! I knew you would be sorry for your fault. You did very wrong, my
                  child; but you have suffered, and expiated your error by repentance. Come to your
                  father," he replied.
               "Yes," I exclaimed, rising, "I will go. I have committed a great offence, Mr.
                  Bedford, and I deserve the greatest severity. I will ask their forgiveness; I will
                  humble myself; I will let them see my tears; come with me." * * * * * An affecting
                  scene occurred. I am forgiven in heaven, I hope, as on earth; Signor Uberti and I
                  are friends. My father is more social, and I more subdued; while Mr. Bedford moves
                  about like the calm angel of the house, ministering to the hearts of all. Winnie
                  abuses the whole clique in unmeasured terms, and swears they are killing me; but I
                  kissed her, and asked her if "she wanted me to be a termagant, who would some day
                  pinch her?" She began to chuckle, and had not finished when I went to sleep.
                  To-day Mr. Bedford strolled out with me to my favorite haunt, beside the forest
                  fountain, and while we sat there, he gave me a sketch, a mere sketch, of my
                  father's history: He is an Englishman by birth, of poor but respectable parentage,
                  and for many years supported himself and his only relative, a dear sister, after
                  whom you are called, by his literary efforts. But in the great busy world of
                  London, where there are always so many clamoring candidates for fame, his
                  productions created no extraordinary sensation, until he published a fiery
                  pamphlet, glowing with enthusiastic eloquence, and replete with sound logical
                  arguments, in favor of the freedom of the North American Colonies, then in a state
                  of rebellion against the government of England. Everybody read it; it ran through
                  five editions in two days; and the author was sought out by the leading noble
                  politicians of the day—one party to bribe him to silence, the other to secure his
                  pen for their own service. Among these the Earl of Nesselrode, a nobleman
                  distinguished for a thousand estimable qualities, as well as for a powerful
                  intellect and refined taste, became his especial friend. But while the
                  intellectual and spirituel of these two fine
                  natures harmonized so admirably together, there was, innate in the earl's
                  disposition, an overweening and arrogant pride of birth, which in reality placed a
                  great gulf between them. He dated his descent at a period before the Norman
                  conquest, and could boast of a long line of virtuous and distinguished ancestry;
                  and had any one who could not, with the most superior advantages, have shown a
                  genealogical tree of the same antiquity, presented himself to the proud earl, as
                  his daughter's suitor, he would have treated his pretensions to her hand with
                  contempt. He was my uncle, Miriam, and it had been his wish from our childhood
                  that his daughter and I should marry, for I, in default of other heirs, was the
                  next in succession to the title and estates. Lady Caroline de Bourg was a lovely
                  womanly creature, with all the sweetest attributes of human nature to add a lustre
                  to her character. I loved her, child; I will not tell you how long, how silently,
                  how fondly I loved that gentle creature! I knew not myself the depth, the
                  strength, the purity of my affection, until it was subjected to the fiery ordeal
                  of knowing that she loved another; that she had given the devotion of her life to
                  Jasper Shirley, her proud father's secretary—the penniless, obscurely descended,
                  but highly gifted author—who, in scaling the eagle's lofty nest, "had found a
                  trembling dove within," which flew to his heart and nestled there. The earl's
                  wrath was awful when he discovered, through an old domestic, their secret; I will
                  not tell you of it, or of the bitter, taunting words, with which he drove Shirley
                  forth from the old ancestral portals of Nesselrode castle. He sent Caroline to the north of Scotland,
                  to his sister, a stiff, puritanical woman, who thought it a sin to smile, and a
                  crime to love, with whom she was to remain until our marriage, which my uncle
                  declared should take place within four months. The earl's conduct towards Lady
                  Caroline raised a spirit in her as haughty as his own; and when she received this
                  mandate, she wrote to me, "appealing to my honor, and our old childish love, not
                  to wed her. She loved me as a brother, nothing more; but in any other relation
                  should hate me as the destroyer of her peace, if she was forced into a union with
                  me." She bade me "beware of inflicting a lifetime of misery on her, of embittering
                  every hour of her existence, and driving her into temptation; for she loved Jasper
                  Shirley, and would remain faithful to that love, no matter what they drove her
                  to." Poor young heart! I would not have caused it one throb of pain for worlds; my
                  affection for her was of that pure and exalted kind which, hopeless itself, lends
                  all its energies to the happiness of its object. I sent her a soothing reply, and
                  requested her to write to me at Rome, whither I was going immediately; and,
                  without informing the earl of my intentions, left Nesselrode castle at dawn, and
                  embarked the same evening for Calais. I remained abroad three years, and although
                  the earl was seriously displeased with me, he encouraged our constant
                  correspondence. Meanwhile, the American patriots, a phalanx of men whose
                  constancy, whose bravery and fortitude, would have honored the proudest days of
                  Sparta, were slowly but surely progressing towards the goal of their country's
                  freedom; and foremost among them, at the right hand of Washington, with his sword
                  in hand, and his pen when his sword was resting, was your father, Miriam, Jasper
                  Shirley. The private wrongs which had stung him, and made him fly like a hunted
                  lion from England, gave a certain impetus to his ardor, for they were a part of
                  the evil system, and the result of principles, which he abhorred, and against
                  which he now battled. One by one fell the chains of foreign oppression until the
                  final blow was given, and a nation, regenerated and free, lifted up its thousand
                  hands exultingly to heaven. On the proudest page of the annals of the republic,
                  the name of the patriot Shirley stands conspicuous. Patriot and statesman, still
                  in the meridian of life, he was one of the leading spirits of the land, one of the
                  hardiest and most persevering pioneers of a system of self-government which has
                  filled the decaying thrones of Europe with trembling and astonishment. The fame of
                  his eloquence went abroad; his pleadings for liberty turned pale the cheek of
                  oppression; he contended for the rights of man, believing that, where "freedom is
                  not, there no virtue is." What cared he, this nobleman man of nature, for titled
                  honors, and inherited dignities? What cared he, this builder up of a nation, and
                  architect of his own high fortune, for the delusive glory, the arrogance, the
                  pride of infirm dynasties? He was a MAN, in the loftiest sense of the word, and of
                  him it might be said, as of Gherardo da Camino, of Trevizi: "Let us suppose that
                  Gherardo da Camino had been the grandson of the meanest hind that ever drank of
                  the Sile of the Cagnano, and that his grandfather was not yet forgotten, who will
                  dare say that Gherardo da Camino was a mean man, or will not agree in calling him
                  noble?"
               In England, Shirley was known as an audacious but gifted rebel, and it was through
                  the teeming reports of the press that Caroline heard most frequently of him. She
                  exulted in silence in his triumphs and in her choice, and nothing made her father
                  more furious than to see her eyes and her cheeks kindling when some noble but
                  indiscreet guest, among the exciting topics of the day, would mention his
                  interdicted name.
               As soon as I arrived in Rome, I had written to Shirley, telling him all that had
                  transpired after he left England, only reserving the secret of my love for
                  Caroline, and offered him my friendship, in suitable terms; and although it caused
                  me a pang, told him I would hereafter be the medium of a correspondence between
                  them. With what gratitude this opportunity was accepted you may well imagine; and
                  in thus securing to Caroline a source of happiness, I felt almost rewarded for my
                  own disappointment. Thus, they corresponded constantly during the three years I
                  was at Rome.
               One day I received a letter from Caroline, beseeching me to meet her without delay
                  at Havre. Astonished and alarmed, I posted off the same day. When I arrived, she
                  told me that "her father, highly offended at my long absence, had given up all
                  hopes of ever seeing us united, and forced on her the attentions of a
                  superannuated duke, whom she was commanded to regard as her future husband. She
                  determined, when she found there was no alternative, to fly from Nesselrode
                  castle, and, under my protection, go to America, where Shirley had been pleading
                  with her to come for a year past, using every argument his eloquent affection
                  could suggest to prevail on her to do so. She had already written to him to expect
                  her in every packet that arrived at Boston from France." She besought me, in the
                  most impassioned language, to go with her. It was another tearing open old and
                  sore wounds; but I obeyed her wishes, and led her to him. They met, and I
                  witnessed their rapture—at the altar I heard them exchange their vows; they were
                  happy; and I, knowing she was another's, profaned not the present by thoughts of
                  the past, and thanked Heaven that neither of them guessed my secret.
               
               The earl, your grandfather, Miriam, died a few years after; and as Shirley would
                  never consent that his son should be acknowledged as the heir of so haughty an
                  aristocrat, and I had, more from choice than circumstances, become a naturalized
                  citizen of the republic, the title and entailed portions of the fine domains
                  reverted to the crown. This mansion and these grounds it was your father's pride
                  to build and adorn, that she who had voluntarily relinquished titles, luxury, and
                  the prejudices of high birth for him, might lose nothing by the exchange. Never
                  saw I such devotion. Her every movement was fondly watched; the winds of heaven
                  were not allowed to visit too roughly her delicate form; and if tears ever
                  overflowed her soft, dovelike eyes, he kissed them away. "But," said Mr. Bedford,
                  in a choked voice, as a tide of recollections rushed over his mind—"she
                     died. You were a mere babe, child, and your brother Jasper had just been
                  sent to St. Omer's college in France, to receive his education, when we laid her
                  pale, lovely form in the dust. The darkened and silent mansion looked like a great
                  vault, and we, your father and I, were its restless ghosts——" Here Mr. Bedford
                  broke off abruptly, and walked hastily away.
               And such was my father. As I live, I felt prouder of him than of the old line
                  which commenced before the Norman conquest! And yet a certain satisfaction
                  pervades my heart when I think of my mother's high descent. It is but a trait of
                  that human weakness which forever clogs the noblest emotions of our souls; but if
                  Dante in Paradise felt it, why might not I? Hear what he says on meeting his
                  ancestor Cacciaguida:— 
                     
                        "Oh slight respect of man's nobility!
                        I never shall account it marvellous
                        That our infirm affections, here below,
                        Thou movest to boasting, when I could not choose,
                        E'en in that region of unwarped desire,
                        In heaven itself, to make my vaunt in thee."
                     
                   And so Mr. Bedford loved my mother. Oh, rare faith and constancy of woman!
                  Oh, rarer disinterestedness and genuine truth in man! How godlike is endurance!
                  How divine is patience! Every heart, like every rose, has its own thorns. When, I
                  wonder, will mine spring forth from the stem of life!
               
               For two weeks, Woodreve has been a scene of festive gayety. My brother Jasper, who
                  has never lived much with us, and who married, six months ago, a young Southern
                  heiress, made us a visit with his bride. She is a petite, gazelle-eyed creature, with such diminutive minutive and
                  symmetrically-formed hands and feet as I never saw, and walks with an Andalusian
                  air which is superb. She is full of harmony and grace, and we are all pleased at
                  the match, Winnie included. They are on their way to Saratoga, to spend the
                  season. * * * I am glad the bustling gayety is over. Somehow it does not suit me.
                  My spirit has existed in such freedom, in this my beautiful seclusion, that it
                  will be utterly impossible ever to fetter it down with the hypercritical
                  distinctions and the formal conventionalities of life, as it is in the world of
                  fashion. I weary at the bare idea of it. * * * This day, Signor Uberti, who has
                  been our honored guest three happy years, received glad tidings from Naples. His
                  title and estates have been, by another turn of fortune, restored to him. We all
                  sincerely congratulate him, but are much pained at the idea of losing him from our
                  little circle. * * * This morning I enter my eighteenth year. They tell me I am
                  beautiful. I believe I am; but, on my honor, I regard this rare perfection of face
                  and feature as I would a fine piece of sculpture, giving all the glory and honor
                  to the mighty Artist Hand which created it. The same powerful wisdom which formed
                  yon lovely flower fashioned me. How dare I, then, arrogate to myself the glory? I
                  am none of mine—I am His. Religion must be beautiful. Why have I never been guided
                  to the celestial light?—Night, 11 o'clock. This
                  evening, at sunset, I walked to the river shore alone, and saw a golden
                  lotus-flower rocking gently on the little billows, every one of which was tinted
                  with a light and radiant hue. I tried to get at it, but it was too far out. I
                  should have fallen from the rock into the river, had I stooped far enough to touch
                  it. Soon after, as I walked homewards, a noble-looking young stranger, in a green
                  hunting-dress, with his rifle slung over his shoulder, met me, and, presenting the
                  coveted flower, bowed courteously, and passed on. He was very handsome, with a
                  fine aquiline nose, waving hair of a light, glossy brown, and eyes of the deepest
                  shade of blue, fringed with long, black eyelashes. Who can he be? I hope I may see
                  him again. * * * Last night I dreamed of the stranger. I wish I had not. After
                  breakfast, I took Orlando Furioso off the
                  library table, and walked out to my usual haunt in the forest. I love the Italian
                  poets, particularly Ariosto and Dante. Whether it is that Signor Uberti directed
                  my tastes that way, or that their spirituality and faith, bathed in all the liquid
                  beauty of their classic land, and flowing through the medium of their heavenly
                  language, influences me, I cannot tell. The latter, I expect. I was reading; the
                  crack of a rifle startled me, and, lo! a blue-bird fell gasping from the tree on my bosom, spattering my
                  neck with blood.
               "Sir," I exclaimed, as the stranger's form emerged from the shrubbery, "how dare
                  you murder so innocent a thing as this? I will get in: it is dangerous to walk on
                  one's own estate, where guns are fired at random."
               "Pardon me, Miss Shirley; it was an accidental discharge, I assure you. The
                  trigger of my rifle caught in a small branch as it rested on my shoulder, and went
                  off, though I do plead guilty to shooting birds sometimes," he said,
                  in a courteous tone, and baring his head. I never saw so noble a countenance.
               "The birds, sir, at Woodreve, are under my protection," I said.
               "They are, then, henceforth, sacred to me. But this has been an unlucky accident
                  to me as well as the bird, lady—see, my fingers are nearly torn off. If your
                  protection is a sinecure against such evil accidents, pray honor me with it," he
                  said, smiling.
               "Oh, sir, you almost deserve it," I cried, unfastening my rose-colored breast-knot
                  from my dress. "Let me wind this about your fingers to stanch the bleeding; then
                  go, I pray you."
               As I wrapped the ribbon around the wound, which was bleeding profusely, he was, or
                  pretended to feel, faint, and was obliged to sit down, while I had to kneel beside
                  him to adjust it properly. The dead bird fell on the soft moss beside me. How,
                     how I hated him for depriving it of life!
               "Thank you, lady," he said, with a provoking smile; "I will not poach again at
                  Woodreve for birds!"
               "For what, then, will you poach, sir? The game is never molested in Woodreve
                  forest."
               "For a hart; I believe there are deers in this fine park?"
               "None!" cried I, angrily; "and were there any, they should never be hunted by a
                  mere stranger."
               "Lady—Miss Shirley, I have offended you unwittingly, and beg pardon again for my
                  misfortune; but as we may cross each other's path hereafter, I wish to retain no
                  memory of your anger; but to recollect only, with profound gratitude, your
                  goodness in binding together so skilfully my shattered fingers. And for fear
                  another twig may mischievously fire off my rifle for me nolens volens, I will throw it in the river, and take my pencils and
                  tablets for my companions in this region of beauty," he said.
               "You are very familiar with my name, sir. Are you of our neighborhood?" I asked,
                  impelled by a curiosity I could not control.
               "You shall know mine in return. It is Arthur Vernon. This is a fair exchange. I am
                  a lover of adventure, and a wanderer in search of it, lady. I am not of your
                  neighborhood, but of a far country over the sea, where my name is not the meanest
                  in the land. I was attracted by the beauty of this scenery, and set up my tent at
                  a neighboring farm-house, where I help the good dame to feed her chickens, and
                  watch her milking the cows, when I have nothing else to do, whereupon she rewards
                  me with a frothing syllabub of warm milk, or a new egg for my breakfast," he said,
                  with an assumed air of gravity.
               "I congratulate you on your manly pursuits," I said, diverted at his manner, and
                  left him. I suppose he is an artist. He is very audacious, whoever he may be. * *
                  * We have no neighbors within ten miles. My life is like a calm mountain lake,
                  which is never rippled except by the falling of a pebble or a heavy blossom in its
                  smooth waters. The routine of every day is almost the same. I kiss my father and
                  dear Mr. Bedford, in the morning—preside at the breakfast-table—make tea—chat—read
                  a little—play on my harp and sing—ride or walk out—train my flowers, and visit the
                  negro cottages to look after the welfare of their inmates. But I am growing
                  listless, and weary of my light tasks. My heart goes groping out, in spite of me,
                  into an unknown region, in search of an idea, a vision, or hope, which will
                  satisfy its mysterious longings—which will blend with its affections and
                  sympathies in soft harmony—which will sustain its weakness, and succor it with
                  something of a mother's tenderness. Then comes a pair of large violet eyes,
                  peering through these mists of my mind into my heart. I know them, but fly from
                  them, because they exert a strange influence over me; but still, like a young bird
                  essaying to fly, my heart stretches its pinions, and flutters strongly to go
                  beyond its nest—to soar away and sing among distant blossoms. I fear I am growing
                  tired of Woodreve. I no longer delight in hearing Mr. Bedford tell the disastrous
                  tales of "Troy, of Tesole and Rome." Helen no longer charms me. I feel a contempt
                  for Paris; and Cornelia, my beau idéal of every
                  virtue, makes me stupid. I used to love to read of the spirited Hortensia,
                  bearding the proud old Romans in their Forum, and demanding justice for her sex;
                  and Semiramis, with her gorgeous army, subduing nations, always kindled a glow on
                  my cheeks and a fire in my eyes; but I care not to think of any of these. I wish
                  that old astrologer of Forli, Guido Bonatti, were living, that he might cast my
                  horoscope. I don't know why Mr. Bedford cannot do it. He knows well this art of
                  the Chaldeans; but he says it is diabolical, and I must believe him. My father is
                  engaged on some historical work; I don't know what, but I scarcely ever see him.
                  In the midst of all this, my old nurse is my especial torment ment. She wants me to take the most nauseous doses
                  that were ever concocted by a witch by moonlight, and insists on my bathing daily
                  in rose-water, which she considers a sovereign remedy for the megrims; then she
                  rubs and pounds my feet in her fat hands until they ache, to bring the disease
                  out, she says, and finally allows me to stroll out. From sundry groans and
                  exclamations, I am sure she thinks that some Obi fiend has put a
                  spell on me. I laugh at her when I can. * * * There was a large dinner-party
                  yesterday, and I was introduced to the élite of
                  town and country; as the mistress of Woodreve, I received many compliments, and
                  acquitted myself, as lady of the mansion, in such a manner as afterwards called
                  forth the approval of my father and Mr. Bedford. Among the guests was a Mr.
                  Willoughby, a young gentleman of wealth and excellent position, who has been some
                  two years a widower. My father has always expressed the highest admiration of his
                  character. He was very particular in his attentions to me, but is of that stolid,
                  practical cast of mind, which, with the best intentions, does not know how to
                  descend to the agreeabilities of life. He talked of his lands, his improvements,
                  his new equipage, and politics, and I was on the verge of a yawn, when, happily
                  for my credit, he changed the uninteresting subject to his little daughter, and,
                  with much affectionate pride, showed me her miniature. She is a perfect cherub,
                  and my eloquent admiration filled him with gratitude, and me—with confusion. I
                  hope he is not vain enough to construe my admiration of his child as a compliment
                  to himself. * * *
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Let not the people be too swift to judge,
                           As one who reckoneth on the blades in field,
                           Or e'er the crop be ripe—"
                        
                     
                     DANTE.
                  
               
               I HAVE not (continues the diary) been to the forest for two whole days, for fear
                  of meeting the audacious being who haunts it—and my memory. But this
                  evening the sunset dyed the heavens with such marvellous tints of beauty, and
                  showered over the earth and its shadows such gemlike mists, that every tree and
                  blossom, every wave and rock, were crowned with a golden lustre, and I wended my
                  way, lost in thought, to the fountain of Hecuba, for so I have named my favorite
                  haunt, from the following circumstance: A few days ago, Mr. Bedford and myself
                  walked thither, early after breakfast, to lounge away the morning, as we very
                  often do. As we sat in the shade, he fell into his usual train of conversation on
                  classical subjects, and began to tell me the mournful story of Hecuba, of her
                  grief at the loss of Polyxena, and the ravings of her frantic despair at the death
                  of Polydorus. My eyes filled, and the tears would have fallen; but the sound of
                  light footsteps bounding over the dead leaves startled me, for well knew I whose
                  they were. I turned my head quickly round, but only in time to see this Vernon
                  pause an instant, bow haughtily, and pass on. "Away with Hecuba," thought I, as I
                  drew myself proudly up, and looked full in his eyes—"away with fables. Why comes
                  this being so often across my path, luring my heart after him?" I observed that he
                  had no gun, and still wore his arm in a sling. But Mr. Bedford was so full of the
                  woful narrative that he saw and heard nothing, but kept on to the end; while I
                  leaned back, and a feeling of such unutterable sadness crept over me, so dense, so
                  oppressive, that I could neither weep nor move. * * * Brightly gleamed the playful
                  waters in the evening light, as if some prodigal hand had thrown a thousand
                  diamonds amidst the spray, and softly and sweetly echoed the vesper hymns of the
                  birds, murmuring, and rising and falling, as the daybeam faded like moonlit
                  billows on a flowery shore. With my cheek leaning on my hand, I unconsciously
                  began to sing, in a low tone, snatches of a sad song. I tried to warm my own heart
                  by chanting— 
                     
                        "Love not, love not, ye hapless sons of clay;
                        Hope's fairest wreaths are made of fading flowers;
                        The brightest, sweetest, droop and fall away
                        Ere they have blossomed for a few short hours.
                        Love not, love not, oh, love not!"
                     
                  
               
               "A warning vainly given," exclaimed a soft voice near me. I looked, and there, as
                  sure as I live, he stood, leaning, with folded arms, against a tree. "They are the
                  words, lady, of one who loved unworthily, and suffered. Trust them not."
               "On what authority am I so often intruded on, Mr. Vernon, by one who is quite a
                  stranger to me?" I said, rising, while my face crimsoned.
               "Gratitude, Miss Shirley. Did I not tell you I wished to forget everything but
                  your charity towards my maimed fingers? Mayhap I have been rude in my humor; if
                  so, blame a blithesome some but true
                  heart, which, like yon fountain, babbles of its own brightness. But I will soon
                  offend you no more by my presence; in a few days I shall leave these scenes of
                  peace for the rugged mountains and wild savannahs of the West," he said, in a
                  subdued tone.
               "We are but passing strangers, sir. You need not have been at such pains to thank
                  me formally for performing an act which I should long ago have forgotten, had you
                  not so often referred to it. I wish you well, Mr. Vernon," I replied, as I was
                  going.
               "One moment, lady, one moment. I will pass away, and your haughty spirit will
                  remember me only as an unwelcome cloud which crossed your way too often; but I
                  never can, and never wish to forget you. For days and weeks have I watched you,
                  unseen, from some covert shade, moving through these picturesque shades, or
                  reclining, with your book, on the moss beside these fountains, until I have
                  fancied you were some lovely creation of my fancy which a breath might dispel," he
                  said, coming nearer to me.
               "Hold, sir!" I exclaimed; "this is not proper. I will hereafter remain in-doors.
                  Nay, I am not offended; but—but, Vernon, you are ungenerous."
               "Will you return to-morrow?" he asked, timidly.
               "No; I will not come hither. I will become a prisoner under my own roof until I am
                  well assured you have left the country," I said, in an agony of feeling.
               "Then, by Heaven! I will seek you there," he exclaimed. "This, my first, my pure,
                  my exalted love, shall not be thus baffled. Go where you will, there will I seek
                  and find you. Over the distant sea, Miss Shirley, I have a name and a home as
                  proud as your own, and as your equal will I woo you."
               "Such violence, Mr. Vernon, is befitting your 'pure,' your 'exalted love,'" I
                  exclaimed, angrily. "Had you declared yourself a poor artist, as I thought you
                  were, I could have borne this better; but to come forcing your claim with boasts
                  of your accidental advantages of a 'proud name' and a 'proud home!' Shame on you,
                  sir!"
               "Miss Shirley, pardon me—pity me—you are a part of my life, and unless it is
                  restored to me, I must die; a part of my existence which was lost, and which I
                  have found, and for which my palpitating heart opens her veins to take in. Leave
                  me not to despair—spurn me not; scorn not affections such as never ripened in the
                  human soul before."
               I could not stand. I leaned for support against the marble rim of the fountain,
                  and big tears rolled over my face, and fell dripping into the water. Its spray
                  fell over me and chilled my life. I was cold and trembled, and was almost
                  senseless, when thoughts responsive to these wild words filled my heart. He stood
                  by my side, and gently took my unresisting hands in his, and folded them to his
                  lips, and drew me away from the chilling spray of the fountain. "I love you,
                  Miriam," he murmured; "fear not to let your heart seek mine—to mingle with it, to
                  find there its abiding home—fear not; I am not unworthy of such a trust, and will
                  never—never betray it!"
               "And who are you?" I almost shrieked, as I started away from him: "who are you,
                  who come and tear by violence one's heart from her bosom."
               "Calm thee, beloved twin sister of my being, calm thee!" he said, again gathering
                  my cold hands together in his, and pressing them to his heart—"my love will never
                  harm thee. It shall be thy palladium through life. And if I have torn thy heart
                  from thy bosom, dost not thou feel therein the soft throbbing of another, which
                  tells thee ever, how wildly—how fondly thou art loved? And oh, Miriam, the rapture
                  of the frightened flutterings of thine within my breast—how it trembles—how it
                  warms my soul—how it nestles close to my side. There—rest thy pale cheek on my
                  shoulder, and let me fold thee, wrap thee to my heart."
               "Vernon," I said in a low, trembling tone, as I moved away from his side,
                  "stranger as you are, you have smote the rock, and the fountain of affection is
                  unsealed; forth let it flow, obeying the mysterious affinities of nature, and if
                  it may be so, enriching your heart. But we meet not again. You harrow my feelings
                  too deeply. Love should be calm, patient, and holy; not like a mad mountain
                  torrent after a storm!"
               "Say not so, Miriam, that we meet not again! come to-morrow, will you not, and let
                  us talk of our future?" he said, pleadingly.
               "Selfish being!" exclaimed I, "you care not for my peace or repose! Why to-morrow?
                  Will it not be still to-morrow, and to-morrow?"
               "Yes, to-morrow and forever," he replied. "Here, then, will I seek you to-morrow;
                  but go now, beloved; the dews ascend like a cloud around us—your beautiful hair is
                  heavy with moisture! Return home; and, in your slumbers, forget me not. Here watch
                  I until dawn, dreaming bright, prophetic dreams of the future!"
               12 o'clock; night. Am I the same Miriam? has not an ago passed over
                  me since the morning, or have I by some sudden transition passed into a strange
                  world? Where is the calm, where the harmony, of my being? What shineth down into
                  the quivering waters of the mountain lake—what means this wild, bright, pervading
                  rapture, which like from a Lethean bath I have emerged? The past is forgotten, and the dim vista of the
                  future is lit by one glowing star, borne in the hands of the impetuous being who
                  has so strangely changed the current of my life. Oh, my father! would that I might
                  seek thee, and tell thee all! Oh, mother! why is the breast, on which I ought now
                  to weep, cold and silent? I cannot sleep. * * * Towards dawn I fell asleep, and
                  when I awoke, discovered a cluster of wild flowers on my pillow. Winnie in- formed
                  me that she found them at sunrise on my music-stand, which had been left all night
                  on the piazza. There was a strip of paper twisted around them, with Vernon's name,
                  written in pencil on it. I pressed them to my lips, but a small sharp thorn
                  pierced me, and a drop of blood stained the flowers. * * *
               My cheeks crimsoned this morning when I kissed my father and Mr. Bedford, and my
                  hands shook so that I could not pour out their tea. Mr. Bedford thought me ill,
                  and proposed a physician, but I objected so decidedly that it was given up. Oh,
                  how I longed to unburden my heart of its heavy secret! They both went to town this
                  afternoon, and I have once more seen Vernon. He seemed to be in a reckless, joyous
                  mood, and laughed at my sadness; and when I told him that I would see him no more,
                  clandestinely, to my infinite surprise, he consented. "These stolen interviews,
                  dear Miriam, are sweet," he said; "but there will be no necessity for them
                  hereafter. I would not woo you after a conventional manner, because my impetuous
                  spirit cannot brook formalities. I wished to be loved for myself alone. I wished
                  to win your heart, without any of that influence which the prestige of rank and
                  wealth surrounds one with."
               "And yet you threatened me with them!" said I, smiling.
               "And what cared you for them, proud one? You told me you would rather I had been a
                  poor artist. I am an artist, Miriam, but not a poor one, unfortunately for your
                  romance. See how I have been employing myself when I was not helping my good dame
                  at home about her domestic affairs!" he said, placing two small, curiously wrought
                  gold medallions in my hand. He touched the spring which kept them closed, and they
                  flew open, revealing in one an exquisitely painted miniature of myself, and his
                  own in the other. There was a fine Indian chain of gold attached to each of them.
                  He threw the one from which his miniature depended around my neck, and besought me
                  to bestow the other as a free gift in like manner on him. I do not know what
                  ominous feeling it was that induced me to agree to do so only on the condition
                  that he would paint an exact copy of it for myself. I believe I had an idea of
                  giving it, at some future time, to my father or Mr. Bedford for a birthday gift.
                  However, he consented to comply with my strange wish, and told me he possessed
                  another medallion and chain, precisely similar to these, all three of which had
                  contained antique family miniatures, which he had removed for the purpose of
                  fitting in those he had painted, and into which he would set it. "And now,
                  beloved, I have no reason to shrink from your father's notice; there is no reason
                  why I should not propose for your hand. I have letters of the highest character,
                  from some of the first gentlemen in England, which will fully indorse my
                  statements respecting my birth and fortune. I have heard your father is an
                  Englishman by birth, and the tie of native land will be a great argument in my
                  favor. Tomorrow I will seek an interview with him; I will tell him I have seen you
                  accidentally in the forest; and how, to look again and again on the beautiful
                  vision, I loitered until I loved; and then I will ask, in language which he can
                  but listen to, his consent to lay my honors, my fortune, and heart at his
                  daughter's feet." And thus he ran on, drawing such sanguine visions of hope and
                  future bliss, that I mentally chided myself for doubting that they would ever be
                  realized. I knew my father's bitter prejudices and stern will, but
                  clouded not his momentary joys by revealing aught of them; I wished, from my
                  inmost heart, to believe the beautiful illusion, and cared not to dispel his. * *
                  * * * * Two long dismal days have passed away in incessant rain, and Vernon has
                  not sought my father. What means it? If I doubt him one moment, I draw his
                  miniature from my bosom, and look into the frank, joyous face whose every
                  lineament is truthful, when my confidence is immediately restored. Perhaps he is
                  ill, or has met with some dreadful accident! Twice I thought I saw him moving
                  through the shrubbery that skirts the forest, but it was too far and too gloomy to
                  see distinctly. * * * * * *
               
                  Morning; sunrise.—The opening day is glorious. Forth beams the sun
                  from his pavilion of purple and gold, and the young day blushes like a coy maiden
                  at the approach of her lover. Bright dew-drops glitter on every spray, like human
                  hopes when fairest, clinging to the tendrils of the heart. Joyously hymn the birds
                  their jubilate among the shining boughs, and the
                  soft south wind trembles among the roses to kiss away their leaves. Like the
                  sunbathed mists around yon mountains, the gloom that has brooded over me during
                  these long dark hours is rolling afar from my bosom, tinted with such hopeful
                  radiance that my soul brightens in it. Winnie has just handed me a note from
                  Vernon. He will see my father to-day, and has been kept home by severe
                  in-disposition. I knew it. How full of fondness and devotion are the breathing
                  lines! A servant from the farm, Winnie says, brought it. I laughed and sung, and the poor old
                     maummy had two severe paroxysms of chuckling, which expressed,
                  more emphatically than words could do, her delight at my returning spirits. * * *
                  * *
               ——Oh, day begun in joy, how have ye ended? 
                     
                        
                           "I have seen
                           The thorn frown rudely all the winter long,
                           And after bear the rose upon its top;
                           And bark, that all the way across the sea
                           Ran straight and speedy, perish at the last, e'en
                           In the haven's mouth!"
                        
                     
                     DANTE.
                  
               
               To-day my father sent for me to the drawing-room, where, on account of the light,
                  he has been writing for some days past. I knew not what to dread, and went with
                  slow and reluctant steps to the interview. But he received me in so gracious a
                  manner that all my fears about Vernon, and an incidental discovery of our
                  interviews, instantly vanished. With some formality, and a highly pleased
                  expression of countenance, he informed me that "Mr. Willoughby had, in the most
                  honorable and generous terms, proposed for my hand, and hoped sincerely I would
                  consider his suit favorably, as he was a most eligible match, and a gentleman he
                  decidedly approved of, and wished for a son-in-law." I was silent; my hands
                  covered my face; and when he requested me to answer him, I burst into tears, and
                  exclaimed: "I could never become the wife of Mr. Willoughby." "It is my wish,
                  Miriam," he replied, sternly; "leave me now, and consider the matter more
                  favorably; I am growing old—I cannot live long, child, and there is no one, under
                  whose care and protection I could leave you, in whose honor, affection, and
                  indulgence I have such confidence as in Mark Willoughby." I saw, about an hour
                  afterwards, Vernon approaching the house, and I wrapped a scarf about me, and fled
                  far down into the forest, where not a sound but the rustling of leaves, and the
                  beating of my own heart, disturbed me. I felt stupefied, and knew not how the time
                  passed; I remember nothing but one or two wild intervals of distracted thought,
                  until I heard a voice echoing through the silence, "Miriam—Miriam!" It was
                  Vernon's, and when he saw the gleaming of my white dress through the trees, and
                  bounded over a fallen tree to reach my side, his face was very white, and an angry
                  scowl darkened his fine brow. He grasped my hands together in his, and gazed on me
                  until the lines of his face softened, and the blood returned to his marble cheeks.
                  He sat down by my side, and drew me to his bosom, exclaiming—
               "Mine you are, Miriam, in despite of them, nor shall any earthly power separate
                  us. Two old renegades—to refuse me, forsooth, because I am a noble born English
                  gentleman! What cares love like ours for monarchies or republics? I defy them
                  both—your father, and that old Bedford, who is quite as bad."
               "Vernon, forget not who I am, in your wrath against these two. How—tell me how
                  they received you—what said they?" I asked.
               "Your father, my Miriam, is a proud, stern old man, who would sacrifice your
                  happiness to a mere prejudice. But, if it pains you, I will not even say that
                  again. They received me with great courtesy; and when I produced my letters, they
                  were read, and I was assured that it was an unnecessary formality to present them;
                  that my own word and appearance would have been sufficient to insure me a
                  hospitable reception. Mr. Bedford knew my family in Devonshire, and said he would
                  have recognized me almost by my resemblance to my mother. Then I gradually opened
                  the object of my visit to them. I acknowledged frankly, Miriam, that obeying more
                  the impulse of my own impetuous nature than the proprieties of formal etiquette, I
                  had, unexpectedly to yourself, met you time after time in the forest, and at last
                  declared my love. Your father's face grew dark, but I urged my suit with all the
                  ardor of a sanguine heart, which thinks no evil; I told him, if he would consent
                  to our marriage, I would return to England immediately, and make the most
                  satisfactory arrangements for it, and that we would spend each alternate year with
                  him.
               "'You seem to be well assured of Miss Shirley's consent, at least,' he said, in a
                  severe tone.
               "'Miss Shirley, sir, as a dutiful daughter, referred me to you—nor would she or I
                  have condescended to any other than a frank and honorable course in this matter,'
                  I said, flushing up.
               "'You take a high tone, Mr. Vernon; but know, sir, that, how-ever advantageous
                  your position as an English gentleman of rank may be, or however honorable your
                  alliance with my family might be, I must decline your offer in the most decided
                  manner. The most insuperable objections exist to it,' said Mr. Shirley,
                  rising.
               "'May I ask what those objections may be, Mr. Shirley? My pride of character, and
                  my dignity, demand an explanation,' exclaimed I, also rising.
               "'You are my guest, sir, and it ought to be sufficient for you to
                     know that I decline your alliance, without forcing an explanation
                  from me which would be a breach of hospitality. But one of the reasons I
                     can, and will voluntarily, inform you of. My daughter, Miss
                  Shirley, is destined to become the wife of a gentleman I most highly approve and
                  to whom my honor is almost pledged to secure her union with him. This gentleman is an American,
                  and a republican, and she shall marry none other," he said, deliberately.
               "'Sir,' I exclaimed, through my set teeth, for I was fully roused, 'this one
                  reason is very cogent—waive all the laws of hospitality, and oblige me by stating
                  the other; I will take the responsibility of the act on myself.'
               "'As you please, Mr. Vernon,' he answered, bitterly; 'your being an English
                  aristocrat would place an insurmountable barrier between my daughter and yourself.
                  I detest the whole brood.'
               "'Good God, sir! I thought you were an Englishman by birth, and little expected
                  that my suit would be scorned because, in one of the old historic homes of
                  England, I first drew my breath,' I said, in amaze.
               "'Your supposition was right, sir; I am an Englishman by birth, and would that I
                  might wipe away the foul stain from my life! The past warns me, and my daughter
                  weds you not,' he replied, sternly.
               "'Mr. Shirley, you will not force your daughter into a marriage which is
                  distasteful to her?' I asked, gulping down my rage.
               "'Sir!' he cried, waving his hand towards the door, 'I will manage my family
                  without the unwelcome and impertinent interference of strangers. If you love my
                  daughter, I warn you see her no more; seek no more interviews with her; or not the
                  deep affection I feel for her, as the child of my dead wife, can shield her from
                  the effects of my anger.'
               "I rushed from the house, Miriam. I was afraid I should strike him if I stayed a
                  moment longer. But I defy him. Come with me. Fly this union with one you do not
                  love, and be mine. I have a friend in yonder town who is a clergyman of the Church
                  of England; he will unite us, and we will leave this land, and return to my
                  beautiful old home in Devonshire, where you, my bride, will be the beloved
                  mistress of my broad domains."
               "Oh!" cried I, wringing my hands together in my agony, "how can I meet my father
                  again? how can I meet Mr. Bedford?"
               "You love them better than you do me, Miriam?" he said, moodily.
               "No, no! it is quite a different feeling, Vernon, quite a different, but oh, as
                  strong a feeling, that I have towards these two. It is something awful, I feel it
                  already, to provoke the anger of a parent; and I charge you by your honor, and
                  your hopes of heaven, never, never tempt me again to a clandestine union,"I
                  replied, while tears streamed over my cheeks.
               "You will marry that hated man your father has provided for you, I suspect, to
                  carry out your romantic ideas of duty!" said Vernon, with a sneer.
               "Not as long as you live, unkind Vernon, to lacerate the heart which, through you,
                  is already wounded. I wish not to reproach you; I cannot, I would not; but hear me
                  now declare that Heaven itself must interpose in its wrath to force me to marry
                  this man!" I exclaimed, in an earnest tone. * * * * * * * * Oh God! was it
                  blasphemy! that thou didst register it, and pour out the vials of thy wrath on my
                  sinful and disobedient head, in an hour when I dreamed not of thy retribution? * *
                  * And now flowed into Woodreve the waters of bitterness! And in they flow still,
                  like a Stygean flood. I have rejected Mr. Willoughby, and reproached him for
                  "taking an ungenerous advantage of my father's approbation of his suit, by forcing
                  his attentions on me when he must have seen I was so averse to them." He looked
                  astonished; and after several minutes' profound silence, bade me good morning,
                  and, without seeing my father, left Woodreve; nor has he returned, although four
                  days have elapsed. My father is growing harsh with me; he suspects me of seeing
                  Vernon, and is displeased at Mr. Willoughby's absence. Oh human weakness, oh
                  fainting heart, oh wavering will, why not be strong in duty? Why shrink back from
                  a wholesome draught, because it is bitter? Why do I continue to yield to this mad,
                  but beloved Vernon's entreaties to see him, only to listen to his passionate
                  pleadings for me to marry him clandestinely, then forsake the home, the land of my
                  birth, my father, who is very dear to me, and all, all forever, to seek with him a
                  refuge of happiness in England? * * Somehow and somewhere he has seen Winnie, and
                  won her completely over to his interests. With a love of intrigue which is
                  peculiar to her race and color, she readily yields to all his suggestions, and
                  persuades me, in her odd way, to elope with Vernon. She says: "Massa Shirley will
                  soon get over it, and have you both back at Woodreve. He deserves to be worrit
                  well, for crossing you so. I never see any good come out o' sich perceedings in my
                  life long; and its abserlutely shameful. He's sich a nice, beautiful critter, and
                  would make you a proper husband too." She brings me his letters, his flowers, his
                  messages. I get no rest. There are no smiles at Woodreve for me now, save in my
                  dead mother's pictured face; all are cold, saturnine, and stern. Mr. Bedford is
                  much in town now; it would be a consolation if he would look more
                  displeased and less sad— * * * Cold blow the autumnal winds. The flowers are
                  blighted, the leaves dead and fallen. Dark and sullen gleams the river, and heavy
                  clouds creep sullenly over the gloomy sky. The trees of the forest, with the long
                  gray moss floating from their naked boughs, and the grape-vines, and fantastic
                  chains of withered honeysuckle and jasmine, linking them together, look like an endless army of wizard
                  giants, fettered by some weird enchantment—and struggling, panting to be free. How
                  impotently they wave their arms, how madly lift they their hoary heads to heaven.
                  * * * A note from Vernon! He is suddenly recalled to England, and departs the day
                  after to-morrow. He begs to see me; he waits for me beside the fountain of
                  Hecuba—a fitting one was that baptismal name, oh fountain! I wrap my shawl around
                  me, and tie hastily a veil over my head, and bidding Winnie say I slept if I was
                  inquired for, stole forth, and glided swiftly to the well-known haunt. * * I
                  thought I had strength for this trial. I thought I would never yield; but oh! I
                  cannot, I cannot part with Vernon thus. I will not rave, although I am nearly mad.
                  He has prevailed, but only on these conditions. I have promised to marry him
                  to-morrow at midnight; he is to depart immediately with the clergyman who performs
                  the rite; the witnesses are to be sworn to secrecy, and he is to give into my
                  possession the certificate of our marriage, duly signed by the parties present and
                  ourselves. I am to remain at Woodreve until he returns, a year hence, from
                  England. And where are these stolen nuptials to take place? At my mother's grave,
                  over her dust, at the solemn midnight watch, am I to plight those vows which make
                  me the bride of Vernon! I walk my room—the limits are too narrow—would I were out
                  on yonder mountain-side, where I could howl forth my agony! I pause,
                  and write a few words, then recommence my fretted walk. I cannot even weep. There
                  is a clamor below! What means it? A running to and fro with lights—a tap at my
                  door! * * * * My father was taken suddenly ill, with symptoms of paralysis. Oh,
                  with what relenting love hung I over his pale and senseless form. No hand did I
                  allow to touch him save my own; and when he recovered; and turned with a smile so
                  sad, so imploring, towards me, I—I—was almost saved. He kept me by
                  his side, with my hand in his; speech was broken; but I could understand him
                  whenever he murmured, "my child," or "darling." This
                  evening, he is quite out of danger. Mr. Bedford and our physician never leave his
                  room. 11 o' clock. He made a sign for me to leave him, and go to rest; then drew
                  my face down to his, and kissed my cheek. I knelt a moment by his bed, and,
                  pressing his hands to my bosom, leaned my head over on his breast; then, pale and
                  cold as marble, went I forth to prepare for my bridal. * * * * * It was
                  accomplished! duly, solemnly, and legally was the ceremony performed which united
                  me to Vernon; but two weeks have clasped, and he still lingers. Two weeks longer
                  finds him still here. My father is convalescing rapidly, and little dreams of my
                  hypocrisy, for nothing less is it. Vernon, my husband, braves, dares everything to
                  see me, and in this Winnie aids him; but I cannot chide her. I fancy she believes
                  it is her first duty on earth, and the object for which she was created, to make
                  everything yield to her wishes for my happiness, to bend every circumstance
                  subservient to it. By some logical and ingenious train of reasoning, which she
                  does not condescend to explain, she has come to the conclusion that the whole
                  matter is a signal triumph over Mr. Bedford and the books, which she
                  detests as cordially as ever; and this idea encourages her zeal. Books! would that
                  I had never lived so much alone with these silent, fascinating, but dangerous
                  companions—books of such a character as have had a tendency to refine to the
                  highest degree every impassioned and romantic sentiment of my mind, without adding
                  strength to my judgment, or elevating above a circle of mere fantasies my
                  soul!—which have learned me a dangerous and worldly creed in the worship of the
                  ideal, and taught me to shrink coldly from the duties and realities of more active
                  life, until my whole being looks out on the world through a morbid and distorted
                  medium! I am conscious of it all—I deplore it; but oh! what kind angel will apply
                  a remedy to the evil! I know not how to minister to such a deep-seated and subtle
                  disease. * * * I feel that I have injured my father by this betrayal of his
                  confidence in my truth. I have repaid his long and well-tried affection by
                  ingratitude. I know I have wounded him in the tenderest and most sensitive chord
                  of his proud heart; but as yet he knows it not; the keen blow pierced him in the
                  dark, and awful will be his agony when the poison ripens. Oh, what bitterness has
                  mingled with my brief rapture! The gloom that gathers around my heart in the
                  intervals of Vernon's absence is intolerable; sad presentiments weigh me down, and
                  mournful shapes, gliding over dark billows, haunt my dreams. I am sometimes
                  tempted to go with him. But when he comes, all is sunshine in my heart, and I
                  yield myself up entirely to the fleeting rapture of the moment. * * * To-morrow he
                  leaves me. Twelve long months will drag away before I behold him, my husband,
                  again. He is just gone. He brought me the copy of my miniature which he promised
                  me, set in one of those curious old medallions, and attached to an Indian chain,
                  precisely similar to the others. The likeness is faithful, and the execution fine
                  and artistic. But see! there is a difference between this medallion and the
                  others. There is a tiny diamond set in the spring; but pshaw! what a trifle to
                  note down at such a moment. He gave me a small package containing the certificate
                  of our marriage, and a sealed letter addressed to my father, which I am to deliver
                  to him in the event of his discovering
                  covering our secret. Oh, aching heart! Oh, burning brain! how will ye bear this
                  pang of separation and absence! * * One of his servants will remain in town, to
                  whom all his letters to me are to be directed under cover, who will deliver them
                  to me without delay. He is faithful, Vernon thinks, and trustworthy; and is one of
                  the party who witnessed our marriage. * * He is gone! * * Three long years have
                  fled, and on each year came a shadow of darkness; for each one there was a vial of
                  wrath. I resume my pen merely to note down the events which have turned my heart
                  to stone. I feel a thousand years old. The sun went down at noon, and thence
                  followed a starless night of gloom in my life. Like the form of some proud
                  Cleopatra, which has been sleeping in the catacombs beneath the dust of centuries,
                  suddenly exhumed, walk I among my kind. I acknowledge no law but
                     pride; no softening influences ever shed their dews on my frozen
                  heart. I stand alone; desolate under the infliction of my punishment. I never saw
                  Vernon again. On the Bahama Banks, during a terrific storm, his vessel was
                  wrecked, and every soul, except his servant, and one of the crew,
                     perished. Six months after his departure, the poor wretch, who had
                  been picked up the next day by a Dutch brig bound in, wayworn and in rags, found
                  his way back to Woodreve, and told me the awful disaster. He was near
                     him, when he went down, and could not aid him, but heard him, ere
                  he sank forever, shout above the storm, "Return to Miriam!" I knew not what
                  followed, but have since learned that my father and Mr. Bedford discovered then,
                  from my frantic ravings, that I was not only a widowed wife, but would become, ere
                  the summer leaves and flowers were blighted by autumnal frosts, a mother. I was in
                  a raving delirium for weeks, and when consciousness returned, there were two
                  patient, sorrow-stricken old men watching beside me. After a few days, during one
                  of my calmer intervals, for returning memory brought sweeping tempests of agony
                  over my mind, I remembered the letter, and the certificate of my marriage, and,
                  with a trembling hand and averted face, presented it to my father. He glanced over
                  it, and murmuring "Thank God," stooped down and kissed me, then left the room. I
                  cannot divine what fears he was delivered from by the sight of it; but he was away
                  a day or two, and when he returned, he was more frequently with me, and looked
                  less reproachfully, less sadly on me. But oh, I could not forgive, as he did; he
                  was too stern, too uncompromising with my lost Vernon; he might have yielded his
                  prejudices, I thought, to insure his child's happiness, and yet I knew that I had
                  wronged him. And thus it was. There was no feeling of yore between us; we both
                  suffered; and neither could understand or appreciate the peculiar trial of the
                  other. I was transformed from a gay, joyous creature, to a silent, passionless
                  woman, and a strange, cold sadness settled about my heart, that made existence
                  almost a blank to me. * * * And no light, no rest, dawned on the torn-tossed
                  heart, until they laid my first-born, the miniature image of his lost father—my
                  breathing, beautiful babe, in my arms. * * * My boy was just one year old when my
                  father was prostrated by a sudden illness, which his physician declared from the
                  first would end fatally. Then I saw it all in its proper light, how I had grieved
                  and deceived the fond parent who had so entirely trusted to my honor and pride of
                  character, not to act contrary to his expressed wishes. As a parent, I felt how I
                  had outraged every high and tender feeling by my breach of confidence, and for the
                  moment Vernon was forgotten. I knelt by his bedside, and bathed his hand with
                     tears—the first I had shed. I besought him to speak, and tell me I
                  was forgiven; to bless me. All night clung I to that cold hand, as if to drag him
                  away from the grave. Fondly I smoothed back the silver hair, which I had helped to
                  whiten, from his pallid forehead, and pressed my warm, throbbing lips to his, to
                  try and restore to them a genial heat.
               "Oh, my father, I deserve these agonies—they have purified my heart with fire—I am
                  your child again—speak, my father—speak to your repentant child!" I shrieked.
               "Madam!" said the grave physician, "absolute quiet is necessary, if you please. My
                  honored patient may linger some few days longer, and, as is usual in these cases,
                  recover his speech before death—but let me beseech you to be calm. You injure
                  yourself, Mrs. Vernon."
               "Sir," I exclaimed, "it is your trade to see people die; you can witness the agony
                  of severing ties like these in an unmoved and scientific way! but I am his child,
                  I wounded him in a tender point, and oh, my God, perhaps broke his proud, loving
                  heart! I will speak—I will."
               The physician turned away, elevating his eyebrows and shrugging his shoulders; but
                  I, unheeding his professional anger, knelt again, and leaning over the pale
                  sufferer whispered: "Father, dear father, speak to me; I will never—never deceive
                  you again, dear father, but try by a lifetime of duty to atone for my fault. Oh,
                  speak to me! Oh God, restore him a little while. Come hither, thou healer," I
                  screamed, springing up and grasping the astonished physician's arm: "Come hither,
                  and tell me if he breathes—if he will not live—see, his eyes unclose—my heart's
                  agony has roused him from the very trance
                  of death. My father! oh, my father, forgive me!"
               He slowly turned his head on his pillow, and gazed with a fond, but solemn
                  expression on my white, troubled face, and whispered, "Poor child—you have
                  suffered much."
               "Oh, my father," was still my agonized cry, "forgive my error! Tell me what
                  sacrifice I can make—what thing I can perform, to atone for the pain I have
                  inflicted on you. Speak, my father! My life is nothing—the world has nothing in
                  comparison so precious as your forgiveness."
               "Miriam—my child," he murmured feebly, while he laid his hand on my head, "I was
                  too harsh—too unrelenting in my prejudices—but God forgive us both for the past! I
                  am dying, and there is one wish—only one—of my heart ungratified. You can
                     grant that wish, Miriam, and make my last hours tranquil."
               "Name it, dearest father! I promise, before you name it, that it shall be complied
                  with," I exclaimed.
               "You are young, Miriam—you need a protector—your son needs one—and—I have but
                  little breath left—promise me——to——marry—Willoughby. He was my choice, when
                  that——but never mind the past now—Willoughby still loves—you—child—promise—me"—he
                  gasped.
               I expected not this; but I promised him. Before Heaven, still kneeling by his
                  side, with his icy, stiffening hand in mine, and in the presence of Jasper, Mr.
                  Bedford, and Dr. Ashley, I vowed to perform—this sacrifice.
               
               "I can no longer see—or hear—you—Miriam," he gasped feebly out; "you have nobly
                  atoned—you have—my entire—forgiveness. God—forgive—me—as—I
                  forgive—you——Jasper—come—Bedford—bless——"
               
                  And then it was all over. * * * * My grief was silent and bitter. I
                  was learning more perfectly the art to control and subdue, beneath a calm
                  exterior, heart-pangs which almost maddened me. The coffin-lid was stained with my
                  tears, was still damp with the bitter drops which welled up like an infusion of
                  wormwood from my heart, when the marble seal of the sepulchre closed over it, and
                  he was left in death by the side of her he so fondly loved in life. I was borne,
                  fainting, away from that solemn place of the dead, where, nearly two years before,
                  at mid-night, I had become the bride of Vernon. Ominous nuptials! A nation mourned
                  the loss of the old patriot, and honored through its Senate his venerated name, by
                  proposing suitable resolutions to his memory, and erecting a monument to his
                  services and virtues.
               From that mournful and second period of woe, until I plighted my vows to Mr.
                  Willoughby, no seeming change passed over me, beyond a gradual paling of my
                  cheeks, and the settling of a stern and cold expression on my countenance. I was
                  silent, but courteous, and performed the duties of a wife in a regular and
                  exemplary manner. Mr. Willoughby thought me more sensible and beautiful than ever.
                  My dignified manner, my perfect self-possession and quiet courtesy, all the
                     results of mental torture, increased his admiration of my character, and
                  he thought himself the most enviable being on earth. My father had left my brother
                  Jasper and myself joint heirs of the Woodreve estate, but Mr. Willoughby, a few
                  days after our marriage, effected an arrangement with him for the purchase of his
                  share, and, to my astonishment, presented me with the deeds, duly executed,
                  securing it to myself and little Arthur, with exclusive privileges to dispose of
                  it when and how I saw proper. This was a noble act. His character and mind were of
                  a sterling order, and his principles honorable and high-toned; but I could
                     never love him. I could only return his devoted and untiring affection,
                  by indulging kindly all his peculiar tastes, and trying to make his home agreeable
                  by doing the honors of his house with dignified propriety, and welcoming with
                  polite cordiality his friends. Somehow, his daughter Edith, a black-eyed,
                  beautiful, warm-hearted little tyrant, who had ruled her father and his household
                  ever since her mother's death, nestled herself into a niche of my heart, and, as I
                  live, she is the only strange thing that has found admission there since it was
                  made desolate. I gained the most absolute influence over her. She seemed to defy
                  me not to love her; to dare me not to admit her into the chilled sanctuary of my
                  affections. Willoughby noticed this, in his own peculiar and quiet way, by
                  constantly luring Arthur away from my side, and bearing him about in his arms, or
                  on his shoulder over the lawn, until the joyous shouts of the child made the
                  welkin ring; and finally tried to make a little centaur of him, by purchasing a
                  pony for his especial use, so gentle and sure-footed that the little Saxon almost
                  lived in the saddle. My life was calm. I enjoyed its perfect repose. Like the
                  ocean after a tempest, all seemed bright and at rest, over the sunken wrecks it
                  had made. Mr. Willoughby was my friend—my consoler—my protector; he loved me
                  unselfishly, and loved my son; but this was not to last. Two years had not passed
                  away, ere symptoms of a rapid decline developed themselves in his system, and, in
                  a few short months, the noble and manly heart of Mark Willoughby ceased to throb.
                  He was sincerely regretted; his loss was deeply felt by me. I honored and
                  respected his virtues, and appreciated
                  highly the affection which I could only return by a cold but grateful duty. He
                  left his immense wealth entirely at my disposal, and besought me to be "a tender
                  mother to little Edith, as I had been a faithful wife to him." "He could in no
                  other way," he said, "testify to the world the high regard he had for me than by
                  leaving his child and fortune entirely to my discretion and management." * * *
                  After a decent time had elapsed, I removed from Glade Holmes to Woodreve, and
                  determined never to leave it again, but live secluded from the world, and devoted
                  to my children and the intellectual pursuits I loved. Poor Maummy
                  still lived, but her life had been a sad one from the time my father discovered
                  that she had aided me to deceive him. He had vented the first fury of his wrath on
                  her, and banished her to a remote farm he possessed in a lower county. Haply for
                  me, I was insensible to the ravings of his aggrieved heart, and, by the time I
                  recovered, my anguish and sufferings had so wrought on his old tender feelings,
                  that he never pained me by alluding to the past until he was dying. He had, with
                  Mr. Bedford's assistance, fully ascertained the legality of my union with my poor,
                  lost Vernon; had sought out the clergyman who officiated on the occasion; seen the
                  witnesses, whose names were appended to the certificate; then announced through
                  the press our marriage, and his disastrous death, in the same notice, on the same
                  day, and transmitted the papers to the Vernon family in England. His sense of
                  propriety was then satisfied, and he never referred to the subject again. I
                  recalled Winnie, who was almost distracted with joy at getting back to Woodreve.
                  She frightened the children by chuckling in her own way and weeping violently
                  alternately for an entire week, after which the gold hoops, the madras turban, and
                  amber beads were in all their glory, and she recovered her spirits so rapidly that
                  it was a difficult thing to realize she had ever lost them. How she loved my
                  little Arthur Vernon; how she followed and watched him; how, in transports of
                  queerly expressed affection, she would fold him to her bosom until, almost
                  suffocated, he would seize her hoops and drag at them until the pain caused her to
                  release him; or grasp her turban, which was the pride of her life, and hurl it
                  into the fire, while she, in her effort to rescue it, freed him, and, hopeless of
                  effecting her object, would stand with her grizzled head bare, chuckling and
                  shaking her fist at him as he shouted at the blaze! He had his father's wild,
                  impetuous spirit. * * * My cup was not yet drained of the lees of bitterness. I
                  will try to record the disaster, which followed the pouring forth of the last vial
                  of wrath on my desolate head, in sane and rational language. * * * It was an
                  evening ing in October. A balmy mist floated over the earth, and the moon looked
                  lovingly down through its dreamy veil. I was alone in my library, an addition I
                  had made to the old mansion at Woodreve since my father's death; and had been
                  thinking, oh, how mournfully! of the unhappy and eventful past, when I was
                  startled from my sad reverie by Arthur's bounding in from the lawn, through the
                  half-opened window, and throwing himself, weary and exhausted with play, on my
                  bosom. He wound his dimpled arms about my neck, and kissed my cheeks and lips with
                  a perfect abandon of childish love, then nestled
                  his head, with its wealth of golden curls, on my shoulder, and fell asleep. He
                  wore around his neck the Indian chain, and the medallion containing the miniature
                  of myself, which his father had copied for me, and, fearing it might become
                  twisted too closely around his throat, I unclasped it, and wound it around his
                  arm, and fastened the clasp. All this I perfectly remember. * * * He slept so
                  sweetly that I could not bear to waken him, and laid him gently on the cushions of
                  the divan on which I sat; then covered him with my cashmere shawl, and kneeling
                  down by him parted his long sunny curls and kissed his snowy forehead. I
                  afterwards closed the window, fearing the night air would give him cold, and went
                  out to preside at the tea-table; for Mr. Bedford and two other guests, with my
                  brother Jasper, were then at Woodreve; after which I led the way with them to the
                  drawing-room. At bedtime, I went into the library with Winnie to have the child
                  removed to his own little couch by mine; but, oh God! he was gone!
                  There was the print of his darling head on the pillow, and there lay a few flowers
                  he had in his hand when he came from the lawn to me. He must have been borne off
                  very stealthily, for there was no sign of his having awoke; no disturbance of the
                  cushions; no disorder anywhere. They had wrapped the shawl about him without
                  disturbing his sleep, and taken him away.
               How fruitless was the long search that was made after the stray lamb; how princely
                  were the rewards and ransoms offered for his recovery, I will not say. Such agony
                  as mine cannot be statistical in its details. But it was all in vain.
                  Not a breath of tidings was heard, but that an Indian girl had been seen by two
                  hunters, travelling eastward, with a fair-haired, white child in her arms. This
                  was all. The hardy men whom I sent beyond the western mountains, to the southern
                  savannahs, and among the Indian tribes of the regions surrounding the northern
                  lakes, returned hopeless, received their well-earned recompense, and departed
                  silently. I then determined to go to Europe; I thought—oh, wild dream of a
                  despairing heart!—that I might, perchance, find him there. Mr. Bedford went with me, but, oh! worse than hopeless was that
                  voyage—that long journey! It was only among the ruins of ancient grandeur and the
                  wrecks of former glory that my throbbing heart ceased its wild tuggings on my
                  life. Amidst them, as among familiar friends, I held mournful converse—they
                  whispered, as the wind softly fanned the creeping vines that clung around the
                  lonely columns and shattered altars, "We were;" and my heart echoed:
                  "As ye were, so once was I; but not the proudest thing among ye has been so rudely
                  crushed." * * * Like a weary pilgrim, who has sought in vain the shrine of his
                  devotion, I returned to Woodreve. I lived on—on—on—whiter—colder, and more
                  hopeless, until fifteen long years had rolled by. I never talked of my lost child,
                  after I had hopelessly done all that a mother's love could suggest to recover him.
                  I never refer to him now; I turned to Edith, my step-daughter, for that mental
                  occupation which alone prevented madness; and, although her every wild laugh and
                  merry word was like the thrusting in of a sharp thorn on my heart; though every
                  caress and newly-developed beauty made me almost shriek out at times, so bitter
                  were the comparisons of my memory, I bore all—all in silence, nor
                  checked her laughter; but returned the caress, and trained the gifted young mind
                  to high and ennobling pursuits; directed its judgment by my own sad experience;
                  encouraged its refined tastes and generous impulses, and tried to implant
                  principles in her soul which will make her a noble, true-hearted woman fitted for
                  that contention with the stern realities of life which must come—even to her.
               * * * "The wrath of heaven," which I once so madly invoked,
                     did interpose, and I have been tossed on the whirlwind. I know
                  nothing of its healing consolations. I know not how to seek them; I know not
                  whether so blighted and bruised, so proud and defiant a spirit as mine could
                  receive them, even knew it how to claim them. God help me!
               Mr. Bedford is a great deal with me. Edith almost worships him.
               
               Thus broke off this unconnected record of the painful events of Mrs. Willoughby's
                  life. Edith frequently paused to wipe away the tears which blinded her during its
                  perusal. It was all new to her, and this first glimpse at the real pangs of life
                  made her tremble. With the manuscript in her hand, she fell asleep towards
                  morning; but so distressing were her dreams that, ere her maid came in to dress
                  her at seven o'clock, she had risen and was sitting at the window, lost in
                  thought. "Mr. Bedford is waiting for his tea, Miss Etha, and Missis is gone to
                  town two hours ago," said the girl, as she stooped down to lace the gaiters around
                  Edith's symmetrical ankle.
               "Mamma gone to town? Surely you are mistaken, Paula."
               "No, indeed! She went in de carriage at five o'clock, and told me not to disturb
                  you. But Massa Bedford is fidgetting and axing for you so often, dat I thought I'd
                  come up, just to see if you was awake, Miss Etha," replied the girl.
               When Edith's toilet was completed, she sent Paula down, and, wrapping her
                  step-mother's diary again in its envelope, and tying it carefully with the same
                  silken cord, ran into her chamber and thrust it far out of sight, under the
                  pillows of Mrs. Willoughby's bed; and then hurried down, with a somewhat saddened
                  face, to give Mr. Bedford his breakfast.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               
                  
                     "Fashion," says Hazlitt, "is gentility running away from vulgarity, and
                        afraid of being overtaken by it. It is a sign that the two things are not
                        far asunder."
                  
               
               WE are sorely tempted to sermonize, but will refrain, and merely pronounce a brief
                  exordium, ere we illustrate our text. It is not ill natured to observe facts
                  apparent to all; it is no scandal to note events which every hour find their
                  parallel in this world of ours. We do not expect to create a single new idea, and
                  fear we cannot annihilate one old one, or pronounce a solitary sententious novelty
                  in the way of philosophical reflections. We will not presume to judge the world,
                  nor even exhibit its follies, with the same nonchalance as a keeper of a royal menagerie would his beasts, nor,
                  with an air of supernal authority, satirize its defects. It would be an endless
                  work of supererogation to attempt it. For behold the carnival of life! Mark the
                  broad satire it pronounces on itself. In endless processions moves the pageant
                  along, to the music of its own vapid imaginings; while the nasal braying of asses
                  wearing the royal skins of dead lions, and the gleaming of wolfish eyes beneath
                  the stolen fleece of sheep, impart a bravery and consequence to it which sometimes
                  make simple lookers-on quake with terror. Amidst the throng flutters the
                  never-dying jackdaw, in its borrowed plumes, condescendingly grand, while costly
                  ovations follow its progress. It is the
                  representative of modern scholastic learning and wit; a fitting emblem of shallow
                  pretensions and metaphysical absurdities; as, in olden times, the Phoenix of
                  Heliopolis was the incarnation of an immortal idea of the divinity of genius. In
                  unrivalled majesty, the gorgeously plumed pea-fowl is borne forward on a throne of
                  gold by the votaries of fashion; its burnished Argus eyes glittering in the
                  sunshine, its vestments sprinkled as with dust from Golconda, and shimmering, like
                  a thing of light, in changeful hues of purple and azure. Who will dare accuse
                     it of discordant notes, or presume to allude to the frightful
                  claws?—ungainly, plebeian, and unsightly, which it shrinks from with loathing
                  itself. And is there no tolling bell, no roaring sunset cannon, reverberating over
                  the campagna of life, to call the proud revellers from the carnival to the altar?
                  No! What has fashion to do with repentance and prayer? It hews out broken cisterns
                  in its progress, and builds rich shrines of gold, which no vulgar hand may
                  touch—shrines on whose outer vails the HOLY NAMES are written to impart a
                  sacerdotal dignity to the worship of Mammon, but where no divine oracles are
                  heard, telling of the pure in heart; of meekness, lowliness, and justice; of
                  starving prisoners of charity, which bear patiently one another's burdens; of the
                  naked or the hungry. The story of Lazarus and Dives is not known among them; but
                  we pause. It is sickening to the soul to moralize on heartless follies; on
                  treasons to the high allegiance due from the creature to his GOD. It is better to
                  laugh, if we cannot check their lofty assumptions, which play such fantastic
                  tricks before high heaven; it is better to laugh while the show goes by, and the
                  bells jingle merrily—if we can. Now from the tower prison, dear
                  reader, poised on a perilous abutment which exposes us to the winged arrows from
                  below, we will play the part of Rebecca, and rehearse the passing scenes. From our
                  distant post of observation we can identify no personalities, save one or two,
                  which in their native goodness rise so near heaven, that we dwell with rapture on
                  their deeds as on their countenances. Imagination, the potent enchanter, is beside
                  us, our chief aid, who interposes between our eyes and the sometimes misty
                  distance a telescope whose lenses make all clear, for they are drops from the
                  crystalline waters of the ideal world.
               In a quarter of the town known to the beau-monde
                  as Chiswicke Square, amidst many stately dwellings which composed a nucleus of
                  brilliant fashion, stood a mansion of more than ordinary pretension and style,
                  which would have been pronounced by the critical in such matters decidedly
                  handsome, had not certain incongruities led to the inevitable conclusion that the
                  bad taste of its owners had interfered materially with the original designs and
                  judgment of the architect. It was not, however, so isolated a case; and when
                  casual observers merely remarked it, they with a very connoisseur-like air
                  pronounced it exceedingly fine. It gloried in a spacious marble portico, supported
                  by fluted Ionic columns, and balconied drawing-room windows, draped within with
                  embroidered lace and crimson damask. Those in the second and third stories were a
                  pane shorter and a sash narrower, suggesting an idea of economy in the saving of
                  so much costly rose-colored glass. They were also richly draped within. The front
                  of the whole pile was ornamented with a fantastic arabesque parapet, so
                  elaborately carved that it would have thrown a China-man in raptures. The
                  evidences of wealth indicated by these exterior appliances were more than
                  confirmed by the frequent appearance of their foreign equipage at the curb, with
                  its liveried footmen and dignified coachmen, whose ebony countenances wore a look
                  of supercilious grandeur in their high estate.
               The De Veres were wealthy, and enjoyed the results of long, honest,
                  laborious toil, in a style which is by no means peculiar in this world of ours.
                  They expended prodigally that which, according to the ethics of the world, was
                  legitimately their own, more to suit their own ideas of pleasure than the
                  disagreeable morality of those turtle-like souls who creep behind the age, and
                  declare incessantly that such things are incompatible with Christianity, and the
                  simplicity of a noble republic.
               That power with which gold endows its possessors had elevated the De Veres to the
                  enviable rank of leaders of the haut ton, a
                  position which set a seal of authority on their importance, and impressed them
                  fully with the responsibility of guarding the sacred precincts of the charmed
                  circle from the contamination of vulgar aspirants after the same honors, by
                  assuming a degree of high and ultra exclusiveness.
               Honest old John De Vere, who felt a noble pride in that perseverance of character,
                  unflinching integrity, and prudent economy which had enabled him to overcome
                  triumphantly the obstructions and difficulties which impeded his pathway to
                  fortune, was occasionally heard to refer, over his foaming tankard of ale, "to the
                  hard times when he was a caulker," and "the year he abandoned that business for
                  the more profitable one of sail-making;" and usually declared, with a bumper,
                  "that King George on his throne was not so proud or happy a man as he, the day he
                  purchased his first ship." In the simplicity of his warm, honest heart, he had
                  always looked forward with keen anticipations of pleasure to the period when,
                  having amassed a certain amount of gains, he would rest from his labors, and, with
                  his family and old associates in trade,
                  spend, in what he considered rational enjoyments, the declining days of his life.
                  He dreamed not of changes, or new toils, or far more feverish anxieties than it
                  had cost him to amass his large fortune. Blissfully ignorant until the evil day
                  came, if any one had told him the story of Sisyphus, he would have pronounced him,
                  without the formula of investigation, "a ne'er do well, idle blockhead."
               But Mr. De Vere had a wife; and from the hour he announced to her that his fortune
                  amounted to half a million, and yielded to her unwearied solicitations to retire
                  from business, he was a miserable and dissatisfied man; for Mrs. De Vere was an
                  ambitious and enterprising person, and this was only the "beginning of the end" of
                  her husband's peace. Her next object was, by dint of every effort that her woman's
                  wit suggested, to persuade or literally worry him into the belief that their
                  name—their original name—Divers, was excessively vulgar, and must, by an especial
                  act of legislative power, be changed to the more aristocratic patronymic of De
                  Vere, "which, after all," argued the cara
                     spousa, "is only Frenchifying it." After this important
                  point was conceded, and successfully concluded, to the lady's high satisfaction,
                  she set her ingenuity to work to get away from the comfortable, substantial
                  dwelling in the eastern section of the city, which to her was rife with old and
                  vulgar associations, to the more elegant and fashionable neighborhood of Chiswicke
                  Square. She was a woman; she had a woman's will, and succeeded. The genius of
                  Aladdin's lamp was not more his slave than circumstances were to her indomitable
                  energy of character.
               Then commenced the struggle—the toiling, the heart-burning, the jostling, and
                  time-serving, which always attend the efforts of the uninitiated to scale the
                  heights of fashion. And from the well-bred circle to which they aspired—for which
                  they had abandoned old and true friends with human hearts—from amidst the
                  meretricious glare, and glitter, and hypocrisy of mere conventionalities, which
                  made up its world, they heard sneering inquiries, which brought the honest blood
                  to their cheeks, and were compelled to listen to insulting and supercilious
                  language, which conveyed reproofs not to be misunderstood, on their aspiring
                  presumption, that almost made Mrs. De Vere's bold heart quail, and
                  quite succeeded in driving back the honest old tradesman to a quiet and solitary
                  life. It is probable that she had never heard of Hannibal nor Bonaparte;
                  nevertheless, she possessed in an eminent degree their spirit. Where barriers
                  presented themselves, even if cloud-capped, to threaten the success of her object,
                  the obstacle only stimulated her efforts, only nerved her heart to gigantic
                  exertions, until she triumphed.
               The exchange was an exciting and pleasing one to Mrs. De Vere. Far withdrawn from
                  the irksome and unequal warfare, her husband gave it all up to her, while he
                  cursed, in the bitterness of his aggrieved heart, that senseless, soulless
                  ambition that had thus deprived him, in his old age, of the privileged comforts of
                  HOME. It was not the natural emulation, which is allowable, indeed highly
                  praiseworthy, to rise to a higher level of enjoyment in the associations of more
                  intellectual and polished society, and the prerogatives of a better position in
                  the social scale, that fretted and displeased him; he could have tolerated, nay
                  appreciated that; but it was the tearing away of the serene image of Peace from
                  her pure pedestal in his dwelling, and the setting up of a golden calf in her
                  place, which was worshipped merely, as he well knew, because it was
                  gold. It was the everlasting incense that his wife, as high-priestess of the
                  shrine, offered to it; the exacting and time-wasting nature of a worship that
                  deprived him of rest and happiness, driving him sullenly back on himself. Their
                  eldest son Frederick, who inherited his mother's ambitious qualities and fine
                  black eyes, was given up entirely to her management in his boyhood, on condition
                  that she never interfered with Mr. De Vere's plans for Harry, who was a few years
                  younger. She was well content; for, with her usual penetration, she had long, long
                  ago discovered that Harry was of a grovelling, practical turn, with other material
                  qualities which would have baffled entirely any schemes she might have laid to
                  make a fine, fashionable gentleman of him as he grew to manhood. But Frederick,
                  she was determined, should be the ne plus ultra
                  of elegance and fashion. So he was accordingly raced through a collegiate course,
                  and afterwards, by some strange misapprehension of his abilities, made a lawyer
                  of. Possibly he had promised, on honor, never to practice, for he did not attempt
                  it, but lounged away the two or three succeeding years of his life Adonizing
                  before his large mirror, and learning, with devoted zeal, the science of fashion,
                  until he was suddenly smitten with a desire to travel in Europe. This was a point
                  on which Mr. De Vere, as banker to the concern, had to be consulted. But he was,
                  to use an expressive phrase, doggedly and invulnerably obstinate in his refusal,
                  until it was reported to him, by the family physician, that his son's health was
                  in a most precarious state, from which the most serious results might be
                  apprehended unless he immediately sought a change of climate; and the south of
                  France and the Mediterranean were advised as the most bland and curative latitudes
                  for his malady. Then came the mother's
                  pleading—for she loved this her favorite son as much as her selfish and corroded
                  heart could love anything; and the natural instincts of the old man's own
                  unsuspecting nature, which most of all prevailed. Then followed the excitement of
                  preparing a most extravagant outfit, and the pleasing quietus of a carte blanche for the
                  invalid's expenses abroad—and he was gone. It is unnecessary to state that, ere
                  the last purple vision of his native shores melted away on the billowy horizon,
                  Frederick De Vere had entirely recovered his health. "I am of Athens," was once an
                  eloquent and all sufficient passport to the most princely circles of the earth; in
                  these latter days, an American claims the same prerogative abroad; it is to be
                  presumed on the same basis and authority, and it is good-naturedly conceded to
                  him.
               Young De Vere exhibited his letters of introduction, and dashed in a princely
                  style in London; was called "mi-lord" in Paris; "your serene highness" on the
                  Rhine; associated with dukes, princes, and counts in the old historical cities of
                  Italy; and in Greece was most pertinaciously mistaken for a Spanish Condé. Wearied
                  with travel, he returned to Paris, where he was ere long "wrapped in Elysium."
                  Enjoyments of a nature he understood presented themselves to him in the charming
                  capital. He felt that the time he had spent in visiting antique ruins, whose
                  classic sites and stories were voiceless to him, was a "deuced loss"—the memories
                  of Greece and Italy fatigued him; but here flowed the bright fountains of an
                  epicurean world, revivifying and exhaustless, beside whose spray life stood
                  smiling, and crowned with roses. Between the opera-houses, the magnificent
                  gaming-saloons, and the luxurious eating-houses, where the appetite is regaled on
                  the most piquant dishes, and the thirst quenched with the most delicious wines;
                  and lounging in the boudoirs of the most splendid women in Paris, and entertaining
                  high select parties at his hotel, every moment of his time was filled up, the only
                  skeleton among his enjoyments being the gaunt, chilling, and doomlike idea
                  of—HOME. But at last came the time when he had no excuse to offer for further stay
                  on the Continent, and hither he had now come, to be the petted idol of the season
                  and the crowning-glory of his admiring mother, who felt secretly awed at his
                  superior fashion and immense knowledge of the world. The two Misses De Vere had
                  been emancipated from a fashionable French boarding school a year previous to his
                  return, and made their débût in society with a
                  decided prospect of being belles. They were both slender and pretty, with small
                  hands and feet, and those delicate, finely cut features, so characteristic of
                  American beauty. And yet a greater contrast never existed than between the
                  sisters. Elizabeth, or Bessie, as she would be called, was the wit of
                  the family, who rattled and laughed incessantly at everything and everybody, and
                  most of all at her own bon-mots and Alice. A
                  pair of fine flashing black eyes, and an even, dazzling set of teeth, made radiant
                  a countenance not deficient in intelligence or good-nature. Alice was indolent,
                  cold, and proud in her nature. Her countenance was as passionless as golden hair,
                  languid blue eyes, a straight nose, and small mouth, could render it. She seldom
                  exerted herself to speak, except in monosyllables, and wherever she moved, a faint
                  odor of jasmine, or the delicate perfume of ottar of roses, scented the
                  atmosphere. These were her favorite extracts; but the acme of her enjoyments was
                  silence, a French novel, subdued lights, and cushions; but there is nul bien sans peine, and Bessie's gay laugh, and
                  queer, rattling conversation, were the grating and inharmonious chords that
                  forever intruded on her sublime combination of enjoyments.
               Harry De Vere, connected with them by the closest ties of consanguinity, was as
                  unlike his race as if he had been an utter stranger. Nature set her own superior
                  mark of nobility on the boy at his birth, and, as he grew to manhood, many a lofty
                  quality developed itself, which ripened with his years. He had never experienced
                  much tenderness from his mother, who, hopeless of moulding his high, strange
                  nature to the puerile standard of her own wishes, regarded his sturdy, well-knit
                  frame, and round fresh cheeks, as indications of incurable vulgarity which no art
                  could polish. Day after day, she chided him for some infringement on her
                  aristocratic regulations, and abused, in coarse and unmeasured terms, that
                  grovelling spirit which derived more pleasure from handling a saw or hammer, and
                  making childish experiments in mechanism, which showed that GENIUS was brooding
                  over its germ in the boy's mind, than from the more refined and courtly pursuits
                  of fashion. His hands, which were somewhat roughened, were her aversion, and his
                  unpretending style of dress her disgust; so the youth was driven to the shelter of
                  his old father's side, and the two clung trustingly together, giving back
                  affection for affection, and slaking the thirst of their hearts with the soft dews
                  that distilled from such kindred love. It was clearly apparent to Mr. De Vere that
                  Harry had a genius for mechanism; a fact that afforded him the most unalloyed
                  satisfaction, and more than compensated for the loneliness and disappointments
                  which had chilled his later years. Nothing in life delighted him so much as to
                  stand and watch the lad while he experimented ingeniously with cog-wheels, levers,
                  and cranks, in the apartment which he had fitted up, in a distant corner of the
                  mansion, for his son's exclusive use; or walk with him through manufactories, and explore the grand
                  motive power of steam-ships, while his wondering, eager eyes inspected every part
                  with an almost intuitive appreciation of its uses, until the old man's heart
                  brightened, and rose higher and higher, like the tides of ocean, obeying the
                  silent influence of the radiant and mysterious moon. He saw in this child of his
                  heart the regeneration of his name; the rest were aliens, children of the world
                  and its selfish follies. This was all his own—this one, the noblest
                  and purest, had been cast aside, like an obnoxious weed, from the maternal heart,
                  and now it was twining and blossoming around him, imparting joy and strength to
                  his life. It would one day become strong enough to lean on; a staff of
                  consolation, as he descended the narrowing slope of life, to penetrate the shadows
                  of the great valley, whence he would no more return. He felt that his hopes were
                  prophetic and exalted; but it was in silence; for he was a man of few words; and
                  as to telling, laying bare all these communings of his spirit to Harry, such a
                  thought never entered his mind. He loved him too well to tempt him to supineness
                  by premature and injudicious praise, or an excessive exhibition of his absorbing
                  affection for him. He only encouraged and indulged his peculiar tastes, and
                  listened to his plans with a quiet smile, which convinced the boy that all was
                  right between them. In the mean while, Harry's mental occupations were of a high
                  and progressive order. With but little education himself, Mr. De Vere entertained
                  a profound respect for letters; it cannot, therefore, be supposed that Harry's
                  mind was neglected. Every advantage of an intellectual kind that was attainable
                  was afforded him, and nobly he profited by it Study did not weaken the energies of
                  his will, but strengthened it, fed it, until it grew like a young Titan. It was
                  the means by which he would be aided to effect his end. He had not clearly defined
                  what that end was, except that it was a something lofty, beneficial to his kind,
                  and to science, towards which his course would be upward and onward. The coldness
                  and negligence he experienced from his mother and the rest pained, but did not
                  embitter his heart. He felt that he did not possess qualifications and
                  accomplishments which could give them pleasure. He knew nothing of the art of
                  charming society, or being the leader of a fashionable clique. In fact, he knew
                  that he was unequal to the task of playing the agreeable to a fine lady for a
                  single hour; the idea appalled him. Conscious of all these startling defects, the
                  demon of mauvaise honte sat like Sinbad's old
                  man of the sea on his shoulder, whenever, obeying his mother's ukase, he presented
                  himself among her guests; and there it gibed and twitted him so unmercifully, that
                  he generally perpetrated the most extravagantly awkward things, at the remembrance
                  of which his cheeks and ears would tingle for months afterwards. It was not his
                  vocation to be a trifler—a polished, bright-winged moth, fluttering in the cold,
                  luminous cheatery of fashion. He was born for higher aims. His flight was to be
                  that of the young eaglet, towards the sun. He felt that men were created for noble
                  destinies, and the idea filled his mind with sublime imaginings. The boy had
                  become a man; stalwart in frame; with fine, piercing gray eyes, and a broad,
                  expansive brow, over which clustered a wreath of black, curling hair, which defied
                  all skill in its arrangement. His mouth was firm set, and, when his face was at
                  rest, imparted to his countenance a stern and haughty expression; but a smile, a
                  gentle, happy thought, illuminated it like a burst of sunshine on a massive face
                  of stone. He was engaged in a business which suited him. He was junior partner in
                  one of the wealthiest shipping firms in the United States. This firm was
                  proprietor of an extensive steam-machine manufactory, which, in connection with
                  its enterprising affairs, was a most important aid. In this branch of the concern
                  the junior partner felt the most intense interest, and had already made such
                  improvements in the art of moulding and casting, as not only lessened labor, but
                  rapidly increased their wealth. Generous, unselfish, and filled with a pure,
                  innate love for the beautiful, Harry De Vere was not the slave of Moloch or of
                  Mammon. As the merciless iron and its throbbing heart of steam hissed and bellowed
                  around him, filling the air with palpitation, and scorching the life-pregnant
                  winds that passed by it, and the wave of fortune rolled in its golden sand to his
                  coffers, he saw many a sweet vision through the wreathing vapors, and heard wild,
                  musical chants amidst roaring furnaces and clinking hammers; dreams and harmonies
                  whose realization depended on the success of certain mechanical principles which
                  he had applied experimentally to steam. His great, beneficent heart never rested,
                  and never tired. When his scientific and business labors were over for the day,
                  his energies were applied to the improvement of the condition of artisans of all
                  classes. He founded a library for the exclusive use of workmen, and a night
                  school, where their apprentices could learn the rudiments of a substantial
                  education without cost, instead of wasting the nights in disgraceful brawls or
                  licentious idleness. He did not rest here. A permanent fund was established, by
                  handsome annual subscriptions, for the use of maimed and disabled workmen, and
                  their helpless widows and children. He was the motive power of all this good. He
                  gave munificently from his own ample means, and invited, successfully, others to
                  share with him in the luxury of substantially aiding his fellow-men, and strengthening the pillars of the
                  republic, by making good citizens of those who, left to the chance of
                  circumstances, would disgrace and weaken it by their crimes. But he was little
                  seen or known in it all, except as the friend of such as needed prompt relief, and
                  applied to him.
               He associated much with men. The glimpses of life he had seen in his mother's
                  elegant drawing-rooms inspired him with no disposition to seek an alliance with
                  the world, as a certain class, who consider themselves privileged, are from
                  courtesy called. He had seen and felt too long the evil results of the thing at
                  home, where the higher duties of nature were disregarded, and coldness and want of
                  that loving confidence which so brightens up the rooftree, reigned despotically;
                  and so he shrunk farther and farther off, still clinging with the affection of
                  yore to the one heart which had sheltered him from utter negligence, and taken him
                  lovingly into its very core, until they were both half forgotten. But he was
                  happy. In the noble pursuit of science, in the divine office of comforter of the
                  poor, in the charms of literature, and the society of his proud old father, this
                  rebel to fashion and its brilliant, monstrous cheaterics dared—ay, dared to be
                  happy.
               In the drawing-room of her showy mansion in Chiswicke Square, Mrs. De Vere,
                  arrayed in a rich green watered silk, and crimson velvet headdress, was moving
                  anxiously about, with a preoccupied air, and a small feather dusting-brush in her
                  hand, which she passed nervously over the little china monsters, gilded bagatelles, vases, and Parisian elegances which
                  covered her tables and consols. Her face was
                  full, and too much disposed to redden up on the slightest occasion; and her
                  embonpoint figure, fitted by the most artistic French dress-maker in the city,
                     would reveal ungraceful proportions, notwithstanding the handsome
                  arrangement of the rich materials in which it might be clad, or the infinite pains
                  and labor that were taken to conceal them.
               "Did you send for me?" said honest John De Vere, entering the spacious apartment
                  with a nervous, dissatisfied air.
               "Yes! yes, De Vere—do sit down one moment; I have something of importance to say
                  to you." He sat down.
               "You know, my love," she continued, sinking into the cushioned abyss of a fauteuil, "that, occupying the position we do in the
                  world, it is very incumbent on us to lead off, this season, with a splendid
                  entertainment——" Mr. De Vere growled. "And I have not teased you about it before,
                  my dear, although the Wights and Russells are trying their best to take the
                  precedence, because I perceived you were so occupied with Harry's affairs as to
                  have no time for anything else. The girls, you know, Elizabeth and Alice, must
                  have certain advantages. They are thought elegant, and are certainly of high
                  fashion, and the world expects something extraordinary from us on their account.
                  Elizabeth is decidedly a belle——"
               "Has she ever knit a stocking?"
               "You quite shock me, my love; but to go on—Alice is much admired."
               "Has she ever made a shirt?"
               "My dear Mr. De Vere, how excessively facetious you are, this morning! The bare
                  mention of such a thing would kill Alice."
               "The more's the pity, Peggy; but go on, I'm in a hurry."
               "I have frequently requested you, Mr. De Vere," exclaimed the lady, reddening, and
                  fanning herself furiously with the plumed duster, "I have frequently requested you
                  to cease calling me by that low, vulgar name; call me Marguerite, or Mrs. De Vere,
                  but never by that abominable—Peggy, indeed!" There was an agitating pause.
               "I have an engagement at twelve o'clock," said Mr. De Vere, quietly, after
                  consulting his watch; "it wants now precisely ten minutes of the time."
               "Very well, Mr. De Vere, I will not detain you five. I wish you to give me a check
                  for the expenses of my contemplated entertainment," replied the lady, with an
                  endeavor to look nonchalant, but crushing the
                  brightly-dyed Indian feathers in her hand until every one was broken.
               "What will these expenses be, madam?" he inquired.
               "Not a very large sum, my dear; I suppose four thousand dollars."
               "And pray, madam, will you please to inform me what infernal extravagance you are
                  going at, that will cost four thousand dollars?"
               "No extravagance, my love; not a superfluous
                  expense; you know that our position demands generous outlays, at least. The
                  greenhouse flowers alone will cost one thousand; then I want to purchase some new
                  French ornaments, and the dearest love of a gold centre-piece for the table, for
                  fruit; then there is a partition to be taken down and a real stage erected for
                     tableaux, and new draperies; and some forced
                  strawberries, which Kirkland has ripening in his hotbeds; these I must have, dear!
                  And the supper, the wines, and Bucher's confectionery. Lord, Mr. De Vere, I cannot
                  remember one half the things; I only fear four thousand will not do,
                  but I'll try and manage the thing. But give me the check; I can then make my
                  calculations better," said Mrs. De Vere,
                  gaining courage from his silence. But it was the pause which precedes the falling
                  of the thunderbolt.
               "I won't. By rats, I won't, Not that; I can't afford it, Mrs. Divers; but old John
                  Divers has been made a fool of long enough by such senseless extravagance," he
                  said, rising to his feet, and clasping his hands behind him. "What obligation am I
                  under, woman, to give feeds that cost four thousand dollars to people that would
                  whistle us down the tide to-morrow? I'm getting old, Mrs. Divers; I am old, madam;
                  and, before my books are posted up, and my accounts balanced, madam, in the other
                  world, I intend, instead of greasing fat pigs any longer, with God's help, to hunt
                  up poor ones, and put food in the mouths of the starving, and fuel on the hearth
                  of the freezing. One thousand dollars for greenhouse plants! The devil!"
               Mrs. De Vere could not stop him. Whenever he called her Mrs. Divers, she knew it
                  was useless to attempt to say one word; and she sat down to rest; not baffled, but
                  to gather new strength for another onset. Her perfect silence, and the tears he
                  saw gathering in her eyes, calmed him; his aspect of fury passed away, and his
                  face resumed its wonted look of subdued and troubled feeling. She was quick to
                  observe it, and made her move accordingly; she knew she would
                     checkmate him, at last; she had a thousand times before, and why
                  not now?
               "My dear De Vere," she began, in a deprecating tone, "you are very unkind to-day;
                  surely, you do not mean to give me a peremptory refusal in this small matter. I
                  admit, my love, that it sounds extravagant; but we must keep up our dignity.
                  Frederick must invite the judges and his associates in the law; then
                  there's the English ambassador and suite, who were all so kind to Frederick in
                  London; we must have him, and General Beverly, and a few of your
                  retired business friends. Why, bless me! this is but the heading of the list of
                  distinguished people I mean to have; and it will never do for them to
                  go away from the house of the rich old merchant, De Vere, without being
                  entertained in a princely way; will it, Harry? Come in; I am just consulting with
                  your father about a certain ball I wish to give, in a few weeks, to our friends;
                  but he is, for the first time in his life, in a parsimonious mood, and refuses me
                  a few thousands; absolutely refuses me this small indulgence, Harry."
               "I am very sorry, madam," he said, smiling, "that my father cannot oblige you; but
                  if you will accept of a portion of it from me, I will advance it with pleasure. I
                  have some idle money on hand now."
               "You are a good boy, Harry, but I did not know you were so rich. However, with
                  your help, we can make out handsomely! Mr. De Vere, how much will you give? for
                  this ball must and shall take place!"
               "Harry, my boy, keep your money; keep your money for better uses. Like an old bull
                  with a ring in his nose, I have been led these many years, in spite of myself.
                  It's too late now, too late. I may as well give in; it's quite too late now for
                  the struggle that would unfetter me," said the old man with a sigh. Probably her
                  kind manner to his favorite son influenced him somewhat. However, he said no more,
                  but went to a table in the next room, on which Bessie's writing implements always
                  stood, and wrote a check on his banker for the required sum, then handed it to
                  her, saying: "There, Peggy, take it; waste what would make many an honest man
                  happy, and get laughed at for your pains by fools." He settled his hat on his
                  head, and locking his arm in his son's, they left the room together. The old
                  merchant, with bitter waters stirring in his heart, and Harry with an indignant
                  flash scintillating in his large eyes, and his lips sternly locked together, to
                  keep imprisoned the eloquent reproof which, though well deserved by his selfish
                  mother, it would have been, he well knew, a sin for him to utter, walked forth
                  into the cold wintry air, without exchanging a word on the subject; but each
                  assured, by old and intimate association, of what the other felt.
               "There they go—a well-matched pair, who care for nothing but their own low
                  tastes," muttered Mrs. De Vere, looking after them with a glance of inexpressible
                  scorn. "I have triumphed, however, sooner than I expected," she said, with a low
                  laugh of exultation.
               The two young ladies now entered, both elegantly and expensively attired, for the
                  reception of morning visitors. Alice, with a faint tint on her cheeks, and bearing
                  about her as usual a fragrance from the sweet vale of Cashmere, sauntered towards
                  a pile of cushions which were heaped up with luxurious negligence on a velvet
                  sofa, standing in an arched and shaded recess, silently arranged the folds of her
                  rich crimson shawl, and threw herself in a reclining attitude on them. Bessie
                  opened the piano, and commenced practising a gay French air that her brother had
                  brought her from Paris.
               "Bessie," said Mrs. De Vere, who was still standing at the window, gazing
                  attentively at an old-fashioned but stately mansion opposite, "those people over
                  the way are receiving morning visitors, and if I am not much mistaken, there is
                  the Livingston equipage—and there, it has just drawn up, the Goldsboro's, of Oak
                  Hill."
               
               "I can't imagine who they are. The proprietor, I heard, was an old and widowed
                  recluse," said Bessie, joining her mother at the window. "You know, mamma, they
                  got in, the week we spent in Washington; but they must be somebodies,
                  or that proud aristocrat, Shirley, would not be there. But there, the Livingstons
                  are coming over, and we will hear the mystery explained."
               They were scarcely seated before the Livingstons were announced; and almost the
                  first question, after the compliments of the day were exchanged, was, "Mrs. De
                  Vere, have you called on Mrs. Willoughby?"
               "No, really. Who are they? One never heard of them before," she replied.
               "Yes?" interrogated Mrs. Livingston, making eyes which expressed all her wonder;
                  "Mrs. Willoughby is one of our oldest families, and enormously rich. Her father
                  was that Shirley, who was so famous, you know, towards the close of our
                  Revolution, and one of the Signers. Her mother was the daughter of an
                  earl or something in one of those English shires. At any rate, the whole world are
                  making calls to-day."
               "And her step-daughter will be the belle of the season, Bessie," put in Kate
                  Livingston; "she's the handsomest creature I ever saw."
               "Mrs. Willoughby has the reputation of being a bas-bleu, and pedantic," added another lady. "It is true she carries
                  a high, proud look with her, and does not often smile, but her conversation is
                  perfectly fascinating, and her manner indisputably elegant. She did not mention
                  books once."
               "And oh, Mrs. De Vere, you ought to see her drawing-rooms. They are models of the
                  most exquisite taste—nothing upholsterish or smart-looking about them. Her
                  pictures, draperies, furniture, musical instruments, and all, are arranged so as
                  to give the rooms an expression—a something indescribable, which convinces a
                  stranger at once that the head of the mansion possesses refinement, education, and
                  taste," chimed in Kate Livingston, who delighted in tormenting Mrs. De Vere, whom
                  she had always regarded as an interloper on the rights of aristocracy; the
                  Livingstons priding themselves no little on old family and high descent.
               "It is said she is at least forty years of age," remarked Mrs. Livingston; "but
                  she does not look it by fifteen years. She'll make a sensation, depend on't."
               Mrs. De Vere discovered at once, with her usual tact, that she had committed a
                  great indiscretion in inquiring who the Willoughbys were, and
                  reminding herself and everybody else that she was among the new people of the day.
                  She hastened to repair it immediately, by listening with the most complaisant
                  smile and interested air to the information her guests heaped so unmercifully on
                  her concerning them. "They are certainly an acquisition to her set; we wanted just
                  such people in this neighborhood, to give it a tone," she thought; "people whose
                  claims to the highest position in society everybody admits with alacrity. They
                  will be most desirable acquaintances for us."
               "They seem to make such a sensation already that it is perfectly fatiguing,"
                  drawled Alice, from her cushions.
               "Alice is jealous, already, of Miss Willoughby! 'Pon honor, I'll submit patiently
                  to being belle'd out by her this season, if she only succeeds in rousing Alice!"
                  exclaimed Bessie De Vere, laughing.
               "But, Bessie," observed Miss Livingston, ill naturedly, "Walter Shirley, the
                  handsome Southern cavalier, it is already whispered, is her devoted slave. Mrs.
                  Willoughby, you know, is Col. Shirley's sister, and it's very natural for them to
                  wish to keep the fortune in the family."
               "Well, if the flirtation promises a fatal climax to my hopes," she replied,
                  merrily, "I must only get Fred, who, you all say, is irresistible, to step in and
                  cause a diversion in my favor. I vow, I won't relinquish the handsomest beau in
                  town, even to his relations."
               "I am really rejoiced at their coming into Chiswicke Square," Mrs. De Vere at last
                  got an opportunity of declaring; "they will enliven our circle delightfully. We
                  must call to-morrow and secure them for our entertainment. I hope they will have
                  no engagement ahead."
               "Oh do, do, Mrs. De Vere, and try and get some other new faces. One gets heartily
                  sick of seeing the same set everywhere; it is so very stupid. I yawned myself
                  almost to death at Russell's, the other night," cried the highly bred Miss
                  Livingston.
               "Mrs. De Vere's arrangements will be of the most recherché kind, Kate; there will be no danger of your doing so rude
                  a thing as a 'yawn,'" remarked her more politic mother. "But did you hear, Mrs. De
                  Vere, about the Treshaws?"
               "No; may I inquire if they have been making themselves ridiculous again?" asked
                  Mrs. De Vere, settling herself on the cushions of her fauteuil.
               
               "Perfectly so. They are buying up all the old silver and old china from all the
                  old Jews in town, and showing off for family relics. We all know, though,
                  precisely when and where they sprang up; and, as if this folly were not sufficient
                  to annihilate them, young Tresham, handsome Bob, as the girls call him, has, after infinite pains, found a crest
                  belonging to an old English family of the same name, and had it emblazoned on the
                  panels of his cab. Such people remind one of woodcocks, when they attempt to evade
                  the keen eye of the sportsman by running their heads into a furze-bush, and
                  leaving their bodies quite exposed," exclaimed Mrs. Livingston, laughing. "Do you
                  visit them, Mrs. De Vere?"
               "Certainly not, my dear Mrs. Livingston. They are quite the people of yesterday.
                  One never hears of them unless they do something to make themselves ridiculous,
                  which they contrive to do very often," said poor Mrs. De Vere, growing purple, yet
                  bridling with dignity.
               "By the by, it is quite the fashion now to crowd one's consols with odds and ends of old India china. Mrs. Leigh has an old
                  cracked teapot and sugar-bowl. To be sure, they look an hundred, standing among
                  the costly statuettes and rare ornaments in her drawing-room. I think I have some
                  packed away in an old chest, that has not been opened for a century; I believe I
                  must get it out. But bye-bye. Come, Kate, make your adieu; we've fifty calls to
                  make this morning."
               Ere they left the apartment, another bevy of fashionables entered, who talked of
                  Mrs. Willoughby and Edith as delightful novelties, whose ample means would
                  minister to their enjoyments, and give a greater brilliancy to the season. Now,
                  Mrs. De Vere, with admirable tact, spoke of them as Mrs. Livingston had done a few
                  minutes before; declared her intention of calling immediately; and had only been
                  deterred from doing so before by the fear that they were not quite settled.
               "You have heard, Mrs. De Vere, that the Lacys are ruined! No? Well, they are
                  ruined irretrievably. Some say Mrs. Lacy's extravagance, and others that his own
                  imprudence in speculating, and all that sort of thing that men do, is the cause of
                  it. But I'm sure it's hard to say or judge. You know, Mrs. De Vere, as Christians,
                  we should not judge others," said Miss Cicely Thorne, a small, wiry-looking little
                  person, with keen, light-blue eyes, and thin, beaked nose. She was one of the
                  lights of the day; high-toned in church matters; and, belonging to some twenty
                  societies, charitable benevolent societies, was saved the expense of subscribing
                  to a newspaper. She was also a sprig of fashion; which grace, it was averred,
                  caused to blossom in good works like Aaron's rod—a gentlewoman somewhat reduced in
                  circumstances, but managing, by dint of the most economical arrangements, to keep
                  up, not only appearances, but her position in society. Concerning the wants of the
                  poor she was an oracle, for everybody knew that she informed herself practically
                  on that point, by visiting them, and comforting them daily. That was one side of
                  the story. And somehow, there was such an hallucination on the subject of Miss
                  Thorne's piety and charity, that the most startling gossip or malicious news
                  flowed with so great an unction from her lips as inspired every one with holy
                  horror for the characters she chose to dissect for the benefit of mankind. She
                  held, as an article of faith, that wickedness should be made an example of on all
                  occasions; and acting on it, she spared none.
               "I am not at all astonished, my dear Cicely. I always expected and predicted it.
                  They gave the most elegant dinners in town," said Mrs. De Vere.
               "It's a most shocking thing. I look on it as the just retribution of Heaven for
                  their unfaithful stewardship. They never did and never would put their names on
                  any of my charitable subscription lists. However, charity teaches us to view with
                  merciful eyes the shortcomings of our fellow-creatures. Mrs. Lacy has opened a
                  painting class, and, would you believe it? she is so devoid of sensibility that
                  she laughs and chatters with as much volubility as she ever did. But it's all
                  bravado, depend on't," observed the little woman, with a penetrating look.
               "Bessie, we're to wear no sleeves at evening parties this winter, only a narrow
                  frill or two of lace around the arm-hole, or swan's-down; and Madame le Roi says
                  the corsage is to be worn extremely low. Isn't it delightful!" said a young
                  creature, just fluttering into the glare of the world, who had a neck and arms
                  that would have thrown Canova into ecstasies.
               "It will be a very becoming fashion to you, Nannie; but woe betide us, whose arms
                  and necks ought to be veiled!" replied Bessie, kissing her roseate lips.
               "And, Bessie, the Seguins are in town. Did you know it?" she inquired, caressing
                  Bessie's jewelled hand.
               "Yes. We have already taken a box for the time of their engagement. But I shall
                  only go to hear Norma, Maritana, and that queer thing, the Postillion of Lon—Lon
                  something—Lonjemeau, I believe, or something very near it. Seguin makes such
                  horrid faces in his buffo characters, that I am in convulsions of laughter all the
                  time. I cannot bear anything tragic; but fine music induces me to endure even
                  tragedy, I so dearly love music," replied Bessie.
               "Operas are my detestation," again drawled Alice. "When the whole troupe yell out
                  those choruses, it affects my nerves so dreadfully, I don't recover for weeks. I
                  wish they had not come; for mamma and Bessie will drag me there, notwithstanding I
                     take no earthly pleasure in them,
                  because it's the fashion. I wish there was no fashion; it's excessively
                  troublesome." After making this stupendous effort, she fell back on her cushions,
                  and relapsed into silence.
               Walter Shirley now sauntered in, followed by Frederick De Vere, who, with a superb
                  air of nonchalant condescension, bowed to the
                  ladies, and, with high-bred empressement,
                  devoted his attentions to a young married lady of dashing manners, who was of the
                     coterie.
               
               "We have not seen you for an age, Mr. Shirley," said Bessie, holding out her
                  hand.
               "I have been a victim to the most cruel circumstances you can conceive, Miss De
                  Vere," he said, taking the small hand, and bowing over it with the air of a
                  Paladin. "When you hear the story, you will acquit me of Vandalism in absenting
                  myself so long from your charming society."
               "You have certainly the appearance of a victim, just now; but l'habit ne fait pas le moine, and I can judge better
                  whether you are worthy of forgiveness or not, when you explain what these truly
                  unfortunate circumstances were that made you an absentee from our court,"
                  responded Bessie, laughing.
               "Most fair and noble Portia! I have a father, who, being of some consequence in
                  the political world, has chosen me for his trusty aid; and as a dutiful son,
                  intent on the interests of his sire, I have been driven to and from the seat of
                  government some ten times, with the velocity of a bird between two battledoors.
                  Then, to make open confession, I have been paying assiduous court to my very
                  handsome aunt, the lady of Woodreve Manor; and, like a paragon of
                  disinterestedness as I am, doing the agreeable to her step-daughter, who is a
                  perfect Nourmahal. And all from a stern sense of duty."
               "You are unconditionally forgiven," she laughingly replied.
               "Thank you, lady. These were difficulties which required the patience of
                  Fabricius. I have not lived on roses since we last met; and not the least of my
                  trials was the fact of having been exiled so long from—my friends, especially Miss
                  De Vere," he continued, in the same mock-heroic tone. After paying a due number of
                  compliments to the languid Alice, and indulging in another ten minutes' persiflage with Bessie, which she carried on with
                  spirit, he bowed himself out, and, the other guests making their adieux, at the same moment the family were left
                  alone.
               "Are we to have the ball, mon cher mère?"
                  inquired young De Vere.
               "Certainly, Frederick; and I wish you to make some suggestion tions about the
                  arrangements while we are at dinner. I intend it shall be a grand affair, I assure
                  you."
               "It will ruin my goût, my digestion, to talk
                  about it at dinner," he remarked.
               "Try it," said Mrs. De Vere, curtly. "I have no other time. It is now
                  after three, and I must go, immediately after dinner, to see about getting linen
                  made up for the girls. Cicely Thorne told me to-day of a woman that works cheap,
                  and the creature lives somewhere at the world's end, on the outskirts of the city.
                  Then I have to see Kirkland about those strawberries. I'm sure he'll charge me one
                  hundred and fifty or two hundred dollars for them; but I'm determined to have them
                  at any price."
               "Mon chère madame, vous
                     parlez with such extreme velocité
                  that I am déconcerté—'pon honor I am," said the
                  exquisite, sinking with a fatigued air on a sofa.
               "Look here, Frederick De Vere," cried his mother, turning towards him with
                  flashing eyes, "when you talk to me, drop all that foreign lingo. I don't
                  understand it." She pulled the bellrope violently, and, when a footman appeared,
                  issued orders of "not at home" for the remainder of the day. "And I must say,
                  sir," she continued to her son, "I think it very rude of you."
               "Ah! then, chère—dear—mère; ah, pardonnez moi, mamma,
                  just satisfy my mind on one point," he pleaded.
               "Go on." Elizabeth laughed. "Go on. I'm in a perfect fluster. I have, I repeat, a
                  thousand things to do this afternoon."
               "Honor me, madame, by enlightening me as to whether or not your cuisinier—ah, cook, made me, according to directions,
                  a potage à la Français, and a salmi, to-day? otherwise, I shall be compelled to dine
                  at a table d'hôte," he said, twirling his
                     moustache.
               
               "Come and see," said Mrs. De Vere, as she swept from their presence, and led the
                  way to the dining-room.
               "Frederick, your affection is sublime," said Bessie, seizing his white jewelled
                  hands, and pulling him up from the cushions on which he lounged. "If you don't
                  take care, mamma will stop your supplies. Come to dinner. Come, Alice. I declare,
                  I believe you think eating such a fatiguing process that you'd avoid it if you
                  could."
               "I do," replied Alice, as she slowly followed them.
               The subject that Mrs. De Vere wished particularly to consult her son about was
                  certain arrangements respecting a set of tableaux
                     vivants, or charades, which she had
                  in contemplation for her fête; but nothing was
                  definitely decided on, except that they
                  were to be; and now that they were thought of, it was considered indispensable to
                  the éclat of the occasion to have them; for
                  Frederick was so enchanted with the cook's first attempt at a salmi de mouton, that he gave the most unsatisfactory
                  answers to the thousand questions she asked him concerning the necessary details
                  of the subject; so, in a huff, she bustled out of the room, leaving him in an
                  ecstatic state over some vin de blanche that he
                  had brought with him from la belle France.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE POOR RICH WOMAN.
               WRAPPED in costly velvets and furs, Mrs. De Vere entered her luxurious coach, to
                  roll away and seek out, among the distant haunts of the poor, the persons she
                  intended to bestow employment on. They who are clad in purple and fine linen
                  daily; who have but to rub the lamps of their fancies, and its slaves appear to do
                  their bidding; whose inner lives look forth through rose-colored, gold-tinted
                  mists, know but little of the stern truths of humanity; much less do they know of
                  the sweet blossoms of consolation which open their heavenly dyes amidst its
                  thorns, which it is their privilege to gather for ETERNITY, and whose
                  balm would shed rich odors around the chilly mould of their silent graves. They
                  can scarcely comprehend the immense magnitude of the boon that gives the poor man
                  "leave to toil;" and when they issue their mandates to the human machine, whose
                  labor is to accomplish the task ministering to selfish pleasures, no account is
                  taken of the aching brains and starving bodies, the remunerating pittance-comforts
                  of the desolate, patient hearts which are kept from breaking by the poor crust it
                  brings them.
               Ashamed to beg, the honest stricken poor wither and pine beneath their silent
                  agonies, until the DELIVERER comes in the shape of work! Then how feverishly
                  brightens the sunken eye; how Hope kindles up her glimmering star in the ruinous
                  abode; how softly closes the strained and tear-swollen lids in slumber that will
                  unseal for them a busy and happy morrow. Then the first golden streaks of dawn
                  steal in to the music of words of cheer; the hearthstone, yesterday so dark and
                  cold, grows ruddy with light and warmth; and while long, thin fingers ply their
                  task, and the hammer clinks its roundelay, food, substantial, nourishing food,
                  sends throughout the dwelling its incense of comfort from wooden or earthen
                  censers! Is this a figment of fancy? No! nor is it the result of grudging
                  charities; nor is it the sickly work of sentimentality. What then? It is the
                  genuine, healthy result of generously bestowed labor. Let those who have it amply
                  in their power to aid the poor in this honest and worthy way look to the
                  consequences if they fail to comply; and remember that the unequal distribution of
                  riches is not without a sublime and divine object. Riches and poverty are but sent
                  to try us; each ordeal is fearful, but poverty is the great REFINER, and both
                  yield eternal fruits according to their applied uses.
               The fat, pampered coach-horses prance daintily along over the vulgar roughness of
                  the precincts of the town. This western suburb is but sparsely settled. A few poor
                  tenements grouped together, as if making a charitable effort to impart comfort to
                  each other; desolate, wintry-looking fields, and a gray, leafless forest beyond;
                  and two or three ill-clad, shivering creatures returning from their toils and
                  struggles in the great mart of Mammon below, impart to Mrs. De Vere's nerves a
                  painful sensation, which caused her to shudder involuntarily, then jerk the
                  check-string violently. A footman appeared at the window; at the same moment the
                  coachman drew up his horses, and stood waiting her command. "I shall go no
                  further," she said, "the place looks like one might be robbed in the broad
                  daylight. Miss Thorne must be insane, to direct me to so miserably poor a
                  neighborhood."
               "Yes, ma'am," replied the polite footman, bowing.
               "I will wait here, Mansfield, in the coach, and do you go and inquire among some
                  of these people for a Mrs. Hewlett, who takes in plain sewing."
               "Yes, ma'am," answered Mansfield, touching his gold-laced hat, and setting off
                     instanter on his exploring expedition. "If it
                  wasn't for the expenses of this entertainment," soliloquized Mrs. De Vere, leaning
                  back on her damask cushion, "I would not, for the world, have taken this trouble;
                  but I must economize, and then, Miss Thorne says, it will be doing a
                  charitable act to give this Hewlett employment. There! he's found her, I suppose;
                  he's hurrying back. What news, Mansfield?"
               "The poor person what takes in work, ma'am, do live in that house to the left," he
                  replied, throwing open the carriage-door with a magnificent flourish, and holding
                  out his gloved hand to assist her to the ground.
               A loud rap on the crazy door of the comfortless-looking dwelling ing was answered by an old man, much deformed by
                  rheumatic complaints, who leaned heavily on the staff that supported his feeble
                  steps, and whose eyes, bleared by suffering as well as age, peered through the
                  white elf-locks that hung over them, with a wondering look of inquiry. To the
                  lady's query, "whether a poor woman named Hewlett lived there?" he mumbled out an
                  affirmative, while the effort of speaking to strangers brought on a palsied
                  shaking of the head, and directed her, by a sign, to the door at the head of the
                  narrow stairs. There was something in that poor old wizened face—she knew not
                  what—but a palpable flitting something that roughened up the waves of memory in
                  that proud woman's heart, as if a demon's spell had passed over; it was
                  indistinct, but sudden and fearful as the first wild awakening from the
                  suffocation of a nightmare. And while she stood leaning, as if to rest, on the
                  banister ere she ascended to the apartment of the seamstress, a troop of
                  half-clad, noisy children, attracted by the appearance of so fine a coach and such
                  grand outriders in their lonesome quarter, swarmed with fantastic gestures of
                  delight around it, and from windows and doors were thrust pale, wondering faces,
                  to gaze at the brave show, and wonder. The simple fools! as if those whose riches
                  enabled them to purchase such luxuries were exempt from suffering. She was glad to
                  get in from it all. The whole scene was offensive to her in the extreme.
                  Independent of the wizard spell he had conjured up in her almost seared heart, he
                  brought the truth too palpably to her conscience that a Lazarus was at her gates,
                  who would thankfully receive the crumbs that fell from her table while she fared
                  sumptuously. He was a silent, but harsh reproach to the vanities of life, with his
                  pinched, want-stricken features and claw-like hands, bending and drooping with the
                  world of poverty, disease, and want—a second Atlas—on his shoulders.
               Mrs. De Vere gave an impatient rap on the door she was directed to. In a moment it
                  was opened by a middle-aged woman, neatly but poorly clad, who courtesied
                  respectfully, and invited her in; then dusting a chair with her apron, set it near
                  the grate, where a few coals smouldered, and, with untaught but inbred politeness,
                  asked her strange visitor to be seated.
               "Is your name Hewlett?" inquired the lady, seating herself with an ungracious
                  air.
               "That is my name, ma'am," she replied, in a gentle tone of voice.
               "You take in sewing, I believe?"
               "That is my occupation, lady!"
               "I was directed here by one of the ladies of the benevolent society, who told me
                  you worked cheap; and a world of trouble I've had to find you, you live in such an
                  out of the way place."
               "I hope my charges will not displease you, lady. I am always thankful to get a
                  good job, and strain every nerve to give satisfaction," replied Mrs. Hewlett,
                  while a round, defined spot of crimson burned on each cheek. "I will be happy,
                  ma'am, to receive your orders."
               "Well! you are a civil kind of a person; but you are very poor, are you not? I do
                  not see a single comfort you have about you; and there are such strange-looking
                  persons swarming in the neighborhood, that—that it might not be altogether safe to
                  leave costly materials here—" observed the lady.
               "Oh, lady!" exclaimed the poor woman, crimsoning over at the coarse insinuation,
                  "we are all of us very needy, but would rather starve than do a
                  dishonest act. I have had hundreds of dollars worth in this mean room, when my old
                  father and I have been perishing with cold and hunger; but every shred was held
                  sacred. We fear GOD, lady—we try to recollect always his Almighty presence in the
                  midst of our trials, and the thought keeps us from temptation."
               "Oh, I only referred to the people around you, my good woman, not yourself; you
                  misunderstand me. I haven't a doubt of your honesty! I have two pieces of very
                  fine linen to be made up for my daughters, and each article is to be finely
                  stitched and handsomely ruffled with thread cambric, edged with lace. This is an
                  excellent job for you, and if we can agree about the price, you shall make them.
                  What would you charge, pray?" inquired Mrs. De Vere.
               "I will be thankful for the work, lady; but do not think I could make such
                  articles of apparel as you wish for less than one dollar a piece. It will take me,
                  with close sewing, day and night, two whole days to make one."
               "Two whole days to make one chemise!" ejaculated Mrs. De Vere. "Preposterous! you
                  must work very slow, mistress Hewlett, allow me to say."
               "Only consider, ma'am, the long seams that are to be stitched up and felled—the
                  bands also to be stitched still finer, and corded—the close hemming—the
                  gathers—then the ruffling for each, not only to be hemmed, but the edging whipped
                  on. Indeed—indeed, two days and a half would not be long for so many thousand
                  stitches—"
               "I will not give one centime over seventy-five cents, and that is an extravagant
                  price. If you choose to take the work on those terms, you can have it; if not, there are hundreds
                  who will be glad to do it for even less."
               "God help them in their need, then," murmured the woman, folding her hands
                  together. "Consider, lady, seventy-five cents is very little for the expenses of
                  two days! fuel, provisions, lights, and house-rent, all to pay for. But I am out
                  of employment just now, and will be very thankful for this work, if you will agree
                  to pay me the sum mentioned."
               "I wish to Heaven I had time to do it myself—from my heart I do. Your class want
                  so many favors, when one would befriend them by giving them employment, that it's
                  enough to make one's heart sick—" cried Mrs. De Vere, quite vexed.
               "I do not ask favors, lady, only a fair recompense for my toil," said the woman in
                  a quiet, sad tone. "I have my old father to support, and he has so many necessary
                  wants in his age, which I would sacrifice my own comfort at any time to obtain for
                  him!"
               Here the old man tottered feebly in, and Mrs. Hewlett ran forward to assist him to
                  his rush-bottomed arm-chair, that stood on the side of the room where the sun
                  shone in all the afternoon; then lifted his hat tenderly from his head, and
                  smoothed back his white hair.
               "I've been to look for little Maggie again—I shall find her tomorrow,
                  Rachel—to-morrow, I say, I shall find poor little brighteyed Magg—won't I, child?"
                  he asked, in a sharp, quivering voice.
               "Oh yes, dear father, you shall find our Maggie; I will help you look for her,"
                  she said, soothingly.
               "You will? There's a good Rachel; I've been looking these many, many years for
                  her; but we'll find her; Rach, won't we?"
               "We'll find the stray lamb, dear father; certainly we will. Be quiet now, and rest
                  yourself," she said, tenderly. He leaned back his head and said no more, but
                  clasped his long, thin fingers together, and, from the expression of his
                  countenance, seemed to be indulging in dreams of bygone and happier days.
               "He's a little childish, lady; I have to coax him, and humor him so much. Many,
                  many years ago, as he says, my youngest sister, five or six years of age, got
                  lost. We never found her; but she was his darling, and her memory seems to grow on
                  him so. He goes out every day expecting to find her," said Mrs. Hewlett,
                  sadly.
               "It's dreadful. But it is getting late, Mrs. Hewlett, and I must go. You say
                  you're out of work; what, then, is the use of haggling about a few cents? I will
                  send the linen and other things to you, and you must positively make it up at my
                  own price, and, if the work suits me, I'll speak to my friends about you, and
                  you'll be kept in employment all the winter," said Mrs. De Vere, rising, and
                  turning her back towards the old man.
               The poor seamstress reflected a moment, looked at her unconscious parent, so
                  dependent on her exertions for life; then, with a saddened countenance and
                  long-drawn sigh, yielded to the extortion.
               If Mrs. De Vere had seen a man in the literal act of holding down the face of a
                  poor want-stricken wretch to a great burr-wheel, while another effected the most
                  violent and rapid evolutions, sharpening down his visage to the marrow of his
                  bones, she would have understood that it was a process which ground the face of
                  the poor; but if any one had hinted to her that she, Mrs. De Vere, was practically
                  carrying out the same idea, she would have felt indignant and insulted.
               "Very well. I will send the patterns and materials to you tomorrow by my footman,
                  and you will please give him a receipt for them. I'll pay for the things as they
                  are sent home," said the opulent lady.
               "Yes, lady. May I ask your name?"
               "Oh yes. I entirely forgot. My name is De Vere. I live in Chiswicke Square," she
                  replied, pausing an instant.
               "Can you stop one moment, Mrs. De Vere?" said Mrs. Hewlett, earnestly. "There is a
                  poor youth in yonder room dying by inches for want of proper nourishment. He
                  cannot speak much English, and I think is a painter; he takes likenesses, and has
                  some beautiful pictures he would be glad to sell. I know, lady, you couldn't help
                  pitying him if you would only see him, he is so gentle and beautiful."
               How eloquently she could plead for another—how fluently she besought that aid for
                  a fellow-sufferer which she could not have found language to ask for herself!
               "Lord, no! My good woman, I am so afraid of contagion—I can't talk French, and you
                  can't conceive what a hurry I'm in. Give him this," said Mrs. De Vere, handing her
                  a small piece of silver. "May-be I'll send one of my sons out to see him;
                     they parley voo, both of them."
               And she entered her elegant coach; and, in the pride and thoughtlessness of
                  riches, attended by pampered menials, and leaning on soft cushions, she left
                  honest poverty, modest want, and their gaunt, haunting spectres far behind
                  her.
               "To Kirkland's, had been her order to the coachman, and to Kirkland's she was
                  borne by the obedient horses.
               "Mr. Kirkland was rather a slow man. He deliberated about everything, and
                  performed everything deliberately, and yet it was astonishing what immense success he always had in
                  hastening a premature bloom of rare flowers, and forcing an unnatural ripening of
                  unseasonable fruits. He was a dapper-looking person, with a bald head, fresh
                  cheeks, and a nose that turned up at its extremity most unceremoniously, as if for
                  the express object of supporting a pair of large horn spectacles, that gave to his
                  aspect a look of "wisdom supernal."
               "Madam," he said, as he stood on the curb-stone, beside the carriage window, with
                  his hands thrust into the pockets of his green velveteen small-clothes,
                  "Madam!"
               "I understood, a few days ago, Mr. Kirkland, that you had some fine hautboys
                  ripening," said Mrs. De Vere, leaning out, and speaking blandly.
               "I believe I have, madam; indeed, I may say I have some very fine
                  ones," he replied, bowing.
               "How many, Mr. Kirkland?" she asked, very anxiously.
               "Well, madam, I have calculated that point very carefully some two or three times,
                  and think I may safely count on twenty quarts and a few over!" he replied,
                  slowly.
               "When will they be quite ripe, ready for gathering?"
               "I have reason to hope they will be quite ripe in the course of three weeks,
                  madam."
               "And what will you charge for them—the whole twenty quarts, Mr. Kirkland? I have
                  my own reasons for wishing to know precisely," said Mrs. De Vere, with an
                  important air.
               Mr. Kirkland looked down, as if he was working out a problem in the diameter of
                  the coach-wheel nearest him—then hummed in his throat a strange little air, which
                  he had the honor and glory of composing for the purpose of helping himself out of
                  perplexing dilemmas like the present. Mrs. De Vere waited impatiently, and waited
                  long.
               "Do you wish to purchase the hautboys, madam?" he inquired, at last.
               "Yes, I do. That is, provided you are not too extravagant in the price," she
                  replied, drawing herself proudly up, and enjoying the consciousness of the power
                  to procure them at any price.
               "Madam, you are the twentieth person who has been after them same remarkable
                  hautboys to-day," said Mr. Kirkland, chuckling to himself.
               "My dear Kirkland, you are to give ME the refusal of them—name your own price; I
                  am determined to have them," cried Mrs. De Vere, in a tone of alarm.
               "It's a very uncommon thing, strawberries here in November; very uncommon. I've
                  had hotbeds twenty years and more, and never could, with my best endeavors, get on
                  with them before; and now I may say, though perhaps it's not overly modest, that
                  they are the very finest I ever see, at any season."
               "What will you take for them? Do tell me, there's a good soul," cried Mrs. De
                  Vere, in an ecstasy of alarm at the idea of not securing them.
               "A hundred and fifty dollars, madam, is the very lowest," he answered, after
                  another cogitation between his thoughts and the wheel.
               "I will give it. Don't let any one even see them after this,
                  Kirkland. And besides the strawberries, I shall want every japonica, rose,
                  oleander, and everything in the shape of a flower that your greenhouse contains.
                  So don't cut another until your hautboys are ripe," said the lady, with a grand
                  air.
               "I must have to-night to think on't, Madam De Vere. It's a very large order,
                  madam, very large. It might interfere with my other customers; affront some of
                  them, madam, to allow the monopoly. Will you please drive out to-morrow? and I can
                  give you something like a definite answer, madam."
               "How very tiresome! exclaimed the lady, vexed at his unconcerned manner; "I'll be
                  here precisely at eleven o'clock to-morrow morning; surely, Kirkland, you can
                  promise me that you'll give nobody an answer until then about the hautboys?"
               "The madam shall be gratified on that point. At eleven o'clock, precisely,
                  to-morrow, A. M., the question shall be settled definitely," he replied, bowing as
                  the coach rolled away towards Chiswicke Square.
               And the poor seamstress! Oh world, thou art a hard task-master. And the dying
                  foreigner!! Fold your wings of cloud, Genius of life, and weep over man's
                  inconsistency!!!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Such is fair Virtue, o'er the wide earth beaming;
                           Her sacred light of love forever streaming;
                           "From land to land, the heavenly spirit flies.
                           Bids grace and beauty shine with deeper glow,
                           And o'er the common paths of life below
                           Sheds down a hallowed glory from the skies."
                        
                     
                     JERROLD'S MAG.
                  
               
               "AT home, ladies?" inquired Mr. Bedford, in a gay tone, as he entered the
                  drawing-room in Chiswicke Square, where Mrs. Willoughby was deeply engaged in the
                  perusal of a new work, just issued by a favorite author; and our Edith of Woodreve
                  sat embroidering roses and blossoms on a square of purple velvet, which was
                  destined for an ottoman cover, while she sang in a low, mellow tone, one of the
                  sweet airs from La Sonnambula. It was some time
                  before the fashionable visiting hour, and the day preceding Mrs. De Vere's
                     fête, about which the upper circles were in a
                  perfect furor of delighted anticipation.
               "Always, and at all hours at home to you, dear old friend," said Mrs. Willoughby,
                  closing her book as she arose to meet him. Edith threw aside her embroidery, and
                  welcomed him with an affectionate kiss, then wheeled a cushioned arm-chair round
                  to the fire, and would have relieved him of a large package he held tenaciously in
                  his hand; but he smiled, and told her, with a provoking air, "that it contained a
                  secret, and he did not care to relinquish it, for fear her curiosity might lead
                  her into temptation."
               "You do very right; I have the strangest penchant on earth for opening bundles and packages," she replied,
                  laughing, as she threw herself half kneeling on a tabouret at his feet; "and, if this is not some private affair of
                  mamma's, I intend to remain just where I am until the mystery is solved; for I
                  cannot recollect ever to have seen Mr. Bedford with so ominous a parcel
                  before."
               "A little patience, Etha," he replied, fondly patting her beautiful cheek; "you
                  are to promise me something which I shall presently ask you, as a condition to
                  your obtaining a view of the concealed treasure in my package; promise on honor to
                  grant my boon, and I unfasten the wrappings at once."
               "Name your condition—demand the boon; for, as I am a fair ladye, I am prepared to
                  make great sacrifices to the tutelar genius of my sex," she said, laughing.
               "So—now listen, Etha; I hear that you have been elected, by acclamation, the belle
                  of the season. Go where I will, I hear a ceaseless chant in honor of your beauty.
                  You are beautiful, child. Your manners are lauded as elegant, and
                  your accomplishments, wit, and style pronounced brilliant and faultless. Now,
                  Etha, it requires no necromancer's skill to assure me how dangerous will be the
                  incense, how Circean the spell of the World's fascinations to a spirit like yours.
                  It would grieve us much, Miriam, to see her changed into a cold, heartless
                  trifler; would it not, Miriam?" said the old man, sadly.
               "There is no evil I would more deeply deplore for Edith," replied Mrs. Willoughby,
                  regarding her lovely step-daughter with a fond and anxious expression.
               "And," continued Mr. Bedford, folding both her hands in his as she still knelt at
                  his feet, gazing up into his face, with wonder and alarm shadowing her
                  countenance, "and to lose the power of discriminating between true friendship, and
                  that false sentiment which only fortunate and adventitious circumstances in one's
                  position inspire the giddy flutterers of the world in one's regard; to become so
                  charmed with flattery as to prefer the indiscriminate applause of mere parasites
                  to the heartfelt approval of a chosen few; to see our lovely wild flower of
                  Woodreve transformed into a flaunting blossom, destitute of its soft, modest
                  bloom, and witching fragrance."
               "Dear—dear Mr. Bedford—dear mamma, what have I done?" exclaimed Edith, while her
                  eyes filled with tears, and she turned her flushed face appealingly from one to
                  the other. "Surely, I have exhibited no sign that the world will thus contaminate
                  me, and turn away from their native channels the best feelings of my nature.
                  Indeed, sir, you alarm and distress me."
               "No, Etha—no, darling, not yet; the poison insinuates itself slowly and surely.
                  Trust the world too much, Etha, worship too fondly its pleasures, and the bitter
                  change must come," said Mr. Bedford, his hands on each side of her head, and
                  kissing her polished forehead. "But, I warn you, come what may, I
                  will not be supplanted in your affections. Promise me this—"
               "How could that be possible—how could I forget the love of long years? Oh, Mr.
                  Bedford—mamma—if I thought these pleasures you have so kindly indulged me in, and
                  which I have so truly enjoyed, would leave behind them such deplorable results;
                  would make me so like that fruit which grows on the borders of the Dead Sea, I
                  would beg permission to fly to some deep solitude, where not an echo of the world could reach me,"
                  exclaimed Edith, with genuine feeling.
               "Softly, Etha; softly, child," said Mr. Bedford. "Shall a mariner neglect the
                  duties of his vocation, because buoys and flaming beacons are erected above the
                  shoals and reefs, past which he had often recklessly cruised, ere he knew the
                  perils of the way? No, child, instead of flying from the world, be warned of the
                  dangers that threaten, and learn to perform well and wisely its social duties.
                  That politeness founded on principles of good nature and unselfishness needs no
                  hypocrisy or extrinsic aid to sustain it; it is always self possessed, thoughtful,
                  and graced by the lustre of that golden rule which teaches us to do unto others as
                  we would they should do unto us. But don't quarrel with the world; only avoid
                  evils you cannot control, and acquire none of its conventional affectations, and
                  you will get on. It would be a pity to mar the work of nature in this warm little
                  heart, Etha. But I will postpone the conclusion of my lecture until I see the
                  first symptoms of transformation."
               "Has life, then, no true enjoyments? Are they all like a dream, fleeting as
                  bright—sweet, but poisoned?" said Edith, despondingly, while tears rolled over her
                  cheeks.
               "Pish, child; that is all sentimentality, mere wordy sentimentality. Look up, thou
                  neophyte, and learn that fountains of genuine happiness spring forth, even from
                  the desolate rocks of the world," said Mr. Bedford, cheerfully, as he uncovered
                  his package, and held up to the light an exquisitely painted landscape,
                  representing a scene near Soleure, and a group of peasants, in their picturesque
                  costumes, laying their votive offering on the shrine of St. Veronè, which was
                  overhung by grand old trees, and overshadowed by the sides of the chasm in which
                  it was nestled. A golden light streaming down amidst the leaves, and gilding the
                  rough edges of the rocks, threw out the shadows in bold, fine contrast, and
                  imparted to the whole scene a rich, luminous tone. There was a breadth, a harmony,
                  and touch in the picture that attracted Mrs. Willoughby's attention on the
                  instant, and, as she came near enough to examine its details, she recognized one
                  of the half-forgotten spots, where, by some mysterious influence or sympathy, her
                  heart seemed to rest a moment from its agony, during her troubled tour through
                  Europe in search of her son.
               "Where did you find this, Mr. Bedford? It is a perfect gem, and the artist has
                  been true to nature. Well do I remember my feelings, when I once visited this
                  spot, at the close of a soft, sweet summer eve. Only the mountain-tops were gilded
                  with the lingering daybeams, leaving the deep, rocky vale in sombre shadow, while,
                  afar off through the foliage, which was dark and glittering with dew, gleamed a
                  mass of light from the hermitage shrine of St. Veronè; an image, I thought then,
                  of hope to all but me," said Mrs. Willoughby, sadly.
               "Yes, it is a faithful delineation; but look at this," said Mr. Bedford; "here is
                  a scene, by moonlight, on the Roman Campagna. Notice those shepherds grouped
                  around a watch-fire, beneath the shelter of an aged cork-tree, watching their
                  flocks, which are scattered around them, sleeping. And see, Etha, a little beyond,
                  resting against the fragment of a broken aqueduct, that boyish form wrapped in a
                  coarse cloak, which falls gracefully around him, and on whose face the firelight
                  gleams, revealing fair hair, and features which tell he is not of Italia."
               "Oh, beautiful!" exclaimed Edith, with a rapturous expression of countenance; "how
                  fine the contrast between his Raphael-like head and the dark-haired, soft-eyed
                  peasants! I would give any sum for such a picture."
               Mrs. Willoughby, without expressing an opinion, carried it to the window, and
                  gazed long and earnestly on the features of the boy; then, without speaking,
                  returned it to Mr. Bedford, and resumed her seat; her cheek more blanched, and a
                  shadow, more thoughtfully sad, on her brow.
               "Do you not admire it, Miriam? It is a finer painting than the other," inquired
                  Mr. Bedford, looking a little disappointed at her silence.
               "They are both remarkable productions, and exhibit, in every touch, a masterly
                  genius; but somehow, dear friend, they have caused sharp vibrations on the chord
                  of memory. May I ask the name of the gifted artist who painted them?" she
                  asked.
               "Now we are coming to the point," said Mr. Bedford, rubbing his hands together. "I
                  will tell you. The poor young artist whose pencil has made the canvass glow, and
                  breathe into a beautiful semblance of nature and life, is at this moment wasted by
                  want and exhaustion, and, unless I can find a purchaser for these pictures—he must
                  die."
               Edith clasped her hands together, and, springing up with a sudden impulse, ran out
                  of the room, but returned in a few moments with her purse, which she thrust into
                  Mr. Bedford's hands, exclaiming, "Let us go this instant; he may die."
               "My dear Etha, what on earth am I to do with all this money?" asked Mr. Bedford,
                  inspecting the gold through the strained silk meshes of the purse.
               "Give them to the poor, dying artist—do, do, Mr. Bedford— as the price of the pictures," she cried, with
                  heightened color and sparkling eyes.
               "As the price of the pictures, Etha?"
               "Oh no, I did not mean that, precisely. I wish to give him the gold;
                  it is not a great deal; he need know nothing of the donor. Then my dear mamma will
                     purchase these; will you not, ma'am?" she asked, while every
                  feature trembled with sensibility.
               "What a wild enthusiast the creature is!" said Mr. Bedford, laughing, while he
                  felt inclined to clasp her to his bosom. "But listen, Etha. A friend of mine, no
                  matter who, found out this poor son of genius by accident, and brought me these
                  pictures this morning, either to purchase myself, or dispose of to some of my
                  opulent associates; he had two others which he intended adding to his own
                  collection; and informed me that fifteen dollars a piece would exceed the most
                  extravagant hopes of the destitute being to whom they belong. I cannot take
                  more."
               "And, dear child, you must learn to temper your admirable generosity with justice.
                  Your feelings do honor to human nature; but reflect, Edith, it is an insult to
                  offer charity where only a fair recompense for labor is demanded; and
                  I do not wish to chill your kindly emotions; the world, or life's bitterness, may
                  effect that too soon; or even restrain your generous impulses: but you must not
                  forget the sober fact that your purse contains every penny of your quarterly
                  income, and by prodigally stripping it of its contents, several poor tradespeople
                  will be put to the greatest inconvenience by being obliged to wait for the amount
                  of their bills. Purchase one of the pictures, dear; it will be performing a good
                  act, and helping to rescue from the despair of penury one who may yet struggle
                  upward to a high place on the steep of fame," said Mrs. Willoughby, in a kind,
                  calm tone. "I will purchase the Campagna scene, if you do not prefer it."
               "You are always right, mamma. I see plainly the sound sense of your arguments, and
                  admit that abstract facts are indisputable. But oh, how much would I prefer acting
                  on my first impulse! It is a beautiful thing, a divine, ecstatic feeling, to be
                  conscious of the power of doing good to others. You called me a neophyte, Mr.
                  Bedford. Have I found the meaning of your enigma?" inquired Edith, closing her
                  purse with a reluctant air, after counting out three half eagles in his hand.
               "Yes, Etha, you have discovered one of the untainted and joyful mysteries of
                  RICHES. You have tasted one of the few rare drops it is capable of distilling. In
                  plain language, child, the science of making friends of the 'mammon of
                  unrighteousness' is, generally, rather vaguely estimated; but you seem to
                  appreciate and understand perfectly its first lessons. Cherish your noble
                  sentiments. Never forget the art of feeling for others, and the very
                     wish to do good to those who suffer will elevate and purify your
                  soul. That poor fellow will feel richer than Crœsus this afternoon, when he
                  receives sixty dollars. Then make yourself happy by the reflection that you have
                  had a share in binding up a jaded and desolate heart—of diffusing peace and
                  comfort, where only despair and penury existed," said Mr. Bedford, in a sublime
                  tone.
               All sadness disappeared from Edith's countenance, and it grew radiant with the
                  thought: "May I often find these rare drops! they will sweeten the most bitter
                  waters," she murmured. "Yon picture, its shaded valley, its gold-tipped rocks and
                  foliage, its sacred hermitage, shall be a perpetual memento of this hour."
               "Good-by, Etha! Had you been born in Lacedæmon, you could not exhibit a greater
                  contempt for such sordid trash as gold. Most people cry over empty purses, and you
                  rebelled openly because yours was too full, eh!" said Mr. Bedford, pinching her
                  ear; "but I must be off. The deuce! I thought there was something! Miriam, do you
                  remember a Miss Lyle, who used to be occasionally at the Holme, a handsome,
                  poetical, sprightly creature?"
               "Perfectly. Her mother was an Italian, and from her she inherited a poetical taste
                  that made her no mean improvisatrice. What of
                  her?"
               "She afterwards married Charles Lacy, a wealthy young merchant of our city, and
                  they were the most admired and courted couple in the world, so long as—they gave
                  good dinners. But Lacy, unfortunately, had more heart than judgment, and indorsed
                  to a large amount for a man who was bankrupt at the time he asked him to put his
                  name on his paper. The consequence was, they lost everything on earth except the
                  house they now occupy, and that, fortunately, had been secured by her father's
                  will to her children, so that nobody could lay a finger on it. She
                  gave up everything—dower and all. She would do it. Now she teaches the art of
                  painting, to one or two classes; and he obtains employment among his old friends,
                  posting books and keeping accounts," said Mr. Bedford.
               "Poor Caroline Lacy! I will call on her to-morrow," observed Mrs. Willoughby, with
                  feeling.
               "You are wasting your pity, I assure you. Caroline Lacy was probably never so
                  happy as she is now. They have been cut by their former associates, but she values
                  as they deserve those who merely worshipped the fortune and position they
                  represented. And she rises highly
                  superior to changing and untoward circumstances; they have neither fettered nor
                  enslaved her; but, like a robin chirping amidst the snows of winter, she is as
                  blithe in adversity as she ever was in prosperity. A true heroine that, Edith, is
                  she not?" inquired Mr. Bedford, turning towards her.
               "She has a brave heart of her own," replied Edith. "I confess you have quite won
                  my admiration for Mrs. Lacy. I long to see her."
               "Her husband," continued Mr. Bedford, "does not bear the change so well; but I
                  really believe he is more stung by the treachery of his former friend than the
                  loss of his fortune. However, men have not such a superabundance of pliant
                  philosophy as women. To be thrown suddenly from a high commercial position, and be
                  in an hour deprived of affluence and reduced to absolute poverty, is enough to
                  shake a man to the centre of his soul. You womenkind are always looking beyond the
                  clouds at the rainbow. Men think more of the peltings of the storm and its
                  thunderbolts than of the heroic or sentimental; they have stern realities and
                  responsibilities to deal with. But my object is still unexplained. I think you
                  would be setting a fine example to the fine folks around you, Miriam, to send Mrs.
                  Lacy a season card for your reunions, and Lacy, too, of course. I'll see him; it
                  will be necessary, in fact, for he's got so deuced proud since his troubles that
                  one has to be on ceremony with him."
               "You have but anticipated my intentions, my dear old friend. I always admired Miss
                  Lyle; she was a bright-eyed, joyous creature; but Mrs. Lacy is an honor to her
                  sex, and I shall be proud to number her among my friends," said Mrs. Willoughby,
                  warmly.
               "And show the graceless world," exclaimed Mr. Bedford, with a magnificent flourish
                  of his hand, as he bowed himself out, "that there are a few true hearts left who
                  can estimate intelligence, virtue, and worth a degree higher than gold."
               As Mr. Bedford left the presence of the ladies, Walter Shirley entered, with his
                  usual air of polished, high-bred elegance. His compliments were offered with tact,
                  and clothed in the most felicitous language. To his aunt he brought that most
                  touching and sublime of all prose epics, "Salathiel." It was just out, and
                  glancing over its pages that morning at his bookseller's, he was struck with the
                  lofty and beautiful passages his eyes fell on, and he purchased it, knowing that
                  it would be a peculiarly acceptable offering to Mrs. Willoughby. Nor was he
                  mistaken. The very first sentence she read touched the right chord of her
                  singularly gifted mind, and in a few moments she was deeply engrossed by its
                  thrilling incidents. To Edith, he presented a magnificent bouquet of white
                  japonicas, interspersed with heliotrope and halfopened roses, and leaning over her
                  chair, murmured—
               "I could think of nothing that would insure me a kinder welcome than these."
               "Ah, you have discovered Edith's weak point, Walter. She is devoted to flowers,"
                  remarked Mrs. Willoughby, whose attention had been diverted from "Salathiel" by
                  Edith's exclamation of pleasure.
               "And these are so perfectly pure, so chaste, I cannot bear to think of their
                  fading. Indeed, Mr. Shirley, you are very kind to bring me so rare a gift. They
                  are like bright spots in the desert—I see so few since I left Woodreve. But such
                  enjoyments ought to be occasionally rare, to be duly appreciated," she said,
                  handing the bouquet to Mrs. Willoughby.
               "There, take them, Edith; I perceive that you dread the profanation of another's
                  touch for your fragrant earth-stars."
               "Nay, mamma, your dear hand has but enhanced their value. Beautiful
                  incense-breathing fairies, innocent darlings, angel flowers," exclaimed Edith;
                  then, forgetting, in her passionate love for flowers, how the thing might be
                  construed by Walter Shirley, she pressed them softly to her lips.
               "Senseless, envied flowers," he murmured with a sigh; "I covet only one kind
                  thought, while you lavish caresses on a thing which will ere the morrow fade."
               Edith's brow crimsoned, until the broad, white leaves of the japonicas, over which
                  she leaned, were tinged with a roseate hue, and without lifting her eyes to his,
                  she replied in the same low tone: "It is ungenerous, Mr. Shirley, to envy the
                  fleeting joys of so brief a life as theirs."
               "I would not utter a reproach, if I could fancy, for a moment, they would remind
                  Miss Willoughby of the giver, even while their freshness lasted; the thought even
                  of so brief a memory would content me; but 'to-morrow the dream and the flowers
                  will fade,' and he be forgotten."
               "You estimate my friendship but lightly, Mr. Shirley; but pardon me, they are
                  already drooping in the air of this heated apartment, and need moisture. I will
                  get the most beautiful vase we have for them. Mamma, can you tell me where that
                  long-necked, Bohemian glass is? Its delicate blue and silver tints will harmonize
                  exactly with these rare pure flowers."
               "May I implore my aunt to defer telling you of its whereabouts for one moment,
                  Miss Willoughby? I will not detain you longer," said Walter Shirley, somewhat
                  disconcerted by her noble simplicity. "I am the bearer of an important message
                  from Mrs. De Vere, which will require
                  the gravest deliberation, and a council of three."
               "Yes. Then spare a moment, Edith. What may this important embassy be, Walter?"
                  said Mrs. Willoughby, smiling.
               "Most grave and reverend ladies—as envoy extraordinary to the powers ruling at
                  this court of Chiswicke Square, I must adhere faithfully to the instructions I
                  have received," he replied, assuming a diplomatic air. "The arrangements of Mrs.
                  De Vere's tableaux vivants, or charades, are not
                  yet complete. She is literally dying for a Nourmahal, to make up the number of a
                  very handsome set. Alice will do nothing but Medora, because she can lay on
                  cushions all the time. Dora Livingston is to be Ginevra Orsini, because she
                  fancies she is of the blood royal, and therefore understands how a feudal princess
                  should act under trying circumstances. Bessie is to act Hinda; why, I can't
                  exactly understand, unless she has heard that young Southerner, Stanley, admire
                  the character. However, this is a bare inference from the fact that he has been
                  cast for Hafed, the Gheber chief. And the end of it all is that Mrs. De Vere hopes
                  these ruling powers now present will consider themselves knelt to, and prays most
                  earnestly that, if Mrs. Willoughby does not object, Miss Willoughby will
                  condescend to take the part of Nourmahal; having appointed myself, by her
                  sovereign proclamation, the humble Jehan-quire of the Enchantress."
               "What say you, Edith?" calmly asked Mrs. Willoughby.
               "I cannot, indeed I cannot, mamma. I dare say it's very stupid; but I cannot act,
                  I do not know how," she exclaimed, earnestly.
               "I believe you, dear child! But it will be necessary to send an apologetic reply
                  to Mrs. De Vere's message, as she certainly intended to pay you a distinguished
                  compliment."
               "But, dear mamma, what can I say? Plead utter ignorance? Say I am incapable of
                  doing credit to her charades, as I never acted anything in my life? Or out with
                  the blunt truth, and declare there is something revolting to me in the idea of
                  exhibiting myself at a public fête, in a studied
                  character and attitude that I do not altogether relish? Pray answer for me!" said
                  Edith, laughing.
               "I will, Edith. You will find the Bohemian vase on the table in my room; give your
                  flowers water, they are really drooping. Mr. Shirley will excuse a few moments'
                  absence," replied Mrs. Willoughby, gratified as well as diverted at Edith's
                     naïveté. "You can say, Walter," she
                  continued, as her step-daughter left the room, "that Miss Willoughby regrets that
                  it is entirely out of her power to oblige Mrs. De Vere on this point, and begs she
                  may be excused."
               He looked disappointed, and asked if Mrs. Willoughby disapproved of tableaux vivants.
               
               "Under some circumstances, I do—highly and decidedly. The delicate and pure
                  drapery of a virtuous woman's character cannot be but soiled by the oriental
                  association that Mrs. De Vere or her advisers chose for Edith. The signification
                  of the very name of Nourmahal would be in itself an objection; but, independent of
                  all this, such exhibitions foster a false sentimentality in the actors, and steal
                  insidiously from the young fresh heart its modest bloom. I am glad Edith decided
                  as she did without my prompting," she said, earnestly.
               "Fashion stamps everything with propriety, my dear aunt!"
               "So it may appear to its giddy worshippers," she replied, calmly; "but depend on
                  it, Walter, many of its licensed follies are nevertheless destructive to virtue
                  and happiness. Its exaggerated examples, for instance, are highly injurious in a
                  country where no real distinction of caste
                  exists in the masses which form the social scale. Wealth is valued at a
                  disproportionate and exorbitant standard, as an omnipotent key to the privileges
                  of those who are self-constituted the higher classes; and where it does not really
                  and substantially exist, the appearance of it is assumed, too often, to the
                  destruction of honor, pride of character, and self-respect, to attain that envied
                  pinnacle which a false and little ambition lends such enchantment and importance
                  to. Such causes, however, are scarcely recognized as the destructive lever which
                  is undermining society and the national honor of our noble country. Oh, if worth
                  and talent could only change positions with mammon, how soon would a noble
                  emulation elevate the human character to a higher destiny than man has yet known!
                  how fully would be developed all the highest beatitudes of morality. But this is
                  an Utopian dream," said Mrs. Willoughby, checking herself.
               "And Mammon wins his way when Seraphs might despair," quoted Walter Shirley, with
                  a smile. "The evils you speak of are too apparent; but, unfortunately for its own
                  good, the world can never be argued out of its follies. But leaving this question,
                  which I frankly confess is rather a new one to me, I fear Mrs. De Vere will be in
                  despair at the unfavorable result of my negotiations."
               "I am truly sorry she should have thoughtlessly exposed herself to a refusal, by
                  thinking of Edith for her exhibition. Doubtless she'll excuse her on the score of
                  rusticity. You know she has been vegetating all her life at Woodreve; this is her
                  first season in town. Mrs. De Vere would possibly comprehend a hint to this effect
                  from you, Walter—not from me."
               Visitors were at this moment announced, and Shirley could only get an opportunity to offer his escort to Edith for
                  the following evening, and engage her hand for the first set of quadrilles, ere he made his adieus. "What a cursed
                  prude my aunt is!" he muttered, as he drew on his faultless glove in the hall;
                  "now for a gallop to Woodreve."
               "I merely popped in," said Mr. Bedford, the next morning, while Mrs. Willoughby
                  and Edith were at breakfast, "to say that General Beverly, who has recently been
                  called by the President to occupy an important station in the Cabinet, is in town,
                  and will be at the De Veres to-night; so if you, my gracious lady of Woodreve,
                  will accept of my escort, I will come out of my shell and make my débût into fashionable society again. He is an old
                  friend of your father's and mine, Miriam."
               "You have only offered that which I intended begging as a great favor," replied
                  Mrs. Willoughby.
               "A plague on me for being so hasty, then. Had I only waited a little, you would
                  have appreciated the favor ten degrees higher than now when it is volunteered. Who
                  is Edith's cavalier?" said Mr. Bedford, gayly.
               "Walter, my nephew!"
               "Humph! but good-by. No kiss to-day, Etha? Are you still pouting about yesterday's
                  affair? Bless my soul, if I only had time, I would tell you such a moving
                  adventure, all about the poor artist, and his gratitude."
               "Sit down, dear Mr. Bedford, just two minutes," said Edith, throwing her arm
                  around him, and drawing him towards a chair; positively, you are my prisoner two
                  minutes by yonder clock, and I will release you only on condition that you make a
                  clear breast of it."
               "Fair tyrant! Suppose I tell you that the object of your benevolent interest is
                  the most deformed, hideous-looking individual I ever saw; covered with tattered
                  and filthy garments, and uncouth in manners as in person."
               "I would ask you if you had clothed and fed the body that contains the soul of
                  genius?" answered Edith, loftily.
               "There she goes, like a sky-rocket, towards heaven. You have brightened up the
                  world again, Etha, with the sparkling of your soul," cried Mr. Bedford, rubbing
                  his small, aristocratic fingers together until the joints complained audibly. "Now
                  I will tell you. He was not squalid or ragged; only very, very thinly clad for the
                  season. He is not deformed, or hideous, or uncouth. He is a tall, graceful
                  stripling, of some seventeen or eighteen summers; with a broad, open, blue-veined
                  forehead, and long, waving locks of gold-colored hair. His eyes, large and dark,
                  sparkled with the seintillations of genius, and on each oval cheek glowed a
                  crimson fever spot. There was no fire on his hearth to temper the freezing cold.
                  But what think you he was doing?"
               "Painting?"
               "No."
               "Writing?"
               "No. He was kneeling before a picture of the HOLY VIRGIN, and held in his clasped
                  fingers, attenuated enough they were, a small crucifix that he at intervals
                  pressed to his lips, then uttered imploring prayers in his own musical tongue. Our
                  presence was not observed until an old fool of the party, named Bedford, was
                  obliged to cough down his tears; then he arose, laid his crucifix reverentially
                  down, and with both hands modestly extended with a gesture of welcome, invited us
                  in. My friend told him his pictures were disposed of, and admired by excellent
                  judges. You ought to have seen his proud, happy countenance, Etha. He drew up his
                  slender form, and folded his arms on his breast with a silent bow. It was evident
                  he could not speak, but I saw the peltings of his heart against his side, and knew
                  all. When the gold was poured out on the little table that held his palette, oils,
                  and brushes, he sprang up and knelt again before the VIRGIN, and lifting his hands
                  upwards, and his eyes, which were filled with tears, he whispered: "Gratias. O
                  clemens! O dulcis Marie!" After which, he poured out his gratitude to us. We
                  conversed an hour with him, and, this afternoon, you may think of Raphael
                  Massoletti as thoroughly comfortable."
               "He must be an angel," exclaimed Edith, enthusiastically.
               "Is not his physiognomy singular for an Italian?" asked Mrs. Willoughby, after a
                  thoughtful silence.
               "It is sometimes the case that, among the peasants of Lombardy, you find blue
                  eyes, pale-brown or golden hair, combined with a fair complexion; but it is rare.
                  Now, Edith, when I tell you I have some very important astronomical calculations
                  to make before evening, you will release me."
               "Escape, Phoenix of your kind!" she cried, opening her arms, which were folded
                  around him, and kissing his pale, broad forehead ere he went. "Mamma, don't you
                  think, sometimes, that Mr. Bedford is an angel in disguise? They used to walk as
                  men, the sons of God, on the earth."
               "He has been the visible angel of my life, Edith; my support and comfort when
                  every other earthly consolation failed me," she replied, sadly. Edith was
                  silent.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VIII.
               AN EPISODE.
               ANOTHER scene. Another hour of the same bright wintry day. An early November snow
                  had fallen at noon; and just when the brown earth, the sere trees, and house-tops
                  were half concealed by the bridal veil of winter, up blows a soft westerly wind,
                  furling back the dun clouds, and melting the gloom from the sky, until, towards
                  twilight, the sun beamed down red and golden showers of light over all, and one
                  might have fancied that a frozen rainbow had suddenly dissolved amidst the snowy
                  fleece.
               "Aha! the angels of light befriend me. Put back those curtains, Ida—farther still,
                  my child; let me not lose one ray; there, I can now safely put the last delicate
                  touches on my work ere nightfall; then, darling, we'll have music, fairytales, and
                  songs," said a beautiful woman of some thirty years of age, who was engaged in the
                  task of miniature painting, at a table covered with colors, brushes, and a few
                  unfinished pictures. In the midst, stood a curious vase filled with flowers, which
                  diffused a sweet aroma throughout the modest apartment. The child Ida returned to
                  her cushion on the rug, and gathered up, tenderly, in her round, fair arms, a
                  white kitten, flecked here and there with black, like a piece of royal ermine, and
                  watched with an air of satisfaction the gradual closing of the creature's eyes, as
                  its head fell back among the stray tresses on her bosom. The cheerful firelight
                  shone out, like a smile, on the roses of Ida's cheeks, and gleamed underneath her
                  long eyelashes into the depths of her blue eyes, softly and brightly. And on the
                  waves of her pale, golden hair fell the fading sunbeams, kindling up a halo such
                  as one sees around the heads of cherubs in rare old pictures. The whole scene was
                  inexpressibly lovely. No gorgeous furniture decked the apartment; no velvet
                  draperies, or costly carpets, or useless luxuries were there. But taste and
                  refinement were so evident in its arrangements; there was such an expressive
                  indication of a master-mind reigning over all, as invested the coup-d'œil with a charm that mere gold cannot buy. The
                  Gobelins could not have produced, from their celebrated looms, more delicate or
                  beautifully colored patterns than those which ornamented the chintz covering of
                  the sofa and chairs, and the rich-looking carpet. Yet the fabric of each was
                  coarse, and cost but little, and so with the curtains which were gracefully draped
                  over the windows. An open piano stood in a recess, piled up with music; here a
                  table covered with handsomely bound rare volumes, there a marble pedestal
                  supporting an alabaster lamp and flowers, relics of brighter fortunes, refreshed
                  the eye and heart with sure promises of mental enjoyment and intercourse. A few
                  fine pictures, whose merits were not overshadowed by the glare of deep gilt
                  frames, ornamented the walls, and amidst all, like the spirit of peace and
                  contentment, sat the bright genius of the HOME, humming a low, sweet air, that
                  chimed on the stillness of the room like the tinkling of a sunlit fountain,
                  expressing a quiet joyousness and freedom from the vexatious thoughts of life,
                  that lifted up the heart towards Heaven, and filled it with fresh visions of
                  beauty. But the kitten was fated to interrupt the lovely spirituel of the scene. Its slumbers were broken by a
                     sneeze, then followed a discordant mewing, and a determined
                  struggle, for a few minutes, to escape from Ida's arms; but her superior strength
                  prevailed; and soothing it gently, as a mother would soothe her babe, she had the
                  gratification of seeing it sleep again.
               "Hush-sh-sh-sh, ma, dear. Mignon is not well. I'm afraid, if you sing, it will
                  waken her again; then, of course, she'll have a fever, and be quite ill,"
                  whispered Ida.
               "Poor Mignon! She must have a dose of catnip tea and a hot foot-bath,
                  Ida. I pronounce her disease to be categorically a nervous affection," said the
                  lady, smiling.
               "Ma, dear, do you think Mignon will ever grow so cruel as to torment and eat the
                  pretty bright-eyed little mice?" asked the child, after a pause.
               "If she survives this illness, I fear she will be guilty of the shocking habit, my
                  love," replied the lady, laughing. Ida sighed.
               "But," she resumed, "Mignon is so dainty, it would be a very horrible affair.
                  Don't you think, dear ma, it would be a good plan to have all her teeth pulled
                  out?"
               "Possibly," was the answer.
               "But, ma dear, if Mignon should—you know it might be so—if Mignon should happen to
                  be an enchanted princess, it would spoil her beauty to have no teeth. Heigh-ho! I
                  don't know what to do."
               "Have you forgotten, Ida, how the enchanted princess, in your fairy book, was
                  restored to her natural shape?"
               "Oh no, ma dear, that is my favorite story. The white cat, you know, was cut in
                  half, and a most beautiful princess, with locks of gold, and dressed in satin, and
                  lace, and diamonds, appeared peared in her
                  place," cried the child, with glee. "I will beg pa to cut Mignon in two, the
                  moment he comes, for I really believe she is enchanted."
               "She will then be most effectually cured of her propensity to eat mice; but run,
                  darling, I think I hear pa at the door; meet him before he gets up stairs," said
                  the lady, laughing. The child, still holding the kitten in her arms, bounded from
                  the room to meet her father, her little heart overflowing with affection, and her
                  imaginative brain filled with Mignon's enchantment, and other wild dreams of fairy
                  love. But she was disappointed—it was not her father, but a strange lady who was
                  tripping swiftly up stairs towards the parlor.
               "Where is your ma, child?" she inquired of Ida, while she scrutinized every
                  portion of her dress. "Your servant told me she was in the parlor; but I don't
                  know where you can have a parlor in such a house as this."
               "I will show you, ma'am," replied the well-bred little creature, running up before
                  her. "Here is mamma's parlor; please to walk in."
               "How are you, Mrs. Lacy?" said her visitor, walking in.
               "Ah! Miss Thorne. How are you, Miss Thorne? Pray, be seated. Take this fauteuil near the fire," said Mrs. Lacy, meeting her
                  guest with polite cordiality.
               "Thank you; how very comfortable you are here. Really, I had no idea you had such
                  a nice little snuggery. People can live without superfluities, and I
                  expect you enjoy your life quite as much as when you were surrounded by the most
                  extravagant luxuries," said Miss Thorne, casting her eyes sharply around the
                  apartment.
               "I probably value and enjoy existence more, Miss Thorne, than when fashion
                  engrossed so much of my time. I have more leisure for the improvement of my mind,
                  and those pursuits which I have always loved," replied Mrs. Lacy, without at all
                  resenting her guest's impertinent observations.
               "What a blessing it must be to have such a contented mind, to be sure, if it is
                  not the result of indifference! If you, my dear, had expended more of your riches
                  on the poor and destitute, it would have been 'like casting bread on the waters;
                  after many days it would have returned, tenfold, to you.' I see you kept your
                  piano," said Miss Thorne.
               "As there was no necessity for parting with it, I retained it, Dear old friend,
                  that it is; it enlivens our evenings, and reminds us so sweetly of the days of
                  'auld lang syne.' May adversity never deal
                  so harshly with us, as to banish thy familiar music from our hearth!" exclaimed
                  Mrs. Lacy.
               "Dear me, how romantic! I fear, my dear friend, that your trials have not
                  chastened and humbled you as Heaven intended," said Miss Thorne, with a severe
                  aspect.
               "Possibly, I do not mope over the reverses and loss of affluence, which have
                  befallen us, as much as the world expects," she replied, blithely. "But I cannot
                  do it; it would be contrary to the natural, disposition Heaven has given me. I
                  should be a traitor to God, if I indulged in gloom, and sadness, and despondency.
                  There is so much real enjoyment left to us—so many substantial blessings—that the
                  mere loss of fortune is but a secondary consideration. The sunshine is as bright
                  now, dear Miss Thorne, the flowers of earth as beautiful, music as sweet, the
                  evening sky and its clouds and stars filled with as much silent rapture, the moon
                  as lovely, the affections that twine like verdure around my life as full of value
                  and fragrance, as when riches and splendor gilded our destiny. And, thank Heaven,
                  my heart is unchanged. These things so pure and holy gladden it; it answers back
                  to them, like a stream does to the sunshine, full of their reflected light. The
                  circumstances of fortune have made certain changes around me; but I am myself
                  unchanged."
               "But you know, my dear, that the world is entitled to some respect? Its opinions
                  ought to be regarded in certain cases," replied Miss Thorne, thinking, in the odor
                  of her sanctity, that Mrs. Lacy was mad.
               "How have I offended the world? I beg its pardon, humbly; but on my honor, Miss
                  Thorne, as I owe it nothing, I can't conceive by what right it meddles with me,"
                  said Mrs. Lacy, while the corners of her beautiful mouth curved slightly
                  downwards.
               "Oh! I hope you won't be offended; I mean it all for your good; and undertook to
                  come this evening, although I had three societies to preside over, that, I might
                  advise you on a particular point in your conduct which is considered
                  reprehensible," said Miss Thorne, nervously.
               "Believe me, Miss Thorne, that, acting as I do in strict conformity to honorable
                  principles, and a higher sense of duty than the ethics of the world teach, its
                  praises or blame will affect me very little," she replied, while the color
                  deepened in her oval cheeks.
               "Of course not; every one is at liberty to act as they please; but it shows a very
                  high spirit to be above advice, I must say," replied Miss Thorne.
               "I am quite willing to hear advice, Miss Thorne, provided there is no impertinence blended with it. Will you oblige
                  me by stating the object of your visit?" observed Mrs. Lacy, composedly.
               "Yes; I might as well come to the point at once. As a Christian, I think it my
                  duty to warn you of the error of your ways; of clinging to the false show and
                  fashions of the world, when God has afflicted you with poverty," exclaimed Miss
                  Thorne, in a transport of rage and religion.
               "You are dealing in mysteries; I can no more understand your drift than I can
                  penetrate the mystic secret of the Sphinx," said Mrs. Lacy, calmly. "Please
                  explain."
               "And everybody is astonished at it," continued the zealous lady. "You dress as
                  extravagantly as you did in the days of your prosperity; your innocent child is
                  decked off as if she were the heiress of thousands. It is this, Mrs. Lacy, this
                  most unbecoming pretension, and apparent defiance of what ought to humble your
                  proud soul, that your friends complain of."
               "Present me kindly to my friends, Miss Thorne, and thank them for the interest
                  they manifest in my welfare," said Mrs. Lacy, rising, and drawing up her proud
                  figure to its utmost height. "There are many associations connected with my
                  innocent wardrobe which may possibly suggest disagreeable ideas, in the minds of
                  my former associates, of ingratitude. But the sight of things which remind them of
                  basking in the sunshine of my fortunes, and flying from the clouds, has been no
                  intentional reproach. My apparel was abundant and costly; my means, afterwards,
                  too limited to throw it aside; and I have had the audacity to make a 'virtue of
                  necessity,' and wear it. But even when the last shred is worn bare, the charitable
                  expectations of my 'friends,' who seem to deem it expedient for me and my child to
                  appear as paupers, will be sadly disappointed. As long as these fingers can hold a
                  pencil, or practise the art of music, to enable me to earn what I expend, I will
                  enjoy the privilege of appearing as a lady, having been guilty of no act to
                  forfeit my character as one; and the pleasure of adorning my beautiful child as my
                  taste may dictate."
               The servant threw open the parlor door, and another guest, tall, stately, and
                  elegantly clad, was ushered in. A soft smile rested on her dignified countenance,
                  as she stood holding out both hands towards Mrs. Lacy, in an attitude of
                  inexpressible grace, while she observed—
               "Caroline Lacy has not forgotten Caroline Lyle's old friends?"
               "Can it—can it be Mrs. Willoughby, of the old Holme, where so many joyous hours of
                  my life were spent? It is! My eyes do not deceive me, and my heart cannot,"
                  exclaimed Mrs. Lacy. In another moment she was folded to Mrs Willoughby's bosom,
                  and when she lifted her face, tears sparkled on her eyelashes, and shed a soft dew
                  on the roseate bloom of her cheeks.
               "I wondered why you had not called with the rest of the world," said Mrs.
                  Willoughby; "and, being somewhat tenacious about old friendships, come to quarrel
                  with you for giving me up, as it seems you intended to do. I cannot bear to be
                  forgotten by those I love."
               "Forgotten! How could I ever forget one who was the idol of my girlish
                  imagination? whose friendship I coveted beyond that of any other being? yet who
                  was so elevated by every attribute of mind above me, that I scarcely dared aspire
                  to it?" said Mrs. Lacy, pressing her hand. "If you have not lost the art of
                  analyzing unexpressed feelings, you understand all that I would say, if I could
                  find language adequate to my gratification on this occasion."
               "And yet you have allowed me to be in town some six weeks without paying me even
                  the compliment of a morning call. Indeed, Caroline, a little salutary scolding
                  will be no more than you deserve," said Mrs. Willoughby, in a pleasant tone,
                  "unless you can defend yourself successfully."
               "I confess I heard of your arrival in town," she replied, while an ingenuous blush
                  mantled her cheeks; "but it is so much the fashion of the world to estimate people
                  by the measurement of good or ill fortune, and as the golden waves of Pactolus no
                  longer flowed past our dwelling—"
               "You were too proud to come! Too proud to come to one who would have received you
                  as a being purified by the uses of adverse fortune, and revered you for rising so
                  nobly above mean contingencies, and scorning to be the slave of untoward
                  circumstances! But you should have trusted me, Caroline!" said Mrs. Willoughby,
                  earnestly.
               "MY FRIEND!" said Mrs. Lacy, with emotion.
               This conversation, animated and deeply interesting to both ladies, occupied only a
                  few minutes, during which time Miss Thorne had remained a silent and unnoticed
                  spectator of the scene. Such disinterestedness towards one so fallen in fortunes
                  as Mrs. Lacy was incomprehensible to her; she puzzled her narrow intellect, and
                  turned over the circumscribed and illiberal ideas most familiar to her for an
                  explanation of it; but the only conclusion that presented itself to her was the
                  fact that Mrs. Lacy possessed, in the Lady of Woodreve, a most powerful friend and
                  ally, and it would be necessary for her to change her tactics towards her without
                  delay. She had long wished to be on an intimate footing with the rich Mrs.
                  Willoughby. She would have made any sacrifice to have the privileged entrée to her house in Chiswicke Square, and be
                  invited to spend the summer at Woodreve Manor; but heretofore no auspicious incident had occurred to
                  forward her schemes.
               "Come and tell me your name, pet," she said, addressing Ida, "and show me your
                  beautiful kitten."
               "My name is Ida Lacy," replied the child, without moving.
               "Fie, Ida; go to Miss Thorne. Pardon my neglect, ladies, and allow me to present
                  Miss Thorne to Mrs. Willoughby. I was really so delighted at meeting with a friend
                  of 'long ago' so unexpectedly, that I must be pardoned," said Mrs. Lacy, who had
                  quite forgotten the presence of her tormenting guest, and whose generous heart
                  reproached her for an unintentional neglect, which might be maliciously construed
                  into an appearance of petty revenge.
               "I believe I have had the pleasure of meeting Miss Thorne before, and must also
                  crave her pardon for not observing her presence earlier," said Mrs. Willoughby, in
                  an affable manner.
               "It affords me great pleasure, ladies, to reflect that, although an unobserved
                  witness of your meeting, I was no restraint on you, as I must have been, had not
                  my petite size, and the large cushions of this
                  delightful chair, favored my concealment. I beg that neither of you will consider
                  an apology necessary," spoke up the little woman, briskly.
               "Pray be seated again, Miss Thorne; if you hurry off just now, I shall fear you
                  imagine yourself de trop," observed Mrs.
                  Lacy.
               "Not at all, my dear. I will come some other time. I have now two poor people, who
                  are in the most destitute circumstances, to visit. I declare, I am literally
                  fagged to death by the demands of objects of charity on my time; but they must be
                  fed and clothed, you know; we cannot let them die like dogs around us, for want of
                  a little attention," she replied, casting up her eyes with a sigh, which might
                  have been interpreted either as an expression of sympathy, or weariness in
                  well-doing, according to the acuteness and disposition of those who heard it.
               "If Miss Thorne will wait a few moments, it will afford me pleasure to drive with
                  her to the scene of her charitable labors," said Mrs. Willoughby; "for I, too,
                  must be gone. May I claim a promise from you, Caroline?"
               "Ay; I think I may safely commit myself!" replied Mrs. Lacy.
               "Very well. No after-thought of rashness, if you please. You are to come to me
                  every alternate Thursday evening. Nay! I beg it as a favor; and as often during
                  the intervals as you can spare me a visit. I have not the pleasure of knowing Mr.
                  Lacy, but have commissioned Mr. Bedford to bring him to see me on the score of our
                  old friendship; then I will arrange the matter with him. Come here, darling!" she
                  said, beckoning to Ida, "one kiss—another. Now, those eyes of yours—lift them
                  again. She's a perfect Asiatic, Caroline. Another kiss, thou cherub! Now
                  adieu!"
               "Farewell, Mrs. Lacy. You must not be hurt with me for speaking as I did. I am too
                  apt to let my zeal for the good of others lead me to extremes; and I heard so
                  much, you know, that I now know to be utterly false. I really hope
                  you will not bear me any ill-will! I am plain spoken; but I believe my heart is
                  right," said Miss Thorne, taking leave.
               "It is forgotten, Miss Thorne, and forgiven. I only insist that, under no pretence
                  whatever, you or your associates may consider yourselves privileged, hereafter, to
                  interfere with my private concerns—concerns which I am quite capable of managing
                  without officious advice," said Mrs. Lacy, in a low tone, but with an air of
                  dignity. "As a friend, Miss Thorne, I will be pleased to see you always."
               In the Woodreve carriage! Sitting close beside Mrs. Willoughby! Going in state and
                  splendor to overwhelm her paupers with a sense of her importance! What pinnacle of
                  human happiness was there higher than this? According to her directions, the
                  coachman drew up at the entrance of a dreary-looking alley, too narrow for the
                  equipage to turn in, and as she thanked Mrs. Willoughby for her attention, and, in
                  the warmth of her gratitude, grasped her hand, a gold half eagle was deposited
                  therein, accompanied by a low whisper,"for your pensioners." She
                  would have been voluble in her thanks, but Mrs. Willoughby turned to give some
                  directions to her footman, and Miss Thorne could only press her hand on her heart,
                  then point towards Heaven, as she stood on the curb in an ecstasy of admiration
                  and gratified pride. A smile and a nod rewarded her ingenious pantomime; the coach
                  door was closed, and it rolled majestically away.
               Some people said, but the world is so uncharitable, that Miss Thorne applied a
                  tithe of all she collected to her own personal uses, feeling that Heaven and
                  charity owed her some small commission for the pains she took for the good of her
                  suffering fellowbeings. Good works that are clamorous of praise will excite envy,
                  and such is the degeneracy of the times that the worst motives are too often
                  imputed to the best deeds. But take comfort, ye who are persecuted for
                  righteousness' sake! There is an EYE that marks and judges our secret souls with
                  justice—whose glance is from ETERNITY, searching, awful, and unsleeping; a POWER
                  which will one day descend amidst glory indescribable, surrounded with might and majesty; whose army of
                  archangels, great in strength, will bear starry banners, torn from the fragments
                  of the skies; and whose flaming seraphs will burn like eternal suns around his
                  throne, while he rewards with immortal life "those who gave a cup of cold water
                  for His sake;" who "let not their left hand know what their right did;" who
                  "clothed the naked, and fed the hungry," for the love of him whose suffering
                  members they were! Yea, He, who "seeth in secret, will reward them openly."
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           By arms assailed, we still can arms oppose,
                           And rescue learning from her brutal foes;
                           But when those foes to friendship make pretence,
                           And tempt the judgment with the baits of sense,
                           Carouse with passion—laugh at God's control,
                           And sack the little empire of the soul;
                           What warning voice can save? Alas! 'tis o'er,
                           The age of virtue will return no more;
                           The doting world, its manly vigor flown,
                           Wanders in mind; and dreams on Folly's throne."
                        
                     
                     ANON.
                  
               
               WHEN Mrs. Willoughby reached home, the stars were glowing through their shadowy
                  night-veil with soft effulgence, like lustrous eyes through Spanish mantillas,
                  reminding her, with something akin to a pang, of her engagement at Mrs. De Vere's,
                  from whose spacious mansion already floated festive notes of preparation. She
                  ordered the carriage at ten, and without looking into the drawing-room, hastened
                  to her apartment to make her toilet for the occasion. There she found lights and a
                  cheerful fire, beside which, on the marble hearth, chocolate and toast were
                  invitingly displayed. After partaking of a slight repast, she discovered on her
                  dressing-table a fresh bouquet of passion-flowers, which her maid informed her had
                  been left for her by Mr. Shirley, with his regards, a few moments before she came
                  in.
               "He could have chosen no fitter emblem," she murmured to herself, as she examined
                  their mystic leaves; "no other flower ever blossomed in my heart—only mine bore
                  thorns as well as flowers."
               When Mr. Bedford called at half-past nine, he found Mrs. Willoughby already in the
                  drawing-room, engaged in a quiet discussion with Walter Shirley relative to the
                  distinctive merits of the masters of the Flemish and Italian schools of painting.
                  She preferred the Italian pictures, where religion and ideality blended the
                  subject in one great harmony of design, but thought the Flemish excelled them in
                  their sketches of every-day life, and picturesque realities. They were both
                  judges. Each had seen, in Europe, the finest specimens of the two schools; yet
                  they could not agree, although eloquent arguments were adduced in the support of
                  both opinions. Mr. Bedford's entrance closed the discussion, and the conversation
                  became general.
               "Where is Edith, eh? Not finished her toilet yet? I'm afraid she'll be like the
                  old Milesian banner—a 'sun-burst'*
                   to night, overpowering us all with her glory," exclaimed Mr. Bedford,
                  looking at his watch; then surveying Mrs. Willoughby with evident admiration; but
                  he knew her too well to dare a compliment on the elegance and beauty of her
                  appearance, and contented himself with an expressive bow, which she understood,
                  and smiled at his playful homage to her charms. She was attired in a rich purple
                  velvet, that well became the zenith of a beauty like hers. The close-fitting
                     corsage and sweeping folds revealed the
                  exquisite outline of her fine person. Her graceful shoulders and softly rounded
                  arms were partially shaded by a rich black lace scarf, thrown carelessly over
                  them. A single diamond, of great value and size—one of the old Nesselrode
                  diamonds—glittered like a star in front of her bodice, where it confined the
                  girdle that encircled her waist. Her pale brown hair was braided in Madonna folds
                  on her forehead, and wound in shining bands around a jet comb at the back of her
                  classically formed head. The passion-flowers, and gloves of the finest and whitest
                  texture, completed her costume. And yet a dreamy sadness, a sort of shadow from an
                  inner cloud, veiled more than half the radiance of her beauty, imparting to one
                  who might scan it closely a sentiment of unrest and pain. Edith soon came down,
                  arrayed with exquisite taste, and looking surpassingly lovely. A robe of white
                  watered silk, trimmed with costly lace, fell in rich shining folds of graceful
                  drapery around her. A string of oriental pearls gleamed and skimmered on the snowy
                  outline of her superbly moulded arms, and a comb composed of the same rare jewels
                  confined her luxuriant hair. A single white japonica was fastened among her
                     
                     *The poetical title of the banner of Brian Boroihme, sovereign of all
                        Ireland.
                   curls, and another nestled like a
                  lotus-flower on her bosom. A small bouquet of white jasmine, heliotrope,
                  mignonette, and the sweet-scented verbena, diffused a delicious aroma wherever she
                  moved.
               "Transformed, or not transformed, is the question!" exclaimed Mr. Bedford, taking
                  a deliberate survey of her through his spectacles.
               "Let this answer for me, unbeliever," she said, kissing him.
               "How can I ever thank you, Mr. Shirley, for the lovely flowers you brought me this
                  evening?"
               "I am more than repaid by the pleasure they afford Miss Willoughby," he replied,
                  while he wondered at her splendid beauty.
               "We will be decidedly the belles of the evening," said Mr. Bedford, opening
                  Edith's fan, and flirting it after a fashion that he assured them was purely
                  Spanish. "But listen to the carriages which are crowding Chiswicke Square—it is
                  now quite ten. Will we not be vulgarly late?"
               "We cannot make a successful entrée if we wait
                  until the rooms are thronged!" suggested Walter Shirley. And while Mr. Bedford
                  cloaked Mrs. Willoughby, he arranged Edith's large India shawl about her
                  shoulders, and with a deferential but tender air assisted her, by holding her
                  handkerchief and flowers, while she threw her fleecy nubæ over her beautiful head. They were among the last guests who
                  arrived at Mrs. De Vere's; and it was only after a tedious delay that they
                  succeeded in effecting a passage through the splendid throng to the
                  reception-room, where Mrs. De Vere, attired in garnet velvet, diamond ornaments
                  and feathers, received their compliments with an ill-concealed air of exultation.
                  Her triumph was as complete as her arrangements were superb. Six rooms, furnished
                  with every costly article that luxury could imagine, art devise, or gold buy, were
                  thrown open. Tables, niches, and consoles were literally covered with the rarest
                  and most fragrant hothouse flowers, which gleamed, like the gems of some fairy
                  garden, amidst the blaze of wax-lights interspersed among them. The splendid
                  chandeliers were wreathed with them, and the massive gilt frames of the enormous
                  mirrors were half concealed by leaves and drooping blossoms, which sent out on the
                  air the incense of their fragrance. The lower extremity of the wide spacious hall
                  had been fitted up like a Persian tent. Blue silk draperies, studded with tiny
                  stars of silver, depended from the lofty ceiling by a glittering ring, and were
                  securely fastened down to the floor of the hall, forming a tent of fine
                  dimensions, beneath whose gorgeous shelter the foliage and blossoms of orange and
                  lemon trees refreshed the senses by their shade and aroma. An artificial fountain
                  threw up a sparkling jet of water on one side, bedewing the overhanging vines and
                  flowers with its spray, then tinkled softly into a garlanded marble reservoir
                  beneath. Shaded lamps, hung amidst the orange-boughs, gave the effect of
                  moon-light to the scene. The floor was covered with variegated mosses; and
                  luxurious pillows of swan's-down were temptingly piled up in flowery nooks; while,
                  like great pearls, drooped the white Provence roses over all. There, amidst the
                  shade, gleamed the star-like jasmine, and tube roses lifted their snowy diadems,
                  heavy with aroma, towards the coral petals of the oriental pomegranate; and
                  oleander-trees, with their soft, peach-like fragrance, borne down with splendid
                  blossoms, overhung clusters of geranium plants, and lilies of the Nile. One or two
                  fine marble statues, standing like guardian spirits amidst the leaves, imparted a
                  perfect witchery to the coup-d'œil of the spot.
                  It was a bijou of refined and poetic taste,
                  relieving the glare of the ostentatious splendor around.
               Soft strains of music were floating on the air, and hither and thither in the
                  golden light, moving with joyous smiles, or low-uttered words of glee, or gliding
                  slowly to the measured cadences, were the beauty and élite of the, country. From the cold, ruddy North—from the haughty,
                  dark-eyed South—from the young, blooming West—and the refined, luxurious East,
                  came the representatives of beauty and chivalry to grace the fête; but among them all shone Edith Willoughby, the
                  "star of that good lie company." Apart from her splendid beauty, there was in her
                  manner such a blending of graceful dignity and unaffected joyousness, such an air
                  of high breeding and genuine bonhomie, as
                  attracted the involuntary admiration even of those who regarded her as their rival
                  in beauty and fashion. The most elegant men in the room begged the honor of an
                  introduction to her, and vied with each other in their attentions and endeavors to
                  secure her hand for each succeeding set of dances, until it was apparent to all
                  that she was the centre of attraction, the peerless belle of the evening.
               "She shall be mine," thought Walter Shirley, as he led her through
                  the graceful mazes of a dance, and marked and enjoyed proudly the universal homage
                  paid to her rare beauty. "I will peril life and honor to win her—and
                  her fortune."
               The Misses De Vere were looking quite lovely in costly attire of lace and jewels.
                  Bessie's whereabouts, as usual, could be traced at any moment by her merry
                  laughter and rattling, while Alice, with a faint tinge of couleur de rose on her smooth, transparent cheeks, leaned on a
                  marble console, conversing languidly, and looking as if she thought the whole
                  thing ennuied in the extreme. Coteries appointed their leaders, and cliques
                  selected their objects of ridicule and malice for the night. It is mortifying to
                  humanity and its better feelings to be obliged to confess to such customs in what
                  is called par excellence good society; but there
                  is no sunshine without shadow, and no good that is not haunted by a spectre of
                  evil. Perfection is unattainable; and the follies of life only play Punchinello to the wise. One fact is worthy of
                  observation, however, as it involves a paradox. It is often too evident that
                  excessive rudeness, and an absence of all the softer and sweeter amenities of
                  life, characterize many members of a portion of the fashionable world, who pique
                  themselves on the prestiges of high descent, good birth, and lofty caste; and who,
                  to support their aristocratic claims, assume a manner to those whom they consider
                     parvenu, very antagonistical to genuine
                  good-breeding.
               Dora Livingston and Miss Leigh were the life of their coterie; and, when not
                  engaged in dancing, levelled the shafts of their bluntless wit and ill-natured
                  satire against all whom they considered interlopers on the privileges of their own
                  caste, including their entertainers.
               "Bessie," said Miss Livingston, grasping her hand for a moment as she was flitting
                  past, "do tell me what old gentleman that is with an excessively red, honest face,
                  fidgeting about as if he knew nobody, and looking so shy?"
               "Where?"
               "There, child! That haughty Mrs. Willoughby has taken compassion on him, and is
                  doubtless condescending to ask him some question about trade, to stop his onward
                  progress through the window behind her."
               "Really, I can't comprehend," stammered Bessie De Vere, coloring.
               "Follow the direction of my finger, will you? There, don't you see a yellow vest
                  and a bald, shining head? Whose is it?"
               "That—I see now—yes—that is my—I believe it is my father," faltered the foolish
                  girl.
               "Lord! I didn't know you had one," ejaculated Miss Livingston. A smothered titter
                  from the aristocratic set indicated their extreme enjoyment of the scene; and
                  Bessie was hurrying away when Harry De Vere, who, contrary to his usual custom,
                  had mingled that evening with his mother's guests, and had overheard the
                  conversation, and was filled with indignation at its impertinence, suddenly
                  stopped her by passing his arm around her waist and saying:—
               "He is a father, Bessie, for whom you need never blush; wanting ing, it is true,
                  in fashionable mannerism and fashionable heartlessness, but rich in all the
                  attributes of a noble and pure nature."
               His handsome eyes flashed proudly, and his stalwart frame was instinct with
                  dignity, as he bowed low to the group and led his sister away.
               "Olympian Jove, by the rolling thunder! Who is he? Did you ever see such eyes?"
                  exclaimed Miss Livingston. "But look! there is Mrs. Cranbonne, with that
                  antediluvian velvet on; I wonder if it is not in its dotage! Talk of velvets being
                  elegant, forsooth—I'll never have one; they are the meanest things
                  people can buy; one can never wear a velvet out!"
               "Hush, Dora, here comes Fred De Vere—the polkas are commencing—I wonder whom he'll
                  ask to polka! It's strange he didn't ask that Miss Willoughby, whom all the men
                  seem mad about tonight?" observed Miss Leigh.
               "He did ask her," replied a gentleman of their party. "I heard him; but I suspect
                  she is prudish about waltzing, for she told him she was engaged to Bessie De Vere.
                  There they go now—swimming to the music like two clouds before a summer breeze!
                  Honor me, Miss Livingston."
               "Shall I have the félicité of doing a polka with
                  Miss Leigh?" said Frederick De Vere, passing his arm with familiar assurance about
                  her waist, and taking a position with the most condescending indifference. And one
                  by one the youthful maidens were coupled with agreeable partners; another moment,
                  they were in the maddening whirl of the vortex of the wild, spell-like dance,
                  reclining on strange arms, their dizzy heads leaning on strange bosoms, borne
                  round and round, heedless of fashionable freedoms and unholy thoughts, until their
                  senses were lost to all except the frenzy of the hour!
               "Bedford, Bedford! we are too old, my boy, for these sprightly amusements; too far
                  down the hill to run, my friend," said General Beverly, the statesman and patriot,
                  whose hair had bleached from raven black to snowy white in the service of his
                  country. "But dy'e remember, Bedford, our heydays at Woodreve, when poor Shirley
                  was alive. Ah, those were the days! those were the times! Things are changed since
                  then."
               "Fine, glorious times those, general! But I can't for the life of me feel old. I
                  leave all ideas of age and infirmities to my friends. 'Pon honor, sir, I am half
                  tempted at times to believe in the German science of transfusion of souls, and
                  fancy the 'Wandering Jew' has cheated me of mine and left his own, with all its
                  earthly immortality, in its place. I think, if I could prevail vail on Mrs. Willoughby to dance, I could trip with
                  the youngest of them, on the 'light fantastic toe.'"
               "A sinecure. He knows it, general—hence his assurance," said Mrs. Willoughby,
                  pleasantly.
               "You would be a formidable rival to your beautiful daughter, madam," said the
                  general, bowing with all the elegant empressement of the old school. "Your generosity is unselfish, I
                  must say."
               "It is mere choice. I never dance," she replied, somewhat coldly.
               General Beverly, who knew the history of her trials, felt that he had been guilty
                  of a contretemps, and, with well-bred tact,
                  immediately gave a turn to the conversation by referring to a "monkish manuscript
                  several centuries old, and magnificently illuminated, that all the savans in town had been in raptures with during the
                  week, and which had been recently purchased, at an enormous price, by a wealthy
                  American citizen, from an impoverished noble of Padua."
               "Mrs. Willoughby and myself spent a morning dreaming over it," observed Mr.
                  Bedford; "and what a lifetime of patient, religious toil it exhibits! The
                  brilliant coloring of the illuminations, and the untarnished gilding, would almost
                  cheat one into the belief that they were laid on yesterday, instead of centuries
                  ago. It is a curious and valuable relic of antiquity."
               "My dreams were filled with shadows vague and mysterious, and full of unspeakable
                  sadness—nay, almost awful, from being veiled—as. I turned over its pages of old,"
                  said Mrs. Willoughby, "My feelings were quite of another kind when permitted to
                  inspect the priceless old relics at Ferrara. I mean the manuscripts of Tasso's
                  'Jerusalem,' and Gaurina's 'Pastor Fido.'"
               "By my sword, madam, the bare mention of them almost tempts me to make a
                  pilgrimage to Ferrara. I have been so much in the camp for the last fifty years, I
                  had almost forgotten the idol of my days of romance, Tasso," exclaimed General
                  Beverly, with animation.
               "And what are all the old musty manuscripts on earth, with due deference be it
                  spoken, to the associations conjured up by the old Ezzelin tower at Padua?" cried
                  Mr. Bedford.
               "Aha! Welcome, Bonatti," said the general, laughing. "But commend me to old
                  manuscripts, and lighted halls, and music and dancing, rather than an hour at
                  midnight in that haunted tower where Bonatti so often entertained the devil."
               "Sir, he was no sorcerer, no juggler. His knowledge of astronomy and the more
                  abstruse science of astrology was so profound, that all the petty princes of Italy
                  contended for him," said Mr. Bedford, warmly. "His services alone to that gallant
                  soldier Count Guido Novello should entitle him to your regard, sir."
               "How the devil, Bedford!—but, excuse me, madam. What had Bonatti's star-gazing to
                  do with Novello's victories?" inquired General Beverly, highly diverted.
               "Most arch-unbeliever in la belle science, if
                  you have forgotten, I will tell you. When Count Guido was about marching on a
                  predatory excursion, or gallant enterprise, Bonatti, from the loop-hole of his
                  cell, in the tower of Forli, watched the stars. At the first peal of his bell, the
                  count put on his armor; at the second, mounted his horse; at the third, marched
                  with his followers to battle. He ascribed all his victories to Bonatti," said Mr.
                  Bedford, proudly, as if he had vindicated most satisfactorily the astrologer's
                  character from the general's aspersions.
               "A clear case of diablerie, in my opinion,
                  Bedford," he replied. Mr. Bedford would have gone into a learned defence of the
                  art of the Chaldees on the spot; but, at the moment, Frederick De Vere, who wished
                  to make an agreeable impression on these distinguished guests, and, moreover,
                  display some of his Parisian mannerism to Mrs. Willoughby, sauntered towards them,
                  and, with all the assurance of blissful ignorance, begged, with a superb bow, the
                  honor of a polka with her! Mr. Bedford turned away to hide a smile he could not,
                  for his life, suppress; the general adjusted his plaited frills; while Mrs.
                  Willoughby colored up, and, half indignant, half diverted, declined the honor.
               "Mr. Bedford and myself, sir, have both been defeated on the same point," said the
                  general, coming urbanely to his relief; for he was somewhat disconcerted at her
                  unexpected refusal of an honor which he proffered to but a chosen few. "We were
                  speaking of some interesting relics at Padua. Were you there, Mr. De Vere?"
               "I believe I was at some such place. Padua!—Padua! Yes, I was there about an hour,
                  on my route to Venice," he replied, twirling his moustache.
               "Miriam," said Mr. Bedford aside, while every muscle of his countenance beamed
                  with mirth, "why did you not polka with the beau? I think I see Juno romping over
                  Olympus with Ganymede!"
               "Extinguish thy laughter, profane mortal," replied Mrs. Willoughby, while one of
                  those rare glances of mirth, that sometimes burst like sunshine over her face, now
                  flitted over it at the idea. "You have been quite a traveller, Mr. De Vere?"
               "I spent three years an the Continent, madam."
               
               "And what thought you, Mr. De Vere, after clambering through regions of icy
                  cliffs, perpetual snows, and freezing storms, of the first glimpse you caught of
                  the Eden-like plains of Lombardy?" asked Mr. Bedford.
               "I do not remember. I fancy I was ennuyée with
                  my maladie and fatigue, and could not attend to
                  scenery. But I have heard other travellers assert that l'Italie est le jardin de l'Europe. I could exist nowhere but in
                     la belle Paris," he replied, with complacent
                     nonchalance.
               
               "Did a residence there improve your health, Mr. De Vere? It's a fine place for
                  enjoyment, sir. I spent a year in the French capital myself once," said the
                  general, politely.
               "Décidément. On m'a conseillé de boire du lait d' anesse,
                     remède horrible. Cependant, je n'en suis bien trouve. Mai j' attribue ce
                     changement favorable plûtot à ces sauces adorables dans lesquelles excellent
                     les Parisiens, et aux pâtés de foie gras gue je trouve si
                     appetissants," he replied, with an indescribable air.
               "Ass's milk and geese livers! A fitting diet, truly, for a man, or thing, that
                  would travel through Europe with closed eyes. He would have been drummed out of
                  Sparta—bringing home the follies of foreign lands, and gaining nothing by whatever
                  good or great he may have seen," muttered Mr. Bedford, as he walked off.
               "You are weary, Edith—Miss Willoughby, pardon me., Leave this heated apartment.
                  There is, not far hence, a shaded, quiet spot, as still and beautiful as a shrine,
                  where your idols, the flowers, send forth their fragrant incense without
                  worshippers," said Walter Shirley, in his low, musical tones.
               "I am almost weary of the glare and splendor, I am such a rustic in
                  my feelings. I place myself under your guidance, Mr. Shirley; the flowers are such
                  a temptation. Where is this lone isle of beauty?" replied Edith, glad of an
                  escape.
               "I will lead you thither, as I wish to guide you alway, and forever, to life's
                  sunniest spots. Not the violet-breathing gardens of Pæstum, or its twice-blooming
                  roses, were more delicious. Come; now throw off the sandals of worldly thoughts—we
                  enter."
               But the shrine was not lonely. With folded arms, and a shadow of gloom on his fine
                  brow, Harry De Vere leaned thoughtfully on a pedestal that supported a pastil,
                  chafing his sensitive spirit by brooding over casual observations he had overheard
                  as he moved among the crowd, quite a stranger to his mother's fashionable clique,
                  relative to her former obscure origin and present ostentation. Miss Livingston
                  inflicted the last blow that caused him to seek the cover of this lovely spot, the
                  creation of his own poetic fancy and correct taste. "Would I could lift the veil
                  from their hearts, that my poor deluded mother could see the cheat—the imposture!
                  A moment's glimpse would make her rational! There is not one in yonder crowd, who
                  now bask and flutter in the sunshine of her wealth, who would not fly, as from a
                  leper, at the first mutterings of the storm that threatened her! Even now, they
                  barely tolerate her as a means of gratification and amusement for themselves,
                  while they sneer at her pride, and ridicule her position."
               But lifting his eyes they fell on Edith's upturned face. The music of her voice,
                  which he indistinctly heard, her rare beauty, her gentle manner, the quiet rapture
                  of her smile, and the flashing softness of her eyes, dispelled for a moment the
                  bitter influences that weighed on his sensitive heart. Lost to all else, he gazed
                  on her from his shaded covert with sudden and rapt devotion, as if the ideal of
                  his dreams had by some weird spell become incarnate before him. Pausing to admire,
                  stooping, almost kneeling at times to inhale the odors of more lovely flowers, her
                  innate love of the beautiful gratified beyond imagination, she yielded herself up
                  to the sweet enjoyment, the pure pleasure, of the moment. Neither Walter Shirley
                  nor herself had yet seen Harry De Vere; but they were now far in the tent, and he
                  almost felt her breath on his cheek; only a delicate tracing of vines separated
                  them, vines of white jasmine in full flower. She bowed down her lovely head to
                  examine an unusually large cluster; the light pressure threw a single spray in
                  blossom across his forehead; in an instant he separated it from the stem, and
                  thrust it into his bosom, a souvenir of the moment.
               "I am glad to lose sight of them; they lift their heads so aspiringly, as if
                  forgetful from whence they sprung," said Edith, in reply to some remark of Walter
                  Shirley's, about one or two splendid specimens of dahlias. "But, oh! this is so
                  beautiful; it is a fit dwelling-place for Peris and angels!"
               Harry De Vere thought she referred to his family, and when, with a stately mien,
                  he stood forth, she drew coldly back, wondering who it could be with such a
                  "proud, dark brow, when all was festivity and light around him." He marked the
                  change in her countenance; he saw her tall, graceful figure drawn up to its full
                  height, and with a haughty bow he passed from her presence, muttering, "She is
                  like the rest; what treason to my pride to indulge even in so brief a dream!"
               "Who is he?" asked Edith.
               "Some stranger guest, I fancy; but sit here, Miss Willoughby; these cushions of
                  down, which I have piled up, invite you to rest, after the fatigues of the dance!" he replied,
                  taking her hand to lead her towards them.
               "Thank you, Mr. Shirley!" she replied, again bending over to examine the glowing
                  petals of a rare cactus flower; "but the shade and fragrance of this fairy nook
                  have already refreshed me. I will linger a moment longer, then return."
               "And, like a rare gem, will I string this fleeting moment on the chain of a life
                  otherwise darkened. Do you believe in presentiments, Miss Willoughby?"
               "In happy ones, I do. Sadness is a word I only know the meaning of from
                  dictionaries. Should it ever intrude on me, there is a sunshine in my heart that
                  will brighten it up beautifully," she said, in a gay tone.
               "You are too happy for this earth, Edith! The light footfalls of your spirit brush
                  not even the dew from life's flowers; how, then, can you comprehend the mysterious
                  shadowings of a heart like mine? how enter within its portals to desolate regions
                  which have never been brightened even by a mother's love? It were wicked, selfish
                  in me to ask it," said Walter Shirley, while his voice trembled with emotion, and
                  his eyes rested in unutterable sadness on her.
               "I knew not your life had been so sad a one, Mr. Shirley," replied Edith, with
                  simple genuine feeling. "But henceforth let it not be so. True friendship will
                  never shrink away, even from the closed portals of a desolate heart; it will
                  patiently and lovingly wait until it can enter with its olive branch, and whisper
                  peace."
               "And who, beautiful Edith, will bestow so rich a boon on me? I am too proud to go
                  to and fro in the world, begging crumbs of affection from the few kind hearts in
                  it. I could not bear to be pitied," he said, bitterly.
               "And should they be offered, would you refuse them?" she said, extending her hand
                  with a radiant smile. He grasped it, then lifted it to his lips, but ere it
                  touched them it was withdrawn. "Henceforth we will be friends, Mr. Shirley."
               "I dared not hope even for your friendship, Edith; but it will keep me from evil;
                  it will minister like an angel to my wayward gloom; henceforth, it will sweeten
                  the bitter waters of my turbulent nature!" he said, sadly.
               "And why should you not have hoped for my friendship, Walter Shirley? Am I so
                  proud, so ungenerous, or cold of heart, that you, connected by the ties of blood
                  and affection with those I most love, should have doubted it?" she asked.
               "You are so beautiful, so worshipped, Edith Willoughby, your nature so gladsome,
                  how could I hope it would sympathize with a heart which, unveiled, presents only a
                  wreck of happiness? I prayed, I yearned for it; it brightened my dreams, but then 
                     
                        'The mortal coldness of the heart, like death itself, came down,'
                     
                     BYRON.
                   to hush the whispering into utter silence. My life, sweet Edith, has not
                  been without sin. I have erred. My course from boyhood was unchecked and unguarded
                  by wise and judicious love; that love, Edith, which can discriminate and
                  discipline the wild impulses of the heart. Hence my fitful joys were sought amidst
                  phantoms which glided off, leaving me the lees of bitterness. But I will not pain
                  you; be yours the holy office to sustain my repentant heart, for oh! it has been
                  sorely jaded in its struggle with life!"
               "Poor Walter!" said Edith, with deep feeling; "come oftener among us. We will try,
                  mamma, Mr. Bedford, and I, to infuse into your existence a more genial influence.
                  They have made my life one sweet dream of happiness; and why not yours? Forget the
                  errors of the past; henceforth let your course be onward and upward!"
               He leaned his face on his hand, and Edith's unsuspecting nature suggested to her
                  that it was to hide his emotion, and looked pityingly on him, but he—exulted. "I
                  have touched the right chord of her romantic soul," thought he; "I have awakened
                  her tenderness and pity, and flattered her foolish, womanly nature, by persuading
                  her that she alone can lead back an erring son of light like me to repentance. You
                  are my deliverer, Edith," he said, at last.
               A party entered at the moment, whose gay laughter and extravagant exclamations of
                  admiration of the fragrant bower they had just discovered, interrupted him; but it
                  was a relief to both; and he turned, with his usual elegant sang froid, and addressed himself to Bessie De Vere in
                  a vein of mirthful badinage so apparently from his heart, that it grated on
                  Edith's finer feelings, and she could but wonder at the facility which could
                  change, or so soon hide, the current of bitterness and pain under a mask of
                  enjoyment; but she remembered the stanza of a lyre he had once quoted:— 
                     
                        
                           "Though wit may flash from fluent lips, and mirth distract the
                              breast,
                           Through midnight hours that yield no more their former hopes of
                              rest,
                           'Tis but as ivy leaves around the ruined turret wreathe,
                           All green and wildly fresh without, but gray and worn beneath."
                        
                     
                     MOORE.
                   Then, in her simplicity, she pitied the arch-dissembler.
               But Mrs. De Vere's proudest hour of triumph was at hand. The band played a grand march of Rossini's, the
                  doors of the supper-room were thrown open, and the brilliant company entered. If
                  she had exulted in the exquisite delicacies and unseasonable rarities which were
                  served round during the evening, on massive silver waiters, to her guests; if she
                  had received their compliments on the elegance and profusion of her entertainment
                  with an air which distinctly expressed, "I merit it all;" she was elated to an
                  unapproachable region of complacent satisfaction, when, seated at the head of the
                  ample board, she looked down through vistas of gold, silver, and sparkling glass,
                  innumerable wax-lights, pyramids of candied fruits, icebergs of cream,
                  interspersed with clusters of glowing flowers and rare wines, which gleamed out
                  rosy hues like great carbuncles. And in the midst of all, elevated in glass
                  fruit-holders which were gold-bound, were the forced straw-berries, large, ripe,
                  and luscious. The guests, brilliant with jewels, beauty, fashion, and plumes; with
                  appetites whetted by the exercise of dancing, and the late hour, enjoyed the
                  luxuries of the table with admirable goût. But
                  we will not linger here; we will leave to the imagination of our readers the
                  progress of the feast and its conclusion. We could never chronicle the small
                  details of eating, considering it a most unpoetical, and disagreeable necessity.
                  Suffice it to say that Mrs. De Vere had the hospitable gratification of seeing
                  everything rapidly diminish, while each hiatus was filled up with the most
                  flattering references to her excellent taste. Honest old John De Vere had long ago
                  retired to his snuggery, and was, perchance, dreaming over the days of yore.
               After supper, all thronged to the temporary theatre that had been fitted up for
                  the charades, where after, a few polite difficulties and a soft crushing of silks
                  against satins and velvets, they were comfortably seated on the cushioned seats
                  which had been erected for their convenience. 
                     
                        
                           "Back to the scenes such smiles should grace,
                           The wandering nymphs their steps retrace;
                           And reach the spot with rapture new,
                           Just as the veils asunder flew,
                           And a fresh vision burst to view."
                        
                     
                     MOORE.
                  
               
               An interval of silent and intense expectation ensued; for it had been whispered
                  that these charades were to excel everything of the kind that had ever been
                  attempted before. "When will the curtain rise?" "It is past one,
                  now!" were whispered. Then followed a pause; the tinkling of a silvery-toned bell
                  was heard; the handsome curtain slowly ascended, and a voice, that Edith
                  recognized as Walter Shirley's, announced "Ginevra Orsini;" then the young Doria's
                  bride—clad in silver vest and flowing robes of white brocade, embroidered with
                  silver thread, clasped from the throat down with emeralds, and a coronet of pearls
                  on her brow, underneath which flowed her black, waving hair over white, polished
                  shoulders—glided in, leaning on the arm of her bridegroom, who, clad with princely
                  splendor in the picturesque costume of that magnificent century, gazed down into
                  her eyes with a look of rapt fondness. Suddenly, with a joyous and gleesome
                  countenance, Ginevra whispered something in his ear that caused him to smile,
                  then, lifting his hand to her lips, she flitted away, only looking back once to
                  make him a sign not to follow her; then all was dark, and the same clear, musical
                  voice recited the story. 
                     
                        
                           "Great was the joy; but, at the bridal feast,
                           When all sat down, the bride was wanting there;
                           Nor was she to be found! Her father cried,
                           ''Tis but to make a trial of our love.'
                        
                        
                           Nor from that hour could anything be guessed,
                           But that she was not."
                        
                        
                           "The house remained awhile
                           Silent and tenantless—then went to strangers.
                           Full fifty years were past, and all forgot,
                           When on an idle day—a day of search—
                           A mouldering chest was noticed, and 'twas said,
                           By one as young and thoughtless as Ginevra,
                           'Why not remove it from its lurking-place?'
                           'Twas done as soon as said, but on the way,
                           It burst and fell, and lo! a skeleton,
                           With here and there a pearl—an emerald stone—
                           A golden clasp, clasping a silver thread!
                           All else had perished, save a nuptial ring,
                           And a small seal, her mother's legacy,
                           Engraven with a name—the name of both,
                           'GINEVRA.' There then had she found a grave."
                        
                     
                     ROGERS.
                  
               
               Edith's imagination Was highly excited; she remembered well the story; she
                  shuddered, now that it seemed to be brought with all its awfully wild reality
                  before her, and clasped Mr. Bedford's arm almost convulsively. But no one observed
                  her agitation; all were enchanted; and prolonged plaudits, expressed by the gentle
                  pattering of gloved hands, signified their appreciation of the scene. There was an
                  instantaneous hush the moment the first tinkle of the bell sounded, a long breath
                  drawn, and the curtain slowly lifted revealed the interior of an old turret.
                  Through a single window streamed down a flood of moonlight on a female form, pale,
                  and beautiful, reclining on a rude couch! "Medora!" was announced. A door opened, and the Corsair with a wild and
                  hurried glance entered. He gazed a moment on the still, white form lying in the
                  moonlight. She seemed to sleep; her pale golden tresses fell in shining waves
                  around her, half shading her marble arms and calm face. A few flowers were grasped
                  in her fingers, and some almost withered lay on the marble floor where they had
                  fallen. Why paused the man of guilt? what dreadful thought shot like an ice-bolt
                  through his heart? He approached closer, nearer; then gazed for a moment down on
                  the sealed eyelids. It was all revealed; she was dead; and with a
                  gesture of inexpressible agony he touched the cold brow with his lips. Had the
                  thrill of their coldness congealed his life-blood to ice, that he stood so pale
                  and motionless, with his dark eyes, like sepulchral lamps, gleaming down on her?
                  But no more was seen; and, while sudden darkness fell on the touching scene, the
                  story was recited. 
                     
                        
                           "He turned not—spoke not—sunk not—fixed his look,
                           And set the anxious frame that lately shook;
                           We gazed—how long we gazed despite of pain,
                           And knew, but dare not own, we gaze in vain!
                           In life itself she was so still and fair,
                           That death with gentle aspect withered there,
                           And the cold flowers her colder hands contained,
                           In the last grasp as tenderly were strained
                           As if she scarcely felt, but feigned a sleep,
                           And made it almost mockery yet to weep.
                           The long dark lashes fringed her lids of snow,
                           And veiled—thought shrinks from all that lurked below—
                           Oh, o'er the eye Death most exerts his might,
                           And hurls the spirit from her throne of light;
                           Sinks those blue eyes in that long, last eclipse,
                           But spares as yet the charm around her lips;
                           Yet—yet they seem as they forbore to smile,
                           And wished repose, but only for awhile;
                           But the white robes and each extended tress,
                           Long—fair—but spread in utter lifelessness,
                           Which late the sport of every idle wind,
                           Escaped the baffled wreath that strove to bind—
                           These and the pale, pure cheek became the bier;
                           But she is nothing! Wherefore is he here?"
                        
                     
                     BYRON.
                  
               
               As the last line was uttered, the curtain again fell, and a murmur of applause,
                  that conventional restrictions could not restrain, burst from the delighted
                  spectators, not unmingled with many a gentle sigh and silent tear, then a
                  quivering of fans and feathers, and a low hum of conversation ensued, until the
                  signal for the opening of the third charade produced a deep silence, and arrested
                  every eye. The curtain is lifted! Another night-scene, on a wild mountain-cliff
                  overhanging the sea! Crags and rocks, and elfish-looking trees, rise round and
                  above it. In the midst is reared a rude stone altar, lit up by its own red fires,
                  which cast a wild lurid glare around! Near it stands the noble Gheber HAFED, in a
                  rich Persian dress, confined around his waist with a broad belt, whose mystic
                  characters were studded with gems. A scymitar hangs by his side—where is its
                  scabbard? His majestic countenance wears a lofty look of desperate daring, and his
                  black eyes flash defiance. But Hinda, with hands clasped on her bosom, and her
                  black hair bursting from its circlet of diamonds, pale and timid steals to his
                  side. She touches his hand—then sinking with a wild cry at his feet, points to
                  some far-distant object. With one hand he seeks to raise the beautiful suppliant,
                  with the other he covers his face, that she may not see the blending of love and
                  pity with its wilder, fiercer passion. Darkness shut not out this scene until
                  Walter Shirley's voice, rich with emotion, echoed the meaning of Hinda's wild
                  pantomime. 
                     
                        
                           "I pray thee, as thou lov'st me, fly!
                           Now—now ere yet their blades are nigh!
                           Oh haste, the bark that bore me hither
                           Can waft us o'er yon darkling sea,
                           East—west—alas! I care not whither,
                           So thou art safe, and I—with thee!
                           Go where we will, this hand in thine,
                           Those eyes before me smiling true,
                           Through good and ill, through storm and shine,
                           This world's a world of love for us!
                           On some calm, blessed shore we'll dwell,
                           Where 'tis no crime to love too well—
                           Where thus to worship tenderly,
                           An erring child of light like thee,
                           
                              Will not be sin, or if it be,
                           Where we may weep our faults away,
                           Together kneeling night and day,
                           
                              Thou for my sake at Alla's shrine,
                           And I at any God's for thine."
                        
                     
                     MOORE.
                  
               
               "Exquisite!" "beautiful!" "affecting!" "sentimental!" were heard on all sides, and
                  the gloved hands pattered a perfect réveillon as
                  the magic curtain slowly unrolled towards the stage floor. Edith's imagination had
                  been fascinated—spell-bound; but her delicate sense of propriety was shocked by
                  the romantic exhibitions, the sentiments conveyed, and the licensed freedom. Her
                  cheeks glowed with the hues of modesty, whose pure, sensitive dignity could
                  scarcely comprehend more of the scenes than their unfitness—but, simple Edith! she
                  heard such unqualified expressions
                  pressions of approbation of the whole—such praise awarded to the personæ of the charades, that she was beginning to
                  fear it was sheer stupidity on her part not to fall into the ecstasy that the rest
                  did, until Mr. Bedford, who had been watching her countenance, whispered, "And
                  they wanted you, our Edith, to be a Nourmahal,
                  forsooth! To exhibit yourself before a gaping audience, kneeling at the feet of an
                  Eastern Sultan! Humph! I'd rather see you milking cows for honest old Markham's
                  dairy, Edith, 'pon my soul I would!"
               "Dear Mr. Bedford, you'll be overheard," she whispered in a fright; "and we shall
                  both be black-balled out of society!" then she could but laugh.
               "I won't hush, Edith; the dowagers behind us are deaf—the rest are stupid," he
                  replied, in the same low tone. "Daughters of the republic are these? Christian
                  maidens? Future wives and nursing-mothers of American heroes and statesmen? Lord!
                  Lord! Such things might have been tolerated among the Hetæræ of Athens, but never, never among the proud women of Sparta."
                  Mr. Bedford's "Sparta" was equal to Mr. De Vere's "Divers;" it was no use to say
                  another word, good, bad, or indifferent then; and Edith watched the progress of
                  two comic tableaux vivants, with a sense of more
                  rational enjoyment than either of the romantic charades afforded her. Music and
                  conversation, and the first stir of departure, created an agreeable variety to
                  what had preceded it; people felt relieved to think there was nothing more to
                  admire and envy. In the midst of it, Walter Shirley came round, and, as he bowed
                  his way through the assemblage, smiling and uttering agreeable nothings and
                     bon-mots to those who greeted him with the
                  most profuse compliments, his eyes sought Edith's, over and often, as if her
                  approval and smile made all else indifferent to him. She received him with a
                  softer smile, and, he thought, a conscious manner, which led him to hope that
                  their recent conversation had not been forgotten. He sighed as she made room for
                  him beside her, and said, in a low tone, "I can wear the mask bravely to all but
                  you. Like the hunted Gheber on his cliff—my woes unsoftened by a Hinda's
                  love—solitary of heart, why may I not, like him, die? But I have brought a shadow
                  on your brow, sweet friend. May I ask," he said aloud, "how Mr. Bedford is pleased
                  with the spectacle?"
               "You read finely, Walter, and they are the fashion—these charades!"
               "Mr. Bedford a hypocrite?" laughed Edith, pressing the old man's hand
                  affectionately.
               "Fashion makes us all so, child, more or less; but I am too ultra in
                  my notions for the age. I am conscious of it; so don't challenge me again,
                  anybody. Mrs. De Vere is certainly no bungler; she's a woman of taste and tact;
                  and in conforming as she does with a magnificently liberal spirit to the laws of
                  fashion, she only complies with what she considers an imperative duty. But I hate
                  sentimentality, and most of all fashionable sentimentality," he replied, smiling,
                  in an undertone. "PROMENADE ALL," now resounded through the spacious saloon, and
                  to the sound of harmony, grand, inspiring, and noble, Mrs. De Vere's "five hundred
                  friends" marched in couples to the drawing-rooms—to partake of chocolate and
                  coffee, and make their adieus. The town clock, that hoary old tyrant that marked
                  the hour of so many births, and tolled the knell of so many departing souls,
                  chimed "Three" as the last carriage rolled away from the festive
                  mansion. A heavy snow had fallen during the night, and through many a crevice and
                  broad chink in the homes of the poor whistled the wintry winds, freezing the dying
                  babe, and racking the shivering frame of poverty, until the wail arose from their
                  hearts, of "How long, oh Lord! how long?" But past them rolled the sons and
                  daughters of wealth. They felt not the intense cold; they heard not the bitter
                  cry; and when half buried in their downy beds, under satin coverlids, how could
                  they realize the fact that gaunt, hunger-wasted forms sought rest on the frozen
                  earth, or closed their sunken eyes on straw?
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               
                  
                     
                        "What is noble? To inherit
                        Wealth, and fame, and high degree?
                        There must be some other merit,
                        Higher yet than these for me!
                        Something greater far must enter
                        Into life's majestic span,
                        Fitted to create and centre
                        TRUE NOBILITY IN MAN."
                     
                  
               
               NO signs of life, or breakfast, appearing the next morning, when Mr. De Vere and
                  Harry came down at their usual hour, they contented themselves with coffee and a
                  chop at the table of a restaurant; after which
                  they shook hands with a kindly "good-morning," as was their daily custom, and went
                  to their respective places of resort
                  and business. The old shipping-merchant to the exchange, to look over the official
                  accounts of the value of stock, and discuss with his old associates in trade the
                  probable results of the news by the last European steamer, which reported a rise
                  of some percentage in cotton. Here he was looked on as an oracle; and while the
                  younger merchants gathered around him to hear his opinions, the older and more
                  experienced ones listened with respectful attention and nods, which indicated very
                  expressively their approbation of whatever he said. And such was the unlimited
                  confidence that all felt, not only in his judgment concerning the most profitable
                  way of managing intricate mercantile affairs, but in the benevolence and
                  overflowing kindness of his nature, that, whenever a commercial crisis occurred,
                  attended by contingencies to some, that almost maddened them with thoughts of
                  bankruptcy, there he was ready and willing to hear the story of their disasters,
                  and by generous loans enable them to regain their credit, and sustain their
                  tottering affairs. "He's in a tight place," was the remark, when a merchant was
                  seen cornered with the old man, talking low and earnestly, while he sat with his
                  eyes down, and his chin leaning on his cane, listening with a patient, thoughtful
                  look: "Yes, he speculated rather imprudently, but De Vere will get him on his feet
                  again."
               "And sirs," he would sometimes boast, with a beaming smile, "to the honor of human
                  nature and manhood, and especially of merchants, I can say of a truth, I have
                     never lost one cent by helping a fellow-creature along in his
                  difficulties." And thither the old merchant prince daily resorted. Here he was of
                  importance; here he was appreciated, and his worth ungrudgingly acknowledged; and
                  here he forgot the cold heartlessness of those who should have brightened up the
                  home of his age, and who, notwithstanding all their delinquencies, were dear to
                  his unselfish nature.
               Twelve o'clock found the mansion, so recently the scene of festive gayety, closed
                  and silent, while the inmates still slumbered away in uninterrupted repose the
                  fatigues of the night. One solitary footman was creeping about the reception-room,
                  replenishing the grate, dragging the heavy chairs into their respective places,
                  and anon pausing to yawn; then, shaking up the cushions, which he deposited in a
                  luxurious pile on the lounges, he came to a dead halt, and gazed with a
                  countenance where despair and horror were depicted, through the open door, at the
                  confused vista beyond, where such a state of disorder existed, and so much real
                  labor loomed out from the chaos, that it was a distracting mystery to his obtuse
                  faculties, where the good work of order and regeneration ration was to commence.
                  The contemplation was painful, and he plunged down on the rug with a prolonged
                  whistle, and, seizing the poker, shot it into the glowing coals, and made a
                  miniature Vesuvius of the grate; then arose to view, at a more convenient
                  distance, the eruption of gas and heat he had occasioned. The act appeared to give
                  him courage, for he turned with a deliberate air towards the disheartening
                  prospect; surveyed it with a calm philosophic indifference that was truly
                  admirable, and exclaimed:
               "Vell, here is trouble! But it is a great satisfaction for a gemman ob color to
                  have a sitivation with people as knows how to do things up brown—it guvs a fellow
                  consequence, 'specially 'mongst the fair sect—in pertikelar on Sundays."
               Hans Andersen says: "It is not only possible but natural for people to experience
                  great anguish and suffering, and be at the same time excessively vain." "Den,
                  crackee," continued the sable footman, "ain't Mister Mansfield, ob Chiswicke
                  Square, de mirror ob fashion—ain't he some pumpkins? I tink I see
                  mysef now! My beaver sot on so—my red neck-tie a flarin' in style—my superfine
                  broadclof coat all shiney—my viskers smellin' like roses—an' my yaller
                  kids—ya-hi-yi-ye-ya-ya, ya ya ya-ya, a, a, ha!" The reflection was
                  overpowering—the sable dandy unconsciously dropped the coal shovel on the rich
                  carpet, and turned to survey himself in the splendid pier-glass before him. "Good
                  arternoon, Miss Mumps—hopes your visit to de operoar didn't gin you cold; de
                  singin' vos magnificant!" He continued, bowing to an imaginary Miss Mumps, "It's
                  an extrornary plesure, to be sure, to be Miss Mumps's beau—her dad is a swell—von
                  ob de big bugs, and she persecutes de piany; den, lor' gor' a'mighty, vot eyes!
                  Dat Miss Villoughby's is nothink to Miss Mumps's eyes—lor', no! Her'n is like
                  lightnin' bugs in de day time, to de dewine orbs ob Miss Mumps; dey can't begin to
                  shine in de same company! Oh no! ya-ya-hi, ya-ya. What dat? de bell?" Sure enough
                  the hall bell summoned him from his ecstatic reverie, and with muttered curses he
                  went to answer it. It was Harry De Vere, who had returned to get some diagrams of
                  an improved invention of his own, relative to the application of a new propelling
                  power in steam, to show Mr. Bedford, with whom he had an engagement at one, to
                  explain to him the complex meaning of his designs, which he fondly and proudly
                  hoped would create a new era in the history of his favorite science. While he was
                  shaking the snow from his feet, a poor woman, thinly and insufficiently clad, and
                  whose careworn features were pinched with cold, came up the broad marble steps,
                  and in a timid voice inquired, "Is Mrs. De Vere in?"
               
               "No!" replied Mansfield.
               "I have brought home some work she sent to me two weeks ago," she replied, with a
                  sigh. "She told me to make it up as quick as possible, and she would pay for it as
                  it was finished. I am sorry the lady is out, for, oh sir, I am much in need now of
                  assistance. I will come again this evening, though. May-be she'll be home
                  then?"
               "Missus mustn't be bothered to-day, marm, at no time! We's had a grand ball, you
                  see; all the quality vos here, and she'll be too much fertigued, when
                  she do come in, to see 'bout it," he replied, with an air of
                  unapproachable dignity, and was about closing the door in her face, when Harry De
                  Vere pushed him aside, and said to her, in a kindly tone: "My mother, madam, as
                  the servant informs you, is very much fatigued; she did not retire until five
                  o'clock this morning, and, I presume, has not yet risen; but, come in, and be
                  seated near the fire. I will go up and see!"
               "Thank you kindly, sir. I am sorry to seem importunate. I could wait longer, only
                  my poor old father is dying, I'm afraid, for want of the common necessaries of
                  life," she replied, taking the chair he offered her beside the comfortable fire,
                  then handing him a bill for five dollars, with which he left the room. Mrs. De
                  Vere was in a sound, refreshing sleep, when he stepped softly to her bedside and
                  whispered, "Mother." But he was compelled to call again and again, ere he could
                  rouse her sufficiently to comprehend the meaning of his unusual visit; and when
                  she was fully aware of its import, she was furious: "The subject was too
                  inconsiderable, too unimportant, to disturb her about; her nerves would be shaken
                  a month to come by it!" she cried, snatching the neat parcel that Harry, in the
                  goodness of his heart, had taken up to her, and throwing it with infinite disdain
                  into a corner. "And go, sir, immediately from my room, you unfeeling child, and
                  tell the creature that her impertinence is unbearable; and, to punish her for it,
                  I will not pay her one stiver until the last chemise is done." Then she buried her
                  head under the satin coverlid, and ere he reached the bedroom-door, an audible
                  snore gave evidence that she had resumed her nap. Harry De Vere's calm,
                  high-souled nature was for a moment indignant; his best feelings were outraged by
                  his mother's conduct; his cheeks became colorless, and his lips quivered; but
                  there was a still, pure angel beside him, and it whispered, "Forget thy petty
                  annoyance in the consideration of heavier griefs. Of what importance is the slight
                  wound inflicted on thy proud nature, to the disappointment of that toil-worn woman
                  below?" Then he closed the door very gently, and instead of rushing in anger from
                  the house, as his impulses had prompted him to do, he returned to the poor
                  seamstress, and said: "My mother is sleeping, madam, and not wishing to disturb
                  her, I will be her banker, this morning;" then took from his purse the hard-earned
                  wages of her labor, and placed it kindly in her hands.
               "God will bless you for this, sir," she said, rising to go.
               "Can you conveniently carry a bottle of wine to the old man, your father, madam?
                  If so, he is heartily welcome; indeed, he must need it—weak, aged, and sick as he
                  is."
               "Oh, sir, I believe it would save his life!" she ejaculated; "but I could not have
                  got it for him!" He went into the deserted and silent banqueting-room; the rich
                  morsels of the feast, and the racy fragments, were not removed; there drooped the
                  fading flowers, there flickered one or two decaying lamps, all looking like a sad
                  mockery of earthly enjoyments. He did not, however, pause to moralize, but took a
                  cold chicken from a side-table, which he wrapped in a fine napkin, then snatched
                  an unopened flask of old wine from the sideboard, and returned without delay to
                  the grateful woman, to whom he presented them without a word, while his noble
                  features were suffused with a glow of genuine pleasure; and the pure enjoyment of
                  a good act relieved his heart of the last dregs of bitter feeling.
               "Bear ye one another's burdens," is a divine maxim! What is the recompense of the
                  toils of ambition to the sweet consciousness of having caused one heart to beat
                  less heavily under its load of tribulation? What are the adulating praises of the
                  world—what its vain oblations, compared to the blessings which are wafted towards
                  us by dying lips, from the shores of eternity; lips which we have moistened with
                  the dewy balm of mercy? What is the glitter of life, and its fictitious joys, to
                  the beams which encircle our hearts from the glow of the hearth which but for us
                  would have been dark and desolate? Adversity and misery are frightful toads, but
                  bear in their foreheads priceless gems, which we would do well to pluck ere the
                  hour of judgment comes; they are desolate, haunted regions, which only the waters
                  of human kindness can make glad, and where, oh wondrous thing! we can minister to
                  the GOD-MAN, who, under the garb of meek poverty, is ever in our midst. Then scorn
                  not the poor, oh ye sons of earth! for, echoing through the hoary centuries of
                  Time, still comes that plaintive VOICE, in cadences of unutterable sweetness and
                  authority, "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of these, ye do it unto ME."
               
               Mr. Bedford was alone, when Harry De Vere entered his laboratory, poring over an
                  old Chaldee manuscript; but he laid it aside and welcomed him with a cordial air,
                  grasping both hands in his own, and
                  leading him round to a seat. "Now, Harry!" he exclaimed, "I have received you like
                  a gentleman; but, by Jove, sir, you must submit now to a tribunal of honor where
                  your conduct last night will be impartially judged."
               "Innocent of all wilful offence, I demand the accusation, sir," he replied,
                  laughing.
               "You take the matter lightly, my fine young sir, as if it were a moral
                  impossibility for you to be found fault with; nevertheless, you are guilty of the
                  charge preferred against you by no less a person than your very humble servant.
                  Oblige the court, by informing it where you hid yourself last night, while I, like
                  a knight-errant, had a most perilous search, perilous to life and limb, for you
                  through those splendid rooms, for the purpose of introducing you to the
                  newly-risen star of my old age, Etha by name. But nowhere could you be found! It
                  was a surly trick, Harry, to be the only gallant of the company who did not offer
                  homage to her charms," said Mr. Bedford, in a mock-heroic tone.
               "My dear Mr. Bedford, if I am not predestined to the extremest penalty of the laws
                  of chivalry, hear me plead my cause. Miss Willoughby was so constantly surrounded
                  by worshippers of higher pretensions and fashion than I ever aspired to, that I
                  had not courage to go beyond the charmed circle. I felt that I possessed no
                  quality or attraction which could have ministered to the pleasures of one so
                  beautiful and courted. You know I'm an unpolished fellow, who cannot for the life
                  of me learn the trickeries of fashion, which ladies so much esteem," he replied,
                  coloring up. Mr. Bedford looked keenly at him for an instant, as if he was
                  scrutinizing his most secret thoughts, then smiled and said—
               "I believe you, Harry. You can never become an adept in trickery of any kind; and
                  as modesty and a humble opinion of yourself, both rare virtues, form the basis of
                  your defence, you stand exonerated; but it is the opinion of the court that you
                  are intrinsically worth every flutterer in the shape of a well-dressed beau who
                  offered the incense of his brainless admiration to our Etha, last evening. But I
                  must say, if you think Edith Willoughby is one of those artificial, heartless,
                  sentimental girls, who flirt a few years in single blessedness, become unhappy,
                  useless wives, and the mothers of a degenerate race, who will one day bring the
                  republic into trouble—you—are—vastly—mistaken."
               "I feared she was like the rest, vain, cold, and proud," burst from Harry De
                  Vere's full heart.
               "Cold and proud, and vain, eh? Our Etha cold and vain! What else did you think, De
                  Vere? That she would fall in love with that confounded puppy, who travelled
                  through Europe, and could remember nothing but the geese livers he ate in Paris,
                  without one grain of Attic salt?—But, God, bless my soul—forgive me for alluding
                  to your brother in that sort of a way—'pon my honor, it entirely escaped my
                  memory—the relationship, I mean—" blundered Mr. Bedford.
               "My brother, with all his follies!" replied Harry De Vere, gravely.
               "You're a noble fellow, Harry!" said Mr. Bedford, warmly; "but this star of my
                  evening, Etha, I'll tell you what she is. She's a perfect bird of
                  heaven; a lark that builds her nest low, but is forever flying up towards the
                  sunshine. Her heart is like a lily, pure, and filled with sweet odors,*
                   which its golden flame burns like incense. She understands not the guile
                  of the world; and what you mistook for pride is only the native and
                  beautiful dignity of her manner. But you will, doubtless, think I am a doting old
                  fool—so come, my Archimedes, unroll your diagrams!"
                     
                     *The cup of the white lily is filled with gold-coloured dust.
                  
               "Of such an one have I dreamed—but it is all a dream!" thought he, as he unrolled
                  his papers, and explained, in a lucid, clear style, the complex drawings which
                  illustrated the concerted influence of the action of levers, wheels, pulleys,
                  inclined planes, wedges, and the screw, in their several relations to his
                  improvement or invention. It was evidently the embodiment of the bold and original
                  ideas of a true genius, certain of the success of his plan.
               "This will certainly produce a new era in this age of steam. Although I do not
                  exactly comprehend its details, I see that its success will be complete. Its
                  effects are of too apparent a nature to be overlooked. You must let me send these
                  drawings to my friend Beverly, at Washington. He is the friend of progress, and a
                  practical utilitarian, whose position will enable him to introduce your plan
                  immediately to the notice of government," observed Mr. Bedford.
               "As I have a neat model just completed, whose operations surpass my most sanguine
                  hopes of success, I cannot object to your proposition, my dear sir; indeed, I
                  frankly confess, it is peculiarly grateful to me!" he replied, highly gratified at
                  Mr. Bedford's appreciation of his invention.
               "It's ten thousand pities, De Vere, that your genius is not for astronomy, instead
                  of mechanism and steam, though," said Mr. Bedford, in a tone of disappointment,
                  after a short silence. "I believe you would have added another to the brilliant
                  galaxy of names, which shine, like constellated suns, on the zodiac of the
                  celestial science!"
               
               "All honor to the science sublime!" said Harry De Vere, rising, while the spirit
                  within him flashed forth a wild brilliance from his eyes; "but give me that POWER
                  over whose birth the ancients shouted eureka,
                  and compared with whose Titan growth the inventions of all ages shrink into
                  nothingness. Its iron sinews lace the fabric of the world together, and the breath
                  of its nostrils annihilates time and space, while, with a shout of derision, it
                  levels mountains and fills up the valleys! That POWER which rules on the ocean,
                  effects the wedlock of nations, and fraternizes mankind in one bond of interest!
                  When the names of Thales, Pythagoras, Confucius, Ptolemy, Hesiod, and the rest,
                  are more than half forgotten, those of Fulton, Greenock, and their supporters,
                  will be in the meridian of a fadeless glory! Archimedes had indistinct visions of
                  it, when his mighty soul sighed for a spot whereon to stand, that he might move
                  the world; but steam is a mightier power than Archimedes, and will ere long,
                  Atlas-like, bear the universe on its shoulders!"
               "I hope the engineer will be careful, Harry, or some of these fine nights it will
                  be blown to atoms, and we with it," exclaimed Mr. Bedford, admiring while he
                  laughed at his enthusiasm; "but, shades of Seth*
                   and Newton, the apogee and perigee of ma belle
                     science, defend us from such odious comparisons—such arch-heterodoxy!
                  Well, boy, if steam works out a noble destiny for you, I won't quarrel with it. If
                  you had been a scavenger, on my honor, I believe you would have dignified the
                  occupation."
                     
                     *Josephus tells us that Seth, the son of Adam, laid the first foundation of
                        the science of astronomy.
                  
               "After the fashion of the model days of old—eh, Mr. Bedford?"
               "Yes, precisely so, sir. You remember Epaminondas the Theban, and his noble reply
                  to his indignant friends, who remonstrated with him on what they considered his
                  degrading acceptance of the office of telearch
                  †
                   of Thebes, which certain idiots in authority had forced on him, after his
                  celebrated victory over the Spartans. 'I will demonstrate that the office
                     not only shows what the man is, but also the man what the office is!'
                  And true to his word, and great character, he raised it from insignificance to
                  high dignity."
                     
                     †The business of a telearch was to take care of the streets, and overlook the
                        cleansing of sewers and drains.
                  
               "A noble soul, that, which can bear adversity with dignified firmness, and rise
                  superior to its depressing contingencies!" exclaimed Harry De Vere, warmly.
               "Truly noble! I tell you, Harry De Vere, that he whose position is only sustained
                  and rendered brilliant by the advantages of birth, office, or fortune, is the mere
                  slave of circumstances—an actor, tricked off with tinsel and spangles, whose
                  glitter charms the eye of the crowd, but who, stripped of these, behind the
                  scenes, has not one ennobling virtue, or excellent trait, to demand respect or
                  esteem. A virtuous ancestry is a glory to any man, if he emulate their pure lives
                  and brave deeds; but if, on the contrary, he trails, like a dried bladder filled
                  with peas, to the fag end of his lineage, rattling forth his unsubstantial
                  pretensions to the world, how supremely ridiculous becomes the contrast! Give me
                  the man who, from the anvil, or the plough, comes forth in the native dignity of a
                  pure character, of a persevering and aspiring genius, to found for himself a name,
                  and for posterity an example;—give me the man, sir, whose sentiments of honor and
                  generosity, whose tried integrity and substantial worth, give dignity to even the
                  tattered garb of poverty;—show me these, and I will show you spirits worthy of the
                  sublime end for which they are created, and who are the strongest and noblest
                  bulwarks of the republic!" said Mr. Bedford.
               "Such is my sole ambition!" observed Harry De Vere, whose eyes and cheeks had
                  kindled with the warm glow of hope, while Mr. Bedford gave utterance to sentiments
                  so ennobling, and so expressive of his own ideas.
               "Such are you, boy—such will you be!" exclaimed Mr. Bedford, grasping his
                  hand.
               De Vere was silent! His heart was full. His mind lustrous with visions of the
                  future! His destiny was opened before him by the seer-like prophecy of age. He
                  felt, more than ever, that his progress must be upward henceforth; that to GOD,
                  the GIVER, he was responsible for the cultivation of his natural gifts, and to man
                  for the use to which they were applied, socially and otherwise. The whisperings of
                  all petty ambitious and worldly regrets were hushed into silence by the lofty
                  view; the smarting of his sensitive spirit forgotten, in the overshadowing idea of
                  some day reaching a height of excellence so lofty as to be but little lower than
                  the angels.
               "Harry!"
               "Pardon me—I was thinking—"
               "So I perceive; and regretting, may-be, that you are not a poet or musician," said
                  Mr. Bedford, pleasantly.
               "Not at that moment, my dear sir, though I plead guilty to coveting those refined
                  and beautiful gifts sometimes," he replied, rousing himself from his dream.
               "Well, Harry, when you feel tempted to make such a vain wish again, remember that
                  neither music nor poetry elevated the
                  moral qualities of Dionysius or Nero, who excelled in both. But see," said Mr.
                  Bedford, "here are some season tickets for Mrs. Willoughby's soirées. She sent them to me for distribution among my
                  chosen friends. You are one—take it, and give me a rendezvous at nine o'clock next
                  Thursday evening, in Chiswicke Square, when I will introduce you to——the lady of
                  Woodreve."
               "Thank you, thank you; but I believe I have almost made a vow against these
                  fashionable réunions. The artificial and
                  hypocritical distinctions which exist in society, and its heartless conventional
                  rules, quite throw me off my balance. I cannot get along with them at all."
               "I have frequently heard it asserted that all gifted minds labor under the
                  influence of a monomania of some description or other—I believe it now, however
                  incredulous I may have been heretofore. Many evils exist in
                     society—that cannot be denied; but, because a few wear the caps
                  and bells and livery of a fool, is that any rule, prithee, to judge the whole
                  world by? or any reason why you should fly off in a tangent from all social and
                  rational intercourse with your intellectual peers? Fie on you, De Vere, for a
                  misanthrope; go to the cooper, over the way, and order a tub, then off with you at
                  once to the woods," said Mr. Bedford.
               "I will be there without fail," he replied, laughing, as he took up his hat to go;
                  "until then, adieu, my kind adviser and friend."
               "Compliment me by saying 'mentor' at once, Harry; there, be off now," said Mr.
                  Bedford, settling himself in his chair and resuming his Chaldee manuscript.
               While De Vere paused a moment on the stone step at the door to adjust the folds of
                  his cloak, an event that appeared to be the mere result of a combination of
                  incidental trifles occurred which gave a coloring and wielded an influence over
                  his whole future life. A troop of soldiers from a neighboring garrison were
                  marching through the street, and, as they approached nearly opposite Mr. Bedford's
                  mansion, the band struck up a grand martial air, frightening a horse, that was
                  fastened by the bridle to a post on the side-walk, so dreadfully that it reared
                  suddenly, and with one wild plunge leaped on the pavement, just as Edith
                  Willoughby, who was on her way to visit Mr. Bedford, reached, the spot. To throw
                  off his cloak, spring forward and lift her half fainting in his arms, just as the
                  terrified animal was in the act of bounding towards her, was the work of a minute;
                  then without pausing he bore her tenderly up the broad staircase to Mr. Bedford's
                  laboratory, and without speaking laid her insensible form on the sofa.
               "What have we here!" exclaimed the astonished old man, throwing aside the Chaldaic
                  manuscript once more, and leaping from his chair. "God bless my soul!
                  Etha—darling—Harry! What is the matter with her, De Vere? Call Mrs
                  Grimshaw—Etha!—How pale she is! why don't she speak? Here, chafe her hands, while
                  I get down the sal volatile."
               If Harry De Vere had thought her beautiful in the full radiance of life, how
                  touchingly lovely did she now appear, with the paleness of death overspreading
                  those faultless features, relieved only by the dark shadows of her hair, and the
                  black silken fringes of the blue-veined eyelids, which lay so softly on her
                  cheeks! He untied the strings of her bonnet to give her air, and was timidly
                  lifting her hand in his to draw her glove, when Mr. Bedford returned with a large
                  glass jar of sal volatile, which he uncovered,
                  and opened its powerful battery on her. Its effects were instantaneous—she
                  gasped—opened her eyes languidly, and raised them with a soft, half-dreamy glance
                  to De Vere's—there they rested with a pleased but wondering expression for a short
                  space; then a warm rose hue mantled her cheeks—she remembered all—and drew her
                  hand away, and held it out to Mr. Bedford, who hung anxiously over her, while a
                  burst of tears relieved her overstrained nerves. He folded it within his own, and,
                  almost wild with joy at her recovery, pressed it to his cheek and lips, while he
                  directed Harry to fetch water, wine, and Mrs. Grimshaw; after which he was to go
                  for a physician and Mrs. Willoughby. He was quite ready to perform each of the
                  tasks assigned him; but Edith observed to Mr. Bedford: "Indeed, I am quite
                  recovered; pray, don't send—it will alarm mamma unnecessarily—I am perfectly well
                  now—I was terribly frightened, nothing more."
               "The deuce you were! and at what, Etha? Was it that confounded elephant they are
                  walking past here every day?"
               "No; a horse became frightened at the martial music of a troop of soldiers who
                  were going by, and had like to run over me. My thanks are due, my warm thanks, to
                  the gentleman who was here a moment ago; but I remember nothing except the glaring
                  eyes, and the uplifted hoofs of the horse," she replied, covering her face with
                  her hands.
               "That's Harry—holloa! where is he? Just like him; the proudest, shyest rascal
                  living. But you are right; he saved your life, Etha. Never mind—don't talk—I'll
                  ring for wine, child; you must and shall take some," said Mr. Bedford, while an
                  expression, that Edith could not understand, flitted across his face.
               
               "Wheeler is out, Mr. Bedford!" said Mrs. Grimshaw without; "what will you please
                  to have, sir? I hope as it's something I can do for you without coming in, being
                  as I'm afeard of the combustious contrivances there."
               "Certainly, my good Mrs. Grimshaw, I would not allow you to expose yourself to
                  such peril for the world; bring me up a flask of that number 10, and wineglasses.
                  I will meet you at the door and take them in," said Mr. Bedford, with a quiet
                  smile. "If Mrs. Grimshaw were once to get in here with her brooms and dusters, I
                  should be a ruined man!"
               "I have half a mind to betray you to Mrs. Grimshaw!" said Edith, laughing.
               "You dare not, you jade; but tell me, Etha, how happens it that you are stirring
                  so early to-day? Are you already accustomed to the wear and tear of fashionable
                  hours? But, I forgot, you womenkind are instinctively adapted to the demands and
                  usages of fashion," said Mr. Bedford, resuming his seat beside her.
               "A cynical speech, truly! but I will keep my temper, and try to give a rational
                  account of myself, notwithstanding," she replied, kissing his cheek, and laughing.
                  "We, mamma and I, retired precisely at five, and slept until twelve to-day; and
                  you must allow, most grave and reverend seignior, that seven hours' uninterrupted
                  repose is quite enough; then we breakfasted, after which we made our toilet for
                  the day, and belle mère proposed a walk. After
                  walking an hour, she mentioned her intention of calling to see Mrs. Lacy. She was
                  there late yesterday afternoon, and I am very sure their interview to-day will be
                  productive of good to Mrs. Lacy, in some way. You smile; but I have learned from
                  you the art of reading countenances; and I always know, from a certain radiant,
                  uplifted expression which makes mamma's sometimes so beautiful, when she is
                  performing in her secret, peculiar way, a good work. So we separated at the head
                  of this famous street, which seems to be turned into a menagerie, and, in hopes of catching you napping, that I might win a
                  pair of gloves, I was on my way hither, when that Mazeppa of a horse baffled all
                  my finely-laid plans. This is all."
               "No, Etha!" said Mr. Bedford, shaking his head, gravely; "you little hypocrite!
                     not all. I know you are dying to know who that dark-eyed hero is
                  who rescued you!"
               "Oh—no—!" she replied, with a heightened color; "your sagacity is a little at
                  fault. I saw him last night at Mrs. De Vere's, and have come to the very rational
                  conclusion that he must be a gloomy, creature, a Byronic genius, who would rather
                  indulge in fine, frenzied reveries, than in social and harmless enjoyments. He has
                  now fairly run from me twice, and as we 'womenkind' have a little
                  proper pride mixed up with our follies, I will not even ask his name. Courtesy and
                  gratitude would have led me to thank him sincerely for his chivalrous rescue, had
                  he remained; but you will do it for me, will you not?"
               "I see you are fairly piqued, Etha; piqued, beyond doubt. Well! I will not affront
                  you by naming this 'knight of the rueful countenance," said Mr. Bedford, gayly; "I
                  will only declare, in the most positive terms, that he is not a poet;
                  and that he is one of the very—but never mind, did you say Miriam had
                  gone to Mrs. Lacy's again?"
               "Yes!"
               "I am glad of it. They are kindred souls, though each has a different harmony of
                  its own, and they will accord sweetly together."
               "Mr. Bedford!" said a voice at the door.
               "Mrs. Grimshaw!"
               "The wine, sir, and a few sandwiches, and crumpets, if you please!"
               "Open sesame!" said Mr. Bedford, throwing wide open the door;
                  "enter, thou envoy of the penate of the
                  pantry—enter!"
               But Mrs. Grimshaw drew back with a frightened air, as she caught a full view of
                  the batteries and retorts within; and courtesied respectfully while she held the
                  silver waiter, that was loaded with dainties, at arm's-length towards Mr. Bedford,
                  who stood near the threshold. "Indeed, then, sir, I can't come no further; and,
                  saving your presence, I must say that it is a dreadful thing for a human Christian
                  to be a tempting of Providence in such a way. I'd do anything to serve you, sir;
                  but please don't order me again to come in, for that's an unpossibility! And
                  Lord!" she screamed, catching a glimpse of Edith, "if there ain't Miss Etha! Do
                  come out, my dear miss; you might as well be a sitting on a loaded cannon. Here,
                  sir, please to take the waiter, or I shall let it fall. Wheeler's forever out o'
                  the way when he's wanting!"
               "Mrs. Grimshaw, had you been Lot's wife, there would not, at this moment, be a
                  pillar of salt on the shores of the Dead Sea," said her tormentor, advancing a
                  step or two; "I cannot sufficiently admire your prudence. There is, on my
                  veracity, enough bottled lightning in this room to kill five hundred men, ay, and
                  five hundred women in the bargain. All those engines are loaded with it!" He took
                  the waiter from her; she paused to hear not another word, but rushed towards the
                  staircase and performed a feat of agility that no one would have thought her
                  capable of, by clearing three steps at a time, flying leaps, in her descent
                  towards her own safe sanctuary on the first floor.
               
               "It is too bad, Mr. Bedford, to trifle with Mrs. Grimshaw's nerves in this way!"
                  observed Edith, who could not help being diverted by the scene.
               "My dear, you know nothing about the matter! I can keep no other terms with her.
                  If I were to let her in, with the assurance that all this was harmless, her
                  curiosity would forthwith commence explorations among my apparatus, which would
                  end in serious injury, may-be death. Eve and Bluebeard's wife, Etha, are beacons
                  to me. Eat another sandwich!" said Mr. Bedford, offering her one.
               "No, thou libeller of my sex, I will break no more bread beneath this roof until
                  you ask pardon and do penance for all the atrocious hints you have insinuated
                  against us to-day. Good-by," said Edith, rising with a serio-comic air, and
                  drawing on her glove.
               "Simpleton; anger on disputed points invariably argues a bad cause. Sit down. Your
                  airs have not at all convinced me that women have not a vast amount of
                  curiosity—you especially. But we'll settle this momentous question at some future
                  time," he replied.
               "It is unbearable," laughed Edith. "I cannot offend my dignity by remaining
                  longer. I hope yet to see you mated with a shrew."
               "Begone, you baggage!" he exclaimed, as she stood smiling at him through the open
                  door. "And take care, Etha, of accidents; for Harry De——, that individual who
                  rescued you an hour ago, is not here now;—but stop, I'd better go with you." He
                  turned to get his hat, but she was gone; and laughing, while he rubbed his hands
                  together, he shook his head significantly; then arranged his spectacles on his
                  nose, and was soon buried in the profundities of Chaldean lore.
               Edith gave a brief account of her adventure to her step-mother, who remarked: "It
                  was certainly a noble act, and could have been prompted only by a brave and
                  unselfish spirit; but I must confess, dear, that it was not only awkward but
                  uncourteous, under existing circumstances, for the gentleman, after rendering you
                  such timely service, to hurry off as he did. I cannot conceive who he is; but,
                  whoever he is, he is entitled to our gratitude. Walter is just gone; and here is a
                  French novel he left for you. I glanced over its pages, and judge it is very
                  sentimental; but it is the fashion, and I presume you will read it?"
               "Not merely because it is the fashion, mamma; but, as Mr. Shirley was
                  good enough to bring it, I will run through it, in some hour of idleness.
                  Sentimental enough I expect it is. Commend me to a French novelist for dramatic
                  effect—a mingling of bathos and pathos, and an undercurrent of vile morality. I do
                  not much fancy them," said Edith, as she turned over the pages of the book. But,
                  after this, she was silent. The book lay unopened on her knee for hours, while she
                  sat, her elbow leaning on a table, and her chin resting on the palm of her hand,
                  as if a spell of silence had fixed her there immovably. At dinner, she scarcely
                  tasted the rich viands before her, and only replied to Mrs. Willoughby's questions
                  when they interrupted her strange mood. Mrs. Willoughby retired to her apartment
                  when the meal was over, and Edith returned alone to the drawing-room, which,
                  silent and darkened, harmonized well with her feelings. A dreamy mist floated
                  around her heart, veiling the outer world from its vision, and circumscribing its
                  thoughts to the being who had saved her life, and then fled her presence. She saw
                  again and again the dark, earnest eyes which, amidst the splendor and glare at
                  Mrs. De Vere's, had fixed their searching gaze on her until her heart thrilled
                  beneath it—of the cold, proud look with which he had moved away from her presence
                  in the Persian conservatory—the touching tenderness of his expressive face as he
                  leaned over her at Mr. Bedford's, and which was so instantly changed the moment
                  she recovered her consciousness. It was all a mystery she would fain have solved,
                  but the labyrinth presented no clue; so she could only wonder, in silence, at his
                  strange inconsistencies, and his evident repugnance to her society. "He thinks me
                  vain and frivolous. But why should it concern me what he, a passing stranger,
                  thinks? I think him proud and selfish." With this conclusion, however, she was not
                  satisfied; for, like a half-remembered tune, that haunts the very echoes of the
                  heart in repeated reverberations, she turned again and again to the same
                  reflections, until, feverish and sad, she determined to forget it all; and,
                  opening her piano, she ran over the chords with astonishing brilliancy, and played
                  her favorite songs with such deep expression, that the whole house echoed with
                  melody. But music was no remedy for the spell; it only increased its power; and,
                  wearied with her efforts, she arose from the instrument, and searched for the
                  novel she had so listlessly thrown aside, until, finding it under a pile of music,
                  she threw herself on a lounge, and was soon, apparently, deeply absorbed in its
                  pages. Mrs. Willoughby came in soon after, and as Edith did not lift her eyes, she
                  did not address her; but, sitting where she had a full view of her face, she
                  watched every change that passed over it with a keen, penetrating glance. She had
                  studied too long the varied expressions of that radiant countenance, not to be
                  aware that some perplexing thoughts now saddened dened it; but the shadow fell lightly, so lightly
                  that only she would have observed it. She obtruded no remark, asked no question;
                  but she felt intuitively that the romantic incident of the morning
                  was connected with it. She knew Edith's enthusiastic nature—she knew how that
                  fresh, earnest heart was capable of loving, and she trembled lest it might some
                  day be chilled as her own had been. Then loomed through the pale, shadowy past,
                  the fountain of Hecuba on her memory, and her blighted love; and she determined to
                  save Edith; to discover the snare, and, as far as her influence could be exerted,
                  shelter her from its evil results.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Are ye doin' ought weel? Are ye thrivin', my man?
                           Be thankfu' to fortune for a' that she sen's ye;
                           Ye'll ha'e plenty o' frien's aye to offer their han',
                           When ye need na their countenance—a' body kens ye.
                           But think na I mean that a' mankind are sae,
                           It's the butterfly frien's that misfortune should fear aye;
                           There are those worth the name—gude sen' there were mae,
                           Wha the colder the blast, aye the closer draw near ye.
                        
                     
                     WHISTLE BINKIE.
                  
               
               "HE is not a marrying man!" was Mr. Bedford's provoking answer to Mrs.
                  Willoughby's inquiries about Edith's preserver.
               "But he has a name?" she suggested.
               "He is my friend, Miriam—my cherished friend."
               "And why should he not be mine? You are selfish, Mr. Bedford!"
               "Um—um—um. May-be," he replied, polishing up the lens of a telescope with a piece
                  of soft kid. He knew Mrs. Willoughby's opinion of the De Veres. She had not
                  exactly said that she thought them vulgar and weak, but he was confident, from one
                  or two expressions he had heard her let fall, that she had settled the question
                  decisively against them. And it was a cunning, deep-laid scheme of Mr. Bedford's
                  not to allow Harry's name to transpire, lest foregone conclusions should injure
                  him in her estimation. He determined to introduce him under an incognito to Mrs.
                  Willoughby, at her approaching soirée, when he
                  believed that her discriminating eye would detect, at once, under his modest and
                  dignified demeanor, the splendid genius and noble worth of his character. This
                  would overshadow the associations connected with the name of De Vere, in her mind,
                  and the triumph of his favorite would be complete. He would become one of them—a
                  chosen friend of the home circle; but as to Edith—or love—or marriage—it never
                  entered his calculations.
               "Mysterious, also," said Mrs. Willoughby, smiling; "but, my dear Mr. Bedford, my
                  inquiries are not prompted by mere curiosity. This stranger has laid us under an
                  important obligation, which demands, at least, a courteous acknowledgment from me,
                  as Edith's guardian. If then his name is not an interdicted sound to ears polite,
                  be kind enough to favor me with it!"
               "What—who? Harry—I like to have let it out! Women certainly understand the art of
                  provoking one. But you are right, Miriam—the name of my young friend
                     is interdicted just now; but trust me, for reasons of my own,
                  which do not reflect on him, except in the most honorable way. I can premise this,
                  however. In the course of a day or two, an opportunity will present itself highly
                  auspicious to your grateful intentions. How is Etha?"
               "That arrangement will answer. As it regards Edith, at the risk of being thought
                  romantic, truth compels me to say that her fine spirits are much impaired.
                  Recently, she has been more silent and thoughtful than I have ever seen her, and I
                  date the change from the day of her adventure. The shocking fright possibly
                  unnerved her; but she is decidedly drooping, whatever the cause may be," said Mrs.
                  Willoughby.
               "But she goes out every evening! I hear of her being everywhere," he observed.
               "Yes, but it is very evident to me, Mr. Bedford, that mere amusement is not her
                  object in attending these, numerous entertainments. At first there is an
                  overstrained, unnatural gayety, which flags in an hour or two; then she becomes
                  dispirited, and retires from them pale and silent. I am confident, there is some
                  bright dream of her imagination unrealized, or some hope disappointed."
               "Ask her," said Mr. Bedford, rubbing the lens until it became heated beneath the
                  friction.
               "No. At least not yet; confidence, to be perfect, must be voluntary. I love Edith
                  too fondly to wound her delicate nature by an exhibition of suspicions which,
                  after all, may be the result of my own fancies. But I have an engagement; do not
                  forget yours to-morrow evening in Chiswicke Square; until then, good-by," she
                  said, rising to go. Mr. Bedford attended her to her carriage, and returned with a
                  puzzled, thoughtful countenance, and flung himself in his great arm-chair,
                  muttering, "I might have foreseen it! I am an old fool. There will be trouble in
                  the wigwam yet about it. I wish that
                  confounded company of soldiers had been in Mexico, with the old hero-leader,
                  Taylor; I wish that devil of a horse had been fastened to some plough-tail in Asia
                  Minor; I wish Edith had gone to Mrs. Lacy's. Deuce take it all—um—um—um!"
               And Edith! Piqued as she felt by the stranger's haughty coldness, there was a
                  charm in its very novelty that gave birth to a thousand fancies; some pleasing,
                  and others foreshadowing sadness. In him, she saw the lofty beau-idéal of her imagination—the strong and beautiful
                  image of strength and truth her mind had ever aspired to; and had read, in his
                  fugitive glances, that spirit of manly tenderness, which bears gently with the
                  failings of what it loves, until, by soothing influences, it elevates it to its
                  own standard of excellence. "But oh," she thought, "such pride! Was it that he
                  thought her unworthy of a passing thought or word, or that circumstances of fallen
                  fortune, or poverty through which he might be bravely struggling upwards, kept him
                  aloof from her, whose wealth and position made her the first match in the land?
                  Yes, it must be so; would, then, that her estate had been more lowly! He could not
                  be otherwise than truly noble in his nature—his being Mr. Bedford's friend proved
                  that—but she would forget him. Memory only strengthened the spell; pride—her
                  womanly dignity, must make her forget him." These were the musings of her untried,
                  innermost heart. Little dreamed she they were the first dawnings of a love,
                  destined to rend its fibres almost to the separation of soul and body.
               And bravely she tried to forget! Twice only had she seen him since the eventful
                  morning at Mr. Bedford's. Once, at the theatre, she caught a glimpse of his noble
                  head, and the outline of his high, finely-cut features—but it was only for a
                  moment. The crowd swayed to and fro, and intercepted her view; and once, she was
                  stepping from the carriage to make a morning call at Mrs. De Vere's, when he came
                  out—paused an instant on the portico—bowed, and went his way. His salutation was
                  respectful, but cold; hers a proud arching of the neck, and a slight inclination
                  of her beautiful head. "Doubtless," she thought, "he is a friend of the De
                  Veres—perhaps a lover of Bessie's! Oh that I could recall my wasted thoughts! But
                  hereafter we will meet in society; when I will prove, by my manner, how utterly
                  indifferent he is to me." But her fine plan was frustrated. She did not meet him
                  in society.
               Walter Shirley was ever by her side; and she, soothed by the fascination of his
                  manner, and unconscious of his designs, received his lavish attentions without
                  coldness or displeasure. Then it was whispered that they were betrothed, and no
                  one could contradict it. Their intimacy too tacitly confirmed the report, and the
                  world only nodded its wise head approvingly, and said, "An excellent match.
                  Eligible in every respect. I predicted it from the first."
               It was the evening of Mrs. Willoughby's first soirée. A suite of four elegantly furnished rooms were thrown open.
                  These were only separated from each other by ranges of polished marble pillars,
                  between which hung superb draperies of chocolate and gold-colored damask, which
                  were drawn back by heavy ropes of twisted silk and gold. Cold restraint and
                  heartless formality were banished from a scene enriched by every association that
                  beauty, talent, and fashion could gather around it. Mrs. Willoughby understood
                  well the rare art of entertaining guests agreeably, without overpowering them with
                  the idea that she was taking an infinite deal of trouble on their account. With
                  well-bred tact, she allowed them to enjoy their evening in the manner most
                  agreeable to themselves, moving among them at intervals with the affable and
                  courteous air which was at all times peculiar to her, to see that none were
                  neglected or overlooked. The dancing had not commenced, but, chiming above the gay
                  buzz of conversation, and the low, sweet laughter that welled up from joyous
                  hearts, the silvery notes of a musical box, which Edith had placed in a
                  flower-stand, where it was concealed by the broad clustering leaves, were heard,
                  like fairy melodies. In conspicuous places, between candelabras which supported
                  wax-lights, hung Masoletti's paintings of the chapel of Soleure, and the
                  night-scene on the Roman Campagna, in rich frames of dead gilt, of an antique
                  pattern, about which Edith had twined clustering leaves of ivy, whose dark green
                  threw out still brighter their warm hues and deep-toned shadows. A few pastile
                  lamps, in alabaster shades, threw up their vapory incense from niches, filled with
                  blooming and gracefully arranged flowers.
               Two gray-headed negro footmen, in the white and blue livery of the Shirleys, were
                  in attendance, wearing on their well-trained countenances a look of stately
                  importance, as they dispensed refreshments to the assemblage from their
                  richly-loaded waiters. Higher swelled the festal strains; dancing, thrilling
                  music, softly-beaming eyes, light, and the aroma of many-hued flowers, with
                  whispered words that only one might hear, and intellectual converse,
                  blended their fascinations into one beautiful and delicious harmony, whose
                  influence all acknowledged.
               Edith, in a pale blue silk and pearl ornaments, looked surpassingly lovely. A
                  sparkling, but fitful gayety, imparted to her dark eyes a wilder brilliance, only
                  shadowed by a downcast look of
                  disappointment, as guest after guest entered, and they rested not on the expected
                  one. "I pray Heaven!" thought Mrs. Willoughby, who had observed her narrowly,
                  "this illusion may soon be dispelled."
               It was late when Mr. Bedford, accompanied by Harry De Vere, came in. Mrs.
                  Willoughby was deeply interested, at the moment, by the conversation of a
                  celebrated traveller present, who had spent the greater part of his life in Egypt
                  and Syria; and although she received their compliments with courtesy, and
                  themselves cordially, she did not understand, nay, even hear the name of his
                  companion.
               "I will only ask you where I can find Edith—aha! I see her. Here are some fine
                  engravings, Harry; look over them; I will return presently," said Mr. Bedford,
                  moving off. Harry De Vere felt quite at his ease; he was devoted to pictures, and
                  especially rare engravings, and began to turn them over, when Mrs. Willoughby,
                  seeing at once that he was a stranger to those about him, stepped towards him, and
                  directed his attention to several of the finest in the collection; and, while his
                  face became illuminated with an expression of refined intellectuality, her
                  penetrating eye discerned that his mind was cast in no common mould. "Here is a
                  sunset view of the hill of the Areopagus, at Athens; another of the ruins of
                  Ephesus; and here are a few scenes on the classic shores of the Ægean. While you
                  examine these, which I see you do with an artist's eye, I will resume my
                  conversation with Mr. Gray, the antiquarian. After which, it will afford me
                  pleasure to introduce you to Miss Willoughby, and my guests."
               "It will cost me but little, madam, to wait patiently, with such a temptation as
                  this to enchain my thoughts," replied he, with his usual simple frankness. "God,
                  how beautiful!" he exclaimed, in a low tone of rapture, as he held up to the light
                  an exquisitely colored view of the isles of the Cyclades, and the distant shores
                  of Greece, all bathed in the gorgeous and lambent hues of an atmosphere through
                  whose transparent veil the morning sun floated down.
               "Oblige me, Mr. Gray, by continuing your most interesting description," she said,
                  resuming her place beside the Egyptian traveller; "the agreeable duties of
                  hospitality are sometimes obliged to supersede the delightful enjoyments of
                  intellectuality."
               But Mr. Gray was afflicted with a peculiarity that not only annoyed himself, but
                  his listeners. Frequently, in the midst of the most interesting narrative,
                  necessary interruptions would occur, as in the present instance, when he would
                  entirely lose the thread of his subject. It was an idiosyncrasy, or the result of
                  habit; and, notwithstanding all his efforts to conquer it, it still retained, its
                  ascendency over him. He rubbed his hands, and squeezed them until the joints
                  complained, in audible explosions; struck his forehead, snapped his finger and
                  thumb together, until one might have fancied that champagne bottles were popping
                  off their corks, and stamped his foot; but all to no purpose.
               "I cannot go on, my dear madam; I have entirely forgotten the precise idea I
                  stopped with," he said, good-naturedly.
               "You were speaking of the Pharaohs of Egypt," suggested Mrs. Willoughby.
               "Yes—yes. I remember, also, the brightening up of a pair of fine eyes, which were
                  fixed intently on me at the time. I thought, then, 'he is a good listener; he
                  understands every word one utters.' Then followed the greeting between you and
                  your venerable friend, madam; but, by Cheops, there are the eyes," he exclaimed,
                  as Harry De Vere turned his face full round to ascertain the cause of the strange
                  sounds he heard. "Honor me, sir, a moment. You can put me on the trail of a lost
                  idea, I know. When you entered this presence, was I in the skull of a Pharaoh—on
                  the tail of an Asp—was I worshipping an Ibis—or had I Apis by his golden horns—or
                  was I paddling some mummied potentate over the Lethean Lake, to be judged by his
                  peers on a Plutonian shore? It was some one of these, I fancy."
               Thus adjured, Harry De Vere, diverted by the quaint manner of the traveller, came
                  nearer; and while many a bright expectant eye fixed its glances on him, he
                  replied, with a grace of manner which won Mrs. Willoughby's admiration and Mr.
                  Gray's gratitude: "I unfortunately heard only a word or two. We were standing only
                  a few moments beside you, my dear sir; but I think it was of Thmè, in her double
                  capacity of justice and truth, you were speaking of at the time."
               "That is the very thing," he exclaimed, seizing his kind prompter by the hand—"the
                  very idea, Thmè. Now I can go on." And eloquently and well he talked of the
                  antiquities of this mysterious race, relating many curious facts relative to their
                  mythology, their priesthood, their hieroglyphics, architecture, and sciences. He
                  addressed himself repeatedly to De Vere, with whom the subject happened to be a
                  favorite one, and who was so deeply interested by the antiquarian's graphic and
                  lucid description, and, unconsciously to himself, placed so much at his ease by
                  the absence of the usual haughty pretensions he had met with in fashionable
                  society the few times he had ventured within its charmed influence, that his
                     mauvaise honte was dispelled; and when Mr.
                  Bedford returned, he was engaged in an animated conversation with Mrs. Willoughby
                  and Mr. Gray; while several gentlemen
                  tlemen, eminent for their talents, joined the circle, and listened to his opinions
                  with respect and smiles of approval. "It is young De Vere," whispered one. "He is
                  quite a genius, and highly intellectual," replied another. "So he is," said a
                  third. "I have frequently wished to meet him; but he is almost inaccessible except
                  to his intimates, some of whom I know well."
               "I will introduce you, gentlemen. I am proud to declare he is my
                  friend," said Mr. Bedford, chuckling at the success of his plan. A moment's pause
                  here occurred, and, stepping forward, he named De Vere to Mrs. Willoughby as the
                  preserver of her step-daughter. Thanks and compliments succeeded; and then came
                  the old man of the sea, in the shape of the terrible mauvaise honte, to overshadow the uproaring of his heart, and his
                  replies were awkward and cold; and, while a flush of crimson mounted to his face,
                  he felt that Mr. Bedford had taken an unfair advantage of him. If Mrs. Willoughby
                  was astonished at the denouement, she was more
                  than pleased with her new guest; who was so utterly unlike the young men she had
                  usually met with in town during the season, that she felt desirous not only of
                  cultivating a further acquaintance with him, but adding him, at some future time,
                  to the select list of her friends: She was called away to another room just then.
                  De Vere felt, he could not tell why, that her absence was a relief; and finding
                  himself surrounded by congenial spirits—men who appreciated his talents, and
                  treated him with that unreserve and respectful kindness his noble nature
                  deserved—he emerged once more from the cloud, and charmed them not more by his
                  brilliant originality than his modest dignity of manner. And there was Walter
                  Shirley. Never losing sight of Edith, he, whenever an opportunity occurred,
                  whispered his homage in the most fascinating language; looking sad when conscious
                  her eye was on him, and only seeming happy while conversing with her. And yet this
                  was blended with such deferential tenderness, and so subtly done, that a mere
                  casual observer would scarcely have remarked anything peculiar in his attentions
                  to her.
               "Did you read the new work I left some days ago for you, Miss Willoughby?" he
                  asked, while she paused a moment to speak to him.
               "I glanced over it. I did not altogether like its tone," replied the frank-hearted
                  girl.
               "You think Hortense loved unworthily, perhaps?" he observed.
               "I think her a most unnatural character."
               "But," he continued, offering her his arm, and leading her to an apartment
                  comparatively deserted, "think you not, Edith, that a love which could so dare
                  all—so sacrifice all for its object— which could cling to it, like a guardian
                  angel, through coldness, neglect, and infamy—which could hope in its
                  endurance, until, by its patient strength, it raised up tenderly—up, up, to the
                  level of its own purity, the being for whom it had agonized? Is not this holy, is
                  not this elevating? What the sun is to the universe, is the devotion of a kindred
                  spirit to the sterile heart of man; without it, it is a cold, pathless desert,
                  where blooms no flower, whence gushes no sweet spring."
               "But," said Edith, smiling sadly, "Madame de Staël says, 'that love is a mere
                  episode in the life of man.' How can you reconcile the paradox?"
               "By declaring she knew her own sex better than ours, when she affirms that 'love
                  is a woman's lifetime.' She may have experienced the brief episode to her sorrow;
                  but men, Edith, love more constantly than women—more truly, more fervently,
                  believe me. But you evaded completely my proposition about the quality of
                     love," he said.
               "Well. Truly, I am a poor sciolist in the mysteries of the heart, Walter. Like
                  many others, I indulge only in hypothesis; but I fancy that a heart cannot be very
                  pure which can mingle its affinities with a polluted object. It does well enough,
                  though, in novels," she replied.
               "Ah, sweet Edith! forget not that she who too coldly shines in her own purity
                  cannot understand how blessed a thing it is to forgive error—how divine a
                  sentiment it is to pardon the wanderings of an o'er-tempted soul— 
                     
                        
                           'Too shocked at faults her soul can never know,
                           She deems that all can be like her below;
                           Foe to all vice, yet scarcely Virtue's friend,
                           For Virtue pardons those she would befriend.'"
                        
                     
                     BYRON.
                   he murmured, softly.
               "That is overstrained, I fear. There are but few, I trust, so proud and
                  pharisaical in their natures as to establish so selfish a code to judge human kind
                  by. But I cannot argue, Walter. I can only reason with my own heart and feelings;
                  and should they ever lead me into errors of judgment, then may kind Heaven send me
                  a more infallible monitor!" said Edith, in an earnest tone.
               "Will you sing for me to-night?" he asked, after regarding the uplifted expression
                  of her beautiful countenance with feelings he could scarcely define. "Sing for me,
                  Edith. I have heard nothing to touch my heart. It has been all too gay, too
                  senseless. Sing me, then, one of those sweet, sad strains which only you can sing
                  with the pathos and expression they breathe." And his eyes, half-veiled by their drooping lids, rested on
                  her—looked deep down into the shining depths of hers, until, softly and tenderly,
                  the emotions of his heart seemed transfused by their influence into hers. There is
                  an awful power in the human eye. A gleaming forth of an eternal, subtle essence,
                  which, more or less potent in its control, fascinates the unwary, spreads its
                  luminous tissues like a web around the will, and governs the ebbing of the human
                  heart, as the moon influences the rising and falling of the ocean tides. By a wily
                  art of transfusion, it obtains a demoniac power over the faculties of the soul,
                  leading them captive to its strange caprices, and winning away from Heaven its
                  allegiance, until, wasted and imbecile, it clings like a helpless parasite to the
                  human will which has subdued it. For a moment, the noble heart of Edith Willoughby
                  quailed and fluttered like a bird that the serpent charms; she felt the dawning of
                  a strange life within her. Then came a soft whisper, chiming, like a syren's note,
                  that forgiving and loving were divine—that she alone could recall the wandering
                  soul beside her to the path of its true, high destiny. The bloom faded from her
                  cheeks, but her face, transparent in its pure whiteness, was wondrously
                  beautiful.
               "Like a star amidst the tempest or dew in the desert, your very presence gladdens
                  my being! Weary and sad, I turn to you, beloved, and all is peace; the air
                  brightens around me; the gloom of the past is forgotten. Come, sing for me that
                  song, Edith, which tells of one who worshipped in secret the lady of his heart,
                  and 
                     
                        'Watched her in the festive hall,
                        And trembled when she moved,
                        But softly though his accents fell,
                        He never said he loved."
                     
                   Thus he murmured, as he took her unresisting hand in his with a gentle
                  pressure, and led her to her harp. She played with, a rare and expressive, touch
                  the plaintive prelude; and while her heart still dreamed its wild visions, a calm
                  serenity settled on her countenance, while her eyes beamed with soft lustre, and
                  wore an expression as if they were gazing through earthly mists into a rapt and
                  glorious future. Walter Shirley, leaning with folded arms against a pillar near
                  her, watched her every movement, and still turned his dark-bright eyes forever on
                  hers. Won by the ringing harp-strings and wildly plaintive cadences of her voice,
                  a silent group had gathered around her to listen, and she was trilling the notes
                  of the second verse, when Mr. Bedford and Harry De Vere approached. Like a good
                  angel to the tempted soul he came; the evil charm was broken by a pause; the rosy
                  hue of life suffused her cheeks once more; her voice faltered an instant; then
                  with a smile of recognition she greeted him. With proud grace he bowed; his
                  outward seeming was calm, but every heart chord had throbbed so wildly responsive
                  to that smile, he drew back, more into the shade of a window near him, fearing his
                  countenance might betray emotions he wished to conceal. And Edith never sang so
                  sweetly; never chanted forth her spirit in such exquisite echoes, never soared it
                  so wildly upwards in music as now! She knew he listened, she saw him
                  standing near her, listening almost breathless to every cadence that fell from her
                  lips. Walter Shirley observed all this; he felt baffled and bewildered; he
                  wondered who was this arch-enchanter, that, with one fell blow, had destroyed the
                  shining spell he had wrought?
               "Who is that person now worshipping at Miss Willoughby's shrine. He was introduced
                  a moment ago by old Bedford," he asked of Frederick De Vere, who was lounging near
                  him after the song was finished.
               "Eh!" he said, lifting his eye-glass with a superb air of superiority, "oui, that is un de mes
                     frères!"
               "The deuce!"
               "No, il est fou, which is as bad. He is bas in his tastes, and we are almost strangers. Were
                  you at the opera last night?"
               "Yes: but'pon my life, I can't tell you what the opera was. I was fanning and
                  flirting with Dora Livingston all the evening. After I handed her to her carriage,
                  I went to the club."
               "Engageant! Flirting never commits a fellow; but
                     beau parler n'écorche pas la langue, and
                  keeps one from dying with ennui," he replied,
                  laughing.
               But Walter Shirley still, from his post of observation, watched Edith. He saw her
                  turn away from her harp; another instant, and she was leaning on De Vere's arm,
                  her radiant face uplifted to his, which, lit up with noble intellectuality and
                  truth, reflected in every line the contagious brightness of her smiles. She had
                  thanked him for the service he had rendered her with such sincere and graceful
                  warmth, and rallied him so successfully on his flight from Mr. Bedford's
                  laboratory, that his false pride melted away beneath the genial influence of her
                  manner, and without an effort he found himself replying in the same spirit to her
                  badinage, and giving free expression to the pure and elevating sentiments of his
                  heart in elegant and well-chosen phrases. She directed his attention to
                  Masoletti's paintings, and told eloquently the young artist's story, and how he
                  was rescued from absolute penury by a noble-hearted friend of Mr. Bedford's, who
                  had accidentally dentally discovered
                  his wretched haunt, and relieved his wants. A consciousness of this person's
                  identity called up a deeper glow to Harry De Vere's handsome face, and he blessed
                  her in his heart for her random eulogy, but betrayed not himself or his
                  benefactions by a word, and extolled the productions of the young Italian with
                  such nice acumen and taste, that it was very evident to Edith he possessed the
                  judgment without the wordy pretensions of a connoisseur. From painting they passed
                  to books; they admired the same authors, and exhibited a congeniality of taste and
                  sentiment which gave perfect harmony to their conversation. But they were
                  unceremoniously interrupted by a party of dowagers, who took possession of a
                  lounge at no great distance, and began to discuss, in audible terms, the
                  singularity of Mrs. Lacy's being invited by Mrs. Willoughby to her very select and
                  fashionable soirée.
               
               "Have you spoken to her?" asked one.
               "Certainly. I dare not cut her, here; it is evident Mrs. Willoughby is patronizing
                  her," she replied.
               "I heard Mrs. Willoughby call her 'Caroline;' they must be old friends,"suggested
                  another.
               "Lord, how stupid you all are! Didn't you hear Cicely Thorne say that she was at
                  Mrs. Lacy's when Mrs. Willoughby called, and what a scene there was?" exclaimed
                  one.
               "No: for pity's sake tell us about it!" And she recited the account of the
                  interview we described in another chapter, with the addition of certain
                  exaggerated annotations of Miss Thorne's own, which certainly contributed very
                  much to its graphic interest. "I went up to her the moment I saw her, and spoke as
                  if nothing had happened," concluded the lady.
               "And how did Mrs. Lacy behave?" inquired one; "for you were one of the first to
                  cut her, when Lacy failed?"
               "Oh! it's the way of the world to do such things, my dear. People naturally expect
                  it. Mrs. Lacy is a well-bred, good-natured person, and of course she received me
                  as a lady should do," replied she.
               "There are no such dinners given in town this season as we used to have at her
                  table last winter. Souls! what lobstersauce and savoury ragoûts we used to get!" exclaimed the first.
               "She's elegantly dressed! I don't think it looks well, in her circumstances; but
                  here she comes. That is Colonel Sumner, the great western senator, with her; how
                  delighted he appears to be with her society! And there is Mrs. Willoughby,
                  following her—here they all are—let us observe what is going on."
               "Mrs. Lacy, I fear you will think me ungenerous; but I have come to beg another
                  favor," said Mrs. Willoughby, pleasantly.
               "How another? Have I bestowed a favor without knowing it?" she replied.
               "A greater than you are aware of, possibly. I will not mystify you any longer,
                  however. You have honored us with your company this evening—and I ought to be
                  reasonable, and feel contented with the pleasure conferred—but selfishness rules
                  the world, dear; and I cannot forbear begging you to exercise for us a beautiful
                  gift, that formerly used to enchant us at the old Holme."
               "Ah, dear Mrs. Willoughby, I would gladly be excused. I have had realities to deal
                  with which have somewhat blunted my imagination; but if it will afford even a
                  passing gratification, I will try," she said, while a blush mantled her face.
               "Stand forth confessed, thou improvisatrice! Unfold thy buried talent! Charm us
                  with some poetic theme, or tale of old. Let us fancy ourselves, for the time, in
                  the land of poetry—Italia—and thou its genius," said Mr. Bedford, with a chivalric
                  air.
               "And thou Apollo," she said, laughingly, while she adopted his high-flown
                  phraseology, and the ruling spirit of the moment.
               "Or Apollo's great-grandsire," he replied, passing his hand over his snowy hair;
                  "that was a cruel jibe, Caro; I almost fancied I was the Adonis of the evening,
                  until your cutting compliment made the contrast ridiculous. I demand tribute for
                  the affront."
               "And I merely plead," remarked Mrs. Willoughby.
               "While I implore," said the senator.
               Then gathered around her the flatterers who had once basked in her prosperity, and
                  amidst its genial sunshine lauded her talents with wondering exclamations and
                  flattering pæans, but who had, when the dark
                  change came, forgotten her and all, until Mrs. Willoughby's noble and true
                  indications of friendship reminded them of it. Then they remembered how the
                  revelations of the ideal used to charm them when uttered by her; and the startling
                  brilliancy of her vivid fancies and wild imaginings, which ofttimes won
                  tears—human tears—from their indurated hearts.
               "Give me a theme, then," she said, unable to resist their entreaties any longer
                  without falling under the imputation of what she despised—affectation. "Name a
                  theme, and if I cannot give you poetry I will favor you with a lecture, which I
                  take for granted you will bear with becoming patience—as you have yourselves
                  provoked your fate."
               "Love!"
               
               "Sappho!"
               "Rome!"
               "Greece!"
               "Helen!"
               "Penelope!"
               "Friendship!"
               These were successively proposed, but all were overruled by acclamation in favor
                  of "Friendship." Unfortunate choice! Mr. Bedford shrugged his shoulders with one
                  of his expressive smiles, and Mrs. Willoughby thought—"Ye have acted out the,
                  satire; now listen to its history." Mrs. Lacy's arm leaned on a pedestal that
                  supported an antique marble bust, behind which a luxuriant Laurestina's, with its dark glossy leaves and clustering snowy flowers, had been
                  placed, to give the sculpture finer effect, by throwing it out in strong contrast
                  to its olive background. Her fine blue eyes were raised upwards, and she waved her
                  hand with a graceful gesture. There was an instant hush. Her perfect Grecian
                  features gradually wore a rapt expression, and on her low broad forehead, from
                  which the clustering brown tresses were fastened back by large opals, the spirit
                  of imagination sat enthroned. A saffron-colored brocade, confined around the
                  symmetrical waist by a narrow band of velvet, which was clasped by a single opal,
                  formed her attire. A low corsage revealed her snowy shoulders and beautifully
                  turned neck, while her bared arms, fair and rounded, needed no ornament to enhance
                  the loveliness of their exquisite proportions. A smile hovered around her lips,
                  and glancing on the expectant faces around her she began, in a clear,
                  richly-modulated voice, her unpremeditated lay on
               
                  
                     
                        
                           FRIENDSHIP.
                           
                              In one of those fair isles which, on the tide
                              Of the Ægean, glow like floating gems,
                              Upon whose silvery shore the foaming waves
                              Burst like low music through the whisp'ring reeds,
                              And leave bright-tinted shells among the sands,
                              Where Ariadne wandered 'neath the shade
                              Of fragrant vines borne down with luscious fruit,
                              Which ripened in the sun, and where of yore
                              Apollo with his lyre sang of love;
                              There dwelt a pair, whose life was one sweet dream
                              Of bliss.
                           
                           
                              They looked upon the sunny sea,
                              And watched the floating clouds at eventide,
                              Through which the lustrous moon and her lone star
                              Walked silently, like angels clad in white.
                              And in the dewy morn, while purpling mists
                              Draped o'er the golden orient, they wove
                              Fair garlands of the ever-blooming flowers
                              And luscious grapes, and in their homeward dance
                              Sang songs of love.
                           
                           
                              Within a ruined hall,
                              Sole fragment of a marble temple, where
                              In olden times Diana's sacred shrine
                              Was tended by a train of vestals fair,
                              Who heard amidst mysterious rites the words
                              Of oracles, they dwelt.
                           
                           
                              Vines trailed around
                              Each fluted pillar, and through crevices
                              In the rich, time-worn roof, the fire-flies, stars,
                              And gold eyed flowers peeped down; and each lone niche
                              Was bright with pearly shells, or amber lamps,
                              Which filled the air with incense.
                           
                           
                              In the midst
                              Of all there was a rare old coffer, filled
                              With grains of such a sparkling, changeful hue,
                              That rainbows seemed to brood around the spot.
                              And as the winds, all odorous with sweets,
                              Stole in, they moved among these golden sands
                              With such soft melodies, that birds of light
                              And song, with sunshine on their wings, drew near
                              To listen—hushed themselves—and bask awhile
                              In the bright gleam, then burst in one wild strain
                              Of melody.
                           
                           
                              Through the long summer nights
                              They fluttered; warbling still their blithesome notes,
                              Nor wearied with the dawn.
                           
                           
                              The flowers were filled
                              With dews, which shone like gems 'neath the strange spell,
                              And from the vines were honey-drops distilled,
                              On which they feasted.
                           
                           
                              It was an Eden,
                              Where no darkling shadows e'er had passed;
                              And they, in their credulity, dreamed naught
                              Of change. They thought the light could ne'er grow dim,
                              The blossoms fade, or song-birds flee away
                              From their old haunt, so near their loving hearts.
                           
                           
                              But one fair eve, when from the fields of heaven
                              A shower of roses fell upon the sea;
                              And sapphire fountains dropped their gleaming spray,
                              From the bright clouds aslant the waves, and hues
                              Of violet-like robes of royal state,
                              Glowed round the distant isles, they wandered out,
                              Straying along the shore in converse sweet,
                              While spicy winds fanned back their silken hair,
                              Until a SHAPE, with pale and solemn brow,
                              And pitying eyes, draped in no mortal folds,
                              Stood in their path.
                           
                           
                           
                              Their cheeks grew pale; they turned,
                              And would have fled; but lo! it still was there.
                              Where'er they moved, their eyes could not evade
                              The SHAPE. Tall, grim, and gaunt, it mocked their fears
                              With the same awful smile, and whispered, "Give me
                                    all!"
                              "What wouldst thou, phantom? What dost thou demand?
                              "Thy coffer!"
                           
                           
                              "Oh, our treasured fount of light,
                              Our chime! 'twill make our homes so desolate;
                              Our birds will droop—their festive songs be hushed
                              For very pity!"
                           
                           
                              "Listen, poor heirs of earth:
                              That which ye value is but worthless dust;
                              Fair to behold, but filled with bitterness;
                              And yet beneath it all lie some rare pearls,
                              Which no imperial treasury can boast.
                              I have a test: Behold this magic sieve,
                              Through which those sparkling grains will fly like chaff;
                              'Twill try your souls, the dark and sudden gloom,
                              The withering blight, the silence; but those pearls
                              Are worth it all!"
                           
                           
                              Her presence chilled the earth!
                              Up shrunk the flowers and paled; the vine-leaves sighed
                              And shivered fitfully; then a sad mist
                              Crept o'er the scene!
                           
                           
                              The SHAPE began her task,
                              And with relentless hand scooped up the grains
                              Until the sieve was filled—then, muttering low
                              An incantation-weird, she deftly threw
                              It to and fro her pallid hands, and lo!
                              A shower of ashes, chaff, and dust were borne
                              Away upon the winds; while fluttering shrunk
                              The silent birds, without One pitying note,
                              Or parting strain, to fairer climes.
                           
                           
                              Tears fell;
                              And one wild lamentation sounded forth
                              From these two stricken hearts.
                           
                           
                              The tempest wailed
                              And shuddered like an evil thing amid
                              The gloom profound, but still the solemn SHAPE
                              Toiled on unceasingly. But soon a ray
                              Of lambent beauty glimmered where she stood.
                              It brightened—shone with light ineffable;
                              Until a cluster of resplendent pearls,
                              Freed from the chaff and grossness of the earth,
                              Lit up the shadows of ADVERSITY,
                              Like friends—
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               And here, while Mrs. Lacy's eyes were bedewed with emotion she could not
                  altogether control, she laid her hand on Mrs. Willoughby's arm, and concluded the sentence—
                     
                        Like friends who heed not Fortune's changing smiles,
                        But cling the closer when her frowns appear.
                     
                  
               
               "May those pearls encircle your heart alway, Caro," replied Mrs. Willoughby,
                  surprised and affected by her involuntary exhibition of feeling; then kissing her
                  cheek, added, "you deserve a girdle of the purest pearls that friendship can
                  weave."
               The whole scene, without being intended as such, was a keen reproach to many. All
                  understood the meaning of her poetical allegory, and the beautiful application of
                  it, as conveyed by her expressive gesture to Mrs. Willoughby. There was a murmur
                  of applause; eyes grew moist that were almost strangers to tears; and those who,
                  knowing the history of her changes, her courage in adversity, had fled with the
                  sunlight, and left her to find consolation as she might in her desolation, blushed
                  at their worldly inconstancy, and felt how infinitely superior she had risen, in
                  her poverty, above their sordid ideas. Through dewy tears shone forth the rainbows
                  of Edith's sensitive heart, and while every feature quivered with emotion, she
                  clasped her hands together, and said, in a low tone, "How I shall love her!" Never
                  before had Harry De Vere seen her so radiantly lovely. He appreciated her feelings
                  with kindred emotions; and, as his eye rested on her, he would have given a king's
                  ransom, he would have thought no peril or danger too great, no difficulty
                  insurmountable, to win one solitary hour of her heart's devotion. He felt that one
                  hour thus brightened would shine, like a lamp, in his pathway through life, and
                  the remembrance of it leave such sweet visions of bliss as might never be
                  forgotten. Kind angel of life! had power only been given thee to have then
                  unveiled these two loving hearts, how much anguish might both have been
                  spared!
               After this, it was the fashion to invite Mrs. Lacy everywhere; but she had learned
                  to estimate at their true value, but not to scorn, such attentions.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               WHEREIN HEART-CHORDS ARE FINGERED TO THEIR OWN MUSIC.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           CHORD FIRST.
                           "——He beat the surges under him,
                           And rode upon their backs;—he trode the water,
                           Whose enmity he flung aside, and breasted
                           The surge most swoln that met him: his bold head
                           'Bove the contentious waves he kept, and oared
                           Himself with his good arms, in lusty stroke,
                           To the shore that o'er his time-worn basis bowed,
                           As stooping to relieve him: I doubt not
                           He came alive to land!"
                           
                              Alon.——"No! no! he's gone."
                        
                     
                     TEMPEST.
                  
               
               THE eye of the traveller, either going to or from the city, in a westerly
                  direction, is generally attracted by a massive gateway and porter's lodge, built
                  of granite in the florid Gothic style, which stands on the broad road-side, a few
                  miles out. Overhung by immense trees, it reminds one of the entrance to one of
                  those old historic domains so common in England, and one's imagination can at once
                  conjure up magnificent parks, stately avenues, and feudal towers beyond.
               The first beams of morning, unclouded and bright, gilded the scene. Frost gems
                  glittered on the naked boughs, and hung like pendant diamonds from the lesser
                  sprays. The old earth was sprinkled with a hoar-frost which beautified its
                  withered face. The sound of bells chiming a thousand different notes out on the
                  clear cold air, as the horses whose necks they adorned pranced gayly along,
                  bearing the produce of the neighboring farms to the city market; and the blithe
                  songs of the laughter-loving lads and lasses who drove them enlivened the scene.
                  The heavy portals were now thrown back, and two wains, loaded with dry clover and
                  winter apples, scenting the frosty atmosphere with fragrance, rolled majestically
                  out, drawn by oxen whose sleek sides, glossy dewlaps, and great meek eyes,
                  indicated their familiarity with a well-filled rack and manger. Beyond these
                  portals, at the termination of a broad-paved avenue, pillared on each side, and
                  almost roofed over by enormous chestnut and walnut trees, appeared a magnificent
                  structure of stone, marble, and brick, whose innumerable windows flashed back the
                  golden sunlight in luminous array. Was it the abode of a retired merchant prince,
                  or had some exiled European potentate reared the splendid pile, on republican
                  ground, as a sort of amende honorable to his
                  insulted dignities, at home? No. It was merely the county, almshouse!—the abode of
                  State paupers, who might have prided themselves, as people in the world are apt to
                  do, on an abstract idea of importance, derived from the splendor of their
                  residence.
               Hitherward and alone up the wide avenue, a man plodded his way. A drab-colored
                  substantial pea-jacket, a trig-looking tarpaulin hat, and pantaloons of navy-blue,
                  with his rolling gait, declared him to be a legitimate son of the sea. His hair,
                  once black and curling, was now grizzled and almost white—as much bleached by
                  hardship and care as by the suns, the dews, and hoar-frosts of time. His eyes,
                  keen and mirthful in their expression, were a light blue, and his nose, reddened
                  by the morning frost, wore a jolly rétroussé
                  air. His mouth had nothing to recommend it, except a puckered, quizzical
                  expression, and the infinite dexterity with which it managed a delicious morceau in the shape of a tobacco-quid, whose flavor,
                  as he transferred it from one cheek to another, appeared to afford him infinite
                  satisfaction. He flourished a stout cudgel in one hand, and when he reached the
                  stately entrance, heedless of bell or knocker, he applied it to the floor with
                  such effect that an official, clad in the livery of the place, sprang from his
                  seat in an adjoining room, and, stumbling over a cat and two growling dogs, rushed
                  out to answer the unusual summons; but, seeing only a single man, who was of
                  humble rank, he drew himself up, resumed the importance of "brief authority," and,
                  in sharp, querulous tones, demanded the intruder's business; while the dogs,
                  reassured by their master's voice, sprang out, snarling and yelping around the
                  sailor's knees.
               "Avast there, shipmate! Shiver my jib, but I'm no pirate. Haul off your
                  grappling-irons, I say," cried the sailor, keeping the dogs at bay with his
                  cudgel.
               "The navy ought to take care of her own paupers," muttered the official, after
                  calling the noisy animals off. "Did you bring a order of admission from the board
                  of directors with you?"
               "Tack about again, shipmate. You're out o' your latitude, intirely," said the
                  sailor, laughing, while he transferred his quid, for the twentieth time, from one
                  cheek to the other, and dispensed a shower of the amber juice from his mouth to
                  the porch beyond.
               "Don't do that 'ere agin—don't. We allow no sich proceedings ings here. You've got relations here, I s'pose?"
                  said the enraged doorkeeper.
               "No. Split my timbers if I have!" replied the sailor, proudly. "But
                  may-be—may-be—who knows? It's been a many years in the log-book of time since I
                  had a signal," he said, in an under tone.
               "Look'ee, old fellow, people don't often come here for amusement," observed the
                  official, in a voice of smothered anger and impatience; "so, if you come in
                  that'ere gate yonder for a ramble this fine morn', you can gist ramble out agin.
                  The example of people walking about idle on these premises is pernicious to the
                  paupers. They're spiled already by over-indulgin'. If you come on business, let
                  quick be the word, for I've some hundred pounds of wool to see weighed yet, afore
                  breakfast."
               "Blow on, old Boreas! I'd rather have a white squall a-lee than abaft, any hour of
                  the day," said the sailor, laughing. "I ain't been on the ocean amongst whales
                  these forty years to be scared by a Johnny Doree,*
                  in these shallow soundin's."
                     
                     *A small fish.
                  
               "Git out of here with your gibberish. Begone! Here, you Jowler—you Wasp, seize
                  him!" cried the man, enraged beyond endurance at being jeered in terms which he
                  conceived to be superlatively offensive, because he could not clearly comprehend
                  them. But his tormentor seized Jowler by the throat in his sinewy fist, as he
                  sprang at him, and, with a well-aimed blow of his cudgel, stretched Wasp howling
                  at his master's feet.
               "Now tell me, you land-lubber, you shoal pirate, you infernal wrecker! if there's
                  an old craft laid up hereabouts, called the Jane Wilkins?" shouted he, backing the
                  now terrified official up against the wall.
               "Mr. Hartly, Mr. Hartly! I shall be murdered!" he bawled, at the top of his voice.
                  "Help, ho! help."
               The Mr. Hartly, thus vociferously invoked, was the superintendent of the
                  almshouse, and had been an amused, but unseen spectator of the scene throughout,
                  from the staircase of the second story, which commanded a full view of it. At the
                  moment the sailor announced his presence, by applying his cudgel to the floor,
                  which reverberated and echoed through the passages like the detonation of a
                  six-pounder, Mr. Hartly was returning from his regular morning inspection of the
                  different wards to his own apartment, where his breakfast awaited him. Amazed at
                  the unusual hubbub, and the vociferous sounds that ensued, he paused, and leaned
                  over the balustrade, highly amused with the progress of the adventure, and
                  thinking in his heart that it was a just penance his subordinate was enduring, for
                  his unjust aspersion on him, "as spiling the paupers by over-indulgin'." He was a
                  stout man; and from excessive good-nature, temperate living, and an unvexed mind,
                  had fallen into fat. There was much of human kindness in his broad red face—much
                  of benevolence, mixed up with a bit of humor, which even his official duties among
                  paupers could not vinegarize into anything resembling the acerbity we
                  naturally expect to see souring the visage of a Bumble. He was much liked by the
                  inmates of the institution, and respected by its rulers, for his humanity and
                  strict regard to the regulation and observance of its laws. Scarcely able to
                  restrain his mirth, he came down as fast as his unwieldy frame allowed him, and
                  asked—
               "What's the row, Smith? Eh, what's the trouble, old boy?"
               "That fellow, there; he bust in like thunder, jist now; killed my dogs, and was
                  about a' stranglin' of me, when—I giv the alarm!" panted the coward.
               "Well—well, Joey, boy, I'm sorry—'deed I be, that you got such a terrible fright.
                  Go up to my room, old fellow; get a cup of hot coffee; you'll find all right up
                  there, Joey; Johnny-cake and all. I'll deal with this son-of-a-gun as he deserves,
                  sure I will; up with you!" said the old fellow, almost bursting with laughter,
                  when Joey, eyeing the sailor with sidelong glances, sneaked up stairs.
               "What do you want here, my good fellow? You didn't come, I reckon, jist for the
                  pleasure and satisfaction of killing Joey's dogs; though it's a good job done if
                  they be dead, the nasty varments; a good job. They got, by hook or by crook, many
                  a nice morsel that the sick folk ought to had. But never mind; what's your will?"
                  he said, poking his fat forefinger under the sailor's ribs.
               Why, commodore!" replied he, kicking the ugly cur at his feet far out on the
                  gravelled walk, "that's a reg'lar water-bailiff, that fellow. He overhauled me as
                  if I'd bin a slaver; then sot his dogs at it; at which, my mag'zine
                  fired, and I'd a' blowed the whole consarn to the devil, if you hadn't towed him
                  off."
               "But your business, you son of thunder?" asked Hartly, chuckling. "Who dy'e want
                  to see; me? I'm superintendent and commander-in-chief here, for want of a
                  better."
               "You're a jolly old figure-head, anyhow, commodore," said the sailor, regaining
                  his good-humor, and shaking the superintendent's hand, with a grip that made the
                  water spring to his eyes. "You see, I'm cruising about in sarch of what I s'pose
                  is a wreck by this time, though when I
                  went away, thirty-five years agone, a trimmer craft never sailed the seas. She was
                  called the Jane Wilkins; but my messmates and I, as lived with her when ashore,
                  called her Mother Jennet. I was telegraphed that she was stranded somewhere about
                  here."
               "Of course she is; she takes care of the babies! We call her Mother
                  Jennet, too—babies and all; follow me, man. She's the cheeriest, heartiest old
                  soul that ever breathed, sir. Five year ago, she was brought here very bad with a
                  low fever of some kind; she was very ill. I heard the doctors say it was a
                  critical case; a aggravated case; but they brought her through, our doctors did;
                  and, I must say, it was a remarkable cure, sir. Then, when she got on her feet
                  again, she was so cheerful and busy—never idle a minute—that the Institution
                  offered her a support and allowance—a small one, you know; for snuff, tea, and
                  other hick and haws, as old women like—to take care of the babies, of which we
                  always have a round number. And, the upshot was, as she had no home, sir, and no
                  relations to take care of her in her old days; in short, no dependence of any kind
                  or description, she took the offer kindly. She's one of the matrons, sir, Mother
                  Jennet is. But hold on; here we are," said Mr. Hartly, throwing open the door of a
                  long, spacious, and well-ventilated apartment, at the upper end of which blazed a
                  cheerful fire. Near this, on a low chair, sat a little tidy, rosy-cheeked old
                  woman, whose face glowed, beneath her white-plaited cap-frill, like a winter
                  apple, ruddy and unwrinkled. She was clad in a long-waisted brown-stuff gown, and
                  a voluminous white apron. On her lap lay a child some ten months old, crowing and
                  laughing, as she alternately fed it with pap, and snapped her fingers in a running
                  accompaniment as she sang— 
                     
                        "Charlie loves a cup of tea;
                        He loves sugar-candy O!
                        Charlie loves a pretty girl,
                        And Charlie loves the brandy O!
                        Over the river, and over the river,
                        And over the river to Charlie O!"
                     
                  
               
               "That's her—sartain," said the sailor, brushing his rough brown hand over his
                  eyes. "No need of glasses to see that; but, look out, shipmate."
               He pushed his tarpaulin on one side of his head, which gave him a jaunty air, and
                  thrusting his hand down into his fathomless pockets, he leaned his shoulder
                  against the door, and whistled a few bars of "Black-eyed Susan," so clear and
                  shrill, that, if every pauper baby in the ward had been shrieking, it would have
                  soared, in its wild, clarion-like notes, above the combined discord. Mother
                  Jennet's song was hushed. From her face the rose-hue faded; her thin lips, white
                  and trembling, in vain essayed to speak, and, hugging the babe to her breast, she
                  started up, advanced a step or two, and gazed wildly at the strange intruder.
                  Then, overcome by agitation, retreated quickly to her chair, muttering—"Lauk, no!
                  It can't be! He's under the ocean wave, long—long ago—poor Will!" But at this
                  instant, a variation occurred in the air, to which he gave a peculiar, but musical
                  quiver, that caused Mother Jennet to spring from her chair again, lean forward,
                  and, holding the child in one arm, shade her eyes with her hand, and gaze keenly,
                  and with strained glances at the musician. "I never heard but one as could do
                  that, and that was Will Dobbler," she exclaimed; "but, as I said afore,
                     he's under the salt sea, many years ago. There it is again—God
                  preserve us! Whistler, in God's name, is it you?"
               "Mother Carey," cried the sailor, laughing, while tears rolled over his rough
                  cheeks.
               "Whistler," shrieked the old woman, rushing, baby and all, into his extended
                  arms.
               "That's the name, sir, she used to hail me by, when I and a few jolly shipmates
                  boarded with her, years ago; and we called her Mother Carey, 'cause
                  she used to say we always kept the wind and waves too high around her with our
                  larks. You know, commodore, a Mother Carey's chicken is a bird we old salts don't
                  like to see out o' sight of land," said the sailor, giving Mother Jennet another
                  hearty hug, and kissing her withered cheek.
               The superintendent was in hysterics. His eyes were decidedly tearful, but his
                  sides quivered with laughter, and his face grew purple between conflicting
                  emotions, while he contemplated the two.
               "Very good—excellent; it's a raal play, got up for my 'special benefit, this
                  morn'," he ejaculated, in broken sentences. "You ARE a Whistler, and no mistake;
                  but whistling won't fill your stomach. Mother Jennet, I say, can you spare him
                  some pap for his breakfast? If you can't, I'll send a substitute as is one."
               "Lord, honey, I'm beside myself. Do go, there's a good master, and send up that
                  'ere new dish; sure, I ain't got the power left in me to draw a cup o' tea, and
                  that 'll help out; that sub——. I don't remember outlandish names. Laukee, me, now
                  all the babies is wakin' up. Here, Robin Hood, here's a crust, a nice crust,
                  petty; there, Birdeen, hush—sh—sh—sh; be still, Goliah, you creetur, there's a
                  sugar-teat for it, the greedy pig; the institution must get it a nanny-goat,
                  nothin' short will satisfy its cravin'.
                  There now, little Daisy's gone and opened her eyes—sh—sh—hush'ee. Now, Dolly
                  Snow's a turnin' up; hush'ee by, baby, on the tree-top; when the winds blow, the
                  cradle will rock; sh—hushee—hushee—sh—sh." And so Mother Jennet went from one crib
                  to another, soothing and quieting the little forlorn human waifs, who
                  did not feel, under her kind care, the usual hard destiny of foundlings and
                  paupers.
               "I'm sorry to leave you, Whistler; I'd like to stay a bit longer; but this is
                  directors' day, and I've got an account or two to square yet. Give us your hand; I
                  tell you, old boy, you've done me a sight of good, and I hope you'll make yourself
                  at home, and help Mother Carey to nurse her chickens 'till I pop in again," said
                  Mr. Hartly, giving Will Dobbler's hand a warm shake.
               "Many thanks for the same, commodore, and for hoisting friendly
                  colors to a weather-beaten craft as was in distress," he replied, with
                  feeling.
               "I'm your debtor for life, Mr. Whistler, for giving Joey and his varmints such a
                  lesson as you did; I'll see you again in an hour or so," said Mr. Hartly,
                  chuckling, and laughing to himself until he got out of sight.
               "Now honey, Will, sit down here, jist where I can see you; that's the place," said
                  Mother Jennet; while tears, like rain with the April sunshine gleaming on them,
                  twinkled in endless succession over her cheeks. "And you warn't drowned, arter
                  all? Twenty—twenty-five—thirty—thirty-five years ago, the news come that the bark
                  Mermaid was wrecked in furrin parts, and all perished."
               "Most all—a'most all went down to Davy's Locker, that wild night, Mother Jennet;
                  but they went like men, like sons of the sea; strong, hale, and hearty; no land
                  fevers, or palsies, or wearin' out old age, battered their hulks; but all taut,
                  their cordage trimmed, and sails furled, they went down among the coral reefs,
                  through fathoms of brine, to rest in their hammocks until the great Captain above
                  pipes all hands a-board again," said Will Dobbler, while his chest heaved, and the
                  muscles of his face worked with the anguish of remembrance.
               "And you, honey?" asked the old woman, after a short silence.
               "Me! I was settling for a final plunge, and Lord! how the storm howled; how the
                  waves roared; but may-be you've heerd twelve thousand head of buffaloes a
                  bellowin' at once. No—well I tell you, the roarin' of twelve thousand
                  wounded buffaloes, on a injin prayrie, is a mere carcumstance to the onnatural,
                  onarthly moanin' of the sea that night. I was dead foundered, Mother Carey, and
                  was about goin' down the third time when a hencoop dashed ath'art my bows. One man
                  was hangin' to it, like a monkey on a main chain; and with one desp'rate tug with
                  the waves, I reached it, and somehow clambered beside him. In another-minute the
                  whole consarn was dashed high and dry on a rocky lea shore. With the little
                  stamina I had left, I dragged the poor half-drowned devil further up on the beach,
                  jist in time, by gorry, to keep the surf from washin' us out again. The long and
                  short of the yarn is this. The Mermaid was wrecked off one of the South Sea
                  Islands; we two, out of eight hundred men, was all that ever seen sunrise again,
                  and among the cannibals at that. Maneaters! the fiercest devils unhung. They
                  roasted poor Phil and ate him, but spared me, because I happened to 'a been
                  tattooed on my arms, by a red skin, when I was a younker. Yes; these here spread
                  eagles, and arrows, and crosses, done in Proosian blue on my flappers, saved my
                  life; they thought I was a tabooed man, and treated me well enough for four years
                  or more. But one night, the moon was shinin' like a light in the binnacle, and the
                  stars, Mother Carey, like so many port-holes, let down blazes on the sea; I spied
                  a ship castin' anchor, a mile or so out on the offing; so givin' three cheers,
                  into the surf I plunged, and swum like a shark 'till I got alongside, hailed the
                  watch, and finally stood on a man-o'- war's deck once more. The next day we sot
                  sail for the Injies, where I cruised about, picking up a prize here and there, and
                  have come home, Mother Carey, with yallow gold enough for all us."
               "There's them livin' as will be glad to hear it, Whistler!" said the old woman,
                  wiping her eyes.
               "Now we be comin' around to the right p'int of the compass. I was afeard to ax
                  about 'em!" said the sailor, with emotion.
               "They're very poor, Whistler! very poor! Old Paul is doting, and Rachel has a hard
                  time to get on, I tell you. I'm afeard they want bread sometimes; but cheer up,
                  lad; where's the use in frettin' now? Ain't you home once more, and won't their
                  last days be their best, please God?" replied Mother Jennet, drawing his great
                  brown hand gently away from his eyes.
               "Yes! shiver my topsail, they shall. The latter end of their cruise shall be a
                  jolly one, or my name's not Will Dobbler! But there's yet another. You remember
                  when Paul and Rachel steered westward, he left a child with—with—you know who; I
                  never got over that, Mother Carey. I have never called her name since her faithful
                  heart struck its flag, and went down ten fathom under the green billows of the
                  churchyard. When I went that v'yage to Brazeel, there was life and love at home, a
                  lamp in the lighthouse; but all was dark and still when I got back to port. You
                  had taken Paul's child, little Maggie, under convoy, and I left her with you.
                  Where is she? Dead?"
               
               "The Lord knows, Will! the Lord only knows! It's that as grieves old Paul so! He's
                  always asking for Maggie. You know he's childish, and he goes out every day
                  expectin' to find her; but he'll never find her now, in my opinion!"
               "Is she dead, think you?"
               "As I said afore, the Lord only knows! One day, when she was about fifteen, she
                  run off with a smart young chap belongin' to the ship-yard. He was a caulker, and
                  his name was Jack Divers. I heerd they got married, and went north'ard. I never
                  saw her afterwards. It was soon after that Paul and Rachel come back, poor
                  things!" A heart-wrung groan escaped the sailor's breast. "Don't take on so,
                  Will," continued Mother Jennet, "don't. Here's nice hot coffee, and hot buttered
                  bread from the master's own table; take sum'ut; he sent it with the truest of
                  welcome, I know!" She took the steaming bowl and platter from the hands of the boy
                  who brought them, and arranged them temptingly on a small table near her visitor;
                  but he pushed back his chair and said, "It's no use, Mother Carey! The commodore's
                  mighty kind; may he never want pork or duff in his locker! But I can't eat; I feel
                  choky, somehow, since you told me how stormtossed my kith and kin be. I must up
                     hellum*
                     and give 'em chase. What course must I steer?"
               
                  
                  *Helm.
               
               "You remember the old ropewalk, and the beech-tree spring?"
               "Ay—ay; well!"
               "Inquire about there; there be many houses built up since you was last there; but
                  they were put up for the accommodation of poor folks, and some are tumblin' to
                  pieces a'ready!" she replied.
               "All's right, and steady's the word; my course is clear, and no mistake. Good-by;
                  there's a keepsake for you until I come again," he said, dropping three or, four
                  broad gold pieces in her apron. The unwonted sight, the sudden possession of such
                  enormous wealth, as they seemed to present to the poor old almshouse matron,
                  deprived her of the faculty of speech for a little while; she gathered up the
                  shining coins, and, holding them up to the light, examined with a curious eye
                  first one side and then the other; and when she would have poured out her voluble
                  thanks to her benefactor, she turned—she looked in every direction around her—but
                  Whistler was gone. 
                     
                        
                           CHORD SECOND.
                           "The prosperous deem not
                           That still miracles happen; for only in misery owns man
                           God's kind hand, and His finger, by which good men are to good
                              works
                           Guided."
                        
                     
                     GOETHE.
                  
               
               In his rush-bottomed chair, with, his sharp elbows resting on the arms, and his
                  long, talon-like fingers knit together supporting his chin, sat old Paul. His lank
                  white locks fell over his temples and shoulders, and his mist-covered eyes peered
                  steadily into the flickering embers of the grate. The sun's rays, stealing through
                  the half-curtained window behind him, tinged the outline of his poor old bowed
                  frame with grotesque brightness, as if light from the half open portals of death
                  were dawning around him, the way-worn, time-tossed pilgrim.
               By his side knelt Rachel Hewlett, holding his breakfast, which consisted of a
                  small bowl of gruel of the poorest kind, and a piece of toast moistened with hot
                  water. Meekly and patiently, her own fast unbroken, knelt she, waiting until the
                  spell passed away from the clouded mind, to minister to his meagre wants. The
                  spirit of the Roman daughter lived beneath that scant garb of poverty. A more than
                  Roman spirit had taught her resignation in life's conflict; the talismanic emblem
                  of her inner faith, high courage. The splinters of the cross ofttimes wounded her
                  patient soul; but, a member of the THORN-CROWNED HEAD, she rebelled not by
                  murmurs, counting herself unworthy even of suffering with Him. This was her
                  secret—her inspiration; the lamp that cheered her poor soul's inner sanctuary; the
                  treasure that would enter the eternal portals with her—those portals which would
                  close for aye on the tribulation of sighs and tears, when the fitful dream was
                  over.
               "Father, dear! take it now, while it is warm! she said, gently.
               "Eh, Rache, good child! what wouldst thou now, Rache?" he said, slowly turning his
                  head towards her.
               "Eat, dear father—it is time you broke your fast! Here is something warm, and only
                  behold how bright the sunshine comes in! I hear, too, a robin chirping
                  without—there, he is perched on the window-sill; listen, dear, how blithely he
                  whistles! Does it not make you glad?" she said, with a smile on her thin, careworn
                  face.
               "But the whole earth is parched up, Rache; it wants rain, rain—child. And I'll
                  tell thee a brave secret; come closer," he said with a cunning look. "It is all
                  frozen; every drop of it is frozen in my eyes. That is the reason why there is
                  such trouble around us. Ha, ha, ha! That's a brave secret, child. When rain-drops
                  melt down from my frozen eyes, all will be right again; all will be right,
                  Rache—all clear."
               "Yes, dear!" said the patient Rachel, "all will be right then, all clear!"
               "And I can find our Maggie, child. I can find her, then!" he said, exultingly.
               
               "Among the angels, father, dear—among the angels of God!" said the woman, lifting
                  her eyes upwards.
               "They never grow old there, do they, Rache? The little children, I say, never grow
                  older for thousands of eternal years?" he asked, after a short pause.
               "Never—never grow old, dear!" she replied, strangely moved by his wild but
                  spiritual talk.
               "Then will I know her, among them all? We have had a rough journey,
                  Rache—a rough journey; but the end is peace!" he said calmly, while a ray of
                  intelligence beamed forth from his sunken eyes.
               "Suffering and poverty are purifiers of our fallen nature!" said the woman,
                  meekly. "The will of God be glorified forever and ever!"
               "Yes, forever and ever," echoed the old man. Then he spoke no more; and, after a
                  short reverential pause, she offered him the unnoticed food, of which he partook
                  in silence. Just then, a low timid knock was heard at the door, and when Mrs.
                  Hewlett opened it, her surprise was great when she saw an old, weather-beaten
                  stranger standing on the thresold, his head bared, his countenance betraying
                  anxiety, and his whole manner indicating powerful but suppressed emotion. Obeying
                  her courteous invitation in silence, he walked in, and seated himself opposite the
                  old man.
               "That is my father, sir—he is very infirm," she observed, taking up her sewing
                  from her work-basket.
               "Ay, ay! His v'yage is nearly over, that's clear!" replied the sailor.
               "Who is it, Rachel—who is it, child?" asked old Paul.
               "It's no use tacking; the wind's ahead, but it's no use tacking. I ain't used to
                  it. I can't do it," muttered the sailor. "Holloa, old shipmate, you had a brother
                  once!" he continued, drawing his chair, suddenly, near the aged man; "you had a
                  brother, I say."
               "Did he say a brother, Rachel? Who is he, dear?"
               "A friend, father—he's a friend, come to talk with you about old times," said the
                  trusting Rachel. "Talk pleasantly, sir, if you please; he is childish, quite
                  childish," she whispered.
               "Ay, ay: one beat of the surf would dash the old wreck to pieces. I mean well, I'm
                  sailing under true colors. I say, old gentleman, you had a brother once, Will
                  Dobbler—a sea-farin' dog, a brother—"
               "I don't know who you are," he moaned. "Little Maggie is gone. I might have had a
                  brother; but the salt brine, and the clods of the valley, and the earth-worms, go
                  ask 'em. They can tell you. I don't know, I'm sure."
               Honest Will dashed his rough hand over his eyes, and got up, and walked to and fro
                  the narrow room.
               "I remember him, sir; I remember him well; but he was lost at sea!" said Mrs.
                  Hewlett, timidly.
               "No—he was not lost at sea. He was saved. Then he went to the Injies,
                  where he got more rupees than he wanted, and the yallow fever-"
               "And did he die there, sir?" asked Mrs. Hewlett.
               "Out o' your reckonin' intirely. He didn't die. He and yallow Jack
                  had a reg'lar hard battle, but he got the vict'ry—huzza. Don't you know me, Rache?
                  Huzza—I'm your uncle—huzza!" cried he, pitching his tarpaulin up to the ceiling
                  three times.
               "Are you my uncle Will, sir?" she asked, dropping her work on her lap, while she
                  fixed her eyes with a gentle, but penetrating glance on his face, as if
                  endeavoring to find familiar traces and lines which would convince her of his
                  identity.
               "My name is William Dobbler—boatswain of the Mermaid, when wracked.
                     His is Paul Dobbler—you are Rachel, his
                  daughter! In course, then, I am your uncle. You've had a squally v'yage, old
                  girl—but it's over now; shiver my topsail if it ain't. The log-line of sorrow's
                  run clean out—it'll reckon no more knots on that score. We'll find snug moorings,
                  Rachel, somewhere—" By this time early recollections, which had been almost
                  obscured by sufferings and trials, grew brighter and brighter, until she no longer
                  doubted his identity, but, with a grateful outpouring of her soul to Heaven, for
                  the friend so unexpectedly sent, she fell weeping on the warm-hearted sailor's
                  bosom. * * * And thus the earth-clouds which had hung so low, so dark and
                  lowering, until naught but the strong pinions of faith could stem the palpable and
                  murky gloom, were suddenly dispersed by the breath of Him who allowed them to
                  gather—and henceforth their pilgrimage would be in peace. * * * 
                     
                        
                           CHORD THIRD.
                           "What in a name is not, that out of him comes not—
                           What would come of a house, or what of a city, if each one
                           Deemed not, aye, that a pleasant task to preserve and restore it,
                           And to improve, as still new times and foreigners teach us?
                           'Tis not for a man to shrink like a mushroom back to his nothing
                           Merely to wither and rot on the spot that gave him his being,
                           After him no trace of life's ambition leaving.
                        
                     
                     GOETHE.
                  
               
               
               "I thought I'd drop in a moment, as I was passing, my dear Mrs. Tresham, to
                  inquire after your cold," said the indefatigable Miss Cicely Thorne, settling
                  herself comfortably among the cushions of a fauteuil the footman had wheeled up near the fire for her
                  accommodation.
               "Thank you," replied Mrs. Tresham, in a quiet tone, "my cold is better. John, tell
                  Miss Tresham that Miss Thorne is here." Then she resumed her knitting.
               "And, my dear Mrs. Tresham," continued her visitor, "I thought it would be no harm
                  to blend charitable business with my social pleasures. You are so good to the
                  poor—so ready always with a donation, although you won't let yourself be seen on a
                  subscription paper—that I am almost sure my request will be granted before I ask
                  it."
               "What did you observe, my dear?" asked Mrs. Tresham, looking up.
               "She's getting deaf as a beetle," muttered Miss Thorne; then leaning over,
                  repeated what she had said in a louder tone.
               "What may be the object now?" she inquired, folding her hands on her lap, and
                  turning her full, placid eyes on the restless visual Organs of her guest.
               "Our widows, dear! our widows! We have four new ones, as helpless as babes—sickly,
                  meagre, and a dead weight on our society; and you are aware that every additional
                  mouth calls for an additional outlay of our cramped funds," she replied,
                  glibly.
               "Well?"
               "So, in view of these facts, the lady managers have determined to beg a few
                  hundred dollars to aid the general fund, and keep the society out of debt. As you
                  know, my dear Mrs. Tresham, the object and plans of this particular society are
                  founded on the most philanthropic and benevolent basis—"
               "Nothing can be more excellent, Miss Thorne."
               "And I know!" continued the benevolent lady, "you will give us a trifle; a mere
                  trifle. We don't expect magnificent donations—but wish all to give
                  something; little drops, you know, fill the ocean."
               Mrs. Tresham, with a quiet air, put aside the folds of her gray silk dress to get
                  more conveniently at her pocket, out of which she drew her purse, and, opening it,
                  handed Miss Thorne therefrom a half-dollar. Only the day before, she had sent her
                  anonymous contribution of fifty dollars to the "Widow's Refuge."
               "You thought this was an eagle, I guess, Mrs. Tresham!" said Miss Thorne, gulping
                  down her disappointment, and endeavoring to conceal her chagrin, under a facetious air.
               "No!" replied Mrs. Tresham, drily, as she took up her everlasting knitting: "I
                     am somewhat deaf, but my sight is not at all defective. You asked
                  for a trifle; I gave you the widow's mite. I cannot afford to bestow a large
                  donation at present."
               The entrance of Miss Tresham, a tall, showy-looking girl, in a fashionable India
                     negligée, and hair en
                     papillotte, interrupted the conversation. An ambitious aspirant for
                  fashionable privileges, she had but just succeeded in getting to the threshold of
                  the haut ton, and only waited for some fortunate
                  chance to usher her fully into its high mysteries. Miss Thorne's position, as a
                  general attachée to every stylish family in
                  town, gave her great importance with Miss Sophia Tresham, who listened to her
                  chit-chat and descriptions, and narratives of the sayings and doings of the
                  exclusives, with the same reverence that a Grecian priestess would have listened
                  to the oracles of the Pythia. She expected much from her assistance, therefore.
                  Miss Thorne's name was ever a welcome announcement; and it not unfrequently
                  happened, during these interviews, that she paid handsome tribute, in the way of
                  charitable contributions from her own quarterly allowance, in return for the
                  flattering hopes which were held out to her dazzled eyes, of finally attaining a
                  position among the ultra fashionables of the town through the influence of her
                  friendship and interest.
               Mrs. Tresham was called out by a servant to preside at some domestic consultation.
                  All her movements were so placid that they would not have observed her exit, had
                  she not paused a moment beside Miss Thorne to apologize for "her absence, and hope
                  she would not be gone before she returned to the parlor." Miss Thorne regarded the
                  interruption as a direct interposition of Providence in favor of a plan which she
                  presently developed with her usual skill; and was quite sincere in her "hope that
                  Mrs. Tresham would not hurry back on her account; she knew the imperative demands
                  on a housekeeper's time, and duty must be consulted before
                  pleasure."
               "What a quiet soul it is! never ruffled, or moved, or excited by passing
                  incidents! She pursues the even tenor of her way through every obstacle—she's in
                  the world, but not of it," she remarked to Miss Tresham, as the door closed.
               "Yes! mamma is much too quiet! She is just one of those characters who vegetate in
                  the world, instead of live!—who never look beyond their own humdrum routine! She
                  talks a great deal, to be sure, about rational enjoyment, and the application of
                  riches to noble aims, which sounds very grand, only I can't exactly
                  understand it. I'm dying for a new equipage—something stylish, like Mrs. De
                  Vere's; but she puts me down at once, by telling me 'it is out of the question. Our own answers every
                  useful purpose admirably; and what is good enough for her, will do for me.' And
                  it's the shabbiest, old-timed thing! I was carried to church in it, to be
                  christened, when I was a month old—now I'm twenty. Just imagine how horrible it is
                  to be obliged to use the same carriage twenty years!" rattled Miss Tresham.
               "Dear me! Mrs. Tresham is one of the best of women; but it is a pity, my dear, for
                  your sake, that, with her income, she is so decidedly behind the age," said Miss
                  Thorne, in a sympathizing tone.
               "It's dreadful!" exclaimed the young lady, fairly bursting into tears. "I shall
                     never get on, so hampered by mamma's old-fashioned theories. A
                  clear income of fifteen thousand a year, properly applied, would accomplish all I
                  wish. Who, on entering our drawing-rooms, would judge, from the sober, quakerish
                  look of everything, that there were such things as money and taste in the
                  world?"
               "True!" chimed in Miss Thorne.
               "I purchased with my own money, a few weeks ago, the dearest old set of India
                  china pieces; cream-jug, tea-pot, only a little cracked, sugar-bowl, but no top,
                  and several cups and saucers, to set about on the parlor tables, it being the
                  fashion; but mamma ordered them every one up to my room, with a request that 'I
                  would keep them there; she could not bear such pretension.' Those drab damask
                  curtains are of her selection, and cost more, absolutely, than a set of stylish
                  red ones would; those cornices, so plain, and plated with silver, are twice as
                  expensive as the showy gilded ones one sees everywhere. These chairs, and lounges,
                  and ottomans, without one partcile of gilding, and covered with purple velvet, are
                  more fit for a sober parsonage than a modern drawing-room. Even the mirrors are
                  framed in narrow strips of silver."
               "It is all very, very neat, my dear!"
               "But it's not the fashion; it's not recherché;
                  it's odd without being elegant, and I can't bear it. And as to a fashionable
                  party! no lady abbess could object to waltzing, dressing low, and the divine
                  polka, more than mamma does. But let us change the painful subject. It can't be
                  helped! When I'm my own mistress, I will convince the world that I have some
                  taste. My father's will did me great injustice. He left my brother a handsome
                  allowance, and me entirely dependent on mamma as long as she lives."
               "Hope on, hope ever, child! I'll do my best to get you on. Your own attractions,
                  and the reputation of being eventually mistress of a large fortune, will do the
                  rest. But patience, patience, my dear Sophia, must have its perfect work. But
                  bless me, how I am sitting! I came merely to beg a little donation for a most
                  worthy object, and have lengthened my call into a long social visit; but you are
                  so agreeable, my dear! I was not ten minutes at Mrs. Willoughby's, and merely
                  popped in at Mrs. de Vere's and popped out again, but got ten dollars at each
                  house; sum total twenty. They never refuse to respond generously and
                  liberally to charitable demands."
               "Of course, mamma has given something handsome?" inquired Sophy Tresham,
                  anxiously.
               "If all would bestow even the sum that she did, my dear, our funds
                  would rapidly accumulate to a handsome capital; but there are many, unfortunately
                  for the cause of benevolence, who are so parsimonious as to refuse even the
                  smallest trifle," said Miss Thorne, significantly.
               "But how much did mamma give?"
               "Fifty cents, my dear! That will help the cause a little, you know, and it is our
                  rule to refuse nothing. The smallest contribution is valued."
               "Oh, oh—I am mortified beyond measure! Only fifty cents from Mrs. Tresham, who can
                  afford to give as many dollars! Pray don't name it, Miss Thorne; I will endeavor
                  to redeem our name from such absolute—I must call it by its true name—meanness.
                  Wait a moment." And Miss Tresham, with crimsoned cheeks, ran up stairs, and, ruled
                  by a false motive which wore the garb of charity, and suggested no higher object
                  than conciliating the world and escaping the imputation of illiberality, she drew
                  from among the loose change in her purse the last half-eagle she had, then,
                  hurrying down, thrust it into Miss Thorne's hand just as Mrs. Tresham returned to
                  her chair and knitting beside the fire. Miss Thorne pressed the hand which
                  silently transferred the welcome coin to her rapacious palm, in appreciation of
                  the generosity of the act, and, feeling more comfortable after her success,
                  yielded to Miss Tresham's entreaties to sit longer.
               "We will have a remarkably gay Easter. Miss Willoughby is certainly to be married
                  to Mr. Shirley. Bessie De Vere is engaged to a rich young planter from the South,
                  of high family, named Aubry; his name is Herbert Aubry; and it is
                  currently reported that the young English colonel, nephew to lord somebody, is in
                  love with Alice; and there's no doubt but that the three weddings will be
                  celebrated at the same time. Indeed, I have the best authority for saying so; but
                  it is a great secret, and I hope you won't repeat it. There will be no end to the
                  dinners and evening parties which will follow this triple alliance. The town will
                  be like a great carnival, every one will be so gay," observed Miss Thorne,
                  confidentially.
               
               "I know Mr. Frederick De Vere. He's a remarkably elegant young gentleman. I was
                  introduced to him by my brother; but I heard that he was a suitor of
                  Miss Willoughby's," said Miss Tresham.
               "Yes: I believe he has proposed. It would be a most excellent match for him, in
                  point of family. They are all aiming at alliances of that kind. It is all they
                  need, poor things, to give tone to their wealth, and strength to their position in
                  the world; but that match is out of the question, depend on it," said
                  Miss Thorne, a little confused at the contretemps she had made; a contretemps which made Miss Tresham wince, and caused her mother to
                  lift up her blue, placid eyes with an expression of wonder, and expand and
                  brighten, until the round, fair forehead and gray hair, so lightly covered with a
                  little lace mob-cab, fairly grew radiant, as she burst in with—
               "Is worth, then, of no account in the world? John De Vere, although he has
                  foolishly submitted in some respects to the silly dictations of his wife, is a
                  most excellent and worthy man; entitled by his virtues to become the head and
                  founder of a race who may be proud of him, and imitate his life with honor and
                  profit to themselves. Methinks his children, if they resemble him, need not aspire
                  to such worthless and worn-out pretensions as those you have named."
               "My opinions, precisely!" said Miss Thorne, lifting upwards both hands and eyes.
                  "You are quite right, Mrs. Tresham; but it is the silly way of the world to be
                  always aspiring to objects it does not possess."
               "That is because it does not consider that the successes which it most prizes
                  depend on merit; that a man cannot rise to eminence of any kind except by a
                  combination of qualities which give an upward force to circumstances, independent
                  of mere accidents. The mere fact of high descent never made a hero, or statesman,
                  or philosopher; and fashion, and frippery, and folly never realized any
                  substantial good in the history of the world, that I have heard of," said Mrs.
                  Tresham, with calm decision.
               "No, that is quite true. But abstract ideas are out of date," observed Miss
                  Thorne, fidgeting.
               "I fear they are, my dear. But, believe me, it is because, good abstractions are
                  so much out of fashion, that life is so burdened with misery, that disorders exist
                  in society which are a reproach to a Christian republic, that social evils are
                  daily aggravated until a system of serfdom, far exceeding in its hard exactions
                  the feudal villanage of Europe, is established among us. There is one antidote,
                  however, for the evil; and that is, a high and independent sentiment of
                  self-respect, which some, thank Heaven, have the courage to exercise," continued
                  Mrs. Tresham, glad of an opportunity of expressing her ultra opinions to one who
                  piqued herself so much on caste as did Miss
                  Thorne.
               "But you will admit that the most refined enjoyments exist in polished and
                  intellectual society; high-toned pleasures unknown to any other class?" suggested
                  Miss Thorne.
               "Intelligent and polished people are not of the class I allude to. I admire both
                  intelligence and refinement if blended with sincerity of character, without which
                  both lose their dignity. I allude to the class whose only aim is fashion, fashion,
                  fashion, to the exclusion of every pursuit that can ennoble and enrich the heart,"
                  she replied.
               "Ah, madam, the world will have its follies, its peculiar enjoyments. Probably if
                  you and I could recall our youthful bloom, if either of us could exchange ages
                  with—Miss Tresham, for instance, we would view things differently!" blandly
                  suggested Miss Thorne, rising to go.
               "I think now, my dear, as I have always thought, and my opinions generally radiate
                  from fixed principles, which a certain moral independence gives me strength to
                  maintain consistently—parvenue, and the daughter
                  and widow of parvenues, as I am," said Mrs.
                  Tresham, smiling good-naturedly.
               "Good heavens!" thought Miss Thorne, "a mob-cap—a gray-silk dress—in fact, quite a
                  nobody—setting the whole world at utter defiance!"
               "Mamma would not be so severe and ultra, I fancy, if she could hear
                  more distinctly," observed Miss Tresham, smiling through her agonies. "Her
                  infirmity would not allow her to enjoy the reciprocal delights of society, even if
                  her disposition led her that way."
               "You are quite mistaken, daughter," she replied, quickly. "My infirmity, as you
                  call it, has naught to do with the matter; nor is it ever a source of annoyance to
                  me, because it abridges me of no real rational pleasure. I am generally a silent
                  person; and I assure you that, when compelled by circumstances to listen to the
                  uncongenial sounds and hurly-burly of this great world, instead of being thankful
                  that I am deaf in only one ear, I am wicked enough to wish I was deaf in
                  both."
               "She is the most strong-minded person I ever met with," whispered Miss Thorne, at
                  the hall door; "but her ideas are all fallacies; depend on it, they are. However,
                  you must not be buried alive on account of them. I'll see to that. You will yet
                  shine as you deserve to do among the élite of
                  society; you were born for it; and it
                  will be contrary to the laws of destiny and nature if you do not. One kiss
                  more—poor dear creature—such odd notions to contend with—good-by." And Miss Thorne
                  flitted out, muttering as she cleared the last marble step, "What intolerable
                  bores! what an immense twaddler that old Tresham is"—and Miss Tresham flitted up
                  to her toilet, murmuring softly, "Exalted friendship, disinterested love—may I be
                  worthy of it all!" while Mrs. Tresham, calm and unmoved, sang in a low, gentle
                  tone of voice, the old-fashioned air of "Kinlock," while she dexterously rounded
                  off the heel of her stocking by her quiet fireside.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Hel. Neglect me—lose me—only give me leave,
                           Unworthy as I am, to follow you.
                           What worser place can I beg in your love,
                           Than to be used as you use your dog?
                        
                     
                     MIDSUMMER'S NIGHT DREAM.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           As doth the blushing, discontented sun,
                           From out the fiery portals of the East,
                           When he perceives that envious clouds are bent
                           To dim his glory, and to stain the track
                           Of his bright passage to the occident,
                           Yet looks he like a king. Behold his eye,
                           As bright as is the eagle's, lightens forth
                           Controlling majesty. Alack—alack for woe,
                           That any harm should stain so bright a show.
                        
                     
                     KING RICHARD.
                  
               
               TIME glided on, and Walter Shirley was untiring in his will. He paused not, as he
                  wove his spells, and left no art untried to entangle the unsuspicious Edith's
                  affections, or, in some unwary hour, beguile her into promises, from which she
                  could not honorably retreat. He possessed a high order of musical talent—but it
                  was for her alone that he touched the strings of his guitar; or sang in the
                  gloaming the pathetic airs they both loved, like a troubadour of old, to his own
                  poetry. For her he smiled the brightest; and for her the low tender words,
                  revealing the heart's cherished secret, were uttered. Every resource of his gifted
                  mind, and every quality of an evil nature, which seemed formed for deliberate
                  sinning, were called into requisition in the attainment of his coveted object.
               Surrounded by fashionable cliques—his senses steeped in the incense of adulation
                  they offered him; considered the most elegant man in society; exclusive in his
                  tastes and habits; disdainful of all who could not boast of birth and the
                  refinements of fashion—the fictitious enjoyments of existence—its sensuality and
                  false philosophy—its irrational conclusions; an utter spirit of selfishness filled
                  up his world! And well he dissembled, when he persuaded the confiding Edith that
                  it was a painful necessity of his position, the being obliged to mingle
                  perpetually in the unreal and vapid routine of fashion, to waste so
                  many valuable hours in senseless conventionalities and trifling associations,
                  while his very soul sickened beneath the mask, and yearned for the genuine
                  pleasures of retirement and study—for the precious moments he sometimes dreamed
                  of, when lingering beside her, who knew him so well, he could throw it off with
                  the same glad feeling that a captive hurls away his weary fetters! And she
                  believed and pitied him! Her imagination was dazzled, and ofttimes her judgment
                  fascinated by his smooth pretensions; and her woman's vanity unconsciously
                  flattered by his preferences—but this was all. She would fain have given back in
                  return the full measure of his devotion, and sometimes, while listening to the
                  whisperings of his low, sweet voice, she felt that it would be a somewhat
                  difficult task to analyze her sentiments in his regard; but at these very moments,
                  when pity and interest seemed ripening into a warmer feeling, a remembered word or
                  glance of Harry De Vere's would present itself to her mind, and his image, noble
                  and perfect in its gentle dignity, would steal into her heart, interposing the
                  shield of a pure and unsullied love between its innocency and the dawnings of mere
                  passion or fancy.
               But still he charmed her with poetic fancies, and mingled with his storied
                  descriptions of the scenery of those distant classic lands which her glowing fancy
                  had imbued with such a dreamy beauty, the revelation of his hopes, his fears, and
                  love. His relationship to her step-mother imparted a greater appearance of
                  intimacy than in reality existed between Edith and himself, and gave him a
                  privileged position in the family, which he availed himself of at every
                  opportunity. It was already reported, and by many credited as true, that they were
                  plighted to each other, while appearances not only indicated, but confirmed the
                  seeming fact. He was her constant attendant at the crowded soirées and balls of the season; together they walked, and drove,
                  and the empressement of his manner towards her
                  on every occasion contributed proofs positive to the rumor so propitious to his
                  hopes. But how baffled and confounded would he have felt in the midst of his
                     vain exultation, could he have
                  penetrated the veil of that young heart—could he have seen her after a brilliant
                  evening, leaning weary, and now ofttimes pale, on her toilet, her gems and flowers
                  gleaming, as if in mockery, around her, and her rich draperies falling unheeded
                  beneath her feet, her thoughts brooding—not over memories of him—but of Harry De
                  Vere—blending him with her future; and in her heart's wild dreaming,
                  silently and lovingly following him up each lofty height his noble spirit
                  attained, until her own, strengthened and purified by such ministrations, would
                  grow in every high excellence worthy of such companionship. True, pure affection
                  is ever humble; it loves to cling for support to its object, and at least fancy it
                  of superior worth.
               Several times Edith had met him at Mr. Bedford's—there, unrestrained by ceremony,
                  the rich treasures of his mind and heart were revealed with a natural grace which
                  commanded her admiration. The momentary awkwardness of mauvaise honte at the beginning of each interview—the beaming forth
                  of his truthful and noble heart through the cloud—the gradual melting away of
                  painful reserve, until, like a sun-burst, the varied powers of his refined
                  intellect were developed, presented to her a novel charm—a new and delightful
                  study; and simple in nature, and true in heart as himself, she sought not to veil
                  beneath that cold hypocrisy established by fashionable laws, and misnamed
                  delicacy, the genuine delight she experienced in his society—a delight softened
                  and subdued by womanly feelings, but so pure and exalted in its nature as to need
                  no concealment. Time after time he had called on her, but generally found her so
                  surrounded by friends and admirers, and gay flutterers, as to leave him no
                  opportunity of exchanging aught beyond the mere compliments of the day and season
                  with her. Once only he found her alone, and the interview, though prolonged far
                  beyond the limits prescribed by etiquette,
                  appeared too brief for both. He left her with new hopes dawning on his heart,
                  which opened vistas of such ineffable rapture to him as he never dreamed of
                  before; he felt that his sentiments, although unexpressed, were
                  tacitly understood by Edith, and fancied she was too noble in her nature and too
                  true to virtue to encourage hopes which could never be realized. He only wished
                  her position less brilliant—her wealth less abundant—it would have been the pride
                  of his heart to raise her from obscurity to an exalted station, and surround her
                  with every luxury the most refined taste could suggest. But this could not be. He
                  could add nothing to her worldly advantages—he could bestow on her naught beyond
                  an honorable and devoted heart, and unblemished name, even if she favored his
                  suit; but he loved her, loved her with an intensity far beyond the common love of
                  men. A purer and more self-sacrificing emotion than is usually found on earth ever
                  responded to his thoughts of her, and he felt that in aspiring to her he dared
                  much. A change came over him. He was no longer the shy scholar, avoiding society.
                  Wherever he heard Edith was to be, thither he went; and more than once or thrice
                  his heart thrilled with silent rapture, when he noted her suddenly downcast eyes,
                  her heightened color and smile of welcome, as she recognized him amidst the crowd.
                  All this did not escape Walter Shirley's observation. This mysterious, but
                  eloquent intercourse between kindred hearts, this silent interchange of
                  sympathies, telling more than thousands of words, almost maddened him; hate and
                  revenge mingled their Plutonian bitterness with his schemes; in silence and
                  darkness he plotted ruin and woe to him who had thus dared to cross his path. Fair
                  in his exterior; calm, and always self-possessed, no one could have imagined the
                  blasting storm that was gathering beneath the sunshine. He displayed towards Harry
                  De Vere a most withering indifference of manner, and on several occasions
                  disparaged him to Mrs. Willoughby by the most injurious insinuations. But,
                  notwithstanding his superlative self-esteem and arrogant assumptions, he feared
                  him as a rival in Edith's affections, and determined to crush his presumption, if
                  wile and stratagem could do it.
               Once more De Vere sought an interview with Edith. He had heard, for the first
                  time, that day, the report of her engagement. In the course of a single morning,
                  it had been dinned repeatedly in his ears. His mother—his sisters—even Mr.
                  Bedford, although he felt highly dissatisfied with the choice which rumor declared
                  she had made, did not spare him; for he had told his love to none. He considered
                  it too sacred a thing to prate about, or exhibit; therefore, he was not suspected
                  of entertaining a warmer sentiment than admiration for the beautiful heiress. With
                  a heart stirred up to bitter fancies, and saddened by presentiments of evil, he
                  entered her presence, but only to wish his infatuation had led him elsewhere. She
                  was alone with Walter Shirley. He was leaning over the back of her chair; her
                  curls touched his cheeks; his breath mingled with hers, while he pointed out some
                  of the finest views in a folio of engravings which she held, delineations of
                  scenes in Italy which he had just brought her. Her face was lit up with a superb
                  expression of intellectual and dreamy enjoyment, as seer-like he gave life to the
                  pictures by his eloquent descriptions of the various scenes he was familiar
                  with.
               "There, Edith, just under the shadow of that hill, I used to moor my skiff on the
                  moonlit waves of the Lagrian Lake, while those villas on the picturesque heights which surround it looked like great
                  pearls amidst the gloom of the woods. Through the dewy nights I have floated on
                  its waters wherever the tide listed, with no sound to disturb my musings but the
                  plaintive songs of the lonely fisherman, and the rippling of its starry billows
                  about the prow of my skiff. There is Lago Maggiore, sunny and beautiful, with its
                  gem-like isles. You should see that at sunset, gleaming in sapphire
                  and crimson, while the sky, like a gemmed pavilion, draped with purple tissues,
                  smiles sweetly and lovingly down on it. There, Edith, there is, VENICE. Like a
                  queen, she sits throned on the sea, crowned with a thousand spires of lustrous
                  marble, and gilded fanes and palaces: 
                     
                        'Along her narrow streets
                        The tides of ocean ebb and flow—'
                     
                   while the chant of the gondolieri, the music of stringed instruments, and the
                  harmonious rippling of waves against the ancient palace walls, are the only sounds
                  we hear. I used to go out at midnight in my gondola, and, dreaming of its ancient
                  splendors, awed by its solemn beauty, as I floated along the lagune, linger until
                  sunrise crimsoned the sea, and burnished with gold every lofty point. Then me
                  thought I beheld, in the distance, the Bucentaur and its magnificent
                  train of gondolas, crowded with the beauty and chivalry of Venice, coming forth
                  with music and banners to witness the mystic nuptials of the sea. But these
                  visions were only morning clouds, stirred into motion by the winds, which soon
                  dispelled their gilded phantasms. There is Leghorn, the city of the magnificent
                  Medicis. That is Petrarch's villa. It is in Arqua, on the northern side of a fine
                  hill, commanding a view of the whole fertile valley that winds through the
                  Eugenean hills—those hills, once the abode of soothsayers and sybils—"
               "Good morning, Mr. De Vere," said Edith, closing the folio when he was announced,
                  while a blush mantled her cheeks—a blush of welcome, which he construed into one
                  of confusion.
               "I hope Miss Willoughby is quite well this morning," he said calmly, as he seated
                  himself, and fixed his clear, penetrating eyes on hers.
               "I am well, thank you; but Mr. Shirley has been pointing out to me
                  some of his old European haunts, which have, wrought me up to such a fever of
                  enthusiasm that nothing less than a personal visit will allay. I fear the perils
                  of the sea, but think I must some day brave them all, for the purpose of exploring
                  the classic and glorious haunts of these lands; these old, dreamy lands," she
                  said, smiling.
               "We will go, Edith," said Walter Shirley, in a low voice, but quite loud enough
                  for De Vere to hear him. "As your cicerone, I shall feel more than repaid, by
                  hearing your enthusiastic admiration, and watching the effect of each lovely scene
                  on you."
               "I beg that I may not interrupt your imaginary tour, Miss Willoughby," he
                  said.
               "Not at all. We can resume it some other time," said Shirley, with a supercilious
                  air.
               "Certainly we can," remarked Edith. "Tell me, Mr. De Vere, how Bessie is. I hear
                  Mr. Aubry, the southern Adonis, is her devoted?"
               "My sister is quite well, I am obliged to you. As to the report relative to Mr.
                  Aubry, I cannot enlighten you. Rumors are, however, the forerunners of realities
                  sometimes. It may be so," he replied.
               "Always making due allowance for unlimited exaggeration, they may possibly be a
                  foreshadowing of coming events," said Edith, coloring.
               "She is heartless," he thought. "I have been deceived by the illusions of my own
                  credulous fancies. But can it be that those eyes, looking so unclouded into mine,
                  veil a false heart? The thought is agony. She may never have loved me; but to
                  think of her as a trifler, all unworthy of a generous affection, would be a bitter
                  pang." During the few minutes longer that he lingered, his manner was cold, and
                  restrained within the chilling bounds of mere civility, while, in his secret
                  heart, he cursed the illusion that had afforded him such a mockery of rapture.
                  Edith noted the change, and wondered at it, while she endeavored, under a gay
                  demeanor, to conceal the pain it inflicted. Walter Shirley, with his demon-like
                  perceptions, so keen and sentient, read each heart and exulted. He addressed a few
                  remarks, in a tone of condescending politeness, to De Vere, who, deeply stung,
                  replied haughtily and almost discourteously; then, turning to Edith with an
                  unmoved countenance, made some casual remark, his manner giving it a significance
                  which implied mutual confidence between them. All the pride of Harry De Vere's
                  nature was roused; he could scarcely conceal the contempt he felt for the subtle,
                  sinuous character of his smooth rival; and fearing, if he remained longer, he
                  might, in an unguarded moment, give him an advantage, by the betrayal of some of
                  the bitter emotions of his heart, he made his adieu man abrupt and hurried
                  manner.
               "How excessively churlish genius makes one! Now, that fellow De Vere is
                  unquestionably a sort of intellectual wonder; but utterly wanting in that nice
                  tact which is innate in a well-bred
                  gentleman. 'Pon honor, ma belle Edith, a
                  stranger might have fancied him a jealous lover; he looked as if he would
                  annihilate me," laughed Walter Shirley.
               "Your standard of good breeding, Mr. Shirley, is measured, I fancy, by mere
                  fashionable rules. Mine, perhaps, is somewhat more elevated," replied Edith,
                  coldly. "Mr. De Vere's remarkable talents and virtues place him far—far beyond
                  such hypercritical distinctions, and the unworthy sentiments you have ascribed to
                  him."
               "Bravo! Edith," exclaimed Mr. Bedford, who had come in unannounced. "Good morning,
                  Mr. Shirley. May we never want a friend to defend us when absent! If I had some of
                  my famous white port here, I'd toast you in a brimmer, sweetheart! Where is De
                  Vere? I expected to find him-here."
               "He left only a few minutes ago," replied Edith, looking down.
               "Zounds! how unlucky. I am truly sorry I missed him. A deputation of citizens are
                  waiting at my house now for an interview with him. They went first to his place of
                  business, and learned from some one there that he was with me. I invited them to
                  wait a half hour, and started off in pursuit; stopped at fifty different places;
                  and finally remembered that he told me last evening he intended to call here this
                  morning. It will certainly be a great disappointment if they do not see him in
                  time," said Mr. Bedford, looking worried.
               "Is Mr. De Vere a political character?" asked Walter Shirley.
               "No, sir; he's a patriotic character; a rare thing in these
                  degenerate times. He belongs to the dominant party; but would have the moral
                  courage to sacrifice the petty prejudices of partisan feeling to public utility
                  and national honor at any moment. He's a perfect Curtius, that fellow; he'd leap
                  into the gulf a willing and noble victim, sir, if a crisis demanded sacrifice for
                  the salvation of his country. Have you seen, pray, the articles over the signature
                  of 'Quintus,' which have appeared twice or thrice a week in the 'Free Press?'"
               "Yes; I have not only read them, but heard them more talked of than any newspaper
                  articles ever published in this country. They advocated strenuously and eloquently
                  the measures which the author proposed for State reform. His plans, it is thought,
                  will place our State Institutions on a firm and impregnable basis. Do you know the
                  author?" asked Shirley.
               "Yes; I know him well. He would fain hoodwink the world, as Junius did, respecting
                  his identity; but I have betrayed his secret; taken off his mask, until all the
                  leading men about town know him, and give due honor to his extraordinary talents.
                  Harry De Vere is his name," replied Mr. Bedford, rubbing his hands furiously
                  together.
               Walter Shirley started, and bit his lip. His path was again crossed by the
                  low-born De Vere. No sooner did his star seem rising to the ascendant than, with
                  broader and brighter light, the planet of the other's destiny scaled the arc above
                  it. How dare he, a fellow of yesterday, compete with one so privileged by birth
                  and caste as himself? His rage baffled
                  description; and, in silence, he watched the effect of Mr. Bedford's announcement
                  on Edith; but, better for his peace, had he turned away from such a study. She
                  involuntarily threw back her beautiful head, and, for an instant, looked as if she
                  gloried in the justly earned fame of her heart's choice; an exulting joy kindled a
                  wonderful light in her dark eyes, and her cheeks glowed in the dawning radiance of
                  his future career; then she remembered his cold, changed manner; a sigh rose from
                  her bosom; the light faded from her eyes; the crimson from her cheeks, leaving it
                  a shade paler than its usual tint, and her countenance somewhat sadder.
               "Such a brilliant genius will doubtless thunder in the Senate at no distant day,"
                  sneered Walter Shirley.
               "If the interests of his country demand his services, he will be no laggard,
                  depend on't. With his sound, high-toned views, his talents and pure-hearted
                  patriotism, he may, with good reason, aspire to high degrees in the Republic!"
                  said Mr. Bedford, tartly. "Harry De Vere is no carpet-knight, let me tell you; the
                  cultivation of science, and public utility, are his noble aims. There is a mass
                  meeting called for in the great city square to-night, as you are probably aware,
                  and the people, whose friend and advocate he is, are determined he shall address
                  them; for this purpose the deputation have waited on him."
               "But I understood the Attorney-General and Graham, our distinguished jurists, were
                  to address the meeting. Would not their eloquence suffice for the 'unwashed
                  sovereigns?'" inquired Shirley, contemptuously.
               "I suppose not," said Mr. Bedford, drily. "'Quintus' expressed the views and
                  feelings of these two eminent men in such a sound, logical way, in his admirable
                  articles, that they, as well as the people, ask his aid; but I must be gone.
                  Edith, where is Mrs. Willoughby?"
               "Gone out with Mrs. Lacy, I believe. They have three or four poor families under
                  their especial care, to whom mamma gives employment, and, consequently, relief.
                  Some are maimed and some sick among them; and, when found out in their wretched haunts, were in the last stage of
                  destitution and want; now they are comfortable," replied Edith, her fine
                  countenance once more lit up with its old expression.
               "The world purifies Miriam Willoughby!" exclaimed Mr. Bedford, proudly.
               "Say, rather, an experience of its cheating illusions—its unreal sources of
                  enjoyment, which, flow as brightly as they may, are bitterer than wormwood,"
                  whispered a voice in his ear, as he stood holding open the drawing-room door. He
                  turned instantly, but only in time to see Mrs. Willoughby gliding up the broad
                  hall-stairs to her apartment. He was silent, and, nodding to Edith, departed with
                  a sadder feeling than when he came. He could never endure to hear her refer to the
                  griefs of former days.
               He found Harry De Vere in time to carry him back, in triumph, to the deputation of
                  citizens. He would have modestly declined the honor, but felt it due to his
                  principles to defend and support them in person when thus called on. Acclamation
                  after acclamation welcomed him that night when he arose, after the conclusion of
                  the addresses of the Attorney-General and the great jurist, Graham. The people
                  recognized him as one of themselves; long had they known him, in his
                  secret acts, as their friend; now they beheld him the able champion
                  of their rights and privileges, who, in practically sustaining the dignity of
                  labor, elevated them; and who, knowing their wants, would independently maintain
                  their principles, and bravely defend their cause, or die in the breach! His
                  triumph, all unsought, was like an ovation; while the modest dignity of his
                  demeanor enhanced its value tenfold. But the applause of thousands, ringing like
                  pæans on the night air; the hearty congratulations of men whose long experience,
                  eminent talents, and public worth gave true value to their words, and the
                  whispering of gratified ambition, would have been unsatisfactory in the extreme,
                  had not the "still, small voice" of conscience uttered its unerring sentence of
                  approval. Pure, and entertaining the loftiest regard for the principles he
                  advocated, the RIGHT was his idol; for that alone the energies of his mind
                  labored. In the progress and, success of RIGHT, he alone sought his reward. His
                  was one of those rare spirits which seem to be created expressly for the exigency
                  of the times; to repair the broken links in the chain of a nation's strength! But
                  here we must leave him, his political virtues, and his triumph, and return to our
                  legitimate story of the HEART.
               "Edith," said Mrs. Willoughby, one day when they were sitting alone after
                  breakfast, enjoying the quiet comfort which preceded the visiting hours, "I have
                  waited in vain to hear your secret from yourself. The world talks of it as a
                  settled thing, and I am everywhere met with congratulations and compliments on
                  your approaching marriage."
               "If I have a secret, mamma, the world is at fault," she replied, while her heart
                  sank within her. "If you allude to the report of my engagement to Walter,
                     that is so utterly unfounded that I scarcely gave it a second
                  thought."
               "But I must say, Edith, that you have encouraged him to a degree which has
                  compromised you seriously. You cannot feel indifferent towards him," observed Mrs.
                  Willoughby.
               "No, mamma, not indifferent. I have sometimes thought, when under the spell of
                  Walter's fascinations, that I felt a decided preference for him; but this
                  sentiment was inconstant; so inconstant that I feared it," she replied, sadly.
               "Then you have not absolutely decided whether or not you can return his affection?
                  It is well, dear, to be extremely cautious and prudent in affairs of the heart;
                  their results govern a lifetime of misery or joy, you know. But, Edith, it is
                  assuming more than the prerogatives of our sex; it is infringing on its gentle
                  delicacy, and trifling with the happiness of another to encourage a true affection
                  only to experiment with it," observed her step-mother.
               "Dear mamma, indeed you wrong me! I am not so heartless a thing as that, believe
                  me!" exclaimed Edith, while her eyes filled up. "Walter has often declared, when I
                  have told him in kind, but decided terms, that I could never be his, that if I
                  allowed him still the privileges of a friend he would be content. How could I
                  refuse so small a boon? how could I deprive him of that which he declares, next to
                  my love, he most prizes?"
               "Such friendships, my simple-hearted Edith, under such circumstances are
                  dangerous. But if it ends in the discovery that a warmer feeling than mere
                  friendship lurks in your heart for poor Walter, I will be well pleased with the
                  event. He is a high-minded man, a polished gentleman, and a cultivated, finished
                  scholar. Could you fancy him, he will be a fitting match for you, one that I could
                  highly approve of. I love my nephew; he is, I believe, worthy of my affection; but
                  withal, Edith, I would not for the wealth of worlds influence you in this thing!"
                  said Mrs. Willoughby.
               "Oh, mamma! when the heart is divided——" exclaimed Edith, then paused and covered
                  her burning face with her hands.
               "I understand not your meaning, Edith. I can only suspect it. Had I your
                  confidence I might aid you, but I do not demand it. If you have a secret from me,
                  still conceal it, unless you are quite
                  willing to reveal it, more especially if it is an unsought, unrequited
                  attachment," said the lady, coldly.
               "Not quite unsought—oh, no, no. I could not be so unwomanly. But oh, mamma, speak
                  not—look not coldly on me, my best friend—pity me! It is all past now! The dream
                  is over, never, never to return!" said Edith, in a low, trembling voice.
               "I am your friend, darling. The happiness of your life is the chief object of
                  mine. Right glad am I that this hopeless dream is over. May it never return,
                  never, my Edith! The realization of it would have been productive of keen
                  suffering to us both, that is, if the whispers I heard have reference to it. But,
                     àpropos—I like to have forgotten the thing
                  entirely. I received a formal proposal for your hand this morning after the most
                  approved French style, couched in a profusion of extravagance; written in French,
                  of course, and surrounded by Cupid's arrows and roses in the most bewildering
                  mass," said Mrs. Willoughby, smoothing back the curls from Edith's forehead.
               "May I ask who has honored me so highly?" she said, trying to smile.
               "No less a personage, my love, than Monsieur Frederick De Vere! I scarcely know
                  whether to regard it as a compliment or an affront. The presumption of the
                  individual is unparalleled! Could he have for a moment supposed you would stoop to
                  such a mésalliance?" asked Mrs. Willoughby, in
                  an indignant tone.
               "I scarcely know him. Of course, dear mamma, you will decline the honor. There are
                  more important objections to an alliance with Mr. Frederick De Vere than his
                     parvenue origin; the most decided of which
                  is, a total want of what he would call le sentiment
                     divin in his favor," said Edith, composedly.
               "There is one redeeming feature in that family," observed Mrs. Willoughby, after a
                  pause, "and that is, their ability to point to Mr. Henry De Vere as a scion of
                  their senseless stock. Him I admire and respect. He is far beyond the mediocre set
                  who flutter in society, and selfishly glad am I that it is not on him the pain of
                  a refusal is to be inflicted, as of course it would be, had he proposed. These
                     mésalliances create unhappiness from the very
                  fact of their unfitness. I have a peculiar horror of these De Veres; not because
                  they are, in fashionable parlance, 'new people,' but they are so essentially
                  vulgar; their aims so little and low. A connection with them would be degrading to
                  a woman of family and sense."
               It was Mrs. Willoughby's foible, this sort of pride, and she would have immolated
                  herself on its altar, had occasion required it. She thoroughly despised pretension
                  and vulgar ostentation. In society, she tolerated it as a thing from which she
                  could at any moment escape; but the idea of introducing it by close relations to
                  her hearth-stone, to flourish rankly beneath her roof, was insupportable. Her
                  mind, generous in all things else, suggested no liberal apology for a want of
                  gentle breeding; low birth and vulgarity were synonymous with her; and her pride
                  of character, her very truthfulness, would not permit her to assimilate herself
                  with antagonistic principles, which caused every nice and refined sentiment of her
                  nature to shrink into a fold of impenetrable reserve. Walter Shirley had twice
                  insinuated to her, in that natural, sincere way he could so well assume, the
                  designs, as he called them, of Harry De Vere on Edith's heart; he gave his every
                  act a false coloring, and imputed motives to him which he would have scorned as
                  something of less account than the dust beneath his feet; and concluded by hinting
                  a kindly fear lest these arts "should at last entangle her unsuspicious nature
                  under their specious influences." Then he added, "Just imagine, my dear aunt, Mrs.
                  De Vere boasting, to a select coterie, that her son Harry would at last carry off
                  the heiress."
               But Mrs. De Vere, with all her follies, was guiltless of this. She was too much
                  occupied with her French son, and the establishment of her daughters, to trouble
                  herself about Harry, who never evinced the slightest interest in her
                  plans; although she could not help feeling amazed, sometimes, at the way he was
                  getting on, and piqued at Miss Willoughby's seeming to prefer his society to
                  Frederick's, and had once or twice remarked it; but beyond this, her obtuse
                  perceptions did not soar.
               These false insinuations corresponded so entirely with Mrs. Willoughby's
                  preconceived ideas of the people that she never for a moment doubted their
                  correctness, and they sank lower than ever in her estimation, while she determined
                  to watch Edith closely; and, if her conduct towards Harry De Vere indicated the
                  shadow of a preference, to warn her in time of the gulf it would place between
                  them. Hence her philippic against unequal marriages. The occasion of Frederick De
                  Vere's proposal had given her an opportunity of saying all she wished on the
                  subject, and her mind was greatly relieved when she heard from Edith's own lips a
                  confirmation of her hope that no probability of such a thing existed. Her words,
                  so earnest and truthful, "The dream is over, never—never to return!" were a
                  sufficient guarantee to her, that, even if a passing fancy had ever inclined her
                  heart towards him, it had not ripened into that high and holy affection which
                  would test bitterly the heart's endurance, if opposed. Mrs. Willoughby sought to
                  penetrate the mystery of Edith's heart no further; it was indifferent to her what cause had dispelled her
                  vision of love; it was over, and although she felt a momentary pity when she
                  thought of the pang that must have followed this first heart-blight, she was
                  content; her pride was appeased, and Edith was her own again. But poor Edith! She
                  felt that the fiat had been uttered from which there was no appeal, and an icy
                  feeling crept around her heart until it throbbed so faintly she thought it was
                  freezing. Now her position with regard to Harry De Vere was doubly hopeless; and
                  all her womanly feelings suggested to her the propriety of forgetting him, as he
                  had already seemed to forget her. Why should her thoughts hover around one whose
                  inconsistency of conduct convinced her that she had been regarded merely as a
                  bright and passing fancy? Added to these thoughts, her step-mother's influence,
                  always potent, the more so now, because it operated on a subdued and wounded
                  spirit, decided her course. She spent the rest of the day in her chamber under the
                  plea of headache, that most convenient of all feminine sufferings, with no other
                  companion than her own bitter thoughts. She did not exaggerate the genuine anguish
                  of her heart by the indulgence of sentimental repinings; even tears, so
                  interesting on such occasions, refused their kindly aid in softening the harshness
                  of the blow; and hour after hour she sat thinking and thinking until her brain
                  ached, how she might best strengthen and heal her wounded spirit. This was wise;
                  to learn endurance is something, even if it brings no interior peace with it; and
                  although Edith still felt the iron in her heart, she felt, too, that she could
                  bear all in silence. Towards evening she opened her door to admit her maid, Paula,
                  who brought her a delicious cluster of flowers from Walter Shirley, in the midst
                  of which she found a twisted strip of paper containing a few words of anxious
                  solicitude.
               Woe betide the stricken soul when the tempter comes under the guise of the
                  consoler!
               "Poor Walter! How ungrateful I am for all your unselfish love!" Then fell her
                  tears fast and heavily among the brilliant leaves, for the thought of one now lost
                  to her forever mingled still with the tide of memory, making it like Marah's wave,
                  dark and bitter.
               And when a few days after he again pleaded in his own peculiarly eloquent and
                  touching way for her love, when he offered his life's devotion for her acceptance,
                     he was not refused. Thus far he triumphed.
               Once, soon after, she called to see Mr. Bedford, and found him tête-à-tête with Harry De Vere. She entered the door
                  before she saw him, and could not without the most awkward impropriety go back. He
                  arose immediately, and bowing with proud courtesy, handed her a chair; then
                  telling Mr. Bedford he had an engagement, departed without a glance—without a
                  word. Piqued and hurt, she exhibited a demeanor quite as proud as his own, and as
                  he left her presence, again his heart whispered in its agony, "She is unworthy,
                  she is heartless!"
               "Hoity, toity—a new way for friends to meet and part!" exclaimed Mr. Bedford. "How
                  is it, Etha? I don't understand at all the manners of this generation. What is the
                  reason Harry flew off at such a tangent, when I know a month or so ago he would
                  have given his head for such an opportunity of a social interview. What has he
                  done, in the name of the stars?"
               "Nothing," replied Edith, smiling; but how hollow was that smile! "I am not
                  accountable, I fancy, for Mr. De Vere's strange vagaries. Had I known he was with
                  you, I would have made Mrs. Grimshaw a morning call."
               "Humph! I never knew before that Harry De Vere had any vagaries. But you
                  women-kind get so very discerning the moment your fancies are diverted by some
                  newer object from an old admirer; the poor cast-off devil is endowed with every
                  evil quality under the sun, and shunned like a leper," said Mr. Bedford,
                  thoroughly vexed at the way she spoke of his favorite.
               "Pardon me, my dear Mr. Bedford. I intended no offence. But I think it passing
                  strange, I confess, that you who know so well the changeful whims of our sex
                  should ever feel the slightest astonishment at our inconsistencies! Mr. De Vere is
                  a proper young man," said Edith, endeavoring to hide her real suffering beneath a
                  veil of gayety.
               "And that smooth Shirley a most improper one, Etha!" broke in Mr.
                  Bedford, provoked by her coolness. He little knew the painful thoughts he had
                  stirred up, or he would have taken her to his breast like a stricken bird, and
                  poured balm on the wounds he was bruising. "But I won't quarrel with you; he's a
                  handsome, insinuating fellow. I only hope he'll make you happy, my darling."
               "I hope so; though happiness is a blossom of rare growth on earth," she said,
                  sadly.
               "What! Eh! Is this Etha? Moralizing—sententious! What's the matter, Etha? asked
                  Mr. Bedford, taking her hands in his, and looking earnestly into her face.
               "Nothing, dear Mr. Bedford; absolutely nothing. I could not always be a child, you
                  know, or carol forever in blithesome songs like the old mocking-bird at Woodreve,"
                  she replied, trying to smile; but the
                  effort was vain, and she burst into heartfelt tears.
               "Etha—Edith Willoughby, answer me truly. Are you happy? Is your engagement to
                  Walter Shirley altogether voluntary—have you not been influenced? I fear it,
                  child. If it is so, tell me. I conjure you by your hopes of happiness, tell me!
                  And at the very altar I'd rescue you single-handed from such a fate!" said Mr
                  Bedford, solemnly.
               "This engagement is the result of my own deliberate and voluntary act," she
                  replied, in a low voice. "My nature would scarcely brook undue interference in an
                  affair of this kind." And so she in truth thought. Had she felt for a moment that
                  she had been duped—sacrificed to interested and selfish ends—the victim of a
                  tissue of falsehood and base insinuations, she would calmly and proudly have
                  disentangled the net, and with the most blighting contempt put it beneath her
                  feet. But she did not know; there was none to tell her; her human eye could not
                  penetrate the cloud, although her heart heard wild and prophetic whisperings,
                  forewarnings; undefinable things like dreams, which bid her beware, which
                  terrified her with phantoms of ruined, blasted hopes. But these were unreal all,
                  and although they disturbed her, she heeded them not.
               Mr. Bedford sighed deeply, for the human countenance was an unsealed book to him,
                  and he read in Edith's a certain expression which convinced him that she was
                  herself deceived or wished to deceive him. While he regarded her as she sat lost
                  in thought, her pale cheek leaning on her hand, and her large, bright eyes
                  downcast, the door opened, and Mrs. Willoughby tottered in so pale and haggard
                  that they both sprang forward to assist her to the sofa, where she leaned against
                  the pillars gasping and, unable to speak. Edith chafed her hands and untied her
                  bonnet-strings, calling on her by the most endearing epithets and gentle caresses
                  to tell them if she could the cause of her illness; but not until Mr. Bedford ran
                  to the bellrope, and was about ringing for assistance did she exhibit any sign of
                  intelligence; then with a frantic gesture she commanded him to desist, and
                  beckoned him to her side.
               "Vernon—or—my son—lives!" she whispered, then with a loud shriek clasped her hands
                  on her forehead, and fell back in a state of utter insensibility.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Randulph.
                           —You hold too heinous a respect for grief.
                        
                        
                           Constance.
                           —He talks to me that never had a son.
                        
                     
                     KING JOHN.
                  
               
               MRS. WILLOUGHBY, accompanied by Mrs. Lacy, had been that morning to examine some
                  old European pictures which belonged to a Mr. Moysa, a respectable Israelite, who
                  was engaged in the auction and commission business in the southern section of the
                  city. A reputed Carlo Dolci and Paul Veronese were among the collection, which had
                  thrown connoisseurs and lovers of the fine arts into a delightful state of
                  excitement. Crowds of persons had visited them, and it was quite the fashion to be
                  enraptured on the occasion. Mrs. Willoughby and her friend had chosen an early
                  hour to go, that they might inspect the paintings uninterruptedly. They found only
                  a few artists and one or two connoisseurs discussing the origin and merits of the
                  pictures, many of which were really fine. The Carlo Dolci seemed to obtain but
                  little credit among them as a Carlo Dolci, although it was thought to be a fine,
                  close copy; but the Paul Veronese exhibited such indubitable proofs of being an
                  original that every one was in raptures with it. Mr. Moysa came forward very
                  courteously when he saw the ladies, and offered his services as cicerone through
                  the rooms. He pointed out little gems of painting, and various curiosities of art,
                  which would otherwise have escaped their notice, and conversed so intelligently
                  and judiciously on the fine arts, and illustrated his opinions with such correct
                  taste; and withal there was so little of the Shylock Jew about him—although his
                  black, piercing eyes, high, narrow forehead and fine aquiline nose, indicated his
                  nation—that they were reluctantly preparing to go, when he informed them that he
                  had a collection of curious medallions, paintings, and several rare articles of
                     virtu in his private apartment, which it
                  would afford him pleasure to show them. "I perceive ladies," he continued, leading
                  the way to his sanctum, "that you both possess a
                  combination of highly cultivated taste and a nice discrimination, which enable you
                  to judge with prompt correctness between counterfeits and originals, and you will
                  honor me by looking over these curios, which I
                  do not often exhibit. I would have been an artist myself, but it is the curse of
                  our nation to be obliged to delve among the sordid things of earth." An expression
                  of sadness ness darkened his
                  countenance; but it flitted away like a shadow; and opening the doors of a large
                  cabinet that was almost hidden in a niche in the wall of his apartment, he
                  revealed its concealed treasures to his gratified visitors, and appeared more than
                  rewarded in his efforts to contribute to their pleasure, by their high
                  appreciation of the worth of his hoarded gems of art.
               "I confess," he observed, "that the paintings of those old Frankish masters, whose
                  pencils have immortalized art, are my especial favorites. Here is a genuine
                  Breughel. I obtained it with great difficulty and at an immense cost, many years
                  ago, in Flanders. The foreshortening is extraordinary. There is not an
                  inharmonious line or tint in the whole picture. This is a Cuyp. I am indebted to
                  the misrule of the House of Nassau, in the Netherlands, for this. The guilders
                  that it cost me prevented the failure of a brave Belgé. I believe it is the only
                  one in this country. But this Titian, ladies. Look at that Madonna! Her head,
                  inclined a little forward, seems to stand out from the frame. One almost fancies
                  he sees a tremulous motion of the robe that covers her breast, while her
                  countenance, oh! the rapt vision that made her believe herself the mother of the
                  Messiah, broods like a divine light over it. And the holy prophet-child. Adonai!
                  How solemnly beam forth those eyes on the gazer! All else—the mouth, like a
                  half-folded rose-leaf; the round, dimpled chin; the faultless outline of the
                  brightly-tinted cheeks, are the perfection of a human ideal of infantile
                  loveliness—but those eyes, they make one shrink back."
               "They are like the dawn of morning tinting with glory the twilight hills. They
                  tell us, by their beaming, that night and its shadows are fled for aye, and shed
                  down inexhaustible founts of pity and forgiveness over the whole earth," cried
                  Mrs. Lacy, unable to control her feelings. Again gathered the saturnine cloud over
                  the Jew's face, and, compressing his lips, he replaced the Titian in the cabinet
                  without uttering a word. Then he unfolded a narrow door, almost hidden and far
                  back, and drew forth from a dark recess a magnificent golden goblet, of large and
                  perfect dimensions.
               "The cunning hand of that wizard of art, Benvenuto Cellini, fashioned it," he
                  observed, handing it to Mrs. Willoughby. "It was stolen from Rome by some of
                  Bonaparte's rapacious soldiery, with many other splendid relics of art, and
                  carried to Paris. There it was pledged to one of my brethren for an immense sum;
                  but it was never redeemed by the personage who placed it in his keeping. In the
                  stirring events of the times, he either forgot it or fell in battle tle. I grudged
                  not a louis d'or that I parted with in exchange
                  for it."
               "If such master-spirits could live forever!" exclaimed Mrs. Lacy, almost beside
                  herself with enthusiasm.
               "Mortals would deify themselves, forgetting the Master Spirit that fashioned
                  them," said Mrs. Willoughby, yielding to the ruling influence of the moment; but
                  fearing she had perpetrated something like cant, which was one of her
                  peculiar aversions, she added, "It would be more rational, Caro, to wish that each
                  succeeding century could produce a great master, such as those the world will see
                  no more."
               "I have," said Mr. Moysa, looking anxiously in the various drawers and nooks of
                  his cabinet, "a very singular antique medallion, which, I am confident, has a
                  secret spring somewhere about it; but it has baffled my ingenuity completely. I
                  would like the ladies to see it, but fear I have mislaid it. If it belonged to me,
                  I should consider it an invaluable bijou; but it
                  was brought to me under peculiar circumstances that give it unusual interest."
               "If it is not a business secret, may I ask you to relate those circumstances, Mr.
                  Moysa?" said Mrs. Willoughby, forever on the qui
                     vive for the slightest clue leading to the recovery of her lost son.
                  The bare mention of a medallion with a secret spring was quite enough to arouse
                  every maternal hope and fear in her breast, and she listened with throbbing pulse
                  to the brief recital.
               "I will relate the circumstances with pleasure, ladies; but I pray you be seated,"
                  replied Mr. Moysa, wheeling around two leather-cushioned chairs from his table. "I
                  was sitting alone, one evening about five months ago, in my private room, looking
                  over the daily paper, when my young man came in and told me that a distressed and
                  youthful foreigner importuned to see me. It was my hour of rest from the fatigues
                  of business, which I allowed no common event to encroach on; but, after reflecting
                  a moment that it might be a poor, down-trodden outcast of Israel who needed aid;
                  or perchance a Gentile, whose poverty or misfortunes made him even worse than a
                  Jew in the estimation of his fellow-Christians—pardon me, ladies, if I speak with
                  bitterness, I have seen much—I ordered my assistant to bring him up.
                  I have, I believe, a natural love for the beautiful and picturesque. A touch of
                  grace in a beggar, or a line of beauty beneath their tatters, arrests my eye
                  immediately. Imagine, then, the interest and admiration I felt, as I gazed on the
                  stripling who entered my presence. He was tall, and gracefully formed. His thin,
                  half-worn habiliments could not conceal the harmonious and statuesque proportions
                  of his person; and withal there was such a sad, imploring look in his large blue eyes, and his golden hair
                  fell in such a cloud of light about his face and shoulders, that I involuntarily
                  arose to salute him—thinking of the angels of God, who, under the guise of men,
                  used to walk among my people. He was very pale, and yet there was more of innate
                  pride in his whole demeanor than humility.
               "'What is your business, boy?' I asked, pointing to a chair, which, however, he
                  would not take. A deep crimson hue dyed his face, and he looked with a keen glance
                  at me, as if he would, in reading my very soul, calculate his chances for insult
                  or aid. I commanded every muscle to an impassible expression, while I waited for
                  his reply. But he was still silent.
               "'Do you speak English?' I inquired.
               "'Some Englis I talk, senor,' he replied in a singularly musical voice.
               "'Are you a Jew?'
               "'No, no! oh no! Senor!' he cried, in a voice of alarm, and taking from his bosom
                  a small ivory crucifix, which he extended towards me—'no, Senor; no Jew; here do I
                  hope!'
               "'What then brought you hither? I am a Jew!' I said sternly. He pressed the emblem
                  of his creed to his lips, then clasping it closely in his hand thrust it again in
                  his bosom, holding it there, as if he feared I would tear it from him, and bowing
                  low, turned to go away.
               "'Stop; I have a human heart, boy, Jew though I be. Come back, and tell me how I
                  can befriend you. I will have no Ishmaels wandering from my tent into the world's
                  wide wilderness to perish. Sit down, and do not fear me,' I said.
               "He understood all that I said, for a soft, placid smile settled on his face, and
                  he came nearer to me. 'I thought, senor!' he said, unfastening a small leather bag
                  that hung with agnus deis, and medals, suspended
                  by a black cord around his neck, from which he took the medallion I spoke of just
                  now—'you might lend me one little money, and keep this, until I make pictures
                  enough to sell and pay you to get it back.'
               "I examined it, but found that its intrinsic value was not great, though as a
                  curious and antique relic it was a prize. 'Do you know,' I asked, 'that if I lend
                  you money on this bauble, and do not receive it again in three months, it will be
                  sold?"
               "'Oh, senor! I would die if I lost it. Since I was a little child in Rome, I
                  always had it. It is my friend; see, I carved the name of "Maria" on
                  it, and wore it on my heart. I will starve. I cannot beg!' he said earnestly.
               "'You will do neither! Can you paint pictures?' I inquired.
               "'Oh yes, senor. I am of Rome!' he said proudly. 'Michael Angelo, Raphael,
                  Lorraine, Rubens, Carlo Dolci, were my masters. Oh! their pictures, so grand, so
                  beautiful; they were my friends; I had no other in Rome after de profundis was sung over his body—'
               "'Whose body?' I inquired.
               "'One good artist. He was Englis. He found me at Naples. Oh! he was very kind; he
                  make me to go with him to Rome; he loved me; I mixed his colors; I did all for him
                  I could do; he taught me much; but, miserere! he
                  died at last.'
               "'So! so! He died, did he? Very well, you must find another friend. You shall
                  paint a picture for me; mind, no daub, but a picture worthy of one who has studied
                  the old masters at Rome. Here are ten dollars I will pay you in advance. You may
                  keep your treasure!' I said, handing it to him.
               "A gleam of joy lit up his face and as suddenly, faded. 'You keep it, senor. I
                  will very soon come with the picture; then, bello-amico,' he said, pressing the medallion to his lips, 'you come
                  back to my heart.' He replaced it in my hand, and received the money. But I have
                  not seen him since. Owing to the failure of the person who owned the property I
                  occupied, it was sold, and the rent raised to such an exorbitant price by the
                  purchaser that I forthwith moved. It is more than probable that the poor fellow
                  cannot find me out. I advertised several times a line or two in the daily papers,
                  which I knew would inform him, if he saw them, of my removal and present location,
                  conveying also a request for him to call for his property. But I have never heard
                  a single word of him. He is either dead or gone away."
               Mrs. Willoughby had listened with intense interest to the narrative of the
                  benevolent Jew. Hope conjured up a thousand probabilities as he proceeded; her
                  heart throbbed almost to bursting, while her cheek grew whiter and more marble
                  like than ever. But when he uttered the words, "dead, or gone away,"
                  she could scarcely stifle a shriek of agony; she felt so suddenly bereft of
                  hope—the clue she supposed in her wild fancies that she had discovered, to be
                  lost, broken, at the very moment it was found—was a thought of insupportable
                  anguish. But she did not speak. Above all that wild emotion, there was a calm, and
                  stillness, like snows on a volcano. The twisting, writhing, the bitterness of her
                  strained heart chords performed their awful mystery in silence and dread, while
                  Mrs. Lacy, who had no other interest in the matter than what the sweet affinities
                  of humanity suggested, wept.
               "He was no impostor, of that I am certain!" continued Mr. Moysa confidently; "or
                  he would never have left with me so
                  highly prized a thing, when he was at liberty to take it with him. I would stake
                  my right hand on his truth. Such a face as his could never lie. But where can the
                  medallion be hidden?"
               "What was the name of the poor boy artist?" asked Mrs. Lacy, while every line of
                  her face was instinct with feeling. "I wish we could find him, from my inmost
                  heart I do!"
               "There's the rub, lady. For the life of me I cannot remember it. He told me, and I
                  intended recording it immediately; but the fact is that I was very much engrossed
                  when he came in with a great speech of one of our greatest men, Webster; and the
                  moment he left my sanctum, I resumed the paper,
                  thinking it was time enough for so trifling an affair as writing a simple name on
                  my books, when I had concluded the grandest speech that was ever made before an
                  American Senate. But I was carried away, quite away like Elijah, on the fiery
                  chariot of the great statesman's eloquence; beyond the clouds of prejudice, and
                  narrow illiberality it bore me, until all mundane thoughts were forgotten, and
                  among them, the name of my poor wandering artist. Aha! here is the
                  medallion!" said Mr. Moysa, placing it in Mrs. Willoughby's eagerly extended hand.
                     It was the identical one that Vernon had given her years ago, and
                  which hung around her child's arm when he was stolen! There was the tiny diamond
                  that concealed the spring, the same enamelled pattern that made hers remarkable.
                  She hastily drew the one containing Vernon's miniature from her bosom, where she
                  had always worn it, and compared the two. There could be no mistake. She pressed
                  the spring, and the medallion flew open, revealing, in colors as fresh as if
                  painted yesterday, her own likeness. The shock was too great; it fell from her
                  hands, and she sank back fainting on Mrs. Lacy's bosom. Restoratives were applied
                  instantly, but it was long ere she recovered from the swoon. When she did, it was
                  only one wild glance she threw around; it was only one shudder that convulsed her
                  frame, and she remembered all.
               "I am better," she said, collecting all the powers of her will to seem so; "I
                  would there had been no witnesses of my weakness—but it was so unforeseen. Respect
                  the woe, my friends, which is a mystery to you both. These relics are the only
                  fragments of the wreck spared by the storm. The recovery, so strange, of
                     this, has revived bitter memories. Look at it, Caroline Lacy.
                  Whose features are here delineated?"
               "Yours, doubtless, my dearest friend. Expression, features, and air, are decidedly
                  yours," replied Mrs. Lacy, filled with wonder at the whole scene. "But despond
                  not. I should regard this strange discovery as a harbinger of good. I
                  don't know its history, but perchance we may discover this young foreigner, and
                  persuade him to relinquish the medallion."
               "I wish, lady, that I felt at liberty to return it to you; but it would kill that
                  poor boy if he came and found it gone. If he is living, he will certainly reclaim
                  it. I am convinced that it is your property. The close resemblance of the
                  miniature to you, and the same initials carved on both, are indisputable evidences
                  of the fact," said Mr. Moysa, comparing the two. "If it is of any importance to
                  you to see the poor young fellow, I will not rest until he is found."
               "Sir, I would sacrifice every worldly advantage to see him, to find him. You don't
                  know the obligation you would lay me under by introducing him to me. I would not
                  take this medallion out of your possession under existing circumstances on any
                  account; keep it, if there is the remotest hope of his returning to claim it, and
                  notify me immediately. Here is my address. But let me implore you to regard this
                  whole affair as confidential."
               "My honor is your guaranty, madam," said Mr. Moysa, gravely.
               "It is one that may be trusted, I verily believe, sir. Would that all who profess
                  the creed of Christians practised its divine precepts in the same spirit that you
                  do! Caro, dear, I feel strangely shaken; let us go. Leave me at Mr. Bedford's, and
                  drive home alone. I must see him without delay. Farewell, Mr. Moysa," she said,
                  extending her hand to the Jew.
               The JEW! What scenes of contumely, ages of ruin, what deathless scorn and ever
                  active maledictions, what oppressions and woes, what wanderings and hopeless
                  agonies, are conjured up by that little word! First of all, Jerusalem throned like
                  a queen among nations! Golgotha and its sinless victim, the reckless and frenzied
                  shouts of multitudes ravening for his sacred blood, defying omnipotence in their
                  frantic mood to seal his curse and its stigmata
                  on them and their children. Onward rolls the awful vision; lurid flashes, lighting
                  up the terrific ruin when Heaven and men warred together amidst its stricken and
                  faded glories, fill the soul with dread; while like the roaring of the sea swell
                  the triumphant pæans of the Roman cohorts, led on by the proud form of the son of
                  Vespasian, who guides his jewelled barb over the desecrated and ruined Holy of
                  Holies! Signs of fire fill the air, awful shapes of flame and cloud, shrieks,
                  wails, death groans, mingled with curses, rise at the bidding of that talismanic
                  word on the imagination! The golden banners of Judah, filled with dust and blood,
                  flutter no more from the stately ramparts; but torn and trampled, lay low;
                  humiliation, and chains, and scoffs,
                  sweep over the famous city like a surging tide; and their ancient splendors, their
                  faith in JEHOVAH, their patriarchs, their prophets and seers, are by the world
                  remembered as a half-forgotten dream! Scattered by the whirlwind, they have no
                  safe refuge from oppression on the earth. Christians revile them—the heathens
                  curse them; the iron heels of the despotisms of policy and custom grind them in
                  the dust; and the divine adjuration uttered by the dying GOD-MAN on the mercy seat
                  of the cross: "FORGIVE THEM, THEY KNOW NOT WHAT THEY DO," is scarcely understood
                  in their regard. The world has taken an awful revenge—unrelenting, untiring, and
                  cruel on them. Their crime was great, and much have they suffered. Manifold
                  oppressions have taught them cunning, and men wonder at it. They are robbed of
                  their lawful gains under legalized acts, and the world is amazed at the numberless
                  stratagems resorted to by the banned race to save their gold; it would thrust them
                  beyond the pale of humanity, forgetting they have hearts and natures fashioned
                  like our own, with the same impulses, the same feelings; and when, perchance,
                  amidst so many gloomy and depressing fatuities a noble trait or generous impulse
                  is developed, it stands back, and shouts "a miracle!" But pardon us, reader; we do
                  not often intrude our thoughts on you. We did but lift our voice a moment in
                  behalf of the ancient people of God who wander towards the promised land,
                  following a pillar of cloud and fire which will at last guide them thither. Mr.
                  Moysa was a Jew. He adhered faithfully to the ancient institutions of the
                  synagogue; the laws of the Sanhedrim were sacred in his estimation as when his
                  nation were in the full tide of their glory; he believed that the Messiah was yet
                  to come; but Mr. Moysa was a being whose character was conspicuous for many
                  natural virtues and excellent qualities very apparent to the few who associated
                  familiarly with him. He did not escape the usual odium; the penalties of his
                  unbelief and the unbelief of his people often surged like bitter waters around his
                  soul; he would fain have gathered the dispersed tribes together once more; he
                  would have laid down his life to behold the banner of the Lion of Judah unfolding
                  its blazonry of green and gold over the walls of the beautiful City of the Temple,
                  and heard the shout which declared the restoration of ancient splendors; he felt
                  all this in a supreme degree. But Mr. Moysa was a good citizen; he interfered with
                  no creed or doctrine, and gave amply from his abundance to the poor. He was
                  thought stern and over shrewd, but it was only by those who were afraid the
                  superior tact of the Jew would overreach their determination to defraud him of
                  just profits. He was usually silent, because it entered into but few minds to
                  imagine that a Jew had a feeling beyond the rise and fall of stocks and the value
                  of moneys. But amidst the ashes that filled his heart, stifling its faith and
                  clouding over the disc of its immortal vision with types and shadows, the spark of
                  human sympathies smouldered; it required only a kindly breath, a word of trusting
                  confidence, a liberal expression to kindle it into genial warmth, as we have seen.
                  Mrs. Willoughby's secret was in safe and judicious keeping. His feelings had been
                  touched by her agony, and his admiration challenged by the strength of mind and
                  nerve that lifted her almost sublimely above it. He did not understand the
                  mystery, but determined to make use of extraordinary efforts to find the young
                  Italian, who seemed to be in some way painfully connected with it.
               Mr. Bedford was astonished beyond expression when he heard the history of her
                  exciting adventure, but, with his usual discretion, endeavored to repress every
                  sanguine hope of its leading to the recovery of her missing child, by suggesting
                  rational conjectures, and probable reasons, explanatory of its being in the
                  possession of the youthful artist. But this, she could not submit to patiently
                  from him. Alone with him, for Edith had received a hint to withdraw, who had known
                  her from her birth, and supported her in all her peculiar heart-wringing trials,
                  the mask of endurance was thrown aside; her calm, passionless bearing was awfully
                  merged in the revealed agonies of her soul, as, throwing herself at his feet, she
                  implored, "by the memory of her mother, not to crush her, by coldly extinguishing
                  every ray of hope in her heart. She knew her child lived; there was a yearning, a
                  warm, living fount unsealed in her bosom which only a kindred vitality could give
                  birth to. Such instincts and presentiments blossomed not up from the abyss of the
                  grave. Promise to aid me, Mr. Bedford, or, Heaven is my witness, I will become a
                  wanderer over the earth until I find my boy."
               "My poor child!" said Mr. Bedford, raising her up, and speaking in a voice of
                  sincere commiseration. "I wish not to pain you; God knows you have suffered
                  enough; but tell me, child, what can I do, how must I begin? If
                  laying down my life this moment would restore your son, I would do it, how gladly,
                  Heaven only knows."
               "Oh, cruel old man! You talk as if you thought of impossibilities, of tasks that
                  Hercules himself might have shrunk from; but you are not a mother, how should you
                  know?" she exclaimed, as she rushed passionately to the door. "I will seek him
                  alone; I'll wander, demanding him of all I meet, for, as I have a soul, I believe
                  he lives."
               
               "Pause, Miriam Vernon; there is one remote hope," he said commandingly.
               "Bless you—oh, bless you for that sweet drop of comfort," she cried, hastening
                  back to his side.
               "My poor child, be calm. Did Moysa say that the youth who deposited that medallion
                  with him was, or represented himself to be, an Italian artist?"
               "Yes. Oh, yes!" she gasped.
               "He could not remember the name?"
               "No! but keep me no longer in suspense; it tortures me more than you dream of.
                  Name this hope!"
               "Poor, suffering heart," said Mr. Bedford, folding her hands in his, and regarding
                  her white agitated features with profoundest sympathy. "Miriam, do you remember
                  the pictured scenes of the Campagna de Roma, and the Hermitage chapel of St.
                  Soleure?"
               She had, until that moment, forgotten the friendless artist who painted them, and
                  whose stern necessities she had relieved; but now, amidst the wildest hopes, she
                  remembered all the circumstances. His youth, his country, his Saxon style of
                  beauty, all flashed bright and clear on her recollection, and clasping her hands
                  together, she ejaculated: "Come, let us begone to seek him; do not delay one
                  moment; come at once, in pity. I am sure—nay, something whispers, that he is the
                  same."
               "Be calm, Miriam; we cannot go now; I know not where Massoletti is. He removed
                  some weeks ago from his old lodgings. I must see Harry De Vere ere I can ascertain
                  his whereabouts. He has been the boy's constant friend. Return home, my child;
                  tranquillize your mind; we are at the beginning of a labyrinth, and patience and
                  caution are absolutely necessary to the preservation of the clue. I will seek De
                  Vere immediately, and ascertain where Massoletti is; then bring him to you."
               "Oh, the torture of suspense! What ages will the moments seem until then!" she
                  said, acquiescing unwillingly in these judicious arrangements, that seemed all too
                  slow for her bounding wishes. "But I will leave you. Attend to this without delay,
                  as you hope for Heaven, I conjure you; I pray you, Mr. Bedford, pause not until
                  you find my—this youth." Edith had been sitting with Mrs. Grimshaw, so preoccupied
                  with the thought of her stepmother, and her strange, passionate mood, that she
                  heard not a single word of the eloquence of the garrulous old housekeeper, which,
                  however, ran on the more blithely, from not being interrupted, and was relieved
                  when she was called to accompany her home, by observing the same passionless calm
                  on her face that generally reigned, like moonlight, over it.
               After they left him, Mr. Bedford leaned his head on his hands, and fell into a
                  profound reverie, which was only interrupted at intervals by a low long-drawn
                  whistle, that seemed to escape involuntarily from his lips. At last he arose, and
                  adjusting his hat on his head, grasped his cane, and exclaimed: "I thought she had
                  more of the Spartan matron about her;" then proceeded to inquire about
                  Massoletti.
               When Harry De Vere hastened so abruptly from Edith's presence, an hour or two
                  previous, he scarcely knew whither his footsteps were wending, until he found
                  himself near a group of fashionable young men, who surrounded an object in the
                  portico of an hotel, that appeared to be struggling with all its impotent strength
                  to get away. Their loud peals of laughter at its vain efforts arrested his
                  attention, and pausing an instant, he saw a thin white hand elevated, holding in
                  its grasp an oval morocco case, and heard pleading accents of distress in a voice
                  that he recognized at once as Massoletti's, as, overpowered by superior strength
                  and numbers, his fingers were forced away, and he was compelled to resign it to
                  his tormentors.
               "Indeed, senors, it is not quite dry. It is for one great friend. It is only one
                  little Psyche; do not touch it, senors, for the love of Mary. Oh, senor Henrie!"
                  he exclaimed, espying his friend, who was pressing through the throng to his
                  assistance, "the good God has sent you to help me."
               "Gentlemen, desist, I beg of you. This young foreigner is under my protection," he
                  exclaimed.
               "We only wanted a little fun with him. We intended the fellow no harm," cried
                  young Tresham, good-humoredly.
               "And who is this?" asked Walter Shirley, who still held Massoletti's wrist. "Who
                  dares to interfere with the sports of gentlemen?"
               "Your equal, sir," he replied with dignity, while he quietly took Massoletti's
                  Psyche and put it into his breast-pocket, and deliberately buttoned his coat over
                  it. "And as such I demand the release of this youth, who, I repeat, is under my
                  protection."
               Thus addressed, and by the man he most feared and hated on earth, Walter Shirley's
                  hot Southern blood was roused, and his only reply was a glare of defiance, and a
                  tightening of his grasp on his victim, who now stood passive and silent, his
                  cheeks blanched to a transparent whiteness.
               "Will you release him, Mr. Shirley?" he again asked.
               "No; not at the bidding of such a low-born cur!" he shouted.
               "Shame! Shame!" burst from the crowd, and Harry De Vere's eyes flashed fire at the
                  insult; but he commanded the violent impulses pulses that the provocation suggested, and calmly
                  placing one arm around the terrified foreigner, released him from Walter Shirley's
                  grasp with scarcely an effort. Enraged and baffled before so many who had been
                  accustomed to regard him as their leader, he would have sprung like a tiger bereft
                  of his prey on him, but was held back, and borne by his friends into the hotel,
                  while Harry De Vere and his protégée walked away
                  in triumph.
               "How did it happen, Massoletti?" he inquired.
               "I was bringing this to you, Senor Henri, you who are so good to the friendless.
                  For you I painted it. It was not dry; but I am going away to sketch some American
                  views, a few stadii off, and wanted you much to get it before I depart. I was
                  bringing it to you, and opened it a leetle to the sun as I walked,
                  and the senors saw it. I feared they would touch it. Then they tried to get it
                  away. I held it up close tight in my fingers, and wished to escape much, but could
                  not. You came, and here is your Psyche. I return it to you now. See how beautiful!
                  Senor Henri," said the grateful Massoletti, his face beaming with pride, and
                  almost forgetful of his adventure in the pleasure of offering the exquisitely
                  painted Psyche to his benefactor.
               "It is very fine, very beautiful, Massoletti. You will be a Titian one of these
                  days. I will prize this very highly, my friend, and thank you for it. But you
                  labor too closely at the easel—you must rest. The spring will soon open; already
                  the birds sing in our woods; the leaves and flowers are bursting into bloom on the
                  trees and hedges, and you must go where you will see it all. Then, when you feel
                  strong, you will sketch some beautiful views. There are some, a few stadii out,
                  that, at sunset or sunrise, are perfect Claudes. I wish you to go, and will give
                  you the means."
               "Yes, Senor Henri, at sixteen o'clock*
                   I go. I need not your moneys now. I am rich. I have—let me see—ten,
                  thirty, seventy dollar—all I got by my pictures," he said, raising De Vere's hand,
                  with a sudden impulse, to his lips, while tears started to his eyes. "I go away
                  sorrowful. I will feel all alone, again, Senor Henri, when I see you not."
               
                  
                  *In Rome, they count the hours from one to twenty-four o'clock.
               
               "But it will not be long, my Massoletti," he replied, touched by the boy's sadness
                  of manner. "If you stay here at work so incessantly, the world will lose its
                  Titian the younger. You will die without immortalizing your pencil."
               "Yes," he replied proudly, while a warm hue dyed his cheeks, and the
                  scintillations of genius sparkled in his deep blue eyes. "I must not yet die.
                  Farewell, Senor Henri. Sancta Maria protect you,
                  as you befriend me! O, there is a whisper in my ear so sad! It says, I will not
                  see you—never again!"
               "Farewell, Massoletti. The fresh air of heaven, the music of birds, and the sound
                  of falling waters, like the wild sweet voice of Tivoli dashing its spray over the cactus-covered rocks, will drive
                  away all gloom. Let me know as soon as you return," said De Vere, cheering the
                  young artist's heart with courageous and poetical words.
               The next day, at an unusually early hour, he was surprised by a visit from Mr.
                  Bedford. "Where, in the name of Peter Rugg and the wandering Jew, have you been
                  hiding yourself, Harry De Vere? I have been at your heels for the last twenty-four
                  hours; pacing here—driving down this street—racing up another; here, there,
                  everywhere have I been, looking for you until, for the first time in my life, I am
                  regularly foundered; and you, here you sit, studying the philosophy
                  of mathematics with as much unconcern as if you were released from every mundane
                  care," he exclaimed, sitting down quite exhausted.
               "My dear sir, I am truly sorry that I have been the unconscious cause of so much
                  trouble and fatigue," he replied, grasping his hand with a smile of welcome; "but
                  I am now at your service, however urgent the business may be."
               "Where's Massoletti, Harry? It's about him that I have had this infernal
                  chase."
               "Massoletti left the city yesterday evening, on a sketching tour," he replied,
                  calmly. "I hope nothing disastrous threatens the poor boy."
               "The devil he did! Gone! The plot thickens. I'm in a slough of despond," said Mr.
                  Bedford, almost rubbing his gloves to pieces. "When will he be back?"
               "In the course of a few weeks, I fancy."
               "Say a few hundred years—do. There's a good soul. Say five hundred years,"
                  exclaimed Mr. Bedford, thoroughly fretted. "Good Lord! What could have sent the
                  young rascal pottering off to the country just now? He will lay like lead on my
                  head, heart, and liver until he return."
               "My dear sir, pardon me; but I do not think I understand you exactly this morning.
                  Massoletti was drooping; indeed, I fear decided hectic symptoms are developed, and
                  it was by my advice that he has changed his quarters. I can't help believing,
                  however, that if evil threatens Massoletti, you would be the last one on earth to
                  hunt him with it."
               "See here, Harry, if evil threatened the lad, old John Bedford would pulverize that man to an
                  impalpable powder who would dare propose to him to go on his trail to betray him.
                  You are right. I'd defend the helpless boy, but never harm him. But, good-by. I
                  must see Mrs. Willoughby immediately," he said with energy, as he refitted his
                  hat. Not an hour had elapsed since his departure, when young Tresham was
                  introduced into De Vere's presence by his servant. He wore a very ominous
                  countenance, and took the seat that was proffered him with a silent bow.
               "A fine morning, Mr. Tresham," observed Harry de Vere, astonished at his
                  manner.
               "Very. I wish the business I come on was as agreeable as the weather," he
                  answered, drawing from his pocket a sealed note, and handing it to him. "Break the
                  seal without ceremony, sir, if you please." It was a challenge from Walter
                  Shirley. "My principal directs me to say, 'if an ample and humble apology is made
                  for your interference of yesterday, Mr. De Vere, he will be satisfied.'"
               "He will!" observed De Vere, calmly.
               "Certainly! If not, you must stand shot at twelve paces!"
               "I must!"
               "Of course! And he's the first shot in town. I've seen him split a twig at twenty
                  paces—I saw him do it this morning. He's a dangerous fellow!"
               "He is?"
               "This is certainly strange conduct, I must say, Mr. De Vere. What shall I say to
                  my friend Shirley?" asked Tresham, irritated by his imperturbable gravity and
                  coolness.
               "Say this, Mr. Tresham!" he replied, rising, and folding his arms on his broad
                  chest: "That Mr. De Vere is no duellist. That he fears not man, but frankly
                  confesses to dread an offended GOD too much to become a murderer, or commit the
                  suicidal act of standing voluntarily to be murdered. That he has sufficient moral
                  courage to defy the established opinions of the world on this point."
               "You will apologize, then—" eagerly interrupted Tresham.
               "For what, sir?" he indignantly asked; "for performing a duty which every generous
                  emotion of manhood prompted, for rescuing from violence and insult a boy—a
                  foreigner, as delicate and helpless as a woman? Never, sir! It is I who should
                  demand apologies!"
               "You will then neither fight nor apologize? I must say, such conduct is without a
                  precedent in the annals of gentlemanly courtesy!" said Tresham.
               "Beware, sir. Go not beyond your instructions!" cried De Vere, in a tone of such
                  indignant command that his visitor looked involuntarily towards the door. "Our
                  business is over, I believe!"
               "Have I your final answer, Mr. De Vere?"
               "You have, sir, decidedly and finally!"
               "Good morning, sir!" said Mr. Tresham, bowing himself out with an incipient sneer
                  on his countenance, which developed itself in a broader expression, when he was
                  safely out of sight; and twirling his moustache,
                  he muttered, "I'd cut my throat before I'd mount the white feather in that
                  way—curse me if I wouldn't. He's a coward!"
               Walter Shirley was surrounded by his clique, when Tresham returned. His report of
                  the reception he met with, and De Vere's reply to the challenge, were received
                  with uproarious shouts of laughter, and expressions of unmeasured contempt at what
                  they, in their worldly wisdom, were pleased to name poltroonery.
               "I'll post him before night—egad will I," exclaimed one.
               "I'd horse-whip him, Shirley!" suggested another.
               "We must cut him dead—that's certain. His brother, Miss Freddy, could not behave
                  worse!" said a third.
               "Gentlemen!" said Walter Shirley, rising, with a sardonic smile of triumph on his
                  face, "I thank you, one and all. This poltroon has dared to cross my path oftener
                  than twice, or thrice; you all witnessed his impertinence yesterday, and now
                  witness that he refuses to give me the satisfaction of a gentleman, which I
                  condescended to offer him. But, by Heaven! he shall not escape me thus! He has
                  placed himself in my power by his dastardly conduct, and he shall meet the
                  chastisement of a coward!"
               "Yes! yes! he deserves it. You were only looking at a picture, and he insulted
                  you, by wresting it from your hand without the least provocation!" exclaimed the
                  zealous Tresham. The lie was acquiesced in by acclamation, and in that guise the
                  adventure was talked of at the various clubs and several parties that night. Edith
                  heard it, accompanied with the insinuation that Mr. De Vere's animosity towards
                  Mr. Shirley arose from the fact of his being a successful rival in her affection.
                  She was pained, because the whole world seemed determined to accuse and ban him;
                  but her confidence in his worth was unshaken. Although she believed in her heart
                  that he regarded her with careless indifference, the idea of his being base, or
                  cowardly, was rejected by her with the scorn it deserved, and she felt, as certain
                  as she breathed, that his refusal to meet her lover was grounded on high and holy
                  principles. Mrs. Willoughby's preconceived prejudices were strengthened by the
                  circumstance; but she made no comment or remark, except to inquire of her nephew if the young foreigner was an
                  Italian, and whether he was named Massoletti? But he "could not inform her
                  really—he believed it was something like, but could not be upon honor—he would
                  inquire."
               Edith's manner annoyed him. His devoted attentions and softly whispered
                  protestations seemed to fall coldly on her ear, and, silent and thoughtful, she
                  exhibited a shade of reserve, as unusual as it was cutting to him. He assumed his
                  softest and most insinuating air, and tried to lead her mind into its usual
                  channel by the charm of his rare powers of conversation; but all in vain. The
                  spirit of sadness brooded above her heart—phantoms of joys, forever fled, flitted
                  away in long gloomy vistas through her imagination; and her voice was mute, and
                  returned no echo to the spell. From her face, the smiles of soul-lit gladness had
                  faded, and her gay musical laugh was hushed; but the sapient world imputed it to
                  late hours, and that power of controlling all natural emotions that the tyrannic
                  precepts of fashion so soon teach. "Edith begins to feel the weariness of constant
                  visiting, and fashionable hours, I fear!" said Mrs. Willoughby to her nephew. She
                  had observed the change, and heard others also remark it. "I must get her back to
                  Woodreve as soon as possible. I fear she is not as robust as when she made her
                     deébut."
               "Between us, Charlie!" whispered Mrs. Lacy to her husband, the same evening, "I
                  believe our Etha has more heart this moment for that noble Harry De Vere than for
                  her affiancée. I don't believe one word of all
                  this varnished over statement about the duel, and all that. Mind, if I'm not a
                  true prophetess. We have only heard one side of the story, and you'll see that
                  Harry De Vere has acted nobly and honorably."
               "Caro, you are a little quixotic fool. You take up the cudgels for everybody who
                  won't fight for themselves," he replied laughing; "I'm afraid it is true."
               "It is well, sir, you are so guarded by Mrs. Willoughby's guests, or I'd pinch
                  you—yes, severely, sir!" she said, pretending to pout; "but, in lieu of it, depend
                  on a Caudle lecture to-night without fail."
               And while the select coteries of fashion were enjoying themselves at Mrs.
                  Willoughby's soirée, we will return to the old
                  laboratory—
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "But knowledge hath a far more wildering tongue,
                           And she will stoop, and lead you to the stars."
                        
                     
                     WILLIS.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "He had borne up,
                           With a stout heart, that long and weary day,
                           Haughtily patient of his many wrongs—"
                        
                     
                     PARRHASIUS.
                  
               
               MR. BEDFORD was alone in the old laboratory. He leaned over a table beside him,
                  which was strewed with papers and rolls of musty parchment, that he occasionally
                  referred to, with an eager expression of countenance wherein was blended much of
                  anxious hope, then drew curious figures and mysterious conjunctions of the twelve
                  signs of the zodiac. He was evidently casting a nativity. His face grew pale—nay,
                  pallid, except a bright crimson spot that burned on either cheek, and his eyes
                  glanced with a feverish light as he proceeded with his task. He was not a firm
                  believer in the exploded science of Astrology—he understood its principles, but
                  admitted its fallacies; but now his love for Edith, the child of his heart,
                  tempted him. He knew that a mildew was stealing over her existence—he felt that
                  her approaching marriage with Walter Shirley was not attended by those mutual
                  sympathies and unclouded affections so essential to wedded happiness, and he
                  trembled for her. He could not understand exactly how it had come to pass; and he
                  knew full well that his days were drawing too near their close for him to see the
                  result, but he believed that dire misery threatened her in this union; he beheld
                  with a prophetic feeling that haunted him, "his beautiful star Etha," dimmed and
                  blighted by an unworthy power whose influences were all evil, and he could not
                  rest.
               "I will consult the planets!" he said at last; "I may be deceived;
                  but if there are auspices, I will tax my faith to confide in their signs." And
                  night after night he watched the stars; when all else slumbered, there knelt
                  he—far up in his observatory, his eyes patiently pressed against the lens of his
                  telescope, peering into the shadowy future by the light of the watch-fires of
                  heaven. Like some old seer in Babylonian tower, when the art of the Chaldee was
                  held in high repute, he scanned the stars, hoping they would unfold from their
                  blazing altars their oracles in scrolls
                  of light, that he might interpose himself to defend and rescue her, if woe
                  threatened her destiny. Cautiously he made his observations; secretly and
                  carefully he noted down the position of the signs presented by the planets, until
                  they could reveal no more; counter influences interposed like a mist between his
                  vision and her horoscope; the figures grew indistinct and shifting; then half
                  baffled, half successful, he proceeded to arrange and combine his abstruse
                  calculations in that regular order which would answer definitely some, at least,
                  of his anxious hopes.
               "May Heaven pardon this weakness of my poor old heart!" he whispered; "I mean no
                  wrong. If by it I have fallen into sin, merciful Lord of Light, pity and forgive
                  my erring will." And the outline of Edith's nativity was cast. In silence and
                  dread, scarcely interrupted by the loud throbbing of his heart, that kept time to
                  the nervous click of his old-fashioned watch on the table, he filled up the
                  celestial divisions one after another. But now he muttered low, incoherent words;
                  light and order were dawning on the chaos—his lips grew white, and a shivering
                  like an ague shock passed over his thin frame. "Ha! ha! The aspect of Venus with
                  Herschel in quartile to both Saturn and Jupiter is ominous of insincerity and
                  falsehood! Saturn governs the ascendant—um—um—opposed to the lord of the second;
                  ha! ha!—um—the native to be tossed and whirled by Fate. But lo! IO TRIUMPHE!
                  Jupiter arises—slowly—so—there again—steadily he glows while the cloud
                  passes—deliverance is at hand!!—But ho!" he shouted, starting back, "Mars and
                  Mercury are here terribly vitiated by obnoxious and fell quartiles—the MOON is in
                  the square to the sun—Mars and Mercury are likewise in malignant opposition to
                  both the infortunes from the sixth and twelfth houses of the celestial
                  figure—they—threaten—DEATH! Oh miserable old fool! Ye lie, false prognostics! I
                  believe ye not! It is a diabolical illusion!" he cried in a voice of agony, as
                  with trembling hands he swept the papers together, and threw them wildly on the
                  smouldering fire. "So perish!" he cried, wringing his hands and leaping to and fro
                  like a madman—"so perish lying predictions—ha! blaze up merrily—shrivel—ay,
                  blacken and become incorporate, false record, with material dust and ashes!" When
                  the last fragment was consumed, he fell back exhausted in his great arm-chair, and
                  closing his eyes pressed his clasped hands over his clammy forehead.
               Gradually the last faint rays of twilight stole through the discolored window
                  panes, to melt in the thickening gloom—then night gathered around him; but
                  motionless and still he reclined, like a gray marble effigy amidst the darkness.
                  Suddenly a bright flame flickered up from the grate, and long grim shadows, like
                  forms of old, danced over the floor—they beckoned—and writhed in wild contortions,
                  then trembled away into corners; long drawn and undulating, like serpents running
                  to their holes. The ghastly skeletons and hideous fossil remains which decorated
                  the cases seemed instinct with awful life, as the winking firelight glared
                  mockingly on them; they nodded their heads, and as with incessant motion their
                  gaunt frames shook as if a whirlwind passed through the bleached bones—they
                  uttered voiceless words and laughter, known only by ghastly grin on the fleshless
                  faces. There was a Walpurgis revel around the old man—but he saw it not, as he,
                  with his snowy hair, sat throned like a superior spirit amidst it all. His heart
                  was not there—it had burst, like a winged thing, through the silence and rime of
                  long thoughtful years, and wandered back in its infinite mystery to earlier days.
                  He trod his ancestral halls once more—he saw the old unshorn woods, waving their
                  verdure in the spring sunshine—there were the hawthorn hedges with their snowy
                  blossoms scenting the air with fragrance, and the song of the thrush on her nest
                  amidst the leaves was heard. On his breast leaned the head of his life's young
                  love, while the soft westerly winds stirred the golden tresses of her hair. She
                  was almost a child then, just hovering on that bright, trusting point between
                  girlhood and womanhood; and lavishing her sisterly affection on him who loved her
                  with a strength that time nor death could weaken. Then he remembered her—the wife
                  of another—then he saw her dead—and, uttering a loud groan of anguish, he was
                  still again; but the gloom was passing away—angels of peace gathered around him
                  with gentle ministrations—the dark spell wrought by presumptuous knowledge no
                  longer dismayed him—he renewed his faith in God, and was comforted. Then soaring
                  up, his spirit once more sought the stars—floating amid their wheeling orbits, he
                  listened to the ineffable melodies of creation—the harmony gathered like a rainbow
                  about him, tangible and beautiful, until the mists brightened, and tears welled up
                  from the old man's gentle heart. He noticed, for the first time, the uncertain
                  light around him, and hastened to turn over the fire, smouldering and sparkling
                  fitfully as his own heart had been doing, among its ashes; and a genial steady
                  flame burst forth illuminating every cranny of the apartment! Away fled the
                  phantom shadows, and the glare of light on the glass cases entirely concealed the
                  hideous images they contained behind their burnished screen. Two wax candles soon
                  blazed in the old candelabras, and he opened a rare treatise, in manuscript,
                  written in the ages of faith, amidst the solitude of the cloister. The parchment
                  pages were illuminated with constellations and planets, surrounded by designs so
                     richly colored and gilded, that they
                  looked as if but a few days had elapsed since the hand of art had touched them
                  into life. Mr. Bedford was soon absorbed in the perusal of the quaint philosophy
                  exhibited in the subject of the treatise, when a slight tapping at his door
                  announced a visitor, and Harry de Vere entered.
               "Ever welcome, Harry. There is your chair. Late this evening, I received a letter
                  from Washington which concerns you materially. I intended to see you early
                  to-morrow; but I'm glad you've come—my old place has been singularly lonely
                  to-night, and the sound of a human voice is welcome!" he said in his usual
                  cheerful tones.
               The young man's face was extremely pale—his clustering hair was thrown entirely
                  back from his broad forehead, revealing the intellectual majesty of its
                  proportions. A stern, but lofty expression had settled on every lineament of his
                  countenance, imparting to it a look of chiselled marble.
               "I fear my presence will not suggest many cheerful thoughts, sir!" he replied, in
                  so changed and husky a voice that Mr. Bedford started, and, after a penetrating
                  glance, observed that all was not right.
               "See here, Harry—look full into my eyes—turn your face fully to the light—so. Now
                  tell me, what means that dilated pupil—that compression of the lips—what mean
                  those rigid muscles—that expanded nostril, and quick, short breathing? I see it
                  all now—I did not at first. What strange demons are at work with you, boy, for
                  these are all the signs of mental agony?"
               "I am unconscious of presenting so changed an appearance, my dear Mr. Bedford," he
                  said, calmly; "but I have been excessively annoyed to-day, which may account
                  satisfactorily for it. But do me the favor to let me hear those portions of the
                  Washington letter which refer to myself."
               Mr. Bedford did not feel quite satisfied with an explanation couched in such
                  general terms, but forbore further remark on the subject then. An indistinct idea
                  that Edith was in some way connected with his evident agitation presented itself,
                  and from motives of nice delicacy, he deemed it most prudent not to intrude on his
                  confidence by pressing questions which the most sensitive feelings of honor might
                  cause him to wish to remain secret.
               He unfolded a letter bearing a broad official seal, and observed, "This, Harry, is
                  from General Beverly. It is about your invention, which has been examined by
                  scientific men in the employment of the government, who pronounce it to be of the
                  highest utility. It is to be applied, immediately after the necessary arrangements
                  are made with you about the disposal of the patent, to two warsteamers steamers,
                  now being finished on the stocks—but hold on—don't interrupt me yet—I have still
                  greater news. Our envoy at the coast of Belgium is in such an extremely low state
                  of health that he has offered his resignation to the government, but will remain
                  until some one is selected by the powers that be, to supply his place. He's a man
                  of extraordinary abilities, and has transacted with the most signal success
                  several difficult diplomatic affairs between the two governments. The
                  administration has delegated to General Beverly the privilege of nominating a
                  person for the vacancy occasioned by Mr. C——'s resignation. He asks me if 'I think
                  it possible that Mr. Henry De Vere will accept of a place for which his talents
                  and worth eminently qualify him. "Quintus" has been quoted in the Senate, and his
                  appointment to a place of trust will meet with general approval.' He concludes by
                  saying 'his authority in submitting the offer to Mr. De Vere proceeds from the
                  highest quarters.' But there's the letter, Harry—read it yourself." A glow of
                  honest pride overspread the pale countenance of De Vere as he read the flattering
                  commendations pronounced by the pure veteran statesman on his character and
                  genius; and the honorable offer which, unsolicited and unexpected by him, was
                  offered for his acceptance by his country. It was a triumphant moment! He beheld a
                  vista of honor and fame suddenly opened before him—his wildest dreams were on the
                  eve of realization, and with a thrill of rapture his spirit arose within him, like
                  a giant, filling him with strength and power—but suddenly he quailed! and,
                  striking his forehead with his clenched hand, exclaimed in bitter accents, "It is
                  too late—too late!"
               "God bless my life! the whole world seems turning the wrong way for a time past!
                  Are you mad, Harry De Vere, to reject such advantages as are now, in the most
                  honorable terms, offered to you?" exclaimed Mr. Bedford, rising, and standing
                  before him.
               "Venerated friend," he said, grasping his hand, "pardon my apparent ingratitude—my
                  seeming madness—for madness it must seem—and listen to me a moment—I will explain
                  all." He then narrated briefly his encounter with Walter Shirley, its cause and
                  results. "I offered no insult—I was calm and courteous!" he added, "but determined
                  to rescue that poor, fragile boy from such wanton cruelty. I did so; and in return
                  for the most insulting language—words that made the blood burn, as it coursed
                  through my veins, I returned only—silent contempt; for I believed then that the
                  whole party were heated by wine. A challenge from Mr. Shirley was handed to me
                  this morning—I refused it!"
               "You refused a challenge?" ejaculated Mr. Bedford in a tone of dismay; for the
                  prejudices of a lifetime were in favor of duelling ling; he thought that personal insult could only be
                  adjusted, and its stigma wiped away, at the tribunal of this false code of
                  honor.
               "I did—I refused to meet him in the most decided terms, and my name is branded
                  with cowardice, because I had the courage to do so. This day I have passed through
                  an awful ordeal! All the worst passions of my soul have been roused to tempt and
                  infuriate me—revenge and outraged feeling warred against principle and shook the
                  citadel of my strength. The world's threatened scorn dismayed me—the taunts of
                  those to whom my life should be dear rung in my ears—the false tyrannic demands of
                  a spurious honor assailed me—the sophistical arguments of a world-old custom
                  beguiled at times my reason—until, wearied out with the conflict, I almost
                  yielded; but, thanks to Almighty God, whose attributes I venerate, the temptation
                  passed away, and, strong in trust, shielded by right, I defy the consequences of
                  my sacrifice to principle."
               "I know, Harry de Vere, that it was for no lack of courage on your part that you
                  refused that rascal's challenge; but the world, sir! the world, believe me, will
                  not judge you so leniently," said Mr. Bedford, shrugging his shoulders; "you
                  needn't have killed him; a shot or two in his wing would have done him good, and
                  kept him out of mischief. It is not too late now, eh?"
               "I will never, under any circumstances, become a duellist, Mr. Bedford. Firm on
                  the broad platform of rational and moral phi- losophy, I am ready to present an
                  undaunted front to the world, and all that its folly can array against me on this
                  point. I will not dare assume that prerogative which belongs alone to OMNIPOTENCE,
                  by voluntarily taking or yielding life, which, as His gift, should be alone
                  subject to His will. Would adding crime to injury dispel the evil complained
                  of—would it not rather augment the sting? God! not for the world's all of honor,
                  fame, or riches, would I have the red stain of blood on my forehead! You are
                  right, sir, on one point. I am conscious of no fear of man! If my country demanded
                  my services to storm a battery, or scale a breach, or plant our glorious banner on
                  the walls of a hostile citadel, single handed I would dare it; my life—my blood
                  should be freely offered; but never to gratify murderous intentions
                  or malicious revenge."
               "Your ideas are ultra, Harry—they do not suit the world as it is. It is no Utopia,
                  you know. But you are determined to brave it out, it seems; and the fact is, your
                  motives command my respect, though I cannot for the life of me cordially assent to
                  their control in this instance. And the world, Harry—the world—" said Mr. Bedford,
                  shaking his head.
               "Calm, sir, in the consciousness of acting as the principles of religion and
                  reason dictate, I feel superior to the clamor of its reproaches. Like a mountain
                  fir, the tempest may shake, but not force me from my firm position. And," he
                  murmured aside, "if no other motive actuated me, her love for him
                  would be his safeguard."
               "It's a barbarous custom, when one analyzes it calmly, I must confess; but your
                  refusal to comply with its laws will be regarded as an act of vandalism against
                  society!" said Mr. Bedford, musingly.
               "So let it be. I alone will bear the odium!" he said firmly.
               "See here, Harry! I will not say another word to tempt you to transgress your
                  preconceived notions; 'twould be entirely useless, I find; but, had you not better
                  embrace without delay the offer made you through General Beverly, and go abroad?
                  Leave your vexations behind you, and the whole affair will be forgotten in a month
                  or two!" suggested Mr. Bedford.
               "I fear, sir, that this unfortunate affair has placed an acceptance of the honor
                  out of the question. General Beverly has been a military man, and, of course, is
                  an advocate for this strange code of honor, and will regard a man who refuses a
                  challenge as unworthy of the offices of his friendship!" replied De Vere in a tone
                  of proud humility.
               "He has done it twice himself, in his lifetime—the most unaccountable
                  thing on earth, for he was considered the bravest man in the army, sans peur, sans reproche. It's not likely he'd
                  disapprove of your course!" said Mr. Bedford; "but, independent of all these
                  considerations, would you accept the mission?"
               "Without hesitation," he replied, "if, after a full statement of the affair is
                  laid before General Beverly, his opinions and wishes are the same."
               "Very well. If you do not object, I will write to-night, and make him thoroughly
                  acquainted with the details of the affair; but mark me, it will only raise you to
                  a more elevated point in his estimation," answered Mr. Bedford.
               "Which I fear, sir, it has not in yours!" he observed.
               "You're a strange fellow, De Vere; and Isha'n't be able to tell, for a day or two,
                  how the thing influences me. I believe I feel a little awed at your sublime folly!
                  You may be a Ulysses among the Cyclops—I hope you are. I fear, even should you
                  triumph, your victory will be a Cadmean one; but of one thing be assured, boy—here
                  is your old place in my heart—" cried Mr. Bedford, opening his arms. Harry de
                  Vere's heart swelled almost to bursting—his lips trembled—but he could not speak,
                  and in another moment his head was
                  leaning on Mr. Bedford's shoulder—he was clasped to his breast with a strength of
                  affection that nothing could sunder. Nothing more was said on the subject. They
                  understood each other, and bore with forgiving love each other's antagonistic
                  sentiments.
               "Farewell, Harry!" said Mr. Bedford, retaining his hand a moment. "I have promised
                  to escort Mrs. Willoughby and Edith to Woodreve to-morrow—Etha is drooping, and we
                  think her old haunts and the fresh air will revive her. I will not see you again
                  for a day or two. I will mail my letter to the General to-night, and if an answer
                  comes from the department ere I return, open it."
               "Thank you, best of friends! I fear I do not deserve your unmeasured kindness,"
                  replied De Vere, pressing his hand warmly.
               "Tut—tut! Such humility is all moonshine! Cheer up, Harry—cheer up—the malignant
                  planet will soon sink below the horizon, and your star be in the ascendant again.
                  I am speaking figuratively mind—I am not a believer in astrology—I repudiate it as
                  demoniacal!"
               And thus they parted. Mr. Bedford in, to his labor of love; and De Vere home, to
                  spend the night in sleepless vigils—haunted by bitter thoughts, with Edith, pale
                  and phantom-like, shrined above them all.
               Late the following afternoon, a business engagement of some importance demanded
                  his presence at the very hotel which had been the scene of his unpleasant
                  encounter with Walter Shirley. As he approached the crowded portico, every eye was
                  turned with a broad stare on him, which he steadily returned; then paused a moment
                  in their midst, and was passing with a calm, dignified mien into the hall, when
                  Walter Shirley sprang forward, and planted himself directly across his way with an
                  insulting laugh. He folded his arms, and fixing his eyes, now flashing indignantly
                  on him, inquired in as calm a voice as he could assume,
               "By what right, sir, do you impede my way? Let me pass!"
               "By the right that all honorable gentlemen have to amuse themselves at a coward's
                  expense!" he exclaimed, and at the same moment drew from underneath his coat a
                  heavily loaded carter's whip, which he lifted over Harry De Vere's head—but he
                  knew not the spirit with which he was thus recklessly dealing; he had never tested
                  the strength of that sinewy arm; he dreamed not he was rousing a lion from its
                  lair, until, with one spring, Harry De Vere wrested the lash from him, and seized
                  both his hands in his Herculean grasp, pressing them with such unconscious force
                  beneath the iron thews of his, that the blood started from beneath the nails—then
                  forced him back, step by step, against a pillar of the portico, and in view of
                  all, lifted the whip as if for a fell destructive blow. For a moment it was held
                  suspended, while he exclaimed, "You are in my power, sir! With one blow I could
                  crush you like a worm beneath my heel—by one act of volition, I could confer a
                  benefit on society by driving you from it in disgrace—I could chastise you as you
                  deserve, base dastard—you are a mere reed in my hands——but go—you are free. Beware
                  of crossing my path with insult again. I forgive you—go!" He hurled the
                  ignominious weapon away, and a shout of admiration burst from every lip at his
                  magnanimity. "Gentlemen," he said, turning towards them, as Walter Shirley,
                  muttering deep curses, sheltered himself in the throng, "I am no duellist. I will
                  not attempt by arguments to vindicate my principles on that point with you, but,
                  if any person present can lend me the use of a pistol five minutes, I will
                  convince all who doubt the fact that I possess sufficient skill in the use of the
                  weapon to defend myself, if so disposed, at any moment by the use of it."
               One was instantly placed in his hands. A white pigeon was flying high over the
                  roofs of the houses—it was soaring like a speck in the sunshine, directly over
                  their heads. "I will cripple its wing!" he said, as he aimed at the quarry; he
                  fired, and the bird fell fluttering and bleeding among the group. He returned the
                  pistol to its owner with brief thanks, bowed haughtily to those who thronged
                  around him to offer their hands as a gage of amende
                     honorable to him, and proceeded on to the room of the gentlemen with
                  whom he had an engagement, as calmly and tranquilly in his dignified pride as if
                  nothing had occurred to interrupt his passage.
               "I heard it all, Harry—all, sir!" said Mr. Bedford, the day after, when he
                  called.—"I congratulate you, by St. George! You have convinced the world now that
                  you possess the highest quality of bravery—courage that has enabled you to
                  maintain your principles by moral force, and defend yourself from insult, not only
                  by a rare exhibition of physical strength, but by an act of self-government which
                  commands admiration. People are never too old to learn, and you have taught me a
                  lesson, boy, whose moral is, that a man may successfully vindicate his honor
                  without becoming a murderer. But here is Beverly's reply—I received it at twelve
                  o'clock—read it—it will add to your triumph."
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MY DEAR BEDFORD:—
                           
                           "Your letter only confirmed the high opinion I entertained of Mr. De
                              Vere. A man whose mind and passions are under the control of a wise self-government, is
                              eminently qualified for a post of trust and honor. None other can meet
                              the exigencies and sudden contingencies of life with courage, or
                              conduct the delicate machinery of diplomatic relations with energy and
                              tact.
                           "Ask Mr. De Vere to do me the favor to come immediately to Washington,
                              and receive his instructions and credentials, for he must be off by
                              the 20th.
                           "I predict that he will be an honor to his country abroad, as he
                              already is at home. Ever your friend,
                           
                              "FRANCIS BEVERLY."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "My dear Mr. Bedford!" observed the young man, after a thoughtful pause, "such
                  eulogiums, from such a source, make me feel extremely diffident of my own
                  abilities. The responsibility seems increased tenfold by General Beverly's
                  indulgent appreciation of my poor talents—I may fall far short of his expectations
                  when the test is applied; but, with God's help, every nerve, every power of my
                  mind shall be taxed to deserve them!"
               "A straightforward course, Harry, and an eye ever fixed on high points of
                  excellence—no retrograding—no walking with your eyes downward towards the
                  earth—leave that to your feet; but an upward gaze—upward hopes—must be your
                  safeguard!" said Mr. Bedford.
               "You are right, sir! The architect of his own high destiny, man alone is
                  responsible for the duration and utility of the fabric he erects. But my heart is
                  too full for words. Pardon me for leaving you with so little ceremony. I must
                  impart this affair immediately to my excellent father! I am indebted to him for
                  all—yes, all—"
               "That is right—you are always right, Harry. Tell him I rather envy him the
                  possession of you—but be off, and here, take the letter with you for him to read.
                  If I had time, I'd go with you; but Mrs. Willoughby and Edith will be at Woodreve
                  a week longer, and I have fifty commissions to attend to for them. Goodby," said
                  Mr. Bedford.
               And proudly exulted old De Vere's honest heart when he heard it all. He felt that
                  the son of his affection was worthy of the honorable destiny that was
                  opening on him. He knew that he had won his position by perseverance and skilful
                  toil, as well as by the cultivation of those talents and virtues which nature, as
                  a genuine patent of nobility, had conferred on him. He gloried in the fact that in
                  him the dignity of labor and native genius was asserted—that in his success the
                  spirit of the liberal institutions of the republic was triumphantly illustrated.
                  And when he confirmed firmed the reports that his father had heard relative to his
                  two encounters with Shirley, the old man laid his hands on his head and declared,
                  "Heaven will bless you, Harry. This moment my heart exults in you more than if an
                  emperor's diadem was your only glory. You have been dutiful and obedient, the sole
                  comfort of my life, and I feel that you are to be the staff of my age. Your old
                  father's blessing will follow you, my boy."
               "And your approval, my beloved father, I prize beyond that of any living being.
                  The remembrance of it will sustain me under every difficulty," he replied, deeply
                  touched by the unexpected scene.
               "If you had only played your cards right, as I wished you to do,
                  Frederick, when General Beverly was here, he might have selected you. To think,
                  after all the pains and expense I have had with you, that Harry should be chosen
                  over your head as an envoy!" said Mrs. De Vere,
                  indignantly. But he did not deign her an answer, unless whistling a new Polka,
                  combing his moustache, and adjusting the glittering bagatelles on his guard-chain could be regarded as one. Ringing for
                  his hat and jewelled cane, he sauntered out, to dawdle the fashionable walking
                  hours away in his usual haunts, with that air of exquisite nonchalance that always awed his mother.
               "I declare, mamma, I always thought our ugly duck*
                   would become a swan one of these days. I must get Harry to take me to
                  Belgium with him. Perhaps I could captivate a count or baron, or maybe a
                  prince—who knows? Would it not be superb to be called 'serene highness,' or even
                  'baroness?' I think I could stir up a prodigious sensation at Brussels, partly on
                  my own account, and partly on Harry's credit," said Bessie, laughing.
               
                  
                  *See Hans Andersen's story of the "Ugly Duck."
               
               "I wish you were there now," drawled Alice, from her heap of cushions. "You'll
                  certainly shatter every nerve in my body if you stay."
               "And lure, off your silent colonel into the bargain. You ought to see how he
                  laughs, Alice, when he thinks you don't see him, at my droll speeches," retorted
                  Bessie, good humoredly.
               "Colonel Forsyth is superior to such flimsy attractions. He adores silence and
                  sentiment, and cannot bear to hear a lady laugh," replied Alice, angrily.
               "Really! I would not be surprised to see him dying of the odor of a rose, some of
                  these sentimental moonlight nights, the sensitive darling!" laughed Bessie. "But,
                  mamma, I heard to-day day that Edith
                  Willoughby is to be married on the first of May, and that Mr. Shirley and herself
                  start immediately for Europe."
               "Yes. I heard nothing about their going to Europe. I knew the trousseau was in preparation, and a very elegant one
                  it will be. I saw part of it at Madame le Roi's, and part at that Hewlett woman's.
                  It is extremely recherché; but the wedding is to
                  be strictly private, I heard. Another of Mrs. Willoughby's ultra notions," she
                  replied, with a stately air.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Christians and proud! Oh, poor and wretched ones!
                           That, feeble in the mind's eye, lean your trust
                           Upon unstaid perverseness. Know ye not
                           That we are worms, yet made at last to form
                           The winged insect imped with angel plumes,
                           That to Heaven's justice unobstructed soars?
                           Why buoy ye up aloft your unfledged souls?"
                        
                     
                     DANTE, Purg.
                  
               
               THE beau-monde were weary of fêtes, routes, and parties. The opera season was over.
                  Ellsler was in New Orleans, and Forrest in Paris. Everything was lamentably dull.
                  The élite had feasted to repletion on lobster
                  salad and ices; white jellies, pickled oysters, and olios were considered below
                  par. Long, legible bills, recording truthfully the varied extravagances of the
                  season, were daily discovered, folded neatly, beside the toast and muffins, on the
                  breakfast-table, adding much to the general discomfort of the times, and what was
                  still more stupid, there was a moral calm. Not a breath of scandal rippled the
                  fragrant tea that was dished up to the various coteries. The old dowagers who frequented the whist-table probably
                  fared better than the rest, for, in the absence of all other excitement, they
                  doubled their stakes, and, over their losings and winnings, were ready to tear
                  each other's wigs off. But the universal ennui
                  might have been polka'd off, and the genius of fashion recuperated bravely from
                  the languor of a closing season, had not LENT, like Banquo's ghost, glided
                  solemnly in. Its regulations, once considered senseless and papistical, had
                  recently been dignified and brought into high vogue by certain Oxford divines, or
                  visionaries, who, retrograding from all progress, had wandered back to the dark
                  ages, and from their obscurity produced a few canonical laws, which, through some
                  unaccountable oversight, had fallen into disuse and been forgotten. Some fasted
                  because they considered it more healthy to abstain from flesh, as the relaxing
                  weather of spring approached; others, because they conscientiously thought the
                  unholy and roving propensities of their souls sorely needed a spiritual
                  whipper-in. As to the Roman Catholics, poor souls, it was a season of great
                  abnegation and penance to them; but they were regularly broken in, and endured
                  their privations with patient meekness, their burthen being somewhat lightened by
                  their strange belief in the efficacy of good works. Between opposing creeds there
                  was, however, one bond of union. Hecatombs of FISH were sacrificed. According to
                  the reports of the prices current in "Lyman's Register," "salmon was brisk, eggs
                  firm, fish buoyant, meat depressed, and cheese uncommonly active." Those
                  time-honored and privileged dames of the market, the fish-hucksters, radiant with
                  satisfaction at their profits, no longer made the air musical with their oaths,
                  and sulphureous with their maledictions; the times were easy, and they had leisure
                  to think of gentility. But, like the frogs in the fable, what was fun to them was
                  death to the drooping spirits of the ton. But
                  their day of deliverance was near at hand. A most remarkable excitement presented
                  itself for their benefit, which, occurring in Lent, could be consistently and
                  meritoriously enjoyed. The stagnant waters were stirred by the angel of
                  benevolence, and, in a perfect furore, towards
                  the pool they rushed. The great and philanthropic plans which had recalled them to
                  active life related neither to the Greeks, Poles, Hungarians, nor the galley
                  slaves of Algiers or Tripoli. It originated, as most good things do,
                  with the noble and sensible hearts of another class, who, being a little lower in
                  the sliding scale of society, require no magnifying glasses to see and feel for
                  the misery below them. The plan was in behalf of those martyrs to the
                  needle, the oppressed seamstresses and tailoresses of the city. Their wrongs,
                  which had long appealed to Heaven for redress, now heard a pitying echo on earth,
                  and indefatigably labored the friends of their cause to ameliorate the evils of
                  their condition. They gave an echo to the voice of MERCY, and narrated their
                  grievances in accent so plaintive and truthful that the commiseration and
                  sympathies of all the community were enlisted in their favor. Without ostentation
                  or parade, substantial effects were wrought and applied by those whose noble aim
                  it was to relieve the suffering. They sought not themselves, but the good of
                  others, and felt more than honored by the success that crowned their efforts; but
                  the charity of the world sought its own selfish gratification and éclat in its vainglorious rious labors; and while some small amount of relief
                  resulted from them, a deal more of sentiment was talked. The "Song of the Shirt"
                  was heard in lugubrious cadences in every drawing-room, and subscription-lists
                  were opened by several leaders of the ton, in
                  aid of a general fund, to be applied to the relief of the wornout and helpless
                  members of the unfortunate class for whom their feelings were so zealously
                  enlisted. They vied with each other in the art of intriguing to obtain the largest
                  number of subscribers; jealousy and rivalry rolled bitter waves of contention over
                  the beautiful spirit which first suggested to them holy ideas of ministering to
                  the wants of the stricken; all that was heavenly in its origin was forgotten,
                  until feuds and animosities were enkindled by their worldliness, which promised to
                  be as enduring as those of the Guelphs and Ghibbelines of old. Charity is
                  heavenborn, and its unblemished purity is soon tarnished and soiled by the spirit
                  of the world; its garb sits uneasily on the impulsive and heartless demon, who,
                  urging its votaries along the pathway of pride and ostentation, tempts them into
                  sins which neutralize effectually all the good, all the sweetness, that, like
                  celestial dews returning earthward, would steep their souls in peace. But we will
                  spare the reader; we will; although a homily, a long homily, might be drawn from
                  the premises.
               A gaily-dressed and fashionable party were assembled at Mrs. De Vere's one
                  morning, to discuss the engrossing topic. It was an especial meeting of some of
                  the eélite, who had formed themselves into a
                     clique for the laudable purpose of excelling,
                  in the amount of their subscriptions, another clique, who, in very dashing style, pretended to take the lead in
                  the affair. What with the animated flutter of plumes, the crush of velvets, and
                  the hum of conversation to which nobody was listening, the excitement was truly
                  charming. Bessie De Vere and her southern lover, whose spirit in its mirthfulness
                  was kindred with her own, had taken shelter in the embrasure of a window, where,
                  half concealed by the flowing damask draperies which depended from the massive
                  gilt cornice over it, they could look out on the proceedings of the meeting, and
                  enjoy themselves at everybody's expense, with impunity. They anticipated a season
                  of exalted glee. Alice, lounging on her everlasting cushions, was the picture of
                  an ennuyée, pale and desponding, as she at
                  intervals made an effort to turn her eyes languidly on a gentleman who sat beside
                  her, holding her smelling-bottle and Chinese fan.
               "Hist, Aubry!" whispered Bessie; "listen to their twaddle about Harry."
               "La, Mrs. De Vere!" said one, "I was so surprised, you can't think at the
                  announcement of your son's appointment to a foreign post."
               "And," put in another, "the papers compliment him so highly. I declare it's quite
                  an honor!"
               "I must congratulate you, Mrs. De Vere, about your son! I had no idea
                  he was so talented. How he has got on, to be sure!" exclaimed a third.
               "I declare he's quite taken everybody by surprise. I always thought him an
                  excessively shy, dull young man!" observed another.
               "Now it's mamma's turn to make a speech; the very folds of her satin stand out
                  with dignity as she rises; the eloquent blood mounts to cheek and brow; Heaven
                  send it may touch her tongue with fire!" said Bessie, in a low-toned voice, while
                  she suppressed her disposition to giggle.
               "My son Henry," said Mrs. De Vere, radiant with gratified pride, "was always a
                  very studious boy, and when he grew up was devoted to science and books." No
                  thought then of the little care she had bestowed on him in his boyhood, or the
                  little affection she had shed about his ways; his honors reflected on her; as his
                  mother, her consequence was heightened by his well-deserved and nobly earned
                  position. There was not a single compunctious twinge to hallow or humble her
                  thoughts of the past; every emotion was absorbed by inordinate vanity and
                  self-love.
               "And your son has gone to Europe on a very important government mission, Mrs. De
                  Vere!" exclaimed a new-comer; "I declare you ought to feel very proud of him. My
                  husband says he's the finest young man in the country. But, la me! did you hear of
                  Mrs. Livingston's extravagant purchase?"
               "I heard she had purchased a magnificent India shawl for Dora," replied Mrs. De
                  Vere; "nothing more."
               "For which," said the lady, lowering her voice as she saw Mrs. Livingston
                  conversing with a group of ladies in the next apartment, "she paid one
                     thousand dollars. People who have wealth ought to let their money
                  circulate in the community, but not at the expense of justice and humanity. You
                  must know, Mrs. De Vere, the very day that shawl was purchased, Mr. Livingston
                  presented his lady with a check for fifty dollars, to pay a poor woman, a widow,
                  who had been sewing for her the live-long winter. The woman was in a destitute
                  situation, sick, and almost helpless herself; and had a child dying with the
                  typhus fever. She was told the only thing that would save him was brandy,
                  administered freely every few minutes. She wrote to Mrs. Livingston, explaining
                  her circumstances, and besought her to send her a part of the sum due her; but her reply was that 'she must wait
                  until it was convenient for her to do so; she was sorry, but could do nothing
                  then, and hoped she would be annoyed by no more duns, she was not accustomed to
                  being dunned.' Then drove off with the fifty dollars in her pocket-book, and
                  bought the shawl."
               "I thought it cost one thousand?"
               "So it did, my dear lady. She had nine hundred, and was at her wits' end to get
                  the other. The fifty dollars came very opportunely, you see. She paid
                  nine hundred and fifty down—the balance on the books, you know. The upshot of it
                  all was, the child died, and was buried by the parish. You may depend on what I
                  tell you. My maid is first cousin to the poor widow, and knew the whole
                  business."
               "How many disagreeable things are constantly happening to poor people! But I
                  suppose they are used to it," said Mrs. De Vere, casting up her eyes. "I wonder if
                  Miss Thorne has come?"
               "Yes. Don't you hear her voice? It is high time the meeting was called to order. I
                  will go after her."
               "I am so sorry, Aubry, you did not hear Ole Bull the other night," said Bessie.
                  "That 'Preghiera del Mosé,' with variations on the fourth string,
                  was positively ecstatic. Then the first concerto in E-flat, with the adagio flebile, rings yet in my ears; it haunts my
                  dreams, and I am dying to hear it again."
               "I tell you what, Bessie, I wouldn't give one view halloo, one tally-ho, with the
                  sound of horns, and the deep-mouthed baying of the hounds, for all the fiddling
                  and squeaking on earth," said the young Southerner, gaily.
               "You Vandal," laughed Bessie, giving him a smart rap with her fan. "But look,
                  Aubry, at those two doves over there. Colonel Forsyth, bending so sentimentally
                  over Alice, looks like a cabbage making love to a lily." They both laughed, and
                  there being a sudden lull in the confusion of tongues, owing to Miss Thorne having
                  shrilly called the "meeting to order, for the purpose of considering the great and
                  benevolent object which had assembled them together," they overheard the gallant
                  colonel say,
               "Don't this 'orrible noise haffect your nerves to-day?"
               "Oh, truly does it; they vibrate shockingly!" she replied, languidly, while she
                  threw up her eyes as if in silent appeal to Heaven for aid.
               Miss Cicely, meanwhile, had thrown off her bonnet and shawl, and seated herself on
                  Bessie's piano stool which she first screwed up to its highest altitude, and
                  commenced the business of the morning by a brief expression of her "thanks to the
                  company for the unexpected honor they had conferred on her by calling her to
                  preside over their deliberations on this interesting occasion."*
                  
               
                  
                  *Of course, the reader will not suspect us of ridiculing genuine benevolence.
                     It is the ostentatious spirit of the world, its spurious
                     feeling and false sentimentality, that make us weep while we laugh.
               
               "She's what a piny-woods Virginian would call a char-woman," said
                  Aubry. "I heard the best joke the other day, Bessie; I must tell you. You know my
                  cousin, Jack Wyche on the wharf; he's an old bachelor; and if he has an especial
                  horror on earth, it is that little Thorne of a woman perched up on your
                  music-seat. She never lets an opportunity escape of tormenting his pocket until he
                  is obliged to get rid of her to the tune of five or ten dollars for some of her
                  pet charities. And we have so fully persuaded him that the Thorne is in love with
                  him, and is determined to be Mrs. Wyche, that I expect some of these days he'll
                  drown himself in the dock to get rid of her."
               "Go on quick, Aubry, we'll miss her speech!" said Bessie, giggling.
               "Well, one hot day last September, one of his clerks sprang into the
                  counting-room, and gave the alarm that she was coming. 'I'm out!' exclaimed Wyche
                  with an oath, springing into his iron safe. 'Is Mr. Wyche in?' inquired Thorne.
                  'No, madam, just gone to one of the banks; won't be back for an hour,' replied the
                  clerk, almost bursting with laughter.
               "'Oh very well, I'm extremely tired, I'll sit down and wait.' Jack is rather
                  plethoric, and he says, when he heard that, he thought he should melt into a
                  river, or go off in an apopletic fit; but he did neither; and, being on the eve of
                  suffocation, had to come out; muttering curses, as Shakspeare says, 'not loud, but
                  deep.' She received him like a seraph, and made known her petition in moving
                  terms. 'I have nothing,' roared cousin Jack. 'I'm on the very eve of
                  bankruptcy."
               "'But consider the distressed poor, dearest Mr. Wyche; we must not let them suffer
                  in the midst of plenty!' 'Devil take the poor, madam! I have not a cent to give
                  to-day. I had two notes protested this morning!' Of course, he lied. 'But a barrel
                  of molasses would do, Mr. Wyche—or—or—anything else!' she said, turning her sharp
                  eyes around. 'Lord, lord!' said Jack. 'Madam, there's a barrel of whiskey!" He did
                  not think for a moment she would accept his offer; but she jumped at it, and very
                  modestly asked the use of his porter and dray to convey it away."
               "What did she do with it?" asked Bessie, laughing until tears ran over her
                  cheeks.
               
               "Went to another house above, and sold it for a few dollars beyond the market
                  price on the score of charity. But listen—her voice would make a senate tremble,
                  and her eloquence make them run!" said Aubry.
               "I hope, ladies and gentlemen," screamed Miss Thorne, "that the
                  utmost harmony will rule our deliberations. Mrs. De Vere's subscription to the
                  fund of the Society for the Relief of Indigent and Helpless Seamstresses heads our
                  list. It is the munificent donation of one hundred dollars. Each of
                  the Misses De Vere, twenty-five dollars. Mr. Frederick De Vere, fifty dollars. And
                  here are two notes of one hundred dollars each from two gentlemen, who do not wish
                  to let their 'right hands know what their left do.' We can only give a shrewd
                  guess that this extremely liberal gift to the society-is presented by the husband
                  and absent son of our esteemed and honored hostess." Mrs. De Vere had told
                     their secret. "Who, I must say," continued Miss Thorne, "has evinced
                  with all her family the most exalted liberality. Miss Tresham, forty dollars."
                  "That is handsome," murmured Mrs. De Vere; "she's a young woman of spirit. I must
                  invite her, and have her name on my visiting list." "She refused Mrs. Carlton
                  point blank," whispered Miss Thorne, aside to Mrs. De Vere. "That set did
                  everything they could to win her over; but she was firm to our interests."
               "Mrs. Livingston, forty dollars—" "Oh the poor widow!" sighed Bessie. "Mrs. Mason,
                  fifty. Mrs. Butler, twenty-five." And so she went on proclaiming the amount of
                  each subscription as it was handed in until the list was closed, for the simple
                  reason that there was no more to expect on this occasion. "My dear friends," she
                  began, "it is enough to kindle up the heart of a stone with a glow of humanity to
                  witness the liberal result of this meeting; a result glorious to the cause of
                  charity and benevolence. We are all aware of the distress which pervades the
                  indigent classes of society; and as Christians it is our duty to stretch forth our
                  hands to them in their painful necessities. We have done so to-day, and they will
                  rise up and call us and our children blessed."
               "Our children! What does she mean, Bess?" asked Aubry, looking
                  queer.
               "Only an oratorical license, you wretch; do hush!" whispered Bessie.
               "I have seen a great deal, ladies and gentlemen," continued Miss
                  Thorne, "and know a great deal of the actual sufferings and
                  privations of the poor from personal observation. I have been among them to
                  minister to their wants, and constant opportunities have occurred for me to inform
                  myself on the subject of their habits and necessities. It is true, there are some
                  drawbacks to one's kindly feelings in the fact that these people will
                  marry—such marriages we all know are like, to quote the witty Madam B——, 'hunger
                  and thirst coming together,' and ought to be prohibited by stringent laws. Such
                  laws, of course, would lessen the pauper population of our country." A clear,
                  prolonged whistle here interrupted the eloquent speaker; but, as the guilty party
                  was completely hidden by the curtain of the window where he had taken shelter, no
                  one knew who it was or whence it came, and she went on: "As to the
                     children of these unfortunate marriages, I look on it as an
                  especial blessing when they die. These people rush headlong into their
                  difficulties, and we are taxed with their support. It is an evil that
                  legislation ought to interfere with, gentlemen; but as it exists, ladies,
                  hopelessly exists, we must not be behindhand with our duties. Some time ago I was
                  at a missionary meeting, and was called on for a donation to assist in sending out
                  clergymen to an African mission where a few months previous three holy men had
                  their throats cut by the savage barbarians. Wives and children, of course, met the
                  same awful fate. My reply was, 'that if people choose to go among savages to be
                  murdered so shockingly, I could not with a clear conscience aid them with funds to
                  do it.' Here, ladies and gentlemen, are nearly six hundred dollars,
                  collected on this interesting occasion! a magnificent sum, and the very largest
                  collected yet by the united efforts of one set. It will contribute materially to
                  strengthen and enlarge the philanthropic views of the originators of this great
                  plan. To-morrow morning a published report of it will appear in the 'SPIRIT OF THE
                  AGE,' to edify mankind, and throw into the shade the rival efforts of Mrs. Carlton
                  and her clique. The world will admire and laud the generous beings who, amidst
                  prosperity and the demands of high-life, have not forgotten to pity and help the
                  destitute."
               "Poor creatures! how dreadful it must be to drink brown sugar in their tea! and
                  eat coarse brown bread!" drawled a sentimental lady.
               "Brown sugar and coarse bread, indeed! Soul's, madam! they'd be vastly well off if
                  they could get that," said Miss Cicely, sharply; "there are thousands
                  of them who cannot even get tea, leaving out the sugar and bread."
               "Shocking! but I never go near them; I'm afraid of infection!" she observed.
               "Yes," added Mrs. De Vere, "I do not mind giving money, but it is prodigiously
                  disagreeable to go into their confined, stove-heated rooms, filled with litter,
                  and screaming children."
               
               "And they are so apt to be troublesome, when they see one takes an interest in
                  them," remarked another. "But I cannot help feeling diverted, when I think of the
                  rage Mrs. Carlton will be in to-morrow. She has only three hundred dollars to hand
                  in to the managers of the fund."
               "I must call on her!" said Miss Cicely, "to see how she bears it. I thought Mrs.
                  Willoughby was to be present to-day!"
               "Not she, indeed. She's vastly too proud to do things like the rest of the world.
                  She has the strangest notions I ever heard of. I hear she gives employment to a
                  number of poor people; but ask her to put her name down for a donation on a
                  subscription list, if you want to be cut at once by her ladyship!" replied Mrs. De
                  Vere. "I fancy, though, she's very busy just now about her step-daughter's
                  wedding. Bessie has been invited to be a bridesmaid—"
               "The wedding takes place very soon, now, I believe?" inquired Miss Cicely.
               "Yes. After Easter! It's a great pity she's been so unfortunate in her choice!
                  That Shirley is a perfect roué; but
                     they know nothing about it!" said Mrs. De Vere, tossing her
                  head.
               "She might have done much better, I think," said Miss Cicely, looking
                  severely virtuous. "She has had excellent offers—highly eligible ones, to my
                  certain knowledge! It will be a great pity if he is a roué!" Then she helped herself plentifully to
                  plumcake, from a silver tray the footman was passing around with. "I would like a
                  sandwich," she said, mournfully, "but it is Lent; and I could take a
                  cordial—indeed, after the fatigues of the morning, I need one; but they fly to my
                  head dreadfully, and inflame my nose—it's a great privation, but one must consult
                  one's looks a little."
               The benevolent object which called the ladies together being disposed of to the
                  infinite satisfaction of all, and the on-dits of
                  the day freely discussed, they dispersed in small parties, indulging in the most
                     piquant anticipations of enjoyment at the
                  utter discomfiture of the rival clique, when they perused the report of
                     their liberality in the morning paper. Nothing could exceed their
                  self-glorification; but the world called it, and they thought it, genuine charity.
                  Perhaps it was! and if there is such a point in moral ethics as the
                  "end sanctifying the means," it was strongly, nay, pardonably illustrated by this
                  fashionable benevolence.
               Mrs. Willoughby had been out with Edith shopping, during the forenoon, and when
                  they returned, she found Mr. Moysa waiting in the drawing-room. She knew at once
                  that he had brought her news, and almost speechless, she could only offer her hand
                  in welcome, and motion him to a chair near her.
               "Has he come?" she inquired briefly. Her emotion was too powerful for conventional
                  ceremonies, or long speeches.
               "No, lady—but I very unexpectedly discovered something, this morning, which may
                  lead to his identity. I was passing a Daguerrean gallery, and, observing a number
                  of fancy sketches in a large frame at the door, curiosity impelled me to enter.
                  Ascending a flight of steps, I opened the door at the top, and found myself in a
                  handsome saloon, the walls of which were covered with the finest specimens of the
                  art I ever saw. I inspected one after another, moralizing on the progress of the
                  age, and wondering at the almost magical fidelity of the delineations around me.
                  There was old age, youthful beauty, manhood, and the faces of young, innocent
                  children, unflattered all—and all wonderfully distinct, yet the
                     contour of every face so softly rounded; and
                  the expression of every eye so soul-beaming—be patient, madam, I am nearly at the
                  point of my adventure—I at last approached the only cluster of specimens I had not
                  examined. A party of Indian chiefs, in their war-costume and wild-woods bravery,
                  each in a separate frame, hung around in a circle, a fierce, ruthless-looking
                  crew; and in their midst, looking so sad and beautiful, in his picturesque garb,
                  what should I see but my young Italian! I wanted to tear it down from such
                  ungenial companionship, and place it in my bosom!"
               "Are you quite sure, sir—did not a fancied resemblance deceive you?" inquired Mrs.
                  Willoughby.
               "There is not such another face in the world, madam!" he replied,
                  emphatically.
               "My carriage has not left the door yet. Will you accompany me, Mr. Moysa, to this
                  gallery?" she asked.
               "With pleasure, madam. Consider me always at your service in this affair," he
                  said, with alacrity.
               "We will call for Mr. Bedford; he may be able to tell us at once whether your
                  Ishmael and his Massoletti are one! I will not, however, tell him my object in
                  requesting him to go; I wish the recognition to be unexpected; it will be more
                  satisfactory; for alas! he hopes not as I do!" she said.
               But Mr. Bedford suspected immediately, from the mere fact of seeing the
                  noble-hearted Jew with her, that she had discovered another fancied link in her
                  almost hopeless efforts for the recovery of her lost son. But he did not allude to
                  the subject in the remotest way, for he considered the accomplishment of her
                  hopes, eventually, so utterly impossible, and the result, which she wildly prayed for, so blighting to all her
                  cherished feelings in the certain disappointment that must ensue, that it sickened
                  his very soul to think of it, and yet he dared not tell that mother
                  so, for fear of driving her mad. To the world, she was, in her outward seeming,
                  ever calm, passionless; and in the high-bred elegance of her manner, entirely
                  self-possessed; but it was a fearful thing to one who knew the secrets of her
                  inmost heart, to see the veil torn away, and its imprisoned woes revealed, when
                  like chained maniacs they were roused, filling the awful solitude with their
                  tribulation. He would never express a doubt again of the ultimate success of her
                  search, whatever he might feel, but yield a passive assent to her fancies on the
                  point.
               Solitary old man! What knew he of the untold mysteries of a mother's heart? its
                  prescient instincts—its self-sacrificing devotion? Spartan mothers, rejoicing over
                  their sons slain in battle; the vision of Anticlea, cold and heroic amidst
                  Plutonian shades; the mother of the noble Maccabees, the wife of Asdrubal, the
                  Assyrian traitor, were his ideals of maternal endurance! The
                  beautiful Idyl*
                   of the mother, who went into the regions of death to search for her babe,
                  and when told she could not reach it until she drank every drop of water from a
                  broad, rapid river before her, replied, folding her hands meekly on her bosom,
                     "Am I not a mother?—I will drink it all," was a monstrous and
                  distorted fancy to him: he thought it something holy and beautiful, this
                  never-failing fount of human affection—but he thought, too, that it was too apt to
                  degenerate into a species of weakness, opposed to all rationality and sound
                  argument.
               
                  
                  *Hans Andersen's Tales.
               
               When they arrived at the Daguerrean gallery, they were politely received by the
                  artist, who was at the moment disengaged, and invited to examine the specimens of
                  his wonderful art. Every luxury that a liberal and refined taste could provide
                  contributed to the gratification of those who visited it. Fauteuils, lounges, marble tables covered with books and flowers,
                  musical instruments and rich draperies, gilding, and brilliantly dyed carpeting,
                  attracted for a moment the scrutiny of the party, as something indicating the
                  rapid progress of the times towards a high state of refined luxury. Both gentlemen
                  complimented the artist on the handsome coup-d'œil of his arrangements, then turned to the innumerable faces
                  which, almost breathing, smiled down on them from the massive frames that
                  enshrined them.†
                   Mrs. Willoughby was insensibly interested; these were the first she had
                  seen; but Mr. Bedford, always enthusiastic in his admiration for everything
                  connected with the progress of art, could not refrain from expressing again and
                  again his gratification, in terms which were highly complimentary to the
                  enterprising proprietor. He quite forgot the object for which he suspected he was
                  brought hither, and, like a child turned loose in a garden of flowers, scarcely
                  knew where he should award the preference. Mr. Moysa went into another apartment
                  to inspect one of the large cameras, and had yielded to the request of an
                  assistant operator, whose artist eye was much struck with his remarkable and
                  handsome face, to sit; a moment sufficed, and the plate on which the impression
                  was made being taken into an adjoining room to be submitted to chemical tests, he
                  strolled back to the gallery just as Mr. Bedford paused before the miniature of
                  the young Italian.
               
                  
                  †Whitehurst's handsome gallery is here referred to.
               
               "My God!" he exclaimed, after surveying it attentively, "this is surely
                  Massoletti. See here, Moysa, do you know this?"
               "I would know it in Egypt, sir," he replied, advancing; "that is just the way the
                  poor young Gentile looked when he came to me to pledge his medallion."
               "It is Massoletti, beyond all doubt!" said Mr. Bedford, taking it down, and
                  handing it to Mrs. Willoughby. Without venturing to cast her eye on it, she
                  carried it to a distant window, that any emotion it might conjure up might be
                  concealed. She opened Vernon's miniature, then holding the two together compared
                  them. Who dare dispute the resemblance of one to the other? One was Vernon—the
                  other seemed his spirit, purified and softened, yet preserving the image of his
                  former self. Both smiled on her. One with haughty lip, and the love light in his
                  bold, bright eyes—the other sadly, imploringly. Both had the same golden hair—the
                  self-same broad, fair brow—the same patrician mouth, and high, finely cut nose—and
                  the large almond-shaped eyes! Who could dispute their kindred? And yet there was a
                  wide difference in the expression of the faces. That of the man was instinct with
                  pride, wild impulses, mingled with bravery, generosity, and defiant scorn—that of
                  the boy was gentle, refined, and shadowed by the mellowed loveliness of the early
                  doomed. And her heart responded in soft and gentle cadences to the glance of that
                  silent and imploring look; wild distraction, and the bitter agony of years were
                  hushed, and the emotions of her heart ebbed and flowed gently, like the rippling
                  of tired billows after the tempest is spent. And she wept. Such tears as had long
                  been strangers to her, and which, like angel visitants, refreshed the sterile and
                  blighted waste of her heart. "If this is not he," she murmured, "then he is not."
                  These were the only words she spoke, and drawing her veil over her face, she beckoned to Mr. Bedford, who had been
                  watching her every movement with intense anxiety, and in a low voice requested him
                  to ask the artist "if he would dispose of the picture. Offer him any price for
                  it—tell him there is a painful family secret connected with it, which gives it
                  great value. And—and—ask him when the youth sat—perhaps he can give us some
                  information where to find him."
               Astonished, more at her calmness than the request, he hastened to comply with her
                  wishes. The artist informed him that the "young Italian had wandered in one day
                  about six weeks previous, with a picture for sale, which he offered at such a
                  moderate price—a price in fact disproportionate to its merits as a work of
                  art—that he purchased it without hesitation; and was so struck with the rare and
                  touching beauty of his countenance, that he prevailed on him to sit for his
                  likeness, to add to his collection. I consider it, sir, the finest specimen I
                  have. It has certainly been very much admired."
               "Of course," remarked Mr. Bedford, "I cannot insist on your disposing of what you
                  so highly prize; but will observe that you would confer a great obligation by so
                  doing. There are certain reasons, which I cannot just now explain, which will
                  render the possession of it of some importance to the happiness of the lady who is
                  with me. All I can say is that it bears a very strong resemblance to
                  an only son she lost some years ago, of whom she has not a single memento."
               "Under these circumstances, she must have it," replied the artist, with feeling.
                  "I will take an impression from it this afternoon for myself, and to-morrow, if
                  you will call sir, sometime during the morning, the original will be at your
                  disposal. I consider it one of the most picturesque ornaments of my gallery."
               "We owe you a thousand thanks!" exclaimed Mr. Bedford, always delighted to
                  discover a noble trait or generous impulse in another; "your ready compliance in
                  this matter does you honor, sir; but we wish to remunerate you handsomely for your
                  trouble."
               "We will attend to that to-morrow, if you please," replied the artist; "I see
                  several ladies waiting, and am sorry to be obliged to leave you."
               Mr. Moysa was taking leave at the door, but Mrs. Willoughby insisted on setting
                  him down at his counting-room. Her requests were like commands always, and, on
                  ordinary occasions, might be slighted; but there was a tremulousness in her voice,
                  a pathos that would not allow him to evade her offer, on this.
               "We have been thrown strangely together, Mr. Moysa," were the only words she
                  uttered during the drive; "and I feel that I can never repay the immeasurable
                  obligations you have laid me under."
               "I have done nothing, lady—you honor me too much; may the God of Abraham restore
                  speedily to you the being in whom we are all so deeply interested!" he answered,
                  understanding the sentiment that prompted the acknowledgment of her gratitude.
               Day after day passed away, and yet no tidings of Massoletti were heard. Mrs.
                  Willoughby had obtained the picture, and inclosed a handsome sum to the
                  Daguerreotypist who so kindly relinquished it. In the solitude of her own
                  apartment, she gazed on it hours at a time with the intensest emotions; tracing
                  every lineament, and marking every feature, until at times, to her excited
                  imagination, it seemed almost to stand forth from the frame and smile on her. Her
                  softened heart saw the world through its medium. No argument or power could have
                  lured her away from the sweet certainty that this wandering child of genius was
                  her son. The glittering frostwork of mere intellectuality, and her stately pride
                  of character, both of which had made her a marble thing amid life's sweet
                  affinities, were floating, melting away, from the fettered soul, which, like a
                  blossom held in thrall beyond its season of blooming by untimely cold, opened
                  slowly its leaves and fragrance, until her whole nature rejoiced in the genial
                  change. If a mendicant crossed her path, or a ragged child implored alms, the
                  thought of his early poverty and friendlessness presented itself to
                  her mind—then her hand, pulsating with more human and holy sympathies, her eyes
                  beaming with kindlier glances, and her voice attuned to softer cadences, afforded
                  not only relief, but consolation to the outcasts. In the abodes of poverty—to
                  which her presence was not a stranger—her footsteps even fell more lightly, and
                  stricken mothers, groaning under their burthens of suffering and need, wondered
                  why a stranger should weep, when their own eyes were burning and dry. "Fear not,"
                  she said to a dying woman, who, in the thought of leaving an unprotected and
                  helpless boy dependent on the grudging charities of the world, had found the
                     bitterness of death—"fear not, he shall from henceforth be my
                  care." And a smile gradually settled on the pinched cold features of the dying
                  one, and, softly breathing an inarticulate word of benediction, she fell asleep.
                  In that noble act, a sad vision of childhood, wandering and unprotected over the
                  earth, inspired her, the vision of her own early lost.
               But all these exalted and absorbing ideas had not the power to make her selfish.
                  She was not forgetful of Edith, or her interests. It is true, she scarcely
                  observed that she was less gay than usual, or the indifference she manifested in the choice of
                  her bridal paraphernalia, because she was quite satisfied that there was nothing
                  wanting to make the approaching event a suitable and happy one, and rejoiced, at
                  the same time, that her marriage with Walter Shirley, instead of severing the tie
                  between herself and Edith, made it nearer.
               Mrs. Lacy and Bessie De Vere, whose freedom from affectation and cheerful bonhomie had won much on Mrs. Willoughby, and rendered
                  her a great favorite with Edith, were there daily, beguiling the time by the
                  performance of a thousand little kindly offices, and an unceasing flow of
                  blithesome chat.
               "I begged Harry for a set of diamonds, for this occasion, before he went off,"
                  said Bessie one day, while she was examining a superb set of rubies Mrs.
                  Willoughby had presented to Edith; "but he flung out in a pet at my extravagance,
                  I fancy; then, fearing he had hurt my feelings, returned in a short time and
                  kissed me, with the assurance that I should have a magnificent set if I married
                  within a twelvemonth."
               "Which you will certainly do, I predict," said Mrs. Lacy.
               "Yes. I'm dying for diamonds. I've quite a passion for them," she replied,
                  laughing.
               "Diamonds will suit the gorgeous South famously. But, Bessie, what are Mr. Aubry's
                  tastes?" inquired Mrs. Lacy.
               "For everything bright and dazzling and merry, I believe. Between us we torment
                  Alice and her pet nerves almost to death. I believe she wishes we were either dead
                  or married and off, everyday of her life. Aubry mimics that stupid Col. Forsyth,
                  who pretends to be so desperately in love with Alice, and to smother my laughter I
                  rattle over the piano keys, until she is almost in the hysterics. I wonder where
                  on earth my exquisite brother Fred could have picked him up?" said the merry,
                  thoughtless Bessie.
               "Here's the wail, Miss Etha," said Paula, bringing in a dainty-looking package in
                  her outspread hands.
               "Lay it down, Paula. I will look at it presently," said Edith.
               "In compassion to my sensitive curiosity, don't say 'presently,' dear Etha. I must
                  be off immediately to Madame Le Roi's about my dress; so do let me have a peep at
                  it before I go."
               "Yes, open it, dear Bessie. Of course, open it," said Edith, abstractedly.
               "Oh heavens! How superb! How magnificent!" exclaimed Bessie, holding up for
                  inspection the large bridal veil, of so fine a texture and rich a pattern that the
                  cobweb fabric could scarcely be seen beneath the cunning embroidery. She threw it
                  over Edith's head, whose cheek grew very pale as, like a soft cloud, it enveloped
                  her, and she suddenly turned away, and, leaning on Mrs. Lacy's shoulder, burst
                  into tears. Shocked and astonished, Bessie lifted it gently up, and imprinted a
                  silent kiss on her cheek, then threw on her hat and shawl, and glided from the
                  room, feeling deeply grieved that she had even unwittingly caused the friend she
                  so dearly loved to shed a single tear. But she did not cause those tears.
               "Edith," said Mrs. Lacy, when they were alone, and passing her arm tenderly around
                  the agitated girl, drew her closer to her. "Edith, you weep. What mean those tears
                  at such a time?"
               "Oh, my friend, ask me not now. I fear I am sadly changed," she whispered, folding
                  her hands together so tight that the nails grew purple.
               "Edith, darling, are you happy? I conjure you by every holy and womanly feeling to
                  pause if you are not," said Mrs Lacy, who had long ago suspected she was giving
                  Walter Shirley a divided heart.
               "Happy! Why do you doubt it, dear Mrs. Lacy? Because I have been weak enough to
                  shed a few foolish tears?" she answered, throwing back the veil from her head and
                  trying to smile.
               "Not foolish tears, but tears wrung from your heart,
                  Edith Willoughby. Oh, do not deceive yourself in this thing!" said Mrs. Lacy,
                  kissing her burning brow.
               "How very stupid the world would think you, if they heard your dolorous fancies
                  about one so envied as I! Is it not fashionable to shed tears on the fetters which
                  are to deprive us of our girlish freedom? Believe me, I have enjoyed mine too much
                  not to regret it," she replied, endeavoring to assume a careless demeanor beneath
                  the steady gaze of those dark searching eyes—but in vain; her lip quivered, and
                  she stooped to gather up the rich bridal veil from her feet, where it had fallen,
                  to conceal her emotion.
               "My poor Edith! you are not yet initiated fully into the awful art of masking the
                  troubled workings of your heart beneath a smiling exterior. You are
                  envied, Edith, by many. The world, with its usual sagacity, fancies that, because
                  you have all those advantages it adores, and are on the eve of
                  marriage with a man who, with his fashionable éclat, is well-born, intellectual, and remarkable for his manly
                  beauty and his apparent devotion to yourself, you must be necessarily happy. But I
                  am not deceived," said Mrs. Lacy, again drawing Edith's unresisting head to her
                  bosom. Her breath came up short and gaspingly, and Mrs. Lacy felt against her side
                  the wild flutterings of her heart, but she did not speak—she feared to give utterance to a sound,
                  lest she should betray her agony.
               "Oh, my Edith!" continued Mrs. Lacy, while her tears fell softly dripping like
                  dews on the head which lay throbbing on her faithful breast. "Forgive me, beloved,
                  if I stir up wild thoughts in your mind. If I probe too deeply a festering wound,
                  it is to save you."
               "To save me?" she murmured.
               "To save you, Edith, from a sin which will distil its burning drops on your heart,
                  year after year, until it becomes a ruin—awful ruin!" said Mrs. Lacy,
                  solemnly.
               "What am I doing? What have I done? Where am I? Cruel Mrs. Lacy!" she cried,
                  shuddering and starting up. "By what authority do you utter such unkind
                  words?"
               "The authority of true friendship, which will dare much, my Edith, for its
                  object," replied Mrs. Lacy, in a calm and lofty tone. "And now, even if you
                  withdraw from me the affection I so highly prize; if you spurn me from you as an
                  officious meddler; nay, if, in the impetuosity of roused feeling and passion, you
                  should even strike me, I dare tell you, you do not love
                     Shirley. You have been, poor bird, beguiled, lured, bewildered, by the
                  spell of his fascinations; you have been entangled by influences which assumed the
                  guise of love; your pride of character has been tampered with, and, to conceal a
                  secret attachment—an honorable, noble attachment—which you believed to be
                  unrequited and unknown, you consent to wed with him—"
               "Oh God!" cried Edith, wringing her hands in the excess of her agony. "Madam, you
                  presume on my inexperience and simplicity. I pray you, forbear. Your poetic
                  imagination must have suggested these wild, romantic ideas." Then the last tinge
                  of damask faded from her face, and she lifted her head erect, with a look of proud
                  dignity.
               "But, Edith, dear Edith Willoughby," said Mrs. Lacy, kneeling before her, and
                  clasping both her hands in hers, "if you tell me that you love him—love him with a
                  true, deep constancy that time nor death can sever; if you assure me that you
                  regard, above all others, virtues in his character which he may
                  possess; if you tell me that a separation from him would fill up your cup of life
                  with bitterness and mourning, I will forbear. But oh, Edith, consider. A lifetime!
                  No idle, passing pageant of an hour; but a lifetime together. Ties that dare not
                  be broken, however they harrow the soul—however they gall the miserable heart.
                  Vows, Edith, pronounced in the awful presence of GOD—vows from which naught but
                  death can release you. Are you prepared for the ordeal, child?"
               "But Walter loves me," she slowly articulated.
               "But does that consideration make your error less, beloved? Does it bring to your
                  heart that pure and holy sentiment so essential to earthly happiness in such a
                  connection? Why should you sacrifice the tranquillity of a lifetime to a spurious
                  gratitude? Oh, Edith! pause. Examine this matter well in all its
                  bearings, ere you perjure your soul," exclaimed Mrs. Lacy.
               "This is awful. You subject me to a strange preparation for my bridal, Mrs. Lacy.
                  A few months ago it might have availed; but now it is too late, all too late!" she
                  cried, in a despairing tone. "You have wakened me rudely, madam. Why could you not
                  let me dream on?"
               "It is not too late, Edith, beloved; not too late. No sentiment of
                  false honor or pride, no interest or influence, should ever cause a woman to play
                  the traitor to Heaven and virtue, by sacrificing the holiest feelings of her
                  nature to a barter which desecrates a divine institution. On the very steps of the
                  altar the unholy compact should be broken, ere sealed forever."
               "You have torn open my heart. You have, unbidden, read its secrets," cried Edith,
                  glancing wildly around her. "But it is too late; although I love him not as his
                  devotion to me merits—mind, I say this to you, and conjure you, for the sake of my
                  peace, to keep it sacred—and can only give him a cold, yes, oh God! a cold,
                  divided heart, yet have I the courage to do my duty. He shall never know it, or
                  suspect that my affections were not wholly his."
               "You will make but a poor dissembler, child. But if this is all, listen to me. I
                  will impart something to you which may save you at last, and which I would fain
                  have kept back. This man is unworthy of even your friendship. This day I learned
                  from one who witnessed and knows the fact, that he has staked and lost nearly the
                  whole of your fortune at the faro-table, so sure is he of accomplishing his base
                  ends. He is a subtle, insinuating deceiver; trust not yourself in his keeping,"
                  said Mrs. Lacy, with quivering lips.
               "He has been basely maligned. On my soul, madam, I believe it is false. His honor
                  is unsullied. His only crime is loving me too well—me, who would give worlds to
                  return it, but cannot—cannot!" she exclaimed, bursting into tears, and sobbing in
                  Mrs. Lacy's arms.
               "And thus, Edith, you wed him?"
               "Yes, thus I wed him. My promise is irrevocably given. No human power can annul
                  it," she answered, in a low firm voice.
               "Then GOD and HIS holy angels help you, Edith Willoughby, for human aid there will be none. Pardon the
                  friendship which, at its peril, would fain have snatched you from so sad a
                  destiny. However others may change, remember, in this heart you will ever find
                  consolation and sympathy," said Mrs. Lacy, wiping away her fast falling tears.
               Her mission of disinterested love was accomplished. It had failed, and henceforth
                  she dared not refer again to the painful subject. When unoccupied by the duties of
                  her classes, much with Mrs. Willoughby, but never again alone with Edith, who
                  seemed to avoid it, although she behaved towards her with the same gentle and
                  affectionate manner that was her wont. But that interview haunted her. The words
                  of warning and truth rang in her ears and agonized her heart, until repose fled
                  from it, and the sleepless silence of night was filled with terror. Unrefreshed
                  and wearied, her sad eyes unclosed daily on the sunshine beaming so gladly through
                  her chamber windows, and the blithesome songs of her pet bird mocked her with
                  their cheerful trillings. The bright rare flowers that Walter Shirley never
                  omitted to bring a single day, scarcely charmed her; she felt how brief was their
                  life of beauty and fragrance—how human-like the withering of their glowing hues,
                  like hopes, fresh and dewy in the sunshine, fleeting away in shadows and clouds.
                  He noted the change, and felt that it boded him no good. He suspected that evil
                  reports had reached her ears, and redoubled his assiduous tenderness of manner, to
                  charm away the bad impressions; but she received it all, as she usually did, with
                  a quiet, gentle air, but without emotion.
               Her character was so truthful and unsuspicious, and her feelings so unsullied by
                  the world, that she sometimes awed him; and his intriguing nature, utterly turned
                  aside from its high destiny by degrading pleasures and evil aims, often recoiled
                  back on itself as if touched by the spear of Ithuriel, when perchance an occasion
                  offered to reveal the purity of her sentiments in opposition to his sophistries.
                  Had she been a shrined vestal, his intercourse with her could not have been
                  characterized by a more delicate or respectful manner. He claimed not the
                  privileges of a favored lover, because he feared her too sensitive heart—a heart
                  which he had more than suspected to be not solely his. Not that he loved her. How
                  could a nature satiated with impure associations, and worn out by sensualities,
                     love such a being as Edith Willoughby? But she gratified his
                  pride, her fortune would minister to his wants and ambition, and her wonderful
                  beauty grace still more his position, while her elegance and dignified manners
                  would make his house more attractive to himself and others. But much more than
                  this depended on his marriage. He was dreadfully involved in debt, and had
                  borrowed large sums of money on the credit of his approaching alliance with the
                  heiress, which were to be refunded with interest immediately after the event.
                  Debts of honor, or, in plain unvarnished language, swindling liabilities
                  contracted at faro and rouge et noir, were
                  courteously lying perdu until the momentous hour
                  arrived. His credit, honor, good name, and personal safety depended on the chance;
                  all had been risked desperately, and every fascination of which he was a professed
                  master, and every energy of his mind, were in full operation towards ultimate
                  success.
               Colonel Shirley, well satisfied with the aspect of affairs, had visited Mrs.
                  Willoughby twice since Edith's engagement to his son; and after his last visit had
                  started immediately for the South, whither he was called on urgent business,
                  connected with the heavy mortgages which encumbered his estates. It was an affair
                  that could not be delayed, or he would on no account have omitted being present at
                  the nuptials, which for long years he had had so much at heart.
               Mr. Bedford secluded himself more than he had ever done. He affected to be engaged
                  in compiling his astronomical observations, and writing a profound thesis on the
                  subject; but the truth was, he was pained and displeased at Edith's choice, but,
                  under existing circumstances, and the relative position of the parties to each
                  other, felt that it would be ill timed and officious to interfere or even express
                  his disapprobation.
               Mrs. Willoughby was in the same hopeful and exalted state of feeling about her
                  son; and, although she mingled as usual in society, her pleasures were all
                  confined to the inner world of her heart, with its hopeful instincts, and newly
                  risen bow of promise, which she never wearied of contemplating.
               With her nephew she was well satisfied. He realized her ideal of a chivalrous and
                  accomplished gentleman, and felt that in confiding Edith to his care, she was
                  sealing her happiness. No pains or expense that good taste and affection could
                  suggest did she spare in the costly and elegant preparation of her step-daughter's
                     trousseau; wishing everything to correspond
                  with her undiminished love for her.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE FATHER AND MOTHER. THE LOST AND FOUND.
               ONE morning Mrs. Willoughby was sitting alone in her boudoir, writing a friendly letter of invitation to General Beverly
                  and his family to be present at her step-daughter's nuptials, when the door
                  opened, and an old man clad in dark homespun entered. Over his broad but stooping
                  shoulders masses of white hair fell waving; and his countenance was so pale and
                  woe-begone, and there was such a roused fiery spirit glowing in his deep set gray
                  eyes, that Mrs. Willoughby had some difficulty at first in recognizing her old and
                  faithful retainer, Markham.
               "Mr. Markham!" she said, rising and extending her hand, "I am glad to see you.
                  Pray, be seated."
               "Are you glad, lady? I was glad too once. Glad in my life, lady, and every breath
                  was a peace-offering to my FATHER GOD. My dame—my children—my ripening fields—the
                  lowing herds—the yellow corn waving in the summer winds—the forest trees—the wild
                  daisies under my feet—filled my whole life with gladness; but it is all passed
                  away—'like the morning cloud and early dews,' it is gone, and—and a heavy blow has
                  fallen on my age!"
               "My excellent, good old friend!" said Mrs. Willoughby, much shocked at his
                  care-worn look and strange language, "has any trouble befallen you or yours that I
                  can relieve? If so, be assured of finding a friend in me. Or perhaps Dame Markham
                  is ill—or Amy?"
               "You cannot relieve us, lady! When years ago I dug four little graves, one after
                  another, out on the slope of the hill, and with an aching heart laid our gladsome
                  children beneath the mould, I thanked GOD that our Amy was spared; but now I'd
                  bless HIM, if she too had been laid beside her brothers; on my bended knees I'd
                  thank him!" said the old farmer, with a quivering lip.
               "What mean you, friend Markham? What of my god-daughter Amy? What has befallen
                  her?" inquired Mrs. Willoughby.
               "She's gone!" he exclaimed, bursting into tears of terrible anguish, "our pretty
                  Amy's gone!" Scarcely comprehending him, but filled with the saddest forebodings,
                  she forbore questioning him further just then, and left the room a few moments,
                  that he might weep unrestrained by her presence; thinking that tears would soften
                  the sternness of his grief. When she returned, he was more calm, and she prevailed
                  on him to swallow some strong coffee that she brought him. "Now tell me," she
                  said, sitting beside him, while she laid her hand kindly on his shoulder, "tell me
                  the worst."
               "You know, lady!" he said, after heaving a few heavy, gasping, sighs, while a
                  stern and bitter expression settled on his features, "you know how
                  proud we were of her. There was something so dainty like and nice about our Amy,
                  that, like two silly old people, we thought it would be a pity to set her to any
                  of the coarse work of the farm. We wanted to see her a lady, and give her a
                  training unbecoming her situation in life. From that folly has flowed all our
                  bitterness—alack—alack! But her voice, singing like a lark, and her small feet
                  dancing over the sanded floor, were the sweetest music I ever heard. Then she was
                  never idle. She was either busy with some tasty thing or another to make the old
                  place look fine; or tending her dairy, or bee hives, or flowers, that were never
                  out of order. Her butter was the sweetest, her cream the cleanest in the market;
                  and her honey and flowers always brought the highest prices, because the one was
                  so clear and well flavored, and the others so tastily tied together! We did not
                  require her even to do these little things, she took them up of herself; and we
                  let her spend the money they brought as she liked. But there was one thing that
                  always grieved me, lady. She seemed to scorn her equals; the young men that came
                  some time to see her; and, tricked off in her white dress and blue ribbons, would
                  be hardly civil to them! I scolded her time after time about it—the dame fretted
                  too; but she used to throw herself in my arms, and press her soft cheek to mine
                  and tell me, 'she wanted no sweet-heart but her mother and I;' and comb my hair;
                  and sing 'Flowers o' the Forest,' until I thought it was all right." Here the old
                  man paused to wipe away the big tears that were rolling over his cheeks. "But she
                  was a good affectionate child—alack! that she ever heard the voice of the
                  tempter!" he continued in a broken tone. "Lady, your love and Miss Edith's
                  kindness were her glory. She used to talk for hours of her beautiful god-mother,
                  meaning you, madam, and say that 'some day a great lord would come from over the
                  seas, and take Miss Edith away to foreign parts; she was too much like a princess
                  to marry here.' This come of her reading novels more than she did good books—but
                  it was no use to scold; if we did, she would only laugh the merrier, and tell us
                  such beautiful stories she read out of them, that the spinning-wheel stopped, and
                  I would lay aside my task, whatever it
                  might be, to listen—then her old doting mother and I would push back our
                  spectacles, to wipe away the foolish tears. Oh I can see her now! her blue
                  eyes—her beautiful, bright hair—and her lips like holly berries in the snow. When
                  you and Miss Edith left Woodreve, lady, she promised to go over once or twice a
                  week to look after the plants and birds that Miss Edith used to tend. She was
                  always proud to get to Woodreve, it was so grand there; and the organ, and
                  pictures, and books delighted her. But, lady, at last she went oftener—then every
                  day—and was silent when she came back, and would sit with her cheek resting on her
                  hand, and her eyes fixed in the fire, ruminating for hours at a time—then she
                  began to grow pale—and her eyes were very often red and swollen. We got almost
                  distracted about her; but still she would go over to Woodreve to watch Miss
                  Edith's flowers—through rain, snow, and sunshine, she went. But one day she stayed
                  a little later than usual. I went over to see what kept her—we felt afraid she had
                  been taken ill there—but no! Would that I had found her dead among the dried
                  blighted leaves of the forest! She was not in the house, and I went down to the
                  woods to seek her; I found her—yes—I found her, walking alone with a young
                  gentleman, who had his arm around her; presently he stooped down and kissed her. I
                  said, at a glance, he was not her equal—from the white fingers decked with rings,
                  and his fine clothes, I knew he was above her, and trying to deceive her—poor
                  innocent lamb! I felt as if the lightning had struck me—I could not speak—I only
                  walked up to her, and seized her arm, and dragged her away. She would tell us
                  nothing, lady—not even his name. I let her go no more to Woodreve, but she moped,
                  and cried, and talked in her sleep until we thought she was growing melancholy. A
                  great sorrow, like heavy clouds, gathered over our cottage—the place was so still
                  and cheerless—the dairy no longer tidy—the winter flowers drooped and died—she
                  noticed nothing. But oh, my good God! what was it all to her going away as she
                  did—stealing off from her old parents at midnight, through a pelting rain, to go
                  away with a base stranger who will deceive—then forsake her! I'd rather she had
                  died—oh yes, lady—I'd rather laid her pretty head down in the dust for the
                  worms—"
               "And have you had no tidings of her since, my poor friend?" asked Mrs. Willoughby,
                  much affected.
               "No. No tidings, lady. I've searched the whole country side since she disappeared,
                  about ten days agone, but I've heard naught. Some railed at me, and told me 'I'd
                  spoilt the girl;' others wagged their heads and said, 'they always thought our
                  pride would have a fall.' One told me, 'I'd brought it all on myself, and couldn't
                  expect to be pitied by honest folk.' Their uncharitableness was like a two-edged
                  sword through my heart, for, alack! what they said was too true. But I'd heed it
                  not, if I could only find my stray lamb, and bring it back to the fold; then slay
                  the villain that lured her off. Oh, if I could by one fell blow crush his life out
                  of him, I could die in peace!" said the now infuriate old man, gnashing his teeth
                  and tearing his hair.
               "Mr. Markham, your trial is, indeed, a bitter one. I know not how to comfort you,"
                  said Mrs. Willoughby; "but hope for the best. There are some calamities wherein
                  words of consolation avail not. This is one of them. Poor Amy may be somewhere in
                  the city. In view of this, I will cause a secret but strict search to be
                  instituted to recover her. I do not know what other plan to suggest. As soon as I
                  have breakfasted, I will drive to Wood-reve, and go over to see your dame. I will
                  inquire into this matter, and, if it can be sifted, I will do it. Try and be calm,
                  my poor, afflicted old friend; you are the stronger vessel, and must support the
                  aged and broken-hearted wife, who looks to you in this hour of sore tribulation,
                  however much it may cost you."
               "Thank you, lady," said the old man, rising, and taking up his hat and staff. "May
                  the Father of the wandering and friendless bless you for your kindness this day!
                  You say true, I cannot be comforted. Would she had died in her sinless childhood!
                  Would to God she had died!"
               Another painful and trying scene awaited Mrs. Willoughby at the Farm Cottage; but
                  her noble and generous heart shrunk not from it. The poor old mother of the erring
                  girl was heart-broken and almost maddened by the blow. She had not shed a tear
                  since the hour she was made conscious that the fair and only blossom of their
                  roof-tree was reft away. Her hair, in a few days, had grown very white, and where
                  only a few wrinkles were seen on her healthful countenance, deep furrows now
                  appeared. Pallid and wan, she dragged with difficulty her footsteps along, pausing
                  at intervals to wring her hands and utter low moans, or sit motionless, for hours
                  at a time, in her arm-chair, beside the silent spinning wheel. How could human
                  heart minister to such grief as this? It monopolized every sentiment. Neither
                  kindness nor uncharitableness could affect it. It was a monstrous woe, that set at
                  defiance the ordinary laws of nature, which had been outraged and wounded beyond
                  the art of earthly healing. It was one of those things which tear away suddenly
                  every tendril of the soul from their close embraces on the bosom of its mother
                  earth, and cast it, helpless and bleeding, on the mercy and strength of the most
                  high God; and, if it finds not refuge there, begins a foretaste of the darkness and wildness of despair
                  beyond the grave. Mrs. Willoughby could not direct that aged and stricken one to
                  the waters of healing which flow from the throne of the heavenly Comforter. She
                  knew not how; the way was all strange to her; but, like a brooding seraph casting
                  its glory and peacefulness around, came the thought, "Comfort her, O Lord; bind up
                  this bruised and lacerated heart. Comfort her, O Father of light!" And thus, in
                  silence, she prayed for another; she, who had never, amidst her own tribulation,
                  prayed for herself.
               It was like the dawning of a new existence on her, and the holiness of her
                  charity, so unselfish, so like a gift from Heaven, purified and strengthened her
                  soul.
               Her inquiries at Woodreve availed nothing. "No one had been there," the servants
                  informed her, "but young Mass' Shirley and a poor painter lad, that wandered about
                  here and there, and spoke so gentle to everybody that all the folks loved to see
                  him about."
               "When was he here?" she asked the man.
               "He down yonder in de woods now, missus," he replied.
               "Bring him to me. But no, I'll go. I must see him," she exclaimed, starting up,
                  and going with speed towards the forest.
               "Ki—yi!" ejaculated the negro—"what done come over missus?" And in his wonder he
                  distended his eyes and scratched his head, until small tufts of wool were borne
                  away on the winds, a heaven-send to the birds, who were scratching for materials
                  wherewithal to line their nests.
               Far down into the silent woods she hastened. The echo of her own footsteps on the
                  dead leaves, and the quick panting of her breath, were the only sounds she heard
                  in the solitude. An early spring verdure bloomed on the trees, and many a wild
                  flower was bursting into beauty in the quiet haunts of the wilderness. But she saw
                  them not. She pursued the lovely phantom of her heart. She had come forth to seek
                  the wandering bird of another, and would find her own in its native woods at last.
                  Wonderful, ecstatic thought! She would fold the weary, tempest-tost one to her
                  bosom, and hold it there, that it might wander on weary wings no more over life's
                  flood. Hither and thither her restless footsteps bore her—in every glen, on the
                  hill-side, amidst the thick shrubbery of cedars around her mother's tomb. There
                  was but one spot she had not visited: the fountain of Hecuba. There she had not
                  sought him; and now, almost worn out with fatigue, she determined, cost her what
                  it might, to wend her way thither to that scene of past joys and anguish, that for
                  long years she had not had the courage to look upon. It was concealed from general
                  view by an overgrowth of untrained shrubbery and vines, that formed a wild but
                  beautiful screen around it. As she approached it, and heard the tinkling of its
                  waters in the marble basin, and saw its spray, gleaming like stray diamonds
                  through the leaves, she stood still, and leaned for support against a tree. Her
                  thoughts winged their rapid flight back through the dreamy vista of time to that
                  hour when the daring and impetuous Vernon won her love, and her heart, still true
                  to his memory, dreaded to recall too vividly the past by looking on the spot,
                  where every leaf and spray would remind her of all—all she had suffered, all she
                  had endured. But who can chain the wizard memory? The spell of those hours of
                  rapture floated like storm-mists gilded by the sunshine around her, then passed
                  away; and up rolled a vision of tempest-torn billows, howling winds, shipwreck and
                  death. Uttering a stifled cry, she sprang forward, and reaching forth her hands
                  tore aside the tangled vines, that she might fall prostrate on the earth and water
                  it with her tears; but there, leaning on the marble rim of the fountain, stood the
                  being she sought, pale, beautiful, and sad. He looked so like Vernon that the
                  illusion was complete. She stretched out her arms towards him, and, in a trembling
                  tone, breathed his name.
               It was Massoletti, who, lured thither by the beautiful scenery, and some confused
                  and mysterious thoughts, which made him almost fancy that under another form, in
                  another state of being, he had visited the spot, spent day after day wandering
                  about the grounds with his sketch-book, dreaming lovely visions, and imparting to
                  his drawings their ideal brightenings. He started back when Mrs. Willoughby
                  appeared so suddenly, and snatching off his cap, bowed, then was hurrying away,
                  when, with an imploring gesture, she exclaimed in Italian, "Stay—stay—I have
                  sought you long; fly not now that I find you."
               "Bella senora, I am only a poor artist, a stranger in the land," he said, baring
                  his head again and standing still.
               "Yes, I know," she replied in a calmer tone, fearing he might become alarmed and
                  fly; "tell me your name!"
               "Massoletti, senora," he answered.
               "And have you no friends in this strange land, Massoletti?" she asked, almost
                  overcome by emotion.
               "One, senora, yes; one great friend that the Sancta Maria sent me; one kind angel
                  friend, Senor Henri De Vere; I would have died but for him," he replied,
                  fervently.
               "May Heaven reward him then!" she ejaculated. "This is my park, my domain; I am
                  mistress of it all, Massoletti—it is in my power to be also your friend, now that
                  he is gone. Shall I be your friend?"
               
               "Gone! Senor Henri gone?" he exclaimed, wringing his hands and weeping bitterly,
                  unmindful of her presence; but suddenly he thrust his hand into his bosom, and
                  drawing out a small crucifix, pressed it to his lips, then, contemplating the holy
                  image, murmured, "HE too wandered and suffered—He too was forsaken!" The
                  reflection appeared to soothe him; it was a friend which, exhibiting patience and
                  resignation under their divinest aspects, gave him courage and peace; and wiping
                  away the traces of tears from his cheeks he asked, timidly, "Will he return,
                  Senora?"
               "He will return—but I know not when. But come now with me, Massoletti; I wish to
                  hear your history. Do you know, boy, that your Father in heaven is shedding
                  sunshine and joy around your way? that you will wander no more, but have riches,
                  and the power to be good and great? Come, and tell me your story!" she said,
                  reaching out her hand and taking his within it; scarcely able to control her joy,
                  for it never once entered her mind to doubt the fact of his being her long-lost
                  child. In silence he followed her, bewildered by her words and manner, until,
                  throwing open the door of her library, she conducted him within. The western light
                  (it was now near sunset) glowed through the stained glass, and filled the room
                  with gorgeous shadows, and a faint fragrance from a half-withered cluster of
                  flowers floated on the air. She led him to the cushioned pile, where years ago she
                  had left her sleeping child, and watched with intense emotion the blended
                  expression of fear and wonder which gathered on his countenance as he gazed around
                  him.
               "Dost thou remember it now, boy?" she said at last, in a low, soft voice.
               "Senora Bella, I dreamed of it. I was a little child. I cannot remember well, but
                  there was music in my dream," he answered.
               She arose and went to the organ, which she opened, and with rare and masterly
                  touches poured out her soul in grand and solemn strains until the hushed air
                  thrilled with pealing melodies. The boy clasped his hands over his closed eyes and
                  leaned back. A soft glow suffused his pale face, and his lips parted in a gentle
                  smile. Presently the last soft harmony died away, and, standing beside him, Mrs.
                  Willoughby lifted his hands away from his lustrous eyes. "Tell me of that dream
                  now," she said.
               "It was long ago, senora—long ago, that I dreamed it—a strange, beautiful dream,
                  filled with flowers, smiles, and music; but I awoke in a dark forest, and was
                  cold. I remember two eyes, black and piercing, that never seemed to wink or close,
                  but watched me, until I feared to open mine. Then I was on the wild seas, senora
                  bella; rough men were about me, swearing, frowning, and wrathful; more dreadful
                  than the stormy billows and howling winds. Then I was in Rome, where I lived like
                  the birds, picking up crumbs and fruit, and drinking from its delicious fountains.
                  The people called me the 'Picture child,' because I cared for nothing else. At
                  last a poor English artist took me. I was happy. I went with him every day to the
                  Vatican; I mixed his paints, I watched him at his labors, until I too became a
                  painter. But he died. Then there was blood, and fire, and warfare in the streets
                  of Rome; the yellow waves of the Tiber were crimsoned with gore; all was madness
                  and confusion—I fled. At Naples the captain of a vessel about to sail pitied me as
                  I sat, pale and hungry, on the pier; he bade me follow him, and he brought me
                  hither, to this beautiful land. This is all, senora!" he said slowly, as if trying
                  to remember incidents half forgotten.
               "You had a medallion—one like this?" said Mrs. Willoughby, showing him hers.
               "Oh yes," he exclaimed, starting forward and grasping it eagerly,
                     "that was no dream; it was always with me. I thought there might
                  be an Agnus Dei in it, and never parted with it
                  but once—then saw it no more!" he said sadly. "But perhaps, senora, this is mine;
                  it is, it must be the same!"
               "You have not dreamed. Here was your childhood spent—from this spot where you now
                  sit you were stolen away in your sleep, and I—I am your mother, child," she
                  exclaimed, with an abandon of feeling she could
                  not control, as she clasped him to her heart and kissed his brow; "never shall you
                  wander again—never leave the shelter of my love, poor stricken one!"
               His head drooped heavily; the flood of recollection, and the over-powering
                  realization of his dreamy hopes, were too much for his delicate organization, and
                  he fainted on the bosom which so tenderly supported him. With almost superhuman
                  strength, she bore him towards the window, and threw it open; then bared his
                  throat and chest, that the cool evening air might revive him. On the left side of
                  his chest, just under the collar-bone, she observed a cross, and underneath it the
                  outline of a bird transfixed with an arrow, tattooed on the white blue-veined
                  flesh. When he recovered and saw the same lovely face bending over him, he feared
                  to speak lest it should all be a dream which would be dispelled by his voice, for,
                  poor child, he had many such, and their brightness only made the desolation of his
                  waking hours more sad. "Perhaps," he thought, "it is a sweet vision of the holy
                  Madonna, come down from heaven to
                  whisper, 'Child, I am thy mother,' that my heart may not faint in its loneliness."
                  Then he folded his hands, and lifted his eyes in silent devotion to hers.
               Golden and crimson halos from the rich windows floated around, and shed their
                  light on her pale brown hair and white forehead, imparting to her countenance so
                  spiritual and rapt an expression that his excited mind might well be pardoned for
                  the beautiful fancy.
               "I am your mother," again whispered the gentle voice; "we will part no more."
               "Madre bella," he said musingly, "but it is a wonderful mysetry. O MEI DEUS! thy
                  angels have been with me through all."
               "Yes, they have walked with you; the angels of God have led you hither in safety,
                  home to your mother's bosom, child," she said, as soft glimmerings from the dawn
                  of faith fell like star-light about her soul, gemming its darkness, and smiling in
                  lambent rays on the clouds of human suffering now fleeing far away. Then she told
                  him how, long ago, she had lost him, and how she had sought him sorrowing, year
                  after year, until his mind was imbued with the same calm serenity and certainty
                  that pervaded hers. Together they left Woodreve, and though it was late when they
                  arrived in town, Mrs. Willoughby directed her coachman to drive to Mr. Moysa's.
                  Fortunately, he had been detained at his place of business later than ordinary, by
                  the pressure of imperative affairs, and had just retired to his private apartment
                  to glance over the evening papers.
               "Ishmael found at last!" he exclaimed, starting up when Mrs. Willoughby and the
                  young Italian entered.
               "I could not find the senor," said Massoletti, advancing and speaking eagerly. "I
                  painted a Heli for the senor; but when I sought him, he was gone. I feared he was
                  dead."
               "No, only moved away, Ishmael. Sit down, madam; pray pardon my inattention. I was
                  so astonished when I saw him glide in like an apparition, that I could see nothing
                  else," said Mr. Moysa
               "Not more astonished than I to find him at Woodreve, whither I had gone on
                  business. He was sketching there—but you shall hear the story another time, Mr.
                  Moysa. I called to get the medallion and return the sum you advanced on it."
               "Madam, that Heli is all I will except; a
                  picture is all I bargained for, and one Heli is worth ten common subjects. Here is
                  the trinket which has led to such a strange denouement," he replied, taking the trinket from the cabinet.
                  Massoletti sprang forward with a beaming countenance when he beheld his long-lost
                  treasure, and Mrs. Willoughby, touching the diamond spring, it flew open,
                  revealing to his astonished eyes the painting within. He looked from the miniature
                  to her, and from her to the miniature again; there could be no mistake, the
                  resemblance was so wonderfully perfect; and, pressing it to his heart and lips, he
                  exclaimed, "Madre bella! and thou with me all my life, and I not know it!"
               "Wonderful are the ways of the Most High! The daughter of Pharaoh found Moses
                  where he was left to perish on the waters of the Nile; the sons of Jacob found
                  Joseph their brother, whom they thought dead; and you, lady, have found your
                  long-lost child after years of mourning," said the Jew, with moistened eyes
               "Oh, sir, it was your kind benevolence which led to it; to you am I indebted for
                  this coveted blessing. Had you driven him away instead of acting as you did, in
                  all probability I should never have found him. Our God, through you, has wrought
                  the wonder. I try in vain to find language strong and warm enough to express my
                  gratitude, but it is all too poor; Heaven alone can reward you. Heaven will give
                  you in return tenfold blessings for the good act you have performed," said Mrs.
                  Willoughby with profound emotion while she folded the boy's hand in both her
                  own.
               That night she had a private interview with Mr. Bedford. He was not quite so
                  decidedly convinced as was she that the young stranger was her son; but he did not
                  say so, and only advised her to keep the affair secret a few weeks that they might
                  have time to investigate it more fully. "Send Massoletti, or Arthur Vernon, if you
                  will, to Woodreve. In a short time, you will return there yourself. The world must
                  be prepared for the denouement. All who have
                  your history, Miriam, know your child was stolen, and if you are in town when this
                  romantic discovery of him is announced, you'll repent it but once; you'll be
                  literally taken by storm and gabbled to death by the fashionable Vandals of the
                  day. I will go with him, and watch over him, and see that no harm befalls
                  him."
               "Your advice is judicious, dear Mr. Bedford. I thank you for your kind suggestions
                  and offer of protection; but Edith, we must not forget Edith. You must be present
                  at her marriage," said Mrs. Willoughby, hesitating.
               "Since I must speak, Miriam, I may as well speak frankly. Understand then, once
                  for all, that I highly disapprove of this match for Edith, and cannot see her
                  married. I am sorry, but I will not consent to it, or sanction it even by my
                  presence. My advice was never asked. I was not consulted at all, or should have
                  expressed my sentiments earlier, and furnished good and abundant reasons for any
                  opposition I might have offered. But it is too late now. I will be ready at an
                  early hour in the morning to take Arthur to Woodreve." Mrs. Willoughby could not endure the
                  idea of separating voluntarily from her son, but, understanding fully the
                  propriety of his suggestions, her better judgment induced her to yield to them.
                  She thanked Mr. Bedford, with the assurance that "her heart would feel perfectly
                  at rest regarding the welfare of young Vernon, while honored by such care as his;
                  everything should be in readiness for him to accompany him early the following
                  morning." Of Edith she spoke not another word; her pride was wounded, and she felt
                  too much disturbed and hurt at what she considered his strange opposition, to
                  refer to it again.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "How like a mountain devil in the heart
                           Rules the unreined ambition! Let it once
                           But play the monarch, and its haughty brow
                           Glows with a beauty that bewilders thought
                           And unthrones peace forever. Putting on
                           The very pomp of Lucifer, it turns
                           The heart to ashes, and with not a spring
                           Left in the desert for the spirit's lip,
                           We look upon our splendor and forget
                           The thirst of which we perish."
                        
                     
                     WILLIS.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Love is a lamp unseen
                           Burning to waste, or if its light is found
                           Nursed for an idle hour—then idly broken—"
                        
                     
                     WILLIS.
                  
               
               THE sun had not yet risen, when a traveller was seen guiding his horse slowly up
                  the acclivity of a mountain path. No human sound disturbed the grand harmony of
                  the magnificent scenery around him. The dashing of an unseen and rapid river over
                  a rocky bed; at intervals, a wild sough of wind through the dew-gemmed groves of
                  cedar and arbor vitæ, which sprang fantastically
                  from the limestone cliffs; and the Te Deum which
                  burst from the mellow throats of innumerable birds, as they flitted to and from
                  their nests, making the air tremulous with the melody of song and rustling wings,
                  were heard; sweet, wild sounds, befitting the solemn beauty of the scene, which
                  echoed away in prolonged and softened cadences through the rocky solitudes. It was
                  sublime, the whispering of the morning, and the half dreamy repose of nature!
               Towards the south-east, a deep, narrow glen opened a vista between the forest-clad
                  mountain the traveller ascended, and a similar one on the left, through which, at
                  the distance of several miles, portions of the lofty and picturesque Blue Ridge
                  could be descried, bounding the horizon of the great southern valley, in
                  undulating lines, against the crimson sky. In huge masses of purple and gold, the
                  clouds rolled in majestic order along the Orient, kindling up the valley, and
                  crowning the hills with coronals of lambent glory, as they ushered in, like an
                  army with banners, the rising sun, which, as its glittering disk, like a diadem of
                  fire, glowed above the mountain peaks, shed a broad effulgence over the land.
                  Pausing an instant, the traveller dismounted, and throwing the bridle of his horse
                  over his arm, stood in mute admiration of the scene. The more distant views were
                  bathed in modified and changeful hues of light; and billows of rose-hued mists,
                  flecked with gold, sparkled like inland lakes amidst the valleys and glens around,
                  while clumps of trees, looming up through them, were the isola bellas of the fairy waves.
               The path became narrower and steeper, but, ascending still, he observed that he
                  was, as he thought, at the head of the glen. He halted and cast an inquiring
                  glance around him, and discovering an abrupt opening by the side of the pathway
                  where the glen appeared to terminate, in a precipitous and narrow chasm, he
                  cautiously approached it, and bending over, saw with a shudder perpendicular
                  cliffs, clad with stunted evergreens and trailing vines, which grew from the
                  interstices of the rocks opening to a fearful depth beneath him. "It is the
                  Natural Bridge!" he shouted, recoiling back to safer footing; "I knew not I was
                  near it!"*
                   The mists rolling away, he soon discerned the rapid torrent whose brawling
                  waters he had heard, apparently issuing from a cavern below, which wound its way
                  along like a thread of silver, until it was joined by a mountain brook that dashed
                  like a torrent of pearls over a high limestone bank into the glen, then, gliding
                  more placidly, it crept with many bright and sinuous windings through the valley.
                  He was now on the summit of an arch, an hundred feet above the fretted waters; an
                  arch not fashioned by human skill, but formed out of the solid rock—uniting in one
                  graceful curve of beauty a dissevered mountain. No man could tell its
                     
                     *The traveller, in approaching the Natural Bridge, as we have described, very
                        often finds himself on the summit of the arch, ere he is aware of being near
                        it. It can, however, be seen from a great distance in the valley.
                   age—the hunted nomad of the forest had
                  no tradition concerning its formation; an equal wonder to all, no tongue can tell
                  whether the waters of the great flood washed it out, or the designs of the
                  Almighty architect hewed it there in creation's morning, to teach the pigmy, man,
                  with his proud aspirings, humility. The traveller, after musing on the
                  magnificence of the scenery displayed with lavish grandeur on every hand, and
                  baring his head as if in reverence of the great Power which had given it being and
                  stupendous beauty, was about descending a path that seemed to wind gradually down
                  to the south of the bridge, to view the majestic structure from below, when a
                  female form, crouched among some loose rocks, almost on the margin of the
                  precipice, arrested his attention. Her arms clasped her knees, on which her head
                  rested, and a blanket, gayly embroidered with shreds of dyed bark, fell in not
                  ungraceful folds around her. The sound of the horse's hoofs, clanking on the
                  rocks, roused her, and lifting her head she gazed, at first with indifference, on
                  the traveller; anon, a hue of crimson suffused her swarthy face, and, glaring
                  steadfastly on him, she slowly arose, and folding her arms on her breast, stood
                  motionless and seemingly breathless. There were deep lines of suffering on her
                  face, mingled with brighter traces of beauty, but it was all shadowed over by an
                  expression which conveyed an idea of past suffering and desolation. Col. Shirley,
                  for it was he, suddenly paused and quailed as if a phantom had risen in his path.
                  He had not seen her for years, long years; but he knew her, and her sudden
                  appearance was like an omen of evil; he bit his lips with rage, but suppressed any
                  exhibition of his feelings, and exclaimed—
               "Ya-gee-wah! Here?"
               "Why wanders the 'White Panther' so far from his wigwam alone? Is the song of the
                  mocking-bird hushed?" she asked in a low, sweet voice.
               "It is hushed, Ya-gee-wah!" he replied, and almost imperceptibly his lips
                  quivered, but it did not escape her keen observation; "many winters ago it fled to
                  the Great Spirit, where the prairies blossom forever!"
               "Many winters ago the 'White Panther' fled from the Algonquin hunting-grounds, and
                  left in the forest a wounded fawn. It had learned to nestle beside the 'White
                  Panther' like a wild dove amidst the leaves. When the tracks of the 'White
                  Panther' were no more seen in the forest, it was like a dog-wood blossom, torn
                  from the dew and the sunshine. It withered. As the White Panther fled from the
                  wounded fawn, so fled the mocking-bird from the wigwam of her pale-faced lover! It
                  is well!" she said with a low, bitter laugh.
               "But, Ya-gee-wah, the snows of winter are sprinkled on our heads; we must forget
                  the spring-time; the spirit-winds of the West will ere long carry us on their
                  wings to the happy hunting-grounds. We must forget the spring-time, which can
                  never return," he replied, much annoyed by her bitter reference to past days.
               "After many harvests were gathered in," she continued, after a short silence, "the
                  White Panther came again to the hunting-grounds of the Algonquin. In the silence
                  and darkness of night he came; but his moccasons made no sound, for the forests
                  were white with snow, and the voice of the birds were still. The warriors and
                  braves of our tribe were far away, hunting the elk and the beaver. Ya-gee-wah was
                  lonely as the whippoorwill in the shadow of night, and her heart was like the
                  frozen spring beside her wigwam, covered with dead leaves. But when the White
                  Panther came, the sunshine and dew returned. Like a spring bird, Ya-gee-wah
                  rejoiced, for the frosts melted away from her heart. But the White Panther had
                  found among his people the tongue of a snake. He whispered poison in the ear of
                  Ya-gee-wah, and she listened. Then he passed away like a rolling cloud, and when
                  the blue-bird whistled in the woods, Ya-gee-wah was journeying alone through
                  pathless forests, to find the magnolia-tree, from whose white flower she was to
                  steal the inner leaf."
               "You are mad, Ya-gee-wah. Go to your medicine-man to drive the spell away. Here is
                  silver. I can stay no longer to listen to your ravings," said Col. Shirley, laying
                  a handful of silver on her folded arms. With a wild gesture and a look of
                  ineffable scorn, she flung it from her. Some fell with an echoing sound far down
                  over the precipitous cliffs, and many a broad piece lay glittering on the gray
                  rocks around her feet. He would have passed on, but she sprang forward and planted
                  herself directly in front of him, effectually blockading the narrow pathway. Her
                  eyes glittered, and her lips were drawn back from her white even teeth with a
                  ghastly expression of concentrated rage and revenge. Col. Shirley was no coward,
                  with all his faults; but he feared an Indian's revenge. He knew that her desperate
                  nature once roused, she would value life but little in a death-struggle with him,
                  and it was a fearful place for such an encounter, narrow and steep, with a yawning
                  gulf more than a hundred feet deep on either side. Assuming, therefore, a calm and
                  fearless demeanor, he leaned on his horse's saddle and fixed his eyes on hers, on
                  the qui vive for the slightest movement. But she
                  stirred not. The upheaving of her breast, and the suppressed breathing, as it
                  hissed through her teeth, told only of the raging tempest within; but it gradually became more gentle, the
                  tumultuous billows of passion rolled away from her bosom back into the depths of
                  her heart, and she was once more calm and stern and scornful as she spoke.
               "The pale-faces dream. Listen! Ya-gee-wah, the sun-cloud—ha! ha!
                  ha!—did the bidding of the serpent-tongue. She found the magnolia-tree, and tore
                  away the leaf that grew from its heart. She bore it away on her bosom. It did not
                  die. The Indian was more merciful than the false-hearted pale-face. Ya-gee-wah
                  could not shed innocent blood."
               "Ha!" almost shouted Col. Shirley. "Ha! Does the boy live?"
               "Ya-gee-wah cannot tell. It was wafted away in a big canoe, far, far away over the
                  great Salt Lake. The forests were red, and the maize white for the harvest, when
                  Ya-gee-wah made the wig-wam of a mother desolate. Then returned the Sun-Cloud back
                  for her reward. But the White Panther's trail could not be seen. There were no
                  moccason tracks to tell whither he had gone. Then Ya-gee-wah sought his wigwam
                  beyond the Great Valley. It was empty. Then she heard the rattle of the snake she
                  had coiled in her heart; and they told her—the pale-faces told her—of the
                  mocking-bird and its fledgeling; how they had many summers nestled in his heart;
                  how they nestled there, even when the poor Indian was cheated by his songs of
                  love. Ya-gee-wah fled back to her people; fled like a deer with the hunter's arrow
                  deep in her side."
               Col. Shirley remembered it all. He bowed his head on the saddle, and the tide of
                  bitter retrospection rolled its ruthless flood over his soul. He remembered his
                  dark-eyed bride, his summer hunt along the borders of the great lakes, and how, to
                  while away the time, he had won the Indian maiden's love—then deserted her, to
                  return again to his home and his fair young wife. He thought of his infant son,
                  and his wild schemes of ambition for the boy's future; the image of the young
                  mother, fading away like a fairy mist from his bosom to the grave; and the
                  ripening of the seeds of evil in his soul. All this was present, and there was no
                  sweetness mingled with the goading memories. He remembered well how, to accomplish
                  his diabolical plans, he had once more sought the flower of the Algonquin tribe,
                  to beguile her still with the tale of his love, and lure her to evil; which,
                  trusting and self-sacrificing, she did, by stealing away, according to his
                  injunctions, his widowed sister's child. His plan was to leave her without an heir
                  to the paternal estates, that his son might inherit them; but afterwards he
                  coveted all her vast possessions, for his own were wasted; and he determined, if
                  good management and cunning could effect it, that Edith Willoughby should, at some
                  future day, wed his son. But how shrunk his guilty soul—how startled he felt now,
                  on the very eve of the accomplishment of his dream of years, to hear that the
                  child whose death he had planned escaped the doom prepared for it!
               "Whither go you, Ya-gee-wah?" he asked, abruptly, as a faint idea of her ulterior
                  object presented itself to his mind.
               "Ya-gee-wah goes to her people, on the shores of the Great Lake," she said,
                  calmly.
               "Have you been long away from your people?"
               "Twenty summers. Like the red stain on the autumn leaf, there was shame on the
                  brow of Ya-gee-wah. She could not bear the scorn of the young braves who once
                  sought her love. She stole away from her people, and lived among the wandering
                  tribes of Louisiana. The pale-face had planted poison in her heart, and she hated
                  and scorned them. No warrior among them all hated the pale-faces as did
                  Ya-gee-wah. No brave sang a wilder war-song around the scalps they sometimes
                  brought in, with long, beautiful locks, like the hair of the maize when it is
                  ripe, than did she. But one day, in the silence of the woods, she heard the
                  whisperings of the Great Spirit, and Ya-gee-wah returns to die," she said, in a
                  tone of stern feeling, and with a lofty air.
               "Ya-gee-wah!" he said, with a penetrating glance, "if you tell among the
                  pale-faces that you stole a child from its mother, you will be hunted like a roe
                  and chained in a dark narrow cell. The winds will not blow on you there, or the
                  sunshine or summer rain fall on you."
               She shuddered; then, spreading out her arms wide, she waved them like pinions and
                  drew in full inspirations of the keen mountain air; as if the very idea of such a
                  fate had suffocated and oppressed her. He marked the success of the words which
                  told home his blow, and triumphed in his success.
               "Listen, Ya-gee-wah—go to the Algonquin hunting-grounds, and in silence be happy.
                  With the first snows of every winter, I will send a canoe laden with provisions,
                  blankets, and calicoes, for your use. I am sorry for the past, and pity you. I
                  would do you good!" he said.
               "Can the vulture that preys on the rotten flesh of dead dogs pity the eagle
                  soaring to the sun?" she asked, with a look of withering scorn. "Ya-gee-wah needs
                  not the gifts of the pale-face. If they come, they will feed the watch-fires and
                  dogs of the camp."
               "Incarnate devil," he muttered between his teeth. "As you please, Ya-gee-wah," he
                  said aloud; "but remember the cell and
                  the chains, and be silent as you pass through the settlement of the
                  pale-faces."
               "Ya-gee-wah loves the freedom of the woods, as the birds love the air and
                  sunshine. Her heart would burst in chains and darkness—she fears them!" she said,
                  as she glided rapidly past him, up the road he was descending, and reaching a wild
                  crag, that looked as if it were hair-hung over the chasm, stood on it like a
                  Pythoness, while her still statuesque form was delineated against the sky in
                  distinct and graceful lines. She watched Colonel Shirley's receding form until it
                  was lost to view, then, with a bitter laugh, resumed her wearisome journey.
               "I might have silenced her forever! One ball sent by my unerring aim into her
                  brain would have insured my safety and success," muttered Colonel Shirley; "but,
                  strange as it may seem, I could not listen to the promptings of the incarnate
                  fiend in the face of such grandeur and splendor as this; where, if there is a God,
                  his hand and smile seem spread over all, like a blessing. And she a woman
                  too!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "It was a dreadful moment; not the tears,
                           The ling'ring, lasting misery of years,
                           Could match that minute's anguish—all the worst
                           Of sorrow's elements, in that dark burst
                           Broke o'er her soul—"
                           "With shocks of consciousness, cold, deep, severe,
                           As when in northern seas, at midnight dark,
                           An isle of ice encounters some swift bark,
                           And starting all its wretches from their sleep
                           By one cold impulse, hurls them in the deep;
                           So came that shock, not frenzy's self could bear."
                        
                     
                     VEILED PROPHET.
                  
               
               WHEN Henry De Vere, attended by the congratulations and warm encomiums of friends,
                  and the best wishes of all, left the country on his honorable mission, without
                  seeing Edith, or even sending her a kindly word of farewell or remembrance, her
                  last hope failed, and she yielded to what she considered the inexorable law of her
                  destiny. Henceforth her bright, brief dream must be a forgotten thing. Ere long,
                  the bride of another, the past must be buried beneath a Lethean billow. Since her
                  exciting interview with Mrs. Lacy, she felt that she had committed a grave error
                  relative to her engagement with Walter Shirley; but she could not retrace her
                  way—her heart fluttered and struggled like a bird entangled in the snare of the
                  fowler—but in vain; there was no way of escape for her—henceforth pride and duty
                  must strengthen for the burthen which a lifetime of atonement would inflict on
                  her. She had but little time now, however, for retrospective thought. Preparations
                  for her bridal and the untiring assiduity of her lover's tender attentions filled
                  up the passing hours; but there were moments when sadness so deep gathered around
                  her—so tearless and terrible—that her soul, filled with forebodings of evil,
                  shrank back chilled and shivering with dismay.
               Mrs. Willoughby's thoughts were now brooding forever around her providentially
                  discovered and long-sought treasure, who under Mr. Bedford's care was at Woodreve,
                  whither she frequently went, to spend the calmest, sweetest hours she had known
                  for many a weary year. And while she gradually prepared his mind to bear the great
                  change his position had assumed in the social scale, she could but wonder at the
                  docile humility which, comprehending all, and meekly indifferent to the proud
                  importance it would give him, only so far as it appeared to impart gratification
                  to others, turned away from it as less than nothing in comparison with the
                  consciousness of a mother's love—a blessed rest, where his heart folded its weary
                  wings as in an ark of peace—a home and friends. These were blessings of priceless
                  worth to his gentle spirit. All the loving instincts of his nature had been so
                  long without the sunshine and dews of affection, his way as regards temporal joys
                  had been so desolate and lonely, that now when they came they bloomed under the
                  genial influences shed on them, filling his life with brightness and fragrance,
                  which evermore exhaled its sacredness and sweetness heavenward.
               The blight and mildew of hopeless and silent woe, withdrawn from Mrs. Willoughby's
                  mind, she learned from the beautiful purity of her son's life, and all its
                  heavenward tendencies—from the meek rapture of his gratitude to God, and the
                  trusting faith which, sustaining him in adversity, made him joyfully subdued in
                  the sunshine of fortune—how to value, according to its eternal destiny, her
                  immortal soul. Following after, like a pilgrim, it soared close after his, towards
                  brighter and holier visions of hope, and peace, and rest than she had ever known
                  before. The high, proud look, the sternness that made her beautiful features seem
                  like chiselled marble, were softened by these peaceful operations of her soul—the
                  mystical revelations none could tell, but they radiated from the depths of her
                  eyes—they imbued her thoughts, and
                  modulated to strange sweetness her voice, as if angels guarded and ministered to
                  the world of her inner life.
               Mr. Moysa coincided in Mr. Bedford's opinion, that it was more prudent to defer
                  making the fact of the romantic discovery of the heir of Woodreve known, for a
                  short time longer. Even Edith was ignorant of the truth, and thought her
                  step-mother's frequent visits to Woodreve were dictated by the interest she felt
                  in the heart-broken old people at the Cottage Farm, and business connected with
                  her estate. For poor Amy was still lost. Her fate was shrouded in mystery and
                  darkness!
               At last the sun arose on the eve of Edith's bridal day. Beside her pillow stood
                  Paula with a bouquet of hyacinths, heart's ease,
                  and orange blossoms, fresh with dew, and in the midst of their fragrant leaves a
                  note from Walter Shirley. After a sleepless night, she had fallen into a deep and
                  refreshing slumber which was filled with dreams of yore. The fantasy still
                  lingered around her heart when she awoke, and, holding out her hand, received the
                  flowers with a faint smile and inhaled their sweetness. They bore her in
                  imagination back to Woodreve again—the dream of her sleep wove its tissue of
                  bright fancies with her waking hours—pleasant memories flitted to and fro around
                  her; she heard the jubilante excelsis of the
                  birds, and saw the wild gleaming of the fountains in the sunshine! Disfranchised
                  by the magic spell from the bonds that fettered her, for a moment, she remembered
                  only the glee and beauty of her existence in those lovely haunts; and a smile so
                  joyous and heartfelt gradually parted her lips, that her whole face was lit up
                  with its old radiant expression.
               "Those 'ere orange flowers just suit a bride, Miss Etha! They'll look mighty white
                  and pretty in your black hair, miss!" observed Paula, picking up one of the
                  blossoms that had fallen.
               "Orange flowers—bride! Did you speak, Paula?" said Edith, starting, aroused all
                  too suddenly from her beautiful vision, and letting the flowers drop as she
                  remembered all.
               "Yes, Miss Etha. In course, you'll wear the orange flowers to-morrow, being as how
                  it's all the fashion 'mongst the quality, of which you am one. I was
                  a'saying, miss, they'd look mighty handsome in your hair, it's so black. Here's
                  Mr. Shirley's note; won't you read it, Miss Etha?" said Paula, handing it to
                  her.
               She took it without a word, and, with a sinking of the heart, which made her
                  almost breathless, tore open the envelop, and read—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "BELOVED EDITH: This day, which brings me to the very threshold of
                              that hour which will make thee mine for aye, has risen like a
                              harbinger of bliss, bright and serene on the earth. Until this hour,
                              moments of deep sadness have not unfrequently haunted me; doubts of
                              the eventual realization of my fond hopes, and days of suspense and
                              anguish when thine eyes fell more coldly on me than my ardent love
                              could patiently brook. But, beloved! how thrills my being with
                              rapture—how expands my heart with joy, that language cannot express,
                              when I reflect that to-morrow—to-morrow I can fold thee to my bosom,
                              the bride and queen of my affections! Angel guide of my future—flower
                              of my life's desert! what blessing could Heaven bestow of equal worth
                              to me! Heaven itself were not heaven without thee. But time, the great
                              purifier, will prove the deathless devotion of my soul. All its
                              energies, my Edith, subject to thy sweet control, will be strengthened
                              and exalted, until it scales the steep of fame to lay its hard-won
                              trophies at thy feet—but I pause. Every day, hereafter, will speak
                              revelations of my heart to thee, unsealing its every mystery, until
                              thou art mistress of its most secret thoughts—its most sacred
                              emotions! Until then, my Edith, confide in me—trust me, for, if ever a
                              pure love consecrated woman's life, thou art the being thus
                              consecrated. The first flowers of spring I have culled for my bride.
                              May the flowers of happiness which I will strew along her life's
                              pathway be as beautiful, but more enduring!
                           
                              "Adieu, beloved.
                              "WALTER."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "To-morrow!" thought Edith, crushing the billet-doux in her hand. "Oh God, that to-morrow might never come!
                  Oh, angels of God, how will ye blush as ye record my sinful vows in heaven! Would
                  that I could love thee, Walter, as thy true and constant heart
                  deserves! Would that this maddened feeling might pass away from me! Would I were
                  myself again!" She covered her eyes with her hands to exclude the light, which
                  seemed to be burning down into her brain, and the wild, heavy throbbing of her
                  heart moved the fine fabric of her night-dress like a white undulating billow.
               "Mus' I put the hy'cinths and all in water, Miss Etha?" asked Paula.
               "Yes, if you please, Paula."
               "There, now, Miss Etha. Look, I never see such 'squisite bookets in
                  all my life. Mr. Walter's man's a great 'mirer of flowers too, and showed me how
                  to put 'em together for fine defect. Ain't them lovely, now, Miss
                  Etha?" said Paula, bringing the vase to her, and holding it out with an affected
                  air of elegance. But, as she stood, a large, disgusting-looking worm, which had
                  crept unobserved observed from amidst
                  the orange flowers, suddenly fell coiled up on her hand. With a shriek of terror
                  she threw down the vase, which broke into a thousand pieces, scattering the
                  bruised flowers over the floor at her feet, and fell, with distended eyes, panting
                  and gasping, into a chair. Edith started up, much alarmed, and asked her the cause
                  of her agitation. Was she ill?
               "I'm so glad it didn't get on you, miss," she at last said, bursting into a flood
                  of tears.
               "What was it, Paula?" inquired Edith, gently.
               "If anybody, as I was gwine to lead to the halter, was to send me sich a thing,
                  hid up like in flowers, I'd never more see him again. That I never would," she
                  said with passionate energy. "I once heerd our preacher say, the devil oftentimes
                  tuk the shape of a snake, but I didn't bleeve him. Now I do, every word."
               "A snake. Good Heavens! Paula, there is not a snake in the room, I hope,"
                  exclaimed Edith, really alarmed.
               "There it is, Miss Etha. Lord, how it twirls and wriggles, and gives me sick
                  turns! I'm sick," shricked the sentimental Paula, running towards the door.
               "It is only a poor, harmless worm, Paula," said Edith, holding a flower towards it
                  for it to crawl on; then, carrying it gently to the window, stretched out her hand
                  and laid it on a branch of the tree that shaded it. The creature extended itself
                  on the mossy bark as if rejoicing in its rescue, then, creeping higher up, was
                  soon hidden among the tender leaves.
               "It's a bad sign, anyhow," muttered Paula at the door, somewhat ashamed of her
                  cowardice. "I'll be bringing up your chocolate, ma'am."
               "You are a sluggard, this morning, love," said Mrs. Willoughby, who entered soon
                  after and kissed her with earnest affection; "and sad looks are treasonable on
                  this your bridal eve. Banish them, dear child."
               "You told me once, mother," she said in a low tone, "that I would not find the
                  world so happy as Woodreve. You spoke truly."
               "My poor Edith, you are jaded by the fatigues of a brilliant season. Nothing so
                  steals away the bloom from heart and cheek as the exactions of the tyrant fashion.
                  I am sorry they have faded your cheeks, and must hope they have not tarnished the
                  freshness of your heart. Experience, dear bought, will be hereafter your silent
                  but constant monitor. You will value the world now according to its true worth.
                  But there is a rainbow amidst the cloud, child. Soon a fondly-cherished bride, you
                  will wander away from the din of life through the magnificent and classic scenes
                  of Europe; you will regain the vigor and freshness you have wasted, and return to
                  me, Edith, enriched in mind, and exalted in a more refined imagination by
                  associations full of historic romance and sublime poetry. I now wish you joy,
                  beloved child, on the near approach of your nuptials. I know not whom most to
                  congratulate on the occasion, yourself or Walter. Each has found a prize in the
                  other. But I come in to say good-by. I am going to Woodreve, and will not return
                  until evening. There is a night-blooming ceres there which will open to-night. I
                  wish to have it brought in for the inspection of a few friends who have never seen
                  one. Mrs. Lacy will be with you. Good-by until evening."
               She kissed her step-mother, and would have given worlds to fall weeping on her
                  bosom and unfold to her her inmost thoughts—her misery. But what could she tell?
                  Confess that, almost at the altar, she hopelessly loved another? No, she would
                  rather die—and that other a De Vere! The bare idea made her cower, and,
                  shuddering, bury her face in her hands.
               It was a busy day. Mrs. Lacy, Bessie De Vere, and the eldest Miss Beverly, who had
                  arrived at eleven o'clock, were with her at intervals all day, rallying her
                  mirthfully on her thoughtful silence, as they folded and laid away in the large
                  travelling trunks her costly bridal trousseau.
                  On a rose-wood table glittered the nuptial offerings which various friends had
                  sent her, in accordance with the prevailing fashion, which, par courtesy, were
                  supposed to testify the warm and loving regard of the donors for the bride. Some
                  were costly and magnificent. In the midst, gleaming and scintillating in a crimson
                  velvet case, were a set of diamonds and emeralds that had belonged to Walter
                  Shirley's mother, and which he had caused to be re-set for his bride.
               At a late hour of the night her friends left her. She was alone. And whichever way
                  she turned her eyes, the sharp rays emanating from those gems, seemed to mock her.
                  She could not bear the impression they produced on her excited imagination, and
                  she removed the lamp to a marble pedestal which stood in an arched niche in a
                  distant part of the room where she usually kept her flowers—there were only a few
                  withered ones on it now. Without an object, she paused before her mirror; but Mrs.
                  Lacy had thrown the rich Mechlin lace veil over it, and through its transparent
                  folds her face was reflected so pale and shadowy that she fled from it, and sank
                  trembling on one of the luxurious chairs. Paula came in a few moments after, with
                  an important air, bringing a long willow basket, which she laid at Edith's feet
                  and began to unfasten.
               "This is the bride's dress, miss. Madame Le Roi's gal is just brung it," she said, taking it carefully out, and
                  holding it admiringly up, a rich shining mass of white satin, and floating, snowy
                  lace. She inspected it with a species of wonder, which for the time sealed her
                  lips.
               "Take it away, Paula," said Edith, gently; "I will examine it presently.
                  There—leave me; I wish to be quite alone."
               Astonished, beyond expression, how any human being could be so passively
                  indifferent under such an accumulation of splendor, she left the room without
                  replying; more than ever convinced that the "quality" were different from all
                  mankind besides. But an hour had scarcely elapsed, when the door was opened very
                  softly, and she came in on tiptoe, thinking her young mistress was asleep, and
                  laid a letter, which she held in her hand, on the toilet-table, where she loitered
                  awhile, for the purpose of indulging once more her longing admiration of the
                  elegant finery and bijouterie scattered over it.
                  A slight movement of Edith's hand interrupted her delightful cogitations, and,
                  afraid that she had disturbed her, she turned reluctantly away and glided
                  noiselessly out. But Edith did not sleep. She was conscious of Paula's coming in,
                  and saw her, through her half-closed eyes, deposit something, she knew not what,
                  on the table. Once or twice afterwards a troubled slumber stole over her
                  overstrained senses; but she dreamed of Harry De Vere, and, starting violently,
                  awoke. It was past midnight when she arose to seek her pillow, and as she was
                  going towards her couch, her eyes fell on the letter Paula had brought in, but she
                  felt unequal to the task of reading it; there was a sensation of inertion and
                  listlessness pervading every faculty and deadening every voluntary effort, and was
                  passing on, but, obeying some uncontrollable impulse, she returned, and, taking it
                  up, broke the seal, and carried it to the light to peruse its contents. Her eyes
                  at first glanced over the strange handwriting, expressionless and cold, then with
                  a frenzied glare ran over and over the words again, as if she wished to, but could
                  not comprehend their meaning, and at last with a wild cry, as if some chord had
                  snapped asunder in her heart, she exclaimed, "Too late! too late!"
               She did not faint or rave, or shriek, but leaned heavily on the pedestal, and her
                  cheek grew paler and whiter, while a fearful spell, more awful than the wildest
                  storm that ever filled the human heart, gathered in silence around her. All within
                  and about her seemed to be undergoing a transformation from natural life into
                  something she knew not what. Human feelings and hopes were gliding away from her
                  heart like shivering phantoms, and a twilight mistiness, cold and starless,
                  enveloped it.
                     
                        "As, at the tramp of a horse's hoof on the turf of the prairies,
                        Far in advance are closed the leaves of the shrinking mimosa,
                        So, at the hoof-beats of fate, with sad forebodings of evil,
                        Shrinks and closes the heart ere the stroke of doom has attained it."
                     
                  
                  LONGFELLOW. And she heard the tramping of hoof-beats as they drew
                  near, but she could not fly them. There was no refuge, no ægis to shelter from the
                  ruthless destiny she had wrought for herself. Darkly and coldly the leaves of
                  earthly happiness folded themselves together and drooped earthward. Heart
                  whispered to brain, and brain echoed back again to heart, the nameless woe, until
                  every nerve was instinct with agony, and every tear-drop frozen.
               "It would be pleasant to die now," she murmured, "to lie quietly down, and fall
                  into that deep sleep from which naught can waken or disturb me. Walter says, 'the
                  death sleep is dreamless,'" thought the tempted soul.
               It was unlike thee, Harry De Vere, generous and good as thou wert always; it was
                  the first and last selfish act of thy life, to yield to an impulse, all
                  uncontrolled by thy wiser judgment; therefore, like uncle Toby's angel, we will
                  drop a tear to blot out thy sin, as we record it! The letter was from Harry De
                  Vere. When the vessel which was to bear him to a foreign land was fairly out,
                  rolling on the long swell of the ocean, and the pilot was preparing to return, the
                  thought of Edith and his love, so enduring and hopeless, of the great gulf which
                  her marriage with Shirley would open between them, almost maddened him. "I will
                  complete her triumph!" he thought in the bitterness of his feelings. "If she
                  designed to trifle with me, she shall know the wound she has inflicted. She shall
                  not lull herself into the delicious idea that she succeeded in deceiving me, all
                  devoid as I am of worldly polish and intrigue. Before she becomes his bride,
                  perchance after, she shall know I loved her; but, all heartless as she is, she
                  shall feel unworthy of love like mine." Under the influence of these feelings, he
                  dashed off the following lines, sealed the envelop hastily, and thrust it into the
                  pilot's hand, as he was going over the ship's side, with an earnest request that
                  he would deliver it as early as practicable to the person to whom it was
                  directed.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Lady! Pardon me if now, when my first bright dream of affection is
                              rudely broken, and my future strewed with the wreck, I presume to
                              proffer my wishes and prayers for your happiness. That love, which I
                              was once infatuate enough to think I might win, is another's—may he
                              prize it! Triumph, lady, in your pride and beauty, and may the reflection that you
                              wantonly lured a heart away by your fascinations, to throw it back
                              again, wounded and stricken, never pain you! May you never need the
                              support of such love as you have scorned! Vain, but true was it—but
                              why recall the bitterness of the past? May you be happy, lady—happy in
                              your choice—happy in your life—is the prayer of
                           
                              "HENRY DE VERE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Had it turned her to stone? This avowal of his love on the very threshold of the
                  altar! These taunts—these words of mockery! For so they seemed to her. The proud
                  vacillating will—the divided heart, vibrated keenly beneath the blow. Life
                  henceforth would be a bleaker and more silent waste than earth could show.
               When they came in the morning to array her for the bridal, she was very pale, and
                  her hands icy cold. Her eyes looked dull and heavy, while her breath came quick
                  and faint. She received the caresses of Mrs. Willoughby and her friends with a sad
                  unconscious smile, which afterwards they all remembered. And when, like a marble
                  statue veiled, they led her down to the drawing-room where the ceremony was to be
                  performed, and Walter Shirley, elate and confident, gracefully threw his arm
                  around her and kissed her cold cheek, she started, and shuddering lifted her eyes
                  to his with such a wild and sudden glare that those who saw it trembled. But she
                  exhibited no other emotion; his soft whispers fell unheeded on her ear, and
                  passively she allowed him to lead her forward to the spot where stood the minister
                  of religion, calm and solemn, in his sacerdotal robes, waiting to unite them in
                  bonds which might be severed only by death. Like a pure vestal about performing
                  some mystic rite, surrounded by richly-clad neophytes, and silent worshippers, she
                  stood pale and solemn, while the preliminary words of the ceremony were spoken. A
                  breathless silence, broken only by the voice of the priest, brooded over the
                  scene—the seal of destiny was nearly set on their united fate, when a shriek,
                  unearthly, fearful, and thrilling, burst from Edith's lips, and, ere she perjured
                  her soul by the utterance of false vows, she fell back lifeless, and as many
                  thought dead, in Mrs. Willoughby's arms. All was instant confusion. Every effort
                  was resorted to, to recover her, but in vain; and hour after hour she lay, still
                  and motionless, her eyes wide open, but filmed over with a half-transparent mist,
                  and her hands retaining the same position they had assumed at the instant the wild
                  cry burst from her lips, clasped tightly over her heart, and so cold and rigid
                  that it was impossible to remove them, except for an instant or two at a time,
                  when they would slowly resume their original position. Frantic at the
                  interruption, Walter Shirley exhibited the most uncontrollable grief; he besought
                  the attendant physicians, two old practitioners, to bleed her, to resort to the
                  extremest measures to recover her, if only for a time long enough to allow the
                  ceremony, which would give him the right to watch constantly beside her during her
                  illness, to proceed. But the physicians shook their heads, and were silent. Mrs.
                  Willoughby was profoundly afflicted, and, careless of all else except the welfare
                  of her beloved step-daughter, hung tenderly over her, doing all that her judgment
                  and affection could suggest for her restoration. But all in vain. Nothing seemed
                  to recall, even for a fleeting instant, the slightest vestige of animation, and
                  one after another the dismayed guests departed, to tell how the beautiful bride
                  was death-stricken at the altar.
               "In Heaven's name, Dr., tell me, is she dead—have we nothing to hope?" asked Mrs.
                  Willoughby, as the terrible idea became more probable every instant.
               "No, madam, she is not dead."
               "Well, sir!" asked Walter Shirley, who knelt beside her, gazing with bloodshot
                  eyes on her beautiful face, "if your infernal art can penetrate so far, as you
                  cannot restore her, will you tell us why—what is the cause of her sudden
                  illness?"
               "Over-excitement of the nervous system, sir. The poor young lady has been
                  suffering from some mental cause without doubt," he replied.
               "And she will soon recover?" he asked eagerly.
               "I cannot say. This is the most awful and mysterious form that nervous diseases
                  ever assume," replied the physician.
               "What is it?" eagerly asked Mrs. Willoughby and Shirley in the same breath.
               "Catalepsy!" he briefly answered.
               "Great God!" he exclaimed, striking his forehead; "all then is lost!"
               "Sometimes," continued the Doctor, "while in this state of apparent lethargy, the
                     spirituelle is strangely and morbidly acute.
                  The immortal principle triumphs so completely over matter, and every intellectual
                  perception is so keenly quickened in some cases, that I have known the patient,
                  with a singular power of clairvoyance, to relate
                  the minutiæ of incidents and conversation, after his recovery, which occurred in a
                  distant part of the house; things that have not been whispered or hinted at in
                  their presence. But, madam, the poor young lady had better be removed to her own
                  apartment; this state of things may continue longer than we expect."
               
               And in her magnificent bridal robes they conveyed her to her bed. A consultation
                  of physicians, eminent for their skill and judgment, was called, and, during the
                  night and day following, the arcana of medical science seemed to be exhausted in
                  the remedies which were fruitlessly applied. The three, Mrs. Willoughby, Mrs.
                  Lacy, and Shirley, never left her bedside a moment, and if earnest, passionate
                  wishes and prayers could have prevailed, the hue of life would soon have dyed
                  those marble features. Solemn and beautiful, the whiteness of her face only
                  relieved by the raven hair and eyelashes which shaded it, she lay like one who had
                  been brought back by angels from the regions of the SLEEP OF DEATH. That night, at
                  a late hour, Mr. Bedford came from Woodreve; and although Mrs. Willoughby's hasty
                  note, describing the awful event which had interrupted Edith's marriage, had
                  shocked him dreadfully, he was not prepared for the horrors of the reality. As the
                  time had drawn near for her union with Walter Shirley, he showed her unwonted
                  coldness, and for the first time since her childhood, felt estranged from her; her
                  who had been so long the darling and sunshine of his life. Bitterly he reproached
                  himself for it all now, as he gazed, through his tears, on the helpless and silent
                  form before him, and raising his hands with a gesture of mute agony, tottered away
                  from the scene, that in some solitary spot he could give vent to the tribulation
                  of his oppressed heart. He was alone in Mrs. Willoughby's boudoir, the large windows of which opened to the floor, revealing
                  beyond a spacious verandah, filled with orange and lemon trees, and some rare
                  plants she had purchased, to transplant to Woodreve. There was a shaded lamp in
                  the room, that scarcely lit it, but the sorrowing old man heeded not the gloom; it
                  accorded with his utter misery too well, and he walked to and fro, to and fro, as
                  if the restless motion ministered some relief to it. Once or twice, he was
                  startled by seeing, as he thought, a white face pressed against the window, then
                  instantly withdrawn; but, believing it was only the reflection of Edith's image
                  presenting itself to his haunted mind and excited nerves, he did not investigate
                  the matter. The door opened, and Mrs. Lacy came softly in, and laid her hand on
                  his arm.
               "Mr. Bedford," she said, fixing her earnest eyes on his haggard face, "I must talk
                  with you; there is no one else I can dare tell all I think to, concerning our poor
                  angel Etha."
               "What do you think?" he asked quickly, as she paused.
               "Come then and sit by me. I will tell you!" she replied.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "We watched her breathing through the night,
                           Her breathing soft and low;
                           As in her breast the wave of life
                           Kept heaving to and fro.
                           Our very hopes belied our fears,
                           Our fears our hopes belied;
                           We thought her dying when she slept,
                           And sleeping when she died."
                        
                     
                     HOOD.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "The world has many cruel points,
                           Whereby our bosoms have been torn;
                           And there are dainty themes of grief
                           In sadness to outlast the morn.
                           True honor's dearth, affection's death,
                           Neglectful pride and cankering scorn;
                           With all the piteous tales, that tears
                           Have watered since the world was born."
                        
                     
                     ODE TO MELANCHOLY.
                  
               
               "I AM no sibyl," said Mrs. Lacy after a short silence, "but, as sure as I live,
                  there is a cause for this awful illness of Edith, suspected by no one but myself.
                  When it was too late to retract, she made the discovery that she did not love
                  Walter Shirley as an affianced bride should love the man of her choice."
               "I love her, madam, as I love no living thing; but, before God, I'd rather see her
                  coffined to-morrow than know she would recover and become the wife of that man,"
                  exclaimed Mr. Bedford, passionately; "he is not worthy of her."
               "Yes," observed Mrs. Lacy, emphatically, "better as she is than his wife. Heaven,
                  I believe, has interposed to prevent the sacrifice. I watched him closely from the
                  beginning. You know it is one of my old odd tricks to study countenances. His,
                  with all its vaunted beauty, never pleased me. There is, if you ever observed it,
                  a shifting expression in his eyes, and an unwillingness to look full at you, when
                  conversing with him; and a sardonic sneering curve about the corners of his mouth
                  at times; and withal I never saw a human face possess such a remarkable power of
                  change. I have seen malicious, lowering sneers flit away in an instant before
                  bland, amiable smiles; frequently in the course of an hour. And his sentiments are
                  as base as his features indicate. He professes the old voluptuous creed of Greece,
                  and believes that, irresponsible to a
                  high and divine power, every instinct should yield to sensual gratifications. This
                  I gleaned from his conversation at various times. He is impure in morals and
                  nature; and has, I think, by the most diabolical, untiring arts, entangled our
                  poor Edith in an engagement which her high-toned principles of honor would not
                  allow her to break."
               "You think, then, she did not love him?" inquired Mr. Bedford, with anxious
                  interest.
               "No! Charmed and fascinated, like a bird by a brilliant-hued serpent, she may
                  possibly have fancied such a thing at first, but even while under the potent
                  spell, to the very last, she loved another. I saw it, marked it in
                  every glance, and the radiant kindling up of every feature whenever
                     he came, so different from the languid smile and saddened brow
                  with which she greeted Walter Shirley always. I believe he held her in perfect
                  thrall by his false, arch sentimentalities," said Mrs. Lacy.
               "My poor, precious Edith, what a dolt was I not to win her confidence! It might
                  have saved her. Three times she came to me with a troubled, anxious look, as if
                  she wished to impart something that disturbed her; but old fool, doting old fool
                  that I was, I was so vexed at the match, I repulsed her; told her I was busy, and
                  hurried her away by my coldness," cried Mr. Bedford, wringing his hands. "But how,
                  Caroline Lacy, what mean you by saying she loved another? Who was this other?"
               "Henry De Vere," quietly replied Mrs. Lacy.
               "How do you know? what proof have you?" exclaimed Mr. Bedford, springing up as if
                  an adder had stung him; "tell me, I implore you."
               "Thus; I suspected it for months past. I knew he loved her. Only love
                  could have transformed Henry De Vere from the lonely, misanthropic
                  scholar—sensitive, morbidly shy, and proud—to a social, pleasant being. It was
                  she, and only she, Edith Willoughby, whose influence wrought the change, who
                  developed the rich treasures of his mental gifts, and shed light over his darkened
                  world. Others, beautiful, fascinating, and skilled in all the art of woman-craft,
                  he scarcely noticed. He always reminded me of the fable of Prometheus, when her
                  eyes and bright smiles greeted him, no matter when, no matter where."
               "Your poetic fancies may have exaggerated mere insignificant facts," said Mr.
                  Bedford, shaking his head doubtingly.
               "So Edith once told me. But these fancies belong generally to prescient, far
                  seeing instincts, and are ofttimes prophetic. However, I depend not altogether on
                  these. I have proofs of what I assert; proofs which probably might not be
                  considered legal in a case of law, but which are sufficiently circumstantial in
                  their evidence to convince me of the truth of my suspicions. About an hour ago,
                  Paula came to me with an air of great mystery, and requested to speak with me
                  alone. I accompanied her into another room, and, after a vast amount of
                  circumlocution, she imparted these facts. The night before Edith was to be
                  married, at a very late hour, there came a ring at the hall door, which she, the
                  footman being out, answered. A man like a sailor was standing outside and handed
                  her a letter, which he said was for 'a Miss Willoughby, and must be immediately
                  delivered.' Paula carried it up forthwith, but, thinking that Etha dozed, laid it
                  on the table, and came out immediately, without speaking. The next morning, while
                  they were dressing the bride, who was, I believe firmly, insensible all the while,
                  she found the same letter lying crumpled up and soiled on the floor. She took it
                  up and put it into her pocket. She is positive it is the same, because she
                  examined it by the hall-lamp, before she conveyed it to Edith's chamber, wondering
                  who could have sent such a soiled, coarse-looking letter to her mistress, so
                  unlike the perfumed missives and billets she usually received. Poor Paula, she
                  cried very much while she was telling me, and is firmly impressed with the idea
                  that it is connected in some remote way with her young mistress's illness. Who
                  think you the letter is from?" asked Mrs. Lacy. Mr. Bedford was silent.
               "It is from Harry De Vere," continued Mrs. Lacy; "here it is, read it. You will
                  find in it, I think, a confirmation of my poetic fancies. Had not that letter come
                  at the opportune moment it did, Edith would now be the miserable wife of Walter
                  Shirley."
               "You are right, Caroline," said Mr. Bedford, after reading it; "I see it all now
                  as plain as noonday. It is all clear. Thank God, there is yet a hope. She may not
                  die; these two children of my heart may be happy yet." He burst into a flood of
                  tears.
               "I could not speak to Mrs. Willoughby about it. It was a delicate matter, as she
                  is the aunt of that—that—Shirley. I fear I am very wicked, Mr. Bedford, for I feel
                  as if it would be the greatest relief on earth for me to swear roundly at him—But
                  look—merciful Heaven! look again, Mr. Bedford! did you not see that face against
                  the opposite window?" exclaimed Mrs. Lacy, clinging to his arm.
               "I have seen it twice before to-night. It was not my imagination, then, after
                  all," he replied, opening the window and stepping into the verandah. Mrs. Lacy
                  heard a low, smothered cry, and was springing forward to ascertain the cause of
                  the struggle that ensued, when Mr. Bedford appeared, almost dragging in a slight female figure, whose face was
                  quite hidden by a thick green veil.
               "What is your object, unfortunate woman, in prowling about this dwelling at so
                  late an hour? Speak," said Mr. Bedford. But she trembled violently, and remained
                  silent. "Unless you can explain your strange conduct," he continued, "it will be
                  my duty—a painful one, as you are a female—to hand you over to the authorities of
                  the night. You appear under extremely suspicious circumstances. Your silence and
                  confusion but increase the dark aspect of affairs. Can you not speak in
                  extenuation of your conduct?"
               "I meant no harm, sir," she said, in a low, plaintive voice. "I only feared she
                  might be dead, and was watching to see if it was so."
               "Do you mean Miss Willoughby? What know you of her? What interest can you, a
                  wanderer of the night, feel in one like Miss Willoughby?" he inquired, in a tone
                  of doubt.
               "Oh, sir, you are right, quite right. I should not have come," she replied,
                  sobbing convulsively; "but I—Miss Edith—"
               Just then Mrs. Willoughby came into the boudoir
                  to get a vial of drops she had left in her escritoire, and as her eyes fell on the group the woman sprang up
                  and attempted to escape; but Mr. Bedford threw himself before her and baffled the
                  effort. She stood panting like a deer at bay, looking from one to the other, the
                  wild light of her eyes glaring through her veil. "Pray—pray let me go. I'll never
                  return again!" she cried, in a voice of agony.
               "What means it all? Who is she? How came she here?" asked Mrs. Willoughby, amazed
                  at the scene. Mr. Bedford told her.
               "It is very strange. Will you not tell us who you are who feel so concerned about
                  Miss Willoughby?" asked the lady, gently.
               "Oh no, no! You would spurn me. Let me go! I am not fit to breathe the same air. I
                  am a poor, polluted, fallen creature. Pray let me go!" she implored in piteous
                  accents.
               "Not fallen so low, poor soul!" cried Mrs. Lacy, springing to her side, "but that
                  repentance can purify you."
               "Lady, the angels whispered that to you; but do not touch me. I have strayed away
                  from the fold of human sympathies, forsaken Heaven and virtue, until I hear naught
                  but the curses of God and man ringing in my ears. Oh! it is a dismal sound to
                  hear, ever—ever—evermore," she said, in a voice of utter despondency.
               "Poor erring one!" said Mrs. Lacy, brushing away her womanly tears, "despair not.
                  To-morrow, come to me and tell your sad story. I will help to raise you from the
                  gulf into which human wrongs and human weakness have cast you. You shall not
                  struggle without hope, without aid. Return to peace and virtue. I will lead you
                  thither."
               "Peace! lady. Beneath the heavy sods of the graveyard I may find it; not on earth.
                  But I thank you. Your kind words have fallen like balm on my wounded and bruised
                  heart. They may save me from that despair which goads the weak soul into deeper
                  crime. But I cannot come. I would not reward your—your charity, by doing aught to
                  bring down on you the scorn of the world. Its ban is on me."
               "With Heaven and mercy on my side, I defy it!" said Mrs. Lacy, with a lofty air.
                  "You must not be lost, when kindness and a willingly extended hand can save
                  you."
               "I am lost—lost!" she cried, with a burst of agony. "Let me go—let me leave this.
                  But first tell me, does—she—live?"
               "Miss Willoughby lives."
               "Thank—no—I am. Lady," she said, suddenly kneeling at Mrs. Willoughby's feet, "I
                  crave one great boon before I depart, never to offend you by my presence again.
                  For the love of humanity, grant it."
               "Rise, unfortunate creature! Name your request, and if I can with propriety—for
                  remember you are an unknown, mysterious stranger—I will grant the boon you ask.
                  Would that I could do you some substantial good; but fear I cannot. What is it you
                  wish—money?" asked the lady, deeply touched by her plaintive humility.
               "Money! Oh no! Only let me follow you, lady—at a distance—to where she lays. Let
                  me look just one moment—only one—at that fair, perfect face, and—and I'll begone,
                  instantly," she gasped.
               "Follow me, then; but be quite still," said Mrs. Willoughby, nodding to Mrs. Lacy
                  and Mr. Bedford to come. The strange woman stood humbly back, holding the skirts
                  of her garments as they passed, lest theirs might perchance brush against them,
                  and, with a slow, faltering step, walked after them. The three physicians who had
                  watched beside Edith during the night had retired to another room to consult, and
                  Walter Shirley, with his arms folded on his breast, stood alone, leaning against
                  the massive post of the bed, while he gazed down, with a stern expression of
                  mingled bitterness and pity, on his stricken bride. When the group entered, the
                  girl did not see him. She was behind the rest; and her eyes, humbly downcast, were
                  not raised until Mrs. Willoughby stepped aside and said—
               "There—but do not touch her."
               
               She clasped her attenuated hands together, and knelt, while she gazed on the
                  lovely, motionless face before her; and though her bosom rose and fell with deep
                  emotion, she uttered not even a whispered word. A few minutes elapsed in this
                  silent, woeful watch; then she arose to go away; but her eyes fell on Walter
                  Shirley, who had scarcely observed her yet. She started—faltered—staggered forward
                  a step or two, and, with a heart-rending cry, fell prostrate on the floor. Mrs.
                  Lacy was beside her in an instant, and raising her head the veil fell off,
                  revealing such features as Raphael loved to paint, and golden hair falling back
                  from her round, childish forehead.
               "Amy!" exclaimed Mrs. Willoughby, with a burst of tears.
               "Amy!" almost shouted Mr. Bedford.
               "Amy!" muttered Walter Shirley, grinding his teeth. "What fiend of darkness
                  brought her hither? She shall remember this, by Heaven! the designing Jezebel." He
                  was hurrying away, but Mrs. Willoughby called him to assist in lifting the poor
                  girl to a sofa, little dreaming that it was he who had betrayed and abandoned her.
                  He dared not excuse himself, and as he bore her in his arms to the place
                  designated, and laid her not too tenderly down on the pillows, her consciousness
                  returned. She unclosed her eyes, and when she saw him bending over her, a flush of
                  joy irradiated her face, and, forgetful of where she was, she uttered a wild cry
                  of rapture, and exclaimed, "Have you come back at last, Walter?" But marking his
                  malignant, angry scowl, and the wondering faces around her, she covered her face
                  with her hands and wept bitterly. Again he essayed to leave a scene fraught with
                  disastrous consequences to him if he remained; but Mrs. Willoughby, with every
                  womanly instinct of her noble nature, fully roused, grasped his arm, and gazing
                  into his eyes with a look that penetrated his guilty soul, pointed to the fragile
                  form of the shrinking, trembling Amy Markham, and demanded the truth.
               "She is an insane fool; I never saw her before," he declared, while an ashen hue
                  overspread his face.
               "Did you ever see Mr. Shirley before, Amy? Answer me truly, as you hope for the
                  forgiveness of Heaven, and your parents, whose hearts are broken in their old age
                  on your account!" said Mrs. Willoughby, in a calm, solemn tone.
               "Tell the truth, Amy—you shall be protected, poor child!" said Mr. Bedford.
               "Sir, your age protects you," said Walter Shirley, fiercely.
               "You may save Edith," whispered Mrs. Lacy.
               "But—but—she—is his—wife!" gasped Amy.
               "No, Amy. A mysterious Providence interposed to prevent that," said Mrs.
                  Willoughby, who had overheard her. "Now tell me, without equivocation—did—or did
                  not my nephew, Walter Shirley, lure you away from your home and duty?"
               "He did—he did, lady. But for him, I should not be the degraded thing I am," she
                  sobbed.
               "Cursed fool!" he muttered. "Madam, this is unkind of you—a strange proceeding—I
                  cannot—!"
               "And you dared to pollute yonder pure, high heart by seeking
                  companionship with it!" said Mrs. Willoughby, pointing to Edith. "Degraded by the
                  basest of crimes, you presumed to breathe the same atmosphere that was sweetened
                  by her innocent breath—to touch her—to cheat her into a belief that
                     you were true and noble in your nature! Look you, Walter, if you
                  were my son, my first born—if my existence depended on yours—I would spurn you for
                  a sin like this—I'd blot you from my heart and love—even as I do now. Here, in the
                  presence of your simple and unfortunate victim—in the presence of yon silent
                  death-like form, shrouded in her bridal robes, who, for aught I know, has been
                  lured against her judgment into a hateful engagement—I command you to leave my
                  sight—return no more! Go! bury your shame in some distant corner of the earth—some
                  lone isle of the sea, where humanity will not be degraded by companionship with
                  one who, like Lucifer, destroyed innocence! As for you, Amy," she continued, "you
                  too have sinned—deeply—sadly sinned, but not so diabolically—so deliberately. You
                  repent. Henceforth my care will be to repair the ruin that a degenerate son of my
                  virtuous race has made." The girl wept. "Must I bid you go again, Walter Shirley?
                  Nay, go not near Edith—even in death your hand must not sully hers by a touch. My
                  will is inflexible."
               "This is an artful conspiracy, Aunt Willoughby—most ingeniously contrived for my
                  ruin—" he began, while he glared at Mr. Bedford and Mrs. Lacy.
               "No, Walter—it is only a confirmation of my worst fears—fears that, when at times
                  they flashed on my mind terrified me, and were banished as too monstrous to be
                  entertained. Henceforth, all ties of kin are severed between us—we are strangers.
                  Leave me, or I shall be under the necessity of calling up my servants to show you
                  the door," she said, with indignant contempt.
               Glaring like a madman around him, he snatched a small pocket-pistol from his
                  breast, and levelled it towards Amy. Mrs. Lacy's quick eye detected the
                  movement—she sprang forward, dashed his arm upwards as he fired, and the ball
                  penetrated the lofty ceiling.
               "Villain! it needed only this to convince me of your unprincipled cipled character!" said Mr. Bedford in an excited
                  tone, as Shirley rushed by him, and bounded like a wounded panther down the broad
                  stairway, out of the hall door, and through the silent street towards his hotel,
                  burning with hatred, revenge, and almost maddened at the discovery of his guilt,
                  but breathing not a repentant sigh for the sin itself.
               The physicians, on hearing the report of a pistol, which echoed sharply through
                  the silent house, came hastily in, and noticed with astonishment the excited
                  countenance of the group around their patient, but observing, at a glance, that it
                  was not produced by any change in her condition, courteously refrained from asking
                  questions.
               "Mr. Shirley made a sudden movement, and a small pocket-pistol he usually carries
                  about him exploded, fortunately without injury to any one," said Mrs. Willoughby,
                  calmly. "Caroline, my dear, conduct Amy into another apartment—soothe her—comfort
                  her as well as you can, and see that she needs nothing. I will remain here until
                  morning. Meanwhile, snatch a half hour's sleep if you can; you need it."
               Worn out by fatigue and watching, the physicians went away, after requesting Mrs.
                  Willoughby to notify them immediately if any new symptoms occurred in the
                  condition of their patient; and promised to return, at any rate, by sunrise. And
                  while Mr. Bedford and herself sat together by Edith's side, he imparted to her all
                  that Mrs. Lacy had told him, in a low tone of voice, and showed her the letter
                  from Henry De Vere.
               "I have been much to blame in this affair, though unwittingly!" said Mrs.
                  Willoughby, after a long pause. When the French De Vere, as he is usually called,
                  proposed for Edith, and she refused him immediately, and unconditionally, I
                  expressed myself in such unmeasured terms of dislike to the family, and declared
                  in such plain language how displeasing an alliance with them would be to me, that
                  I suppose—you know, how implicitly she ever yielded to my influence—she thought it
                  was hopeless and wrong to encourage, in the slightest degree, a preference for the
                  other. And I remember now, in that very conversation, she involuntarily dropped
                  hints of a secret attachment—but said afterwards it was like a 'dream, passed and
                  forgotten.' Soon after, she accepted my nephew's proposal for her hand. But, had I
                  dreamed the truth, for the sake of her happiness I would have yielded my
                  prejudices, and given my sanction to the match. Oh that my poor Edith had confided
                  in me!" said Mrs. Willoughby, stooping over and kissing the marble forehead of her
                  step-child.
               "I believe you, Miriam! It is true, Harry De Vere has not the accident of high
                  birth to boast of, but I tell you the blood of kings could not enrich his nature,
                  stamped as it is by the noblest attributes that Almighty God ever bestows on his
                  creatures. He will be a crown of glory and honor to the woman who is fortunate
                  enough to win him, and an ornament as well as support to the Republic," said Mr.
                  Bedford, in an energetic whisper.
               "The events of to-night have proved more conclusively to me than daily arguments
                  and profound homilies could ever have done, that the circumstances of birth and
                  position are but poor, worthless substitutes for honor, true nobility of soul, and
                  elevated moral purity. My unfortunate nephew, in comparison with this young
                  plebeian, De Vere, is like a fallen angel to a son of light," observed Mrs.
                  Willoughby.
               "I never liked him. He was too unnaturally smooth, and too forever on his guard!"
                  said Mr. Bedford, drily. He then explained to her all the circumstances connected
                  with the duel, which showed in strong contrast the bravado of the one and the true
                  magnanimous courage of the other.
               "You should have told me this before!" remarked Mrs. Willoughby, whose pale cheeks
                  crimsoned, and were wet with tears, when she learned that Henry De Vere's humanity
                  towards her son was the origin of the quarrel.
               "Not I. I fancied somehow that my poor child, Etha, had been cajoled into loving
                  the fellow. You approved of and appeared satisfied with the arrangement—therefore
                  it was none of my business—particularly, Miriam, as my advice was not solicited,"
                  he replied, again referring to a point which he was a little sore upon; "but, if I
                  mistake not, we'll hear of more rascality before long."
               By this time, the first red beams of morning, tinged with golden light, stole
                  through the half-closed windows. A gentle air breathed amidst the tender leaves,
                  making low music, and Edith's birds, which had been silent two days in the
                  darkened room, burst forth into notes of thrilling sweetness, fluttering against
                  the gilded wires of their cages, and plunging into the limpid water that filled
                  their porcelain, until their glancing wings threw off fairy showers of spray that
                  made the air brighter around them.
               "Can it be the red light of morning reflecting on Edith's face?" cried Mrs.
                  Willoughby, who observed a faint flush on the Hitherto stainless cheeks, as she
                  stooped, breathless with anxious hope, over her.
               Mrs. Lacy, who had just come in a moment previous, also observed it, and much
                  agitated hurried towards the windows, closed the white draperies, then turned to
                  watch, with strained eyes and almost bursting heart, the effect. But no! it was
                  not the reflection of the rose blush of
                  the morning—it was no illusion—but the gradual unfolding of the almost withered
                  blossoms of life, glowing softly through the chilled, silent veins! Mr. Bedford
                  snatched his hat up, and started off at full speed for the physicians. What
                  thought he, in his impetuous race, of the demure milk-woman and flower-girl on
                  their way to market, that he nearly upset; or the "hot muffin boy," whose basket
                  was unceremoniously plunged by an unlucky jolt of his arm into the gutter; or the
                  litter of pigs that he routed, and sent piping their shrillest notes into the open
                  door of the barber-shop. He heeded none of them, nor paused until he roused, not
                  only the medicos from their brief slumbers, but every family in their respective
                  neighborhoods, who took for granted that nothing less than the advent of twins
                  could cause such a prodigious sensation at that early hour. In less than a quarter
                  of an hour he had the satisfaction of ushering all three of the physicians into
                  Edith's chamber. Professionally they were deeply interested in the case; but their
                  sympathies and humane feelings were profoundly excited, owing to the youth and
                  beauty of the patient, and the extraordinary circumstances attendant on it. They
                  went through the formula of feeling her wrists, and trying the muscles of the
                  arms, by moving them to and fro, to ascertain whether there was a normal
                  relaxation; but they could discover no decided improvement in her state, except
                  that which the appearance of life in her cheeks promised. After a patient
                  investigation of the symptoms and interchange of opinions, during which time Mrs.
                  Willoughby and the rest scarcely removed their eyes from Edith, the senior
                  practitioner observed:—
               "It is the opinion of my associates and myself that a crisis of an important
                  character is at hand. As every remedial agent which could be applied to the
                     physique has been tested without success, it
                  is more evident to us from that fact that this must have been superinduced by
                     mental causes, which severely overtaxed and shocked the nerves.
                  Therefore, madam, we advise that, if you know of anything that would be likely to
                  produce an exalted emotion of pleasure in the patient, supposing she were in a
                  normal state, to impart it to her without delay. As I observed once before,
                  relative to this disease, sometimes in this awful and mysterious state, when every
                  function of life seems paralyzed, the spirituelle is most keenly perceptive."
               "I have learned something within the last few hours," observed Mrs. Willoughby in
                  a low voice, "which may produce the desired effect, if she is not beyond the verge
                  of hope." The doctor took a seat beside the pale-stricken girl, and pressed his
                  fingers on her wrist. Mrs. Willoughby, agitated by her fears and hopes, knelt by
                  the pillow and leaning over her, said, in her clearest and most musical tones,
                  rich with emotion and slightly tremulous: "Be happy, Edith! you are delivered!
                  Henry De Vere's heart is yours, Edith, my child! He will return ere long—you will
                  be his bride!" Every eye was moist with tears, and not a breath was heard. Minute
                  after minute elapsed, but no change was apparent; they were about turning away,
                  hopeless and despairing, when the heavily fringed eyelids, which had not moved for
                  long, weary hours, slowly drooped, then closed; and a sigh, as if the stirring of
                  the stagnant waters of life had produced great agony, burst from her lips. Mrs.
                  Willoughby's head fell forward beside Edith's. Mr. Bedford and Mrs. Lacy were
                  pressing towards her, in great agitation, when the physician waved them back with
                  his hand, and, laying his finger on his lip, intimated the most profound silence.
                  Mrs. Willoughby, only overcome by strong emotion, raised her head, and, clasping
                  her hands, continued kneeling, and watched with intense anxiety for the slightest
                  change.
               At intervals a slight faint gasp announced the struggling breath floating through
                  its cells; then the breast heaved as the heart's mighty levers moved; and two
                  great tears forced their way from beneath the raven lashes, and fell like broken
                  pearls amidst the rich meshes of the bridal veil.
               "Thank God—all is or soon will be right!" observed the attentive physician in a
                  low-toned voice, and with an upward glance of gratitude. "Administer a few drops
                  of eau de vie every ten minutes, madam; and let
                  every impression and association around her be pleasant, but tranquil. A musical
                  box somewhere in the room—you say she is passionately fond of music—flowers—the
                  songs of those golden fellows chanting so blithely in their cages, will have a
                  happy effect; but for the sake of humanity don't talk or whisper around her." His
                  directions were punctually obeyed. Mrs. Willoughby would not yield her place to
                  any one beside Edith's pillow, feeling that she was the indirect cause of her
                  suffering; and must atone for it by extraordinary acts of love. And Edith lived.
                  All Mr. Bedford's love had returned with ten-fold strength, sanctified and
                  softened by affliction. No mother with her first born could have tended her with
                  more watchful affection than did he. Day and night, scarcely snatching necessary
                  repose, he hovered around her; for days and days passed wearily on, and she lay
                  consuming away beneath the depressing influence of a low grade of nervous fever,
                  speaking no word, and scarcely noticing any object. But his vigils were untiring.
                  He smoothed her pillow, bathed her hands with balsamic waters, and administered
                  the prescribed medicinal draughts. Every greenhouse was explored plored for her favorite flowers, and every delicacy
                  that gold could procure was brought to tempt her appetite; and at last their
                  prayers, their tenderness and care were rewarded by a slow, but certain
                  convalescence, and they bore her in triumph back to Woodreve, a faded and fragile
                  image of the radiantly beautiful Edith Willoughby, who left it full of hope and
                  buoyant spirits six months before.
               Nothing could prevail on Amy to return to the home of her early and sinless
                  girlhood. She felt that she had brought too heavy a woe on it by her sin to cross
                  its threshold again. Nor would she see her old parents. "She wished them," she
                  told Mrs. Willoughby, "to remember her as one dead. She was not worthy of being
                  called 'child,' or claiming her old place beside the hearth. Let them think of me
                  as having died, but died repentant." But thankfully she accepted an opportunity
                  that presented itself, through Mrs. Willoughby's exertions, of retiring to a
                  Magdalen asylum, under the superintendence and personal care of a community of
                  saintly women, whose care it is to lead the erring and wandering back to
                  repentance and virtue. There, beneath the shadow of the cross, meek emblem of
                  mercy to all, the humble Magdalen daily knelt, imploring grace and comfort from
                  that august source from whence proceeded the divine oracle, "Go in peace, and sin
                  no more. Thy sins are forgiven thee."
               Every effort that his subtle ingenuity could invent was resorted to by Walter
                  Shirley to obtain an interview with his aunt; but all in vain. Letter after
                  letter, written as only he could write, expressive of the most humble contrition
                  for his faults, was sent, and returned unopened. He had quieted his creditors by
                  averring, "on his honor, (?) that only the illness of Miss Willoughby delayed his
                  marriage. As soon as she recovered, it would take place, and their claims should
                  be promptly met." But it happened that Mr. Moysa was one to whom he was largely
                  indebted for sums of money borrowed at various times, and the shrewd business man
                  suspected that all was going wrong, from having observed Mrs. Willoughby pass him
                  by one day, at his door, without noticing his salutation, although he was
                  confident she must have observed him. "I'll talk to Mr. Bedford about this," he
                  said; and without losing time sought an interview with him. Mrs. Willoughby
                  happened to be there, and received him, as she always did, with cordial and
                  friendly courtesy; but he felt a delicacy in opening the object of his business in
                  her presence, and would have left without referring to it, but for some
                  observation made by Mr. Bedford relative to the improvement in Edith's health,
                  which led to it.
               "The air of Woodreve has revived her very much. She begins to walk about among her
                  flowers; once or twice she has touched the piano; but she is very sad at times,"
                  said Mrs. Willoughby.
               "It was a heavy blow to Mr. Shirley, madam," said Mr. Moysa, plunging at once into
                  the matter. "I never saw so melancholy a change in any one, I think. But now that
                  Miss Willoughby is recovering, I presume he may still look forward to a
                  realization of his happiness?"
               "Not as the husband of my step-daughter, Mr. Moysa; that is quite at an end," said
                  Mrs. Willoughby, decidedly.
               "Well, madam, as affairs assume this aspect, which I half suspected to be the
                  case, I must congratulate you that it is so," said Mr. Moysa, bowing. "Before I
                  had the honor of knowing you, I was so unfortunate as to advance Mr. Shirley some
                  thousands on the strength of his early marriage with the richest heiress in the
                  State, the money to be repaid from the bride's fortune. My faith in his assertions
                  was not so firm as to prevent my making certain inquiries relative to the affair,
                  and I received answers which confirmed them; so that I no longer hesitated. I
                  believe I am not the only one who will suffer."
               Mrs. Willoughby was dreadfully shocked; but, after some moments' reflection,
                  observed: "I will not allow you, Mr. Moysa, to suffer loss in this matter, and I
                  empower you now to offer this degraded young man one single alternative to arrest
                  and exposure. If he will leave the country, under a solemn promise to return no
                  more while he lives, I will cancel this debt, if it takes half my fortune. If not,
                  sir, you must resort at once to legal measures to obtain what is due you."
               "He'll go," said Mr. Bedford, drily.
               "I would"—continued Mrs. Willoughby, with a quivering lip—"it were in my power to
                  discharge all claims against him; those that are honest, and those
                  which were established in fraud; but fear that even my fortune could not stand
                  it."
               "I am deeply indebted to you, madam," replied Mr. Moysa; "but, as you are not
                  legally responsible for Mr. Shirley's debts, I do not see how I can impose on your
                  generosity by accepting your offer."
               "See here, Moysa," said Mr. Bedford, rubbing his hands together, "you must let
                  Mrs. Willoughby have her own way, sir. There is a large private debt owing to you,
                  you know, on the score of that boy of hers."
               "Exactly," interrupted Mrs. Willoughby.
               "Let me talk, Miriam," continued Mr. Bedford. "An opportunity now
                  presents itself for her to serve your interests; and I must say, Moysa, if you don't let her do it, you
                  will not behave handsomely. As to the responsibility she assumes in this case, it
                  is voluntary; therefore, neither she nor you will be doing injustice to the
                  creditors of this scapegrace, as she is not legally responsible for his
                     liabilities."
               "A second Solomon come to judgment," exclaimed the excellent Jew, laughing.
               "I hope, earnestly, you will accept of my proposition, Mr. Moysa," said Mrs.
                  Willoughby.
               "I will, madam. I could not refuse it, even if my interests did not urge me to
                  accept it," he replied, frankly.
               "Well, let me hear from you as soon as the affair is settled. I will drive to the
                  office of my man of business, and give him the necessary instructions to negotiate
                  with you; then, afterwards, come to Woodreve for a holiday. Promise me to come and
                  be my guest, at least for a week," said Mrs. Willoughby, going.
               "Thanks, madam," he replied, bowing low. "Your wishes are commands to-day. The
                  bare idea of seeing Ishmael wandering like an angel of the olden time among those
                  ancient woods would lure me away from the dull routine of business, if naught else
                  could."
               "That Jew is of the tribe of Jesse, I'd swear," said Mr. Bedford as he handed Mrs.
                  Willoughby into her carriage. He was so delighted with the whole thing, the
                     denouement was so decidedly satisfactory to
                  him thus far, that he did not precisely understand his own meaning when he paid
                  Mr. Moysa the magnificent compliment; and if he had been put on his oath as to who
                  Jesse was, he could only have sworn "he was his abstract idea of a good old Jew,
                  of whom he had heard once or twice in his life."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Feeling is deep and still, and the word that floats on the
                              surface
                           Is as the tossing buoy that betrays where the anchor is hidden."
                        
                     
                     LONGFELLOW.
                  
               
               As when billows of gold heave up from the west, sending out on the measureless
                  shores of heaven bright undulations of crimson, and fleecy spray tinted with
                  sapphire—when the earth mists brighten into glory, and ruined tower and blasted
                  tree gleam with strange beauty—when flower and wave fill the air with dreamy odors
                  and music, and the human heart with immortal gifts of thought and song; so had
                  life presented to Edith Willoughby, through the glittering veil of promise, a
                  blending of all that is beautiful and bright. And her faith, so strong in the
                  truth of that vision, gave a dazzling sense of reality to the enchantment. But the
                  twilight had stolen on; it had deepened around her, and she had learned how vain a
                  thing it is to let the heart wander out after shadows—idyls with no light of their
                  own; borrowing their all of glitterance from a source whose most brilliant smiles
                  are the bitterest of mockeries, so swiftly do they fade.
               And oh, how sad is this twilight of the heart, this brooding over memories of
                  shadows, which we thought were angels!
               But, blessed be the comforter when the shadows are lost in gloom, and night in
                  silence and majesty floats softly and gradually over the earth, watering it with
                  tears of refreshment. The pained eyes and heart, like the drooping blossoms, lift
                  themselves upwards and behold "those worlds of light that are not seen by
                  day"—upwards where all is calm; where no glare drives back earthward the dazzled
                  eyes; where no bewildering hues weary the soul's pinion by their ceaseless
                  changes, when it would fain ascend higher, higher towards the portals of God,
                  where, like ladders of gems, glow the stars, and, like a great beacon in the midst
                  of all, lambent and holy, smiles the moon to illuminate the upward way. Soul,
                  thought, and imagination—thought, imagination, and soul, the triune leader of
                  life—scale the purple starlit heights, until the murmur of earth sounds like the
                  melting of distant waves on a sandy shore, and the heart is hushed to listen to
                  strange whisperings—whisperings of the wind floating among flaming spheres, like
                  angel fingers over harp-strings of gold, making low music, which lulls all emotion
                  into sweet repose. And this night fades not into darkness and gloom. Oh no! There
                  is no cheatery, no illusion, no wild disappointment in this starlit night of the
                  heart; it ends, but it ends in a dawn which brightens with the rolling hours; it
                  melts away, is lost; but lost in sunny pavilions which look into heaven. Thus had
                  it been with Edith. The ideal glory of her dream of life had been chilled and
                  darkened; the twilight was awful and lonely. Those to whom she was dearest had
                  seen with dismay the sudden decadence; they had watched her agonies; hung over her
                  with words of anguish when they deemed her insensible to every sound, to every
                  emotion; but they saw not, nor knew aught beyond the veil of silence that wrapped
                  her; it was only the body that had been transformed for a little while into
                  marble. She knew all, felt all, remembered and heard all amidst the solemn silence
                  of her ice-bound life; and if the shock was full of dark woe and startling fears, there was a star
                  of consolation glimmering through the shadowy vista that saved her from despair,
                  and made her thankful. From the phantom of Walter Shirley's love she was
                  delivered; from the utterance of false vows her soul had been preserved by strange
                  events, in which her mind acknowledged the care of Heaven, and though she felt
                  that Henry De Vere would never return to claim a heart which he evidently believed
                  had trifled with, and scorned his, the thought that such a noble being had loved
                  her was pleasant and elevating, and it strengthened her in the perfection of every
                  excellence which she had learned to value in him. Of the past, she communed with
                  none. Both Mrs. Willoughby and Mr. Bedford felt that it would be transgressing the
                  bounds of their position to allude to the subject, unless encouraged by herself;
                  but she had never, since her recovery, referred in the remotest sense to anything
                  connected with it. They would like to have known all she had felt and suffered,
                  that they might pour the sweet balm of sympathy over the wounds so cruelly
                  inflicted; they hoped, from day to day, to hear her unravel the mysteries of that
                  deathlike trance into which she had been plunged; they wished she might speak of
                  Henry De Vere, that all might be explained and forgiven wherein they had erred
                  towards her; but, when weeks and weeks, then months glided on, and her lips were
                  still sealed, when they saw the roses, a shade paler than of yore, blooming on her
                  cheeks, and marked the calm smile that shed its lustre over her lovely features,
                  while her daily life exhibited a chastened spirit, and a peace which flowed from
                  supernal sources, they tried to feel content; Edith's character was purified. A
                  sudden reverse of fortune, an unexpected deprivation of wealth, affluence, and
                  splendor, are not the true tests by which to judge a woman's character. Her
                  heroism and energy may be proved thereby; but it is the heart trial,
                  the blow which disappoints, humbles, lacerates, nay, almost crushes the sensitive
                  chords of life in the wild conflict, that affords the ordeal by which the genuine
                  greatness of her soul is established. If it soften her nature instead of
                  embittering it, and opens her sympathies more to the wants and woes of others; if
                  in the joys and blessings of other human hearts she can unselfishly rejoice, and,
                  forgetful of her own pangs, perform the social duties which brighten up the dim
                  ways of life; if she weeps her few tears alone, that they may not turn the sweet
                  fountain of home joys into bitter waters; if she can hide beneath an active
                  benevolence the sorrow that will prey at times like a ferocious beast on her
                  vitals, then is her triumph high, holy, complete. Such are fitter for heaven,
                  fitter to dwell on earth. Faith, grace, constancy, fortitude, crowned by the peace
                  of heaven, are the influences that surround them, and like ivy on whose leaves the
                  sun's rays rest, while the vine clings in verdant beauty to some ruined shrine,
                  they impart such a holy charm to suffering, they throw such a tranquil lustre
                  around desolation, that it no longer appals and terrifies the shrinking heart, but
                  imbues it with fresh courage for life's conflict. If Edith's life was a sadder, it
                  was a better one. The thoughts which once flew like wild birds on restless wing
                  over the world, the fancies which scarcely knew any occupation but building
                  castles of sunshine and air, and twisting ropes of sand, were now gathered home,
                  chastened and subdued by realities which led them to their true destination.
               She participated with a sincerely unselfish heart in the new glow of happiness
                  that was shed around the roof-tree by the recovery of the heir of Woodreve—the
                  changed countenance and heartfelt smiles of her step-mother—the brooding peace
                  that the assurance of having found her long-lost child imparted to a life which
                  had heretofore been so proud and lonely in its sufferings, were pleasant themes
                  for Edith to dwell on, and her mind reflected generously back every emotion of
                  gratification they afforded. To the eventful story of Arthur Vernon she listened
                  with wonder and interest, and his life, sinless and heavenward in its calm routine
                  of duty, presented to her contemplation a high and holy example. The very patois of his language imparted to him a singular
                  charm, while his refined and gifted mind, his enthusiastic love for music and
                  painting, and, above all, his earnest yet gentle gratitude for the affection that
                  was lavished on him, his perfect features, which were never brightened by glee or
                  laughter, but ever wore a look of thought, that sometimes dawned into smiles that
                  had but little of earth in them, drew her away perpetually from the haunting dream
                  of her own broken hopes.
               Arthur Vernon had passed through the twilight, with none but angels to cheer him;
                  he had wandered through the night, and they had led him along to peace on earth,
                  while Faith, yearning for her child, held open the portals of heaven, and beckoned
                  him thitherward to the morning without end. Edith noted the signs, as they dawned
                  in the kindling eyes and feverish cheeks; she saw, though none else marked it, the
                  gradual falling off of the earth-garb, and the soft unfolding of the spirit-wings
                  that were to bear him to the better land. Such companionship suited her well. If
                  Edith's refined nature enjoyed in a higher degree than common the luxury of
                  feeling, she was no sentimentalist. She felt a genuine rapture in imparting
                  pleasure to others, and in alleviating distress, which enabled her to carry out
                  the practical good of her intentions without an effort. Much of her time and care
                  was devoted to the two broken-hearted
                  old people at the Farm. Daily did she ride over to inquire after their welfare,
                  and perform various kind offices for the now ailing dame Markham, which required a
                  more tender hand than a menial's. She read aloud to her from the pages of
                  consoling books which had been penned by those who had "gone up through much
                  tribulation" to rest where storm and tempest come not, and sometimes sang, in her
                  own clear musical voice, as she sat beside the arm-chair, the beautiful words of a
                  hymn which she knew well would not only melt the bitter rime away from that
                  mother's failing heart, but make it think more forgivingly of the erring Magdalen. 
                     
                        "I would not live alway, thus fettered by sin;
                        Temptation without, and corruption within;
                        E'en the rapture of pardon is mingled with fears,
                        And the cup of thanksgiving with penitent tears."
                     
                  
               
               And in bringing home to her this idea of human weakness and corruption, so
                  different in its grades, but so universal in its nature, she opened to the
                  suffering mind the holiest precept in the law of charity, which demands of us to
                  "do unto others as we would they should do unto us;" and images of her last-born
                  and best beloved, the pride of her age, the sunlight of their home, mingled with
                  confused visions of a pale outcast, want-stricken and degraded, perhaps repenting,
                  flitted in constant succession through her mind; but it was only in the silently
                  falling tear, the uplifted eyes, and at last the calm that settled on those rigid,
                  careworn features, that Edith knew her mission of peace was nearly accomplished;
                  and the hope brightened within her that she would ere long hear her say: "Bring
                  back my stray lamb—she is forgiven!"
               Feverish, brief, and fitful had Edith found the raptures of earth; serene and
                  holy, the bloom of immortal and divine hopes. But moments of human weakness came;
                  and sometimes, amidst the dewy silence of the gloaming, when every sound of life
                  was hushed into deep repose at Woodreve, the music of harp-notes stole out on the
                  air, accompanied by a voice rich, low, and inexpressibly sad, singing— 
                     
                        "Joys we have tasted
                        May sometimes return,
                        But the lamp, when once wasted,
                        Ah! how can it burn?
                        Splendors now clouded,
                        Say when will ye shine?
                        Broke is the goblet,
                        And wasted the wine.
                        "Many the changes
                        Since last we met;
                        Pleasures have brightened,
                        And tears have been wept;
                        Friends have been scattered
                        Like roses in bloom;
                        Some at the bridal,
                        And some at the tomb."*
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Mrs. Norton.
               
               And the family that usually met at this hour in Mrs. Willoughby's library, would
                  pause in their low-toned converse to listen; knowing well that the pangs of the
                  past were floating like shadows around her heart; but they could say naught, do
                  naught on a subject so tacitly forbidden. "Words of endearment would they have
                  spoken, where words of consolation availed not," had they dared; but it could not
                  be, and in the twilight they often shed silent tears over the griefs of the
                  beloved one—griefs which they had never seen wring a single drop from the eyes of
                  her who endured them. Edith's beauty and lovely character, independent of her
                  position and fortune, had won her lovers who would have deemed themselves richly
                  blessed in her affection, either of which would have been agreeable in every point
                  of view to her friends, who fondly hoped she would eventually triumph so far over
                  the recollection of broken hopes and blighted love as to seek a worthy
                  companionship for her noble heart, and its tender affinities, in a happy union
                  with one who would not only appreciate, but almost worship her. But they knew her
                  not yet. With true womanly constancy she clung to the pure memory of her first
                  love; she felt that it was impossible to admit the image of another into the
                  sanctuary of her heart, while his still haunted it—the shrine was
                  strewed with ashes; the earth-light, which hope had lit up within it, was dim and
                  flickering; but it might not, even with its dying beams, shine on the advent of
                  another love. She declined both offers with due feeling and courtesy.
               One morning in September, when the air was laden with fragrance, and every vine
                  quivered in the soft winds that scattered earthward their frail, sweet blossoms,
                  the family at Woodreve were grouped around a table in Mrs. Willoughby's library,
                  to hear the conclusion of an exquisite poem just issued from the press. It was by
                  Longfellow, that lofty spirit of song, whose writings have elicited, even from
                  Carlyle, the great cynic and THINKER of the age, the distinction of being called
                     the poet of America. And so he is, since Willis has forgotten the
                  Judean hills, the rapt themes of old, and the solemn whisperings of the stars, and
                  wrapped an ephemeral drapery of
                  affectation around himself, which we wish from our heart of hearts the sun or wind
                  would deprive him of, and let us have TWO POETS instead of one. We have ventured
                  this, at the risk of being pronounced a twaddler by this Beau
                  Brummell of literature; but, if he will write one single poem to equal "The
                  Leper," or any other of his early efforts, we will pardon the affront right
                  willingly.
               The poem was Evangeline. Arthur Vernon had commenced it the day previous; and
                  there was a something in the tissue of the story which bore so close an affinity
                  to the touching tale of his early wanderings—there were so many sentiments that
                  reminded him of certain sad passages in his life, that he read it with a deep
                  pathos that added a perfect charm to the poetry. He had now come to the part where
                  Evangeline's friends remonstrate with her on wasting her youth in hopelessly
                  waiting for the return of Gabriel, her first and only love. They tell her she is
                  all too fair to be "left to braid St. Catherine's tresses." 
                     
                        "Then would Evangeline answer serenely, but sadly: 'I cannot—
                        Whither my heart has gone there follows my hand, and not elsewhere;
                        For when the heart goes before, like a lamp, and illumines the
                           pathway,
                        Many things are made clear, that else lie hidden in darkness.'
                        And thereupon the priest—her friend and father confessor—
                        Said, with a smile, 'O daughter, thy God thus speaketh within thee:
                        Talk not of wasted affection—affection never was wasted;
                        If it enrich not the heart of another, its waters, returning
                        Back to their springs, like rain, shall fill them full of
                           refreshment;
                        That which the fountain sends forth returns again to the fountain.
                        Patience! accomplish thy labor of love, till the heart is made
                           god-like,
                        Purified, strengthened, perfected, and rendered more worthy of
                           heaven.'"
                     
                  
               
               A smile, lustrous and beautifully sad, beamed over Edith's countenance, and tears
                  trembled in her eyes as she timidly glanced on the faces around her.
               "Is it thus with thee, Edith, my daughter?" asked Mrs. Willoughby.
               "Even so, my mother, my friends! This is all that I have been longing to say,
                  many, many days. Henceforth, my ways, my sentiments, will have no mystery in them;
                  all is made clear by the poet," she replied, without lifting her eyes. There was a
                  moment's silence. Mrs. Willoughby leaned over and kissed her forehead tenderly;
                  and Mr. Bedford, moving his seat nearer to her, whispered, "I have been no Father
                  Felician to thee, child."
               "Read on, dear Arthur," she said, after chiding the old man's self-reproaches with
                  a smile and caress. After this, it became brighter at Woodreve.
               "Mother," the word most beautiful in English, said Arthur Vernon one evening, not
                  long after this, as he raised his eyes from a drawing he was working on, and fixed
                  them fondly on Mrs. Willoughby, who sat near him reading; "my mother, look at this
                  gateway for Sancta Maria Magdalena. It is finished." Since Amy found a refuge at
                  the "Magdalen," Mrs. Willoughby had ample opportunity afforded her for observing
                  the admirable arrangements and charitable utility of the institution, while the
                  sublime spirit of benevolence that pervaded its minutest regulations commanded her
                  veneration. There she saw poor, o'ertempted souls, who, having forfeited their
                  claims to virtuous companionship by sinning once, and scared away from repentance
                  by the awful sneers and frowns of the world; cast off from every tie of
                  consanguinity, and their penitent tears derided and scorned by those who were sunk
                  low in infamy, find a safe sanctuary, where heavenly Pity washed away with her
                  tears the dust and blood from their wandering feet. There, saved and repentant,
                  she saw their lives pass away in acts of humiliation and patience, forgetting the
                  world and forgotten; but well content that it should be so, since human kindness
                  and eternal hope had rescued them from the doom of the despairing, and led them
                  on, beneath the shadow of the cross, to the rest of the weary. The saintly women,
                  in whose hearts the love of God had wrought a miracle of love for these
                  world-scorned wanderers, felt even on earth a fore-taste of their eternal reward,
                  as they led the despised and erring ones back to virtue and heaven. Patiently and
                  unwearied they toiled, these "Daughters of the Good Shepherd," forgetful of former
                  luxuries, high estate, and gentle birth, in their voluntary abnegation of worldly
                  advantages; enduring, with meek forgiveness, all the contumely that might be cast
                  on their heroic and divinely charitable mission, and daily strengthening their
                  souls in the example of Him who came on earth to give rest to the weary, and call
                  the erring to repentance. Mrs. Willoughby noted all this with a discerning eye,
                  and, anxious to contribute to so worthy an object, she settled a liberal annuity
                  on the asylum, and had given her artist son the general idea of a design she
                  wished him to execute, of a spacious marble gateway she intended erecting at her
                  own cost, in front of the now dingy court which led to it.
               "It is not right. You do not like it, my mother," he observed, construing her
                  silence into disapprobation of his work. "I will make another."
               "You must not retouch or alter a line, Arthur. It is beautiful. It is inspired not
                  only by genius, but religion. There is only one thing to regret, and that scarcely amounts to a
                  regret. I would have preferred Gothic arches," she replied, enthusiastically.
               "Ah, mother! in bella Italia we love not the
                  gloomy Gothic arch. It is too cold; it is like the catacombs. But I can make it,
                  if you wish."
               "No. The Saracenic is a graceful and elegant style. In this model you have thrown
                  its happiest features together. It must not be changed. There, over the entrance,
                  just within that pointed niche, I will have placed a large painting of the benign
                  Saviour in the act of pardoning the Magdalen who watered HIS feet with her tears,
                  and the words, 'Thy sins which are many are forgiven thee, 'inscribed under it in
                  letters of gold. A transparent screen of glass shall protect it from the weather;
                  behind it, at night, a lamp shall be kept burning, that the hopeless and erring
                  may see it, as they wander homeless and friendless through the midnight hours, and
                  perchance be led, by the divine pity it illustrates, into the shelter of safety it
                  invites them to. Through the darkness it shall shine like a beacon amidst the
                  storm. From the stagnant graves beneath the river, from thoughts of the deadly
                  poison-drop, it shall lure their trembling souls to works of virtuous humiliation
                  and penitence," said Mrs. Willoughby, while her face kindled up with lofty
                  emotions.
               "And these, my mother?" asked Arthur Vernon, regarding her with an angelic smile,
                  while his finger rested on a vacant niche which the light and elegant turret on
                  each side of the gateway exhibited.
               "Take up your pencil, boy, and I will describe the designs I wish you to sketch
                  for two groups in marble; one for each of those niches," she replied. "A guardian
                  angel lifting with one hand a female form from the earth, whose dishevelled hair
                  half veils a countenance where despair and repentance struggle together; while
                  with the other he points towards the pitying face of the divine Saviour. There,
                  you have caught the idea perfectly: it will do. Now, Arthur, draw me the same
                  female figure, calm and meek, her eyes cast down humbly, and her hands folded on
                  her breast, in the act of walking up a narrow, perilous steep, attended by the
                  same spirit-guide, whose wings almost enfold her. Aha! that outline is full of
                  harmony—so.—This shall occupy the niche on the other side. These groups shall also
                  be protected by a shade of glass, and, at night, lit up with lamps. Now, my son,
                  surmounting all, sketch a massive cross, for it was through the cross that man
                  first learned the divine science of forgiveness."
               "Where will these marble angels be sculptured, mother?" asked Arthur Vernon in
                  Italian, as he laid down his pencils.
               "In Florence or Rome. In both places sojourn eminent American rican sculptors,
                  whose genius bids fair to rival the masters of old. Thither we will go," she
                  replied, smiling.
               "To Italy?" he cried, with a glow of rapture on his countenance. "Shall we,
                  indeed, my mother, go to bella Italia?"
               "Ere long, Arthur, we will go. The bland air and picturesque glories, the poetry,
                  the sunlight of Italy will give you strength. Much fear I that your delicate frame
                  is failing. Methinks you grow more feeble of late," said the mother with tearful
                  eyes.
               "No. I feel quite well. I am only too happy. It oppresses me, my mother," he
                  replied, as he threw himself on a cushioned lounge which stood near the open window. There was no pallor on his
                  cheeks to tell a tale of exhaustion or decay, or too close application to his
                  favorite pursuits. They glowed beneath the shining waves of his hair like summer
                  roses, and his large blue eyes beamed with unwonted brightness as they softly
                  closed in slumber, their last glances resting lovingly on her. Whence, then, her
                  fears? His dreams were happy. One could tell that from the gently heaving breath
                  and serene smile that at intervals flitted over his angelic countenance. Softly,
                  tenderly, she lifted the sunny hair from his temples and threw it back, that the
                  perfumed winds might kiss his face; then unfastened the small diamond button that
                  confined his collar, and bared his white throat, that looked like faultlessly
                  carved marble, to the coolness of evening. His hand hung over the side of the
                  lounge, and the blue veins seemed starting through the smooth ivory skin. She
                  raised it up and laid it on her knee, and, folding her own lightly over it, kept a
                  vigil of love. "How beautiful!" she murmured. "How nobly, yet how innocently
                  lovely is my child! Lord God! I deserve not thy exceeding love in restoring him to
                  me, while I was all forgetful of thee." Mr. Bedford had entered the library
                  unperceived by Mrs. Willoughby, nor was she aware of his presence until he stood
                  by her side. He had heard the fervent aspiration of her grateful heart, and said,
                  in a low whisper, pointing to the slumberer,
               "No doubt, then, ever crosses your mind, Miriam?"
               "Doubt!" she replied, quickly. "Do I doubt I have a heart, when I feel its
                  constant pulsations? I would not dare doubt he is mine."
               "So, so! There is one thing—but you have such faith in it all, why should I fear?"
                  said Mr. Bedford, hesitatingly.
               Just at that moment a muffled female form suddenly appeared at the open
                  window;—the next, she was kneeling at Mrs. Willoughby's feet, where, with
                  trembling eagerness, she deposited a small bundle, wrapped in curiously
                  embroidered skins. There was just light
                  enough to discover that her face was swarthy and her frame wasted, as with clasped
                  hands she turned her glittering eyes imploringly from Mrs. Willoughby to Mr.
                  Bedford, evidently incapable, from illness or some strong emotion, to speak, then
                  nodded her head towards the sleeping Vernon and smiled, until her small white
                  teeth shone with a ghastly expression. Fearful of awakening him, and amazed at the
                  Indian woman's sudden appearance and strange pantomime, Mrs. Willoughby sat
                  perfectly motionless; while Mr. Bedford, although he could not comprehend her
                  meaning, knew from her gestures that her designs were not evil, and thought,
                  perchance, she was a suppliant for some favor, and awaited the result, but
                  determined to watch every movement, in the event of her not being such as he
                  thought her. Her whole frame trembled excessively, and several times she made vain
                  efforts to speak. "You are ill and in want, poor woman," said Mrs. Willoughby,
                  kindly.
               "The—breath—of—the Great Spirit—has blown—back—the—magnolia—leaf—to—its —mother's
                  breast—at last," she gasped out, pointing with her long attenuated finger to
                  Vernon. "Many—many—moons—ago—the SUN-CLOUD—stole it—away—but—the—Great
                  Spirit—was—about him—like—the—breath—of the—wild—honeysuckle—around—the
                  flower—Ya-gee-wah—heard in—the—deep—silence—of the—forest—the—whisper—of—the—Great
                  Spirit—He—told—her—all—all!" Both Mrs. Willoughby and Mr. Bedford instantly
                  remembered the story told by some trappers soon after the heir of Woodreve was
                  stolen, of an Indian girl they had met, travelling westward with a fair-haired
                  child on her bosom, and felt assured that Providence, in His inscrutable wisdom,
                  was about unfolding the mystery, and establishing the most certain link in the
                  chain of evidence regarding Vernon's identity; they exchanged glances, and Mrs.
                  Willoughby placed her son's hand softly on the pillow where he reclined, as she
                  arose from the chair beside him, and said, "Come with me into another room; come,
                  tell me all you know—nay, you shall not be harmed—come!"
               "Perhaps," observed Mr. Bedford, "it would be better, Miriam, to wait until
                  to-morrow; the woman is evidently ill, and needs rest."
               "To-morrow!" she gasped, while a peculiar smile flitted over her face;
                  "to-morrow!" Then she crouched along the floor until she was close by the side of
                  Arthur Vernon, and with trembling hands was in the act of opening the fine linen
                  folds that covered his chest; but Mrs. Willoughby, fearing she intended some harm,
                  leaned over, and silently and quickly grasped them in her own ere she accomplished
                  her purpose, but started at their icy coldness; she would have relaxed her hold,
                  but the Indian woman passively submitted to the restraint, and, raising her wan,
                  sharp-featured face to hers, said in a faint, gasping voice, "Listen
                  to—the—tongue—that never lied. Once—a pale-faced—woman—found—Ya-gee-wah—sick—al
                  one—forsaken—on a wolf-track—in the forest; she pitied—the
                  daughter—of—the—chief—because—her people—left—her—there—to die." She paused a few
                  moments; her head fell forward on her breast, and a violent shivering convulsed
                  her frame, like a sudden blast when it rushes through the boughs of a forest tree;
                  but it passed away, and, making almost a superhuman effort, she regained her
                  strength, and continued. "She—led—Ya-gee-wah—away—to—the—Jes
                  uit—mission—where—they—told—her—won derful—things—of the Great Spirit—His
                  son—and—their Holy Ghost*
                  —and—they—taught her—the sign—of—their faith.—But Ya-gee-wah—loved the
                  woods—she left—the—Jesuit missions—and after—the—leaves—had twice—fallen—the
                  Sun-cloud—was the—Sun-cloud—no more.—She—was like—the—wild bird—that—the
                  hunter—brings—down—with—his arrow—the—sign of—the Jesuit missions—and the—wounded
                  bird—are—there—there—there! Ya-gee-wah—made—them—them—made—them—there—there!" she
                  gasped; then, snatching her hands away from the lady's relaxed fingers, and gently
                  lifting the linen from the boy's chest, she saw the marks, that long years before
                  she had indelibly impressed on the smooth, pure skin of the infant she had stolen.
                  A cry of triumph burst from her whitening lips, and, springing to her feet, she
                  stood like a sibyl before Mrs. Willoughby, her long gray hair streaming in
                  elf-locks over her face, and her emaciated bosom heaving as wildly as if death
                  were tugging at every heart-chord. "He is thine!" she shrieked; "the—lips—that lie
                  not—tell thee—he—is thine. These—these," she cried, pointing to the bundle she had
                  laid at Mrs. Willoughby's feet when she first entered,
                  "these—Ya-gee-wah—stripped—them—off—the pale papoose—because he was—cold in
                  the—midnight forests. She wrapped—him—in furs. There—strip off—the wampum—they
                  are—all—there."
                     
                     *The way the Christian tribes beyond the Rocky Mountains speak of the HOLY
                        TRINITY.
                  
               "Merciful God!" exclaimed Mrs. Willoughby, almost overcome, "how I thank thee!
                  But—why—why—did you steal away my child? I never harmed ye!"
               "Ask him—him—from—whose mother's—womb ye both came —whose—mother's paps—ye—both—drew—the—stream—of
                  life—he—can—tell—ye."
               "Not my brother—my own brother!" exclaimed Mrs. Willoughby.
               "Jasper Shirley! before high Heaven I always thought he knew more of the matter
                  than any one else!" said Mr. Bedford.
               "Ay—ask—him! He—wanted—thine—inheritance!" she shrieked, falling heavily to the
                  floor. They thought her dead; but again upheaved the billow of life from her stern
                  and broken heart, and a low bitter laugh rang out from her lips; then an ashy hue
                  overspread her face, and the gleam of her eyes was shadowed over by a misty film.
                  In broken accents, she murmured softly the words of a prayer she had learned at
                  the Jesuit mission; her breathing became more gentle, and, turning her face
                  towards Mrs. Willoughby, she whispered, "Forgive!"
               "Truly art thou forgiven!" replied the lady, as she knelt over the dying daughter
                  of the forest, while her warm tears fell and mingled with the icy death-dews that
                  beaded her forehead.
               "Ya-gee-wah hears—the whistle of the blue-bird. The leaves
                  rustle—in—the—winds;—the wild-dove—broods—on her nest—among—the dogwood blossoms,"
                  she whispered, while a smile settled on the finely-moulded lineaments of her face,
                  softening away the harsh impressions of care and injury. The Algonquin woman
                  forgot her wrongs for a moment, as the Lethean billows of death laved her feet,
                  and pleasant memories threw an instant's sunshine around her freezing heart. "The
                  waves of—the—great lake—laugh in—the light—of the Great Spirit's eye—and the
                  shadow—of the—woods—hangs like a cloud on—the sunny tide.—Ha!—where is the—birchen
                  canoe? Where—is—the sunshine? Ya-gee-wah shivers—the snows fall—ugh!—ugh! Ha!" she
                  said, turning her sightless eyes from side to side. "A warrior—is going—on
                  the—wings of the—wind—with the setting sun—to the happy hunting-grounds—of the
                  West. Ya-gee-wah hears—the death-song—in the—hushed evening. What victim—bring in
                  the Pawnee Loups. Ha! ha! tie him to the stake—pile—high the
                  fagot—torture—tear—pierce his false heart with arrows—there—Ya-gee-wah is avenged!
                  Ya-gee-wah is——" and with these words of triumph, uttered in a piercing tone, her
                  injured spirit went forth on its wild, dark errand to eternity. Arthur Vernon,
                  startled from his deep slumbers by her shrieks, looked with a wondering glance on
                  the group; but, awed into silence by the terrible aspect of the dying woman, his
                  mother's tears, and the solemn expression of Mr. Bedford's face, who leaned over
                  them—the effect of all much heightened by the shadowy gloom that pervaded the
                  room—he spoke not nor moved; but every moment increased the curious interest he
                  felt in a scene so new and startling. Mrs. Willoughby soon discovered that he was
                  awake, and explained, in brief but touching language, what had at first appeared
                  to him so mysterious. Then he remembered the dreamy thoughts that had haunted him
                  for years, of a dark forest, and eyes so black and glittering that seemed never to
                  wink or sleep, but to watch him evermore, until he floated on the ocean billows, a
                  frail waif abandoned to the tender mercies of ruthless humanity. It was all clear
                  now, but the memory oppressed him; and, lifting his mother's hand to his lips, he
                  knelt a moment beside the motionless body of the Indian woman, and, pressing his
                  small crucifix to her marble lips, and then reverently to his own, in token of
                  perfect forgiveness, his lips moved as if in prayer, and in silence he arose, and
                  glided from the library.
               The next morning they consigned all that was mortal of the wronged Ya-gee-wah to
                  the bosom of her mother earth. Far down in the Woodreve forest, where the winds,
                  the birds, and the sound of the rushing waves made wild music together, they made
                  her grave; and although the hands that laid her in the mould, and the hearts that
                  sent forth a tear to hallow her memory, were those she had most wounded, all was
                  done as lovingly and kindly for the hapless wanderer as if she had, by a lifetime
                  of service, had strong demands on their gratitude.
               "What became of the parcel, Miriam?" inquired Mr. Bedford, a day or two after.
               "Here it is," replied Mrs. Willoughby, rising, and unlocking a drawer where it was
                  deposited. "This shawl was my mother's. The evening my child was missing, I had
                  thrown it over him, fearing the night air would give him cold; and here are the
                  little shoes, the rich dress it was my fancy to array him in; here they all are,
                  somewhat discolored by time, but uninjured. Every proof is convincing. There is
                  nothing wanting now to establish his claims as my son."
               "Nothing," replied Mr. Bedford, in a positive tone. "I remember this shawl well.
                  It was your mother's. Her father had it worked to order, in Cashmere,
                  for a bridal gift, when he anticipated her marriage with myself. See you not the
                  Nesselrode crest, worked in crimson and gold, in the corner of every
                  palm-leaf?"
               "I do not think I ever observed it before. But this shawl is a relic of
                  strangely-mingled memories. Relic of my grandsire's pride—relic of my gentle
                  mother, of my child, of my sufferings, and, last of all, the perfidy of my own
                  kin, and the tragic death of the victim of his avarice and passion," said Mrs.
                  Willoughby.
               
               "I have come to the conclusion, Miriam, that I am growing old, and more stupid
                  than old. Why did I treat Etha as I did? Why did I influence Henry De Vere to fly
                  off in a tangent to Belgium? And, last of all, why have I so long hesitated to
                  believe fully in the fact of Massoletti and Arthur Vernon being one and the same?
                  Merely because I am a stupid old woodcock," said Mr. Bedford, peevishly.
               "You were not a mother," said Mrs. Willoughby, smiling.
               "Pshaw! Where's Arthur? I want him."
               "With Edith in the music-room. Don't you hear them singing?"
               "Pshaw!" repeated Mr. Bedford. "Music, and painting, and praying! The boy'll be
                  good for naught—a perfect Jesse Jonquil. He shall read law."
               Mrs. Willoughby laughed at the Herculean idea of difficulty the effort presented
                  of making a lawyer of a genius, but did not interdict it, knowing full well how it
                  would end; and Mr. Bedford flounced out to seek his neophyte, but was so
                  enraptured with the melody of their exquisitely tuneful voices, chanting, in
                  solemn strains, one of Beethoven's cathedral hymns, that he sat down in a state of
                  happy forgetfulness to listen. The demon idea was charmed away from his heart, nor
                  ever returned.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               LETTER FROM BESSIE AUBRY TO HER BROTHER HENRY DE VERE.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "What a time since I wrote!—I'm a sad, naughty girl,
                           For though, like a tee-totum, I'm all in a whirl,
                           Yet e'en as you wittily say, a tee-totum,
                           Between all its twirls, gives a letter to note 'em!"
                        
                        
                           "Oh, what do you think, after all my romancing,
                           My visions of glory—my sighing, my glancing,
                           This colonel—I scarce can commit it to paper—
                           This colonel's no more than a vile linen-draper;
                           My brain's in a fever, my pulses beat quick,
                           I shall die—or at least be exceedingly sick."
                        
                     
                     FUDGE'S LETTERS FROM PARIS.
                  
               
               
                  IF your diplomatic talents, my dearest Henry, equal your assurance, you will
                     undoubtedly become a second Metternich. From this smart beginning, you
                     anticipate a scolding, doubtless, nor am I in the least humor to disappoint
                     you, be assured. To receive so brief an answer to a letter that cost me three
                     days of "piled-up agonies" to write, which you conclude with the very modest
                     request for me "to reply immediately, and give you a detailed account of
                     everything that has occurred since the date of my last," is an affront which I
                     am not likely to recover from very soon. Not a word of continental gossip—not a
                     foreign on dit—not a syllable about King
                     Leopold, or the gracious queen—the court, or the fashions, in return for my
                     effort extraordinary. You are the very strangest mortal, if mortal you be, that
                     ever lived. I should have gone off into the most delectable
                     ecstasies over a letter so crammed with news as mine. I thought my pathetic
                     description of the wedding, which turned out after all to be no wedding, would
                     move you to tears and eloquence, and in case that failed to
                     interest you, I certainly counted on my well told narrative of Mrs.
                     Willoughby's romantic discovery of her son, who by the by was a protégé of yours. But you, touched by
                     the ordinary affairs of mortals, indeed! I wonder now at my ever entertaining
                     so preposterous an idea. If I had written you word that some sooty engineer had
                     discovered, by practical observation, something of novel utility in the art of
                     mechanism, you would have favored me with an essay as long as my arm—but fie
                     upon you, Harry! I who would be a perfect Biddy Fudge, if I could once set my
                     foot on European soil—or at home either, if I had the least encouragement, to
                     have my talents so completely put down! Well! you will have to answer to
                     literature, if it is never enriched by my efforts! Mind! I throw the whole
                     responsibility on you! I hope you will not feel the least complimented by my
                     prompt compliance with your arbitrary request, for, on my honor, if I were not
                     absolutely bursting with news, which I must tell somebody—and
                     everybody here knows it—you should not have a scrip of my pen. Regard this
                     letter, then, my affectionate brother, as a kind of safety-valve. There! that
                        safety-valve idea has interested you, I could swear—so I'll
                     begin.
                  Miss Cicely Thorne is married, but not to Aubry's cousin Wyche! She is wedded
                     to an old, gouty ex-Congressman. She met him incidentally on one of her begging
                     excursions, in the parlor of a fashionable hotel, and on a hint that he was
                     single, rich, and gouty, she blandly introduced herself, with a prescription in
                     the name of humanity of course. He first fancied the prescription did him good,
                     and wanting a good nurse, and having a remote idea that Miss Cicely was
                     necessary to his comfort, he proposed, and was accepted, after his physician
                     had assured her the disease was rapidly progressing towards his stomach. Of course she is now compelled to
                     forego her never-ending charitable excursions and incursions, and is quite
                     devoted to her husband's toes and her future interests. You can't imagine what
                     a relief it is to society, his taking her for "better, for worse." Had I my
                     way, I'd vote him a civic crown. The next wedding that made a sensation was my
                     own! The wedding, my dear Harry, was commonplace enough. Aubry and I loved each
                     other, and met with not the least obstacle to our happiness, to give it a zest,
                     which you must own was very stupid. I had an elegant and fashionable trousseau—the diamonds which you sent, according to
                     promise, from that delightful belle Paris,
                     came safely to hand—my bridal dress and veil were magnifique—I had orange blossoms and all that sort of thing, and
                     a very crowded party after the ceremony, which was witnessed only by the family
                     and a few intimates. By the by, I might as well mention here that the exenvoy
                     who returned home on account of his health, and whose diplomatic office you
                     were sent out to fill, is dead. He forwarded me the diamonds per express from
                     New York—the next day I read his obituary in the "Herald."
                  People expected me to be sentimental when I was married; but I could not coax a
                     single tear from my eyes, which was very provoking, because it is quite the
                     fashion, let me tell you! Aubry tried to look dignified, but forgot all about
                     it after a while, and rattled and laughed and went on as usual. But the
                     funniest thing happened during the evening, which put an end to the
                     festivities, which I regretted, because I must say that I never saw people
                     enjoy themselves so heartily under our ultra-fashionable roof as they did that
                     night; but this en passant. You know that
                     Alice, poor thing! was engaged to Col. Forsyth—the military sprig of English
                     nobility, whom Fred introduced to us some months ago. They wished and expected
                     to be married the same evening we were, and mamma wished it too, because she
                     fancied it would give the whole affair more interesting éclat, but pa remonstrated and objected in his usual tame way,
                     until, finding that had no effect, he stormed and swore, "By
                     Rats," it should not be until he was fully satisfied that Col. Forsyth's claims
                     to the position and pretensions he assumed were true. Mamma was furious—Alice
                     fainted—and pa buttoned up his coat, banged his hat down over his eyes, and
                     marched off, looking as determined as human being could look. You know I never
                     liked Forsyth, and although I felt sorry for Alice, I could not help thinking
                     that pa had acted just as a prudent parent should act in such a
                     momentous affair. Now I will describe the event that threw us all into such
                     ridiculous consternation at the close of my bridal evening. Of course Col.
                     Forsyth was present, looking grand and silent as the sphinx, having eyes and
                     ears for no one but Alice, who really appeared to wonderful advantage in satin
                     and blonde, ensconced as usual among the crimson velvet cushions of her
                     favorite lounge. Aubry had mentioned in the
                     morning that he expected a friend from New York to be present at our nuptials;
                     hoped he would come, and all that; but with his usual carelessness forgot to
                     mention his name, which, I confess, I forgot to ask. But twelve o'clock struck,
                     and, as he did not appear, I concluded that something had occurred to detain
                     him, which afterwards proved to be the fact, and did not afterwards give him a
                     passing thought. It was nearly one o'clock, I suppose, when one of the footmen
                     handed. Aubry a card. He instantly left the room, whispering, as he passed me,
                     that his friend had arrived. I will describe the tableau at the moment. You remember that Alice's lounge stands in
                     the arched recess near the large double window in the front drawing-room, the
                     said window being ornamented by four—eight—twelve immense panes of rose-colored
                     glass—mamma's especial pride and glory. Alice, with the languid air of a
                     beautiful sultana, reclined on her cushions. I, as bride, was of course the
                     centre of the "goodlie companie," who crowded around me wherever I moved. The
                     bustle and throng affected Alice's nerves, and Col. Forsyth was in the act of
                     handing her an ice when Aubry entered with his friend, a quiet,
                     gentlemanly-looking personage, in a handsome military undress uniform, and was
                     just presenting him to me, when Col. Forsyth happened to turn his eyes, and see
                     him. He started, the ice fell over Alice's face; then with one bound he sprang
                     through the window, shivering every pane in his exit, and vanished to regions
                     unknown. What a hubbub! what a scene ensued, it would be impossible for
                        you to imagine, for, my dearest Harry, you have not imagination
                     enough to form the slightest conception of it. The shrieks of Alice, who went
                     off in the most outrageous hysterics—the rage of mamma—the panic and confusion
                     that seized all, baffle description. The only idea that presented itself to
                        me, to the exclusion of every other, was that the unfortunate
                     man had been seized with hydrophobia, and I asked Alice "if he had bitten her,"
                     but she renewed her screams so violently that they were compelled to remove her
                     to her own apartment. Amidst it all, I observed that Aubry's friend was the
                     only calm, self-possessed person present, and when the din had somewhat
                     subsided, he apologized in the handsomest manner to the company for "the uproar
                     he had so unintentionally caused at so interesting a time. He would not for the
                     world have shown himself that evening, could he have foreseen the
                        consequences sequences, but must
                     say that now he felt called on, by a duty, which he considered imperative, to
                     explain whatever seemed mysterious in the affair, as the denouement had occurred so unexpectedly and
                     publicly. He could have wished, for the sake of the respected parties
                     concerned, a more private explanation, but there was no alternative left." Here
                     Aubry introduced him as Colonel Forsyth of
                     the British army. The announcement of his name gave every one an inhaling of
                     the truth of the case. "The person," he then went on to say, "who made so
                     undignified an exit a few minutes ago, I am ashamed to say, was
                     formerly my valet. On my way to the United
                     States, via Canada, I was suddenly prostrated by extreme illness in Montreal,
                     where I was robbed of my papers and letters of credit by the ungrateful fellow,
                     who had been in my service some five or six years, and whose family were
                     retainers of my father's, living on his estate with extraordinary privileges,
                     owing altogether to his having been born in the same hour I myself saw the
                     light, and his mother being appointed to nurse me, my own mother being too
                     delicate to afford me the sweet cares of maternity. As my foster-brother, he
                     was educated with more than ordinary care; although he was too dull to improve
                     his advantages, but, associating constantly with the gentlemen's sons of the
                     neighborhood and myself, in our sports, he acquired a certain ease and
                     mannerism which will easily account for his successful débût in genteel society. As his delinquency only exposed me to a
                     little inconvenience, I determined not to pursue the matter by prosecution or
                     otherwise, until, some few weeks ago, I received a letter from Mr. Aubry,
                     inquiring 'if I had a relative of the same name and rank in the British army as
                     myself'—in short, desiring all the information I could give of such an
                     individual; as a 'Col. Forsyth had introduced himself into the best society in
                     the country, and was seeking an alliance with a lovely member of a highly
                     respectable American family; the marriage being only postponed until his
                     statements could be corroborated.' I felt a presentiment of the truth, but,
                     fearing I might be mistaken, was exceedingly cautious in my reply, and informed
                     my friend Mr. Aubry, to whom I am proud to acknowledge myself under deep
                     obligations for his kind attention and assistance during my illness at
                     Montreal, where he providentially was when I was taken, 'that I would see him
                     in a few days, when it would be in my power to give him a more decided and
                     satisfactory answer after I had seen the Colonel Forsyth referred to.' This was
                     followed by an invitation to his nuptials with one of the loveliest daughters
                     of America." Here was a handsome and well-turned compliment to me, and such a
                     graceful bow—I declare, Harry, that, although I never was considered
                        much of a beauty, I felt amazingly like one then. "We were
                     detained to-night," he went on, "by an accident that happened to some part of
                     the machinery of the steam-boat, an hour or two beyond the usual time of her
                     arrival. If my coming has caused a pang, and brought distress into this
                     respected family, I regret the necessary infliction, the disappointment, and
                     all that is disagreeable, connected with it; but beyond this, believe me, it is
                     better even thus than to have been irrevocably duped by a low, base adventurer.
                     Like the surgeon's probe, it may be hard to bear at the moment, but, if it
                     prevent ruin and disgrace, as well as misery, it is all well, it is more than
                     well, it is a Providence which should be blessed, even while it frowns."
                  "Sir," said pa, going up and offering his hand, "a father blesses
                     it and you! Come forward, Mrs. De Vere, and thank the deliverer of your
                     daughter." Mamma made a very stiff acknowledgment, I assure you, for she was
                     dreadfully mortified at the result of her manœuvring to marry her pet daughter
                     to the scion of a noble family. And the supposed fact of his being the scion of
                     a noble stock was his only recommendation—for a duller, more stupid, awkward
                     person I never met. As to me, when the excitement was over, and the people all
                     gone, I thought of the ludicrous appearance of the quasi colonel through the crashing window, until I thought I must
                     die with laughter. It was dreadful, but for the life of me I could not help it,
                     and right glad was I when the last guest departed, for then I yielded to the
                     inextinguishable laughter that half smothered me. I was decent enough, however,
                     to keep away from mamma and Alice—and Aubry had the grace to
                     commence scolding me, but ended by laughing more immoderately than did I. The
                     real Simon Pure, Colonel Glendower Forsyth, the second son of Lord Glendower,
                     as the British consul informed pa, is our frequent guest; and what will please
                     you with him is, that he has become much attached to pa, which mamma considers
                     very strange. Alice has quite recovered from her disappointment; in fact, my
                     dear Harry, it has given her such a rousing up that you would scarcely
                     recognize her for the same person; but no one dares, yet awhile, to mention her
                     flying lover to her. We refrain from the slightest allusion to him, to save her
                     feelings, for she was horribly cut by the affair; however, I expect ere long
                     she will herself make a jest of the last act of the drama. Alice is becoming
                     more sensible, I think, every day; she is more cheerful, and is fonder of my
                     society. She reads French novels yet; but of a different class from those she
                     has been in the habit of poring over; indeed, I was quite electrified, the
                     other day, to hear her break out in a spirited philippic against George Sands,
                     Paul de Kock, and Sue—once the idols
                     of her imagination. Colonel Forsyth begins to loiter beside her, and seems to
                     take great pleasure in directing her ideas and tastes; he walks with her,
                     drives with her, and occasionally they sing together—Alice, you know, has a
                     sweet voice—and has attended her to two concerts—all of which makes mamma very
                     gracious, while pa looks on with quiet satisfaction at the evident course
                     events are taking. The next event, my dear Harry, was this. Aubry, having no
                     near relations to oppose it, sold his Southern estates, and offered his slaves
                     their freedom, on condition that they emigrated to Liberia, where he would
                     provide amply for them during one year. Many acceded to his noble proposition,
                     but the rest chose to remain in his service. After consulting with pa, and your
                     old friend, Mr. Bedford, he invested his funds in mercantile affairs; which
                     having no practical knowledge of himself, he took into partnership Mr. Charles
                     Lacy, whose intimate acquaintance with such concerns, and highly honorable
                     character, Aubry and the rest consider capital sufficient to entitle him to a
                     full partnership. Pa says they are getting on famously. Another wedding
                     followed mine, productive of stranger events still. And can you imagine who the
                     parties are? Not if you guessed a thousand times, so I'll tell you, and try to
                     describe the events that ensued in real bookish fashion. Fred got dreadfully
                     involved with his debts of honor; he must have gambled enormously; and ended by
                     forging pa's name on a note for some thirty or forty thousand dollars; then ran
                     off to France with Sophy Tresham, after being married by a magistrate somewhere
                     in town. Pa was enraged beyond anything I ever saw, not so much at the loss of
                     the money, as by the ingratitude, the wickedness, and duplicity of his
                        first-born. It was a horrid act. All our united entreaties
                     failed to persuade him to avoid an exposure of the disgraceful act; but what he
                     refused us was granted to the mute eloquence of mamma's woe—her pale, dejected
                     countenance—her indifference to all around her—her heartwrung groans during a
                     weary night of agony, and a certain humility, which seemed to express a
                     consciousness of having brought—but no! I dare not raise my voice
                     reproachfully against her—prevailed, and pa acknowledged the draft. If mamma
                     had attempted to brave it out, no human power could have prevented an
                     exposure—but she was truly broken-hearted. Of course, my dear Harry, we
                        all feel deeply pained at poor Fred's dereliction—it was a
                     dreadful transaction—I know it will affect you keenly. There was
                     no earthly apology for the act—neither want, poverty, nor dire necessities
                     drove him to the desperate alternative; it was the effect of a misguided
                        mind—idleness—evil associations—and a depraved mind. May he
                     repent! Mrs. Tresham, a quiet, sensible woman, blamed Cicely Thorne—so does
                     mamma—for the whole thing, but hopes that the bitter lesson, which she knows
                     her daughter will be compelled to experience, will be productive of ultimate
                     good to her. She declares, however, that she will hold no communication with
                     them until a thorough reformation begins; in that case, she will support and
                     countenance them, and aid them in every way in their moral progress. I'm
                     afraid, though, it's a forlorn hope. Mamma sighs very often, my dear Harry,
                     then speaks of you in terms of affection and pride, wishes for your return, and
                     seems to comprehend all at once the whole of your excellent character. She will
                     not allow us to mention Fred's name where she is; indeed, we feel no
                     disposition to speak of him at any time. Ere long, mamma had another great
                     trial. For some weeks past, pa has been insisting on our leaving Chiswicke
                     Square for a more quiet part of the town, where our old homestead is located.
                     But this mamma most determinately opposed; but I saw that, eventually, he would
                     carry his point. I must tell you that pa don't take things as meekly as he used
                     to; he has defined his position in the family, and, I must own, we all respect
                     him the more for it. Somehow we have become great friends, and, indeed, my dear
                     Harry, I am only surprised at my long estrangement from him, for certainly he
                     has the very best heart in the world. At last the subject of removal was
                     dropped, as we thought entirely; but no such thing! it was renewed in a way
                     quite astounding to us all, and productive of an instant compliance on mamma's
                     part with pa's wishes.
                  One morning we were all together in the drawing-room, conversing about various
                     matters, when pa very unexpectedly entered, accompanied by a sun-burnt
                     sea-faring man, apparently a few years older than himself, whom he introduced
                     by the most uncommon and ridiculous name of Dobbler—Captain
                     Dobbler! Mamma drew herself up, Alice unscrewed the gold stopper of her
                     smelling-bottle, and I waited with some curiosity for the result. The man sat
                     down, and, placing his glazed hat between his knees, took out an immense Madras
                     handkerchief and wiped his face; then deliberately opened a little square black
                     box, crammed with tobacco, picked therefrom a quid, which he stuffed with the
                     greatest nonchalance into his cheek. I glanced around, and could scarcely
                     forbear shrieking with laughter at the looks I saw. It is my besetting sin,
                     dear Harry, this keen sense of the ridiculous, and I cannot help it; however,
                     on this occasion, I suppressed a giggle as well as I could, and holding a book
                     over the lower part of my face, looked as demure as possible, for I saw from
                     pa's countenance that something portentous was lowering.
                  
                  "Mr. De Vere," observed mamma, impatiently, "will you have refreshments set out
                     in the dining-room for your guest?"
                  "Not at all. I be'n't a bit hungry," interposed Captain Dobbler. "I never
                     sailed into a strange port yet for purvisions when my own ship's locker was
                     full."
                  "What does he mean, De Vere?" asked mamma, highly offended by his
                     familiarity.
                  "No offence, marm; no offence. I only wanted you to understand that you've
                     missed stays intirely," he observed.
                  "You are taking unusual liberties, sir, with me. You are, however, quite
                     mistaken. I am a perfect stranger to that article of dress. I wish you to
                     understand I never saw a pair of stays. De Vere, I beg that you will inform me
                     what this man's business is," exclaimed mamma, reddening up, for you know she
                     can't bear the least allusion to the means she resorts to to conceal her
                     exuberance of flesh.
                  "Listen, Peggy, and I'll tell thee," said my father, gravely. "There are none
                     present-now but our own flesh and blood, and I'll tell thee; not to pain thee,
                     wife, or wound or mortify thee, but in the hope that it will lead thee back,
                     with thy old husband, to scenes of early content and peace. Thou dost remember
                     well our early days. Thou wert a dependent, Peggy, when I first knew thee, on
                     an honest, kind-hearted old woman named Jeanette, who is now in the county
                     almshouse. Had she not taken thee, it would have been
                        thy home, wife. Thou dost remember that then I was a poor
                     calker lad in the shipyard, known to my employers and associates as 'honest
                     Jack Divers,' thank God; and how I fell in love with thy bright eyes, Peggy,
                     and persuaded thee to run off with me and get married? I was poor, wife, very
                     poor then. But, presently, gold began to pour in. The poor calker lad became a
                     rich merchant. Thou dost remember?"
                  At first, mamma's indignation threatened to interrupt him in no gentle manner.
                     Twice she made an effort to rise, for the purpose of leaving the room; but pa
                     laid his hand on her arm, and, looking her full in the face, her eyes quailed,
                     then filled with tears, and with a hysteric sob she leaned back on the cushions
                     of her chair. There was a short silence, which was interrupted by mamma, who,
                     pointing to the stranger, asked, "Why is he here? Take him
                     away."
                  "No, Peggy, that may not be. Anon, wife, anon I will tell thee all. Thou hadst
                     a father, Peggy; and a sister, many years older than thyself. Mayhap thou dost
                     not remember either; for they went westward, leaving thee, quite a little
                     child, in the care of thy uncle's wife. That uncle was a sailor, and I remember
                     him well. He went away, soon after, on a whaling voyage. He was gone three long
                     years, and when he got back his wife was dead. When she died, old Janet, the
                     woman I spoke of before, out of pure charity, took thee, fed thee, clothed
                     thee, and protected thee from harm, until thou didst forsake her for the calker
                     lad. When thy uncle, the sailor, came back from the perils of the sea, and
                     found only a grave where he expected to find a living, loving wife, he fled
                     again, roved off to foreign parts, and naught was heard from him until news
                     came that his ship had been wrecked, and all had perished in the deep sea. Not
                     long after, thy father and sister came wandering back from the wilds of the
                     West, he a poverty-stricken, broken-hearted old man; she a widowed woman,
                     weighed down by hardships and premature age. They sought thee in vain. None
                     could tell them whither we had gone. So, wife, for years the widowed daughter
                     eked out a poor living for them both by her needle. At last thy father began to
                     dote. He lost the recollection of everything save thee, wife—the young child,
                     so unaccountably lost to him—his little Maggie."
                  "Ha! My God! De Vere! Why torture me with such fabrications? Here, Bessie, help
                     me to my room," said mamma, in great agitation.
                  "Presently, Peggy; presently, wife. By and by, when the widow's heart was
                     wellnigh broken with her struggles, and the doting old man tottering over his
                     grave, in the very weakness of poverty and age, and no hope was left to them
                     but the hope of heaven, the sailor whom we all thought dead suddenly appeared,
                     sent, doubtless, by the Lord God for their consolation. That is he—Will
                     Dobbler—thy uncle—"
                  "That man? That coarse, vulgar person? I will not believe it,"
                     cried mamma, passionately.
                  "We have proof, Peggy, natural and legal proof of the fact, else he would not
                     be here now. Besides, dost thou remember a Mrs. Hewlitt, who was employed in
                     the winter to make up some useless articles of finery for our daughters?—how
                     thou didst pinch, and screw, and contend, to wrest a few cents from her honest
                     labor? Methinks so. Thou didst also see, Peggy, a decrepit old man wandering
                     about her poor home. These were thy father and sister."
                  "It is a vile fabrication to extort money. I don't believe it. You are all
                     leagued against me—husband, children, and all. Such low relations as you have
                     described I will never acknowledge. Never! Never! Even if an angel came down
                     from heaven to confirm all you say," shrieked mamma.
                  
                  "We are honest folk, madam; no need to be ashamed," said Captain Dobbler.
                  "Give them money, De Vere, and be rid of them. I could not survive such a
                     connection being known," exclaimed mamma.
                  "Money!" cried the sailor, rising in high indignation, and almost putting the
                     fire out by a copious jet of tobacco juice, which he sent from his lips in the
                     most astonishing way. "Money! Not while Will Dobbler's livin'; he didn't go to
                     the Injies to come back a beggar, by crackee. There be some things in this
                     world as has hearts, a ship amongst'em; but there be others as has gizzards
                     only, by dad. Money! The devil!" Here, my dear Harry, I must record another
                     smothered laugh.
                  "What will the world say?" screamed mamma, wringing her hands. "I
                     shall die—I am suffocating."
                  "With pride, and passion, and unnatural feelings, Peggy. So much for all that
                     thy idol, the world, has taught thee. But I tell thee now, once
                     for all, thou must break either with it or me. It has had my gray head and
                     foolish old heart under its harrow long enough, 'by rats,' and I'll bear it no
                     longer. If thou art unnatural enough to be ashamed of thy own kith and kin,
                        I am not. Here, Will Dobbler—my hand on it, man, adopt
                        me. I'm proud to belong to ye! Peggy, wife, I am in earnest
                     now. This day, I rented this house to a celebrated manufacturer of quack
                     medicines; next week, we retire to the old homestead. If it pleases thee to go
                     with us, well; if not, thou canst go to thy profligate son; and Heaven support
                     thee, woman, when the world knows all, as it shall
                     know, by rats. Thou hast pinned thy soul and salvation, I verily believe, on
                     its fiat; may it prove no broken reed to thee!"
                  "I have not time, dear Harry, to tell you anything more of this remarkable
                     interview. In my next I may, perchance, spin it out to its full extent. Suffice
                     it to say that pa gained his point, as I predicted; and mamma has been with him
                     to see her sister and father; but the poor old man was breathing his last when
                     she got there, and did not know who she was. She was quite surprised to find
                     them handsomely fixed, and surrounded not only by comforts, but luxuries, in a
                     beautiful cottage ornée, which is situated on
                     a picturesque hill a few miles out, and commands a fine view of the bay and
                     shipping. Of course she became more reconciled immediately to the necessity of
                     the thing, and behaved with more cordiality to my aunt Rachel than might have
                     been expected from her previous repugnance to acknowledge the connection.
                  And we are so delightfully situated in the old homestead, Harry. The broad
                     old-fashioned hall, with spacious parlors, and chambers on each side, the easy
                     winding stairs, the delightful flower-garden at the side, with the sundial in
                     the midst—do you remember it, Hal?—are perfectly charming. Then the drapery in
                     the rear. It is filled with the most luscious-looking clusters of white and
                     purple grapes you ever beheld. Oh, I wish you were with us!
                  Mamma goes a great deal to church now, and is accused by her fashionable
                     friends of being a devotee; at any rate, it is the only way they can account
                     for our removal from Chiswicke Square. At first they stood off amazingly; but,
                     as soon as it was ascertained that pa had not failed, as was
                     suspected by the world, they resumed their old way. As Mrs. Aubry, I assure
                     you, I might be quite the fashion, but I am really so
                     happy, dear Hal, and everything is so much more genuine and
                     cheerful than it was formerly, and we are so united among ourselves, that,
                     except the society of a few intelligent and beloved friends, Mrs.
                     Tresham among the number, I have lost all relish for the commonplace "five
                     hundred," and the various fashionalities I used to
                        try so hard to enjoy. We even have our meals now at sensible
                     hours, and, my dearest Harry, for the first time within my recollection, pa
                     sits at the foot of his own table; he really eats with us, and drinks his
                     flagon of ale every day, without even a passing frown from mamma. That ale,
                     however, is in barbarous taste, it is so horribly bitter; I wish from my heart
                     he'd take sherry or port. Captain Dobbler, our uncle Will—he
                        is our uncle beyond doubt—often dines with us on Sundays.
                     Mamma's sister comes but seldom. We all regret it, for she is such a quiet,
                     patient, loving soul, that we have become truly attached to her. But now I
                     shall be compelled to stop. Aubry has just come in, and is amusing himself by
                     teasing me in an infinity of ways to make me lay aside my writing, to listen to
                     some ridiculous story he's come home with about his cousin Wyche. I had almost
                     forgotten to ask you the meaning of a report which has reached us of some
                     romantic affair you've had with an opera dancer; and if it is true that you are
                     in high favor with the daughter of a Baron—somebody—I can't think of these
                     Dutch names for my life. Be sure and tell me the truth when you write. Mrs.
                     Willoughby, her son Arthur Vernon, and Miss Willoughby sailed last week for
                     Europe. Possibly you may see them; but I do not know what their summer route
                     will be; I only know they will winter in southern Europe, for the benefit of
                     young Vernon's health, which is extremely delicate. Everybody's love to
                     yourself, and my respectful homage to the king and queen, whom I am dying to
                     see. Consider yourself courtseyed to, and kissed by your ever affectionate
                     sister,
                  
                     BESSIE AUBRY.
                  
               
               
                  
                  P. S.—In glancing over my letter, dear Hal, I perceive I have left you in a
                     mist about one thing, which, being an integral part of my narrative, should not
                     be omitted. But you must know that Aubry came in just at the moment I intended
                     to explain to you, in regular order, how papa and Captain Dobbler found each
                     other out, and rattled so much droll talk about my ears that I entirely forgot
                     it.
                  You know all about the change which was made in our name, when we were very
                     young children, from the vulgar and undistinguished cognomen of Divers, to the
                     noble and elegant one of De Vere? It seemed a little ridiculous, I confess;
                     rather as if we were ashamed of the old trade name; but then it
                     was a mere matter of taste, and you know it is an important fact in the science
                     of jurisprudence that "possession is nine points of the law;" ergo, the name
                     was our own, and we had a right to do as we pleased with it; so, following the
                     fashion of this progressive age, we only improved it highly. But this change of
                     name has led to not a few contretemps in our
                     history. For example: Old Paul (our grandfather), and poor Rachel Hewlett (our
                     aunt), did not for once imagine that the rich and haughty Mrs. De Vere, who
                     paid a mere pittance for costly work, done at the expense of aching eyes, weary
                     fingers, throbbing head, and sinking heart, was the daughter of one and the
                     sister of the other. Oh, no! But if plain Mrs. Divers, Mrs. Margaret Divers,
                     had been announced in that cold, desolate room, they would have known, at once,
                     all they wished to know on earth, and heads or hearts need have ached no more.
                     Oh, Harry! Harry! I am startled by my own conclusions. This thing, which but
                     just now I considered a mere folly that could harm no living thing, has been
                     magnified by its consequences into a heinous sin.
                  But I'll go on. I am a poor moralist, and am afraid I never repent of follies
                     until it is too late. My dear Hal, I will describe the recognition between papa
                     and Captain Dobbler, as if I had been third person present; for I got it from
                     papa by little scraps at a time, and in such a sort as I could not do justice
                     to. I'll try, however, and preserve the spirit and style of the two worthies.
                     Last week, papa went, as usual, to the Exchange; and after hearing all the
                     commercial, banking, and marine affairs of the day discussed, he settled
                     himself in his old corner, adjusted his spectacles, and began to pore over the
                     leaden columns of the ——, which contained political speeches, and all that sort
                     of thing, that I consider immensely stupid. Soon after, a seafaring man came
                     in, and taking down a file of very old papers, placed them on a table near
                     papa, and was soon lost in studying their contents. After examining every
                     column and advertisement, he flung them from him, and, thumping the table with
                     his brawny fist, exclaimed, "His v'yage is up. Poor fellow! Poor Jack! It's no
                     use to be hauling over any more charts. I've clean lost the latitude
                        and the longitude. Poor Maggie! Poor Divers!" Much astonished
                     at hearing his own name made the subject of such a lamentation, papa laid down
                     his paper and looked intently at the man, who, with his chin resting on his
                     hand, now sat motionless, his eyes downcast, and an expression of perplexity,
                     grief, and deep thoughtfulness on his face.
                  "Did I understand you to say Divers, just now, friend?" asked
                     papa.
                  "Holloa, there! I thought I had the poop-deck to myself. Lord! Lord! a desolate
                     island, with only the waves of the sea in sight, is nothing compared to coming
                     into port, after a long cruise, and finding yourself alone—everybody dead, or
                     wrecked, or blown off their course intirely," he said, in a husky
                     voice, as he arose and buttoned his shaggy pilot-cloth overcoat up to his
                     chin.
                  "Yes," said papa, whose feelings were strangely interested, "the loneliness
                     which sometimes overtakes the old amidst thousands of their kind is truly a
                     dreary solitude. But for whom do you seek, friend? I am an old resident of this
                     city. Possibly I can assist you."
                  A gleam of hope brightened up the brown face, and chased away, for a moment,
                     the despondent expression from his eyes; but he shook his head, and, grasping
                     papa's hand, replied, "It's no use, I'm afeard, shipmate—no use. I've
                     overhauled them logs thar, and inspected all the deaths and marriages, but
                     found nothing. Howsomever, I'll answer your signals. I'm a weather-beaten old
                     sea-dog, and it's been a many years, by my log, since I hailed this 'ere port.
                        In course, all ain't like it used to be. Old age has changed
                     some; and some as used to welcome me to port, with eyes as bright as the
                     lighthouse lamp, is laid up in their death-hammocks, and the rest is scattered
                     here, there, and the Lord only knows where. But look'ee, shipmate, it's a long
                     yarn, and I've got a choking in my lubberly old heart as won't let me spin it
                     out if I would; howsomever, I'll just ax one question. Thar was a lad about
                     these parts once by name of Jack Divers. He married my niece Maggie. I'd give
                     heaps of gold to discover their latitude—"
                  "Are you Peggie's uncle?" cried papa, starting up.
                  "Not Peggy's, but Maggie's. My name's Dobbler. Her father was my brother;
                        in course she's my niece. She married a taut merry lark by name
                     of Divers. He was a calker by trade," said Captain Dobbler, slowly and
                     gravely.
                  
                  "Ahem! Did you know Divers?"
                  "Not since he was a lad."
                  "Would you know him again?"
                  "Let me see. If he's living, he's old and wrinkled and white-haired. But hold
                     on thar—I remember—yes, I remember a scar he carried on his left wrist. He got
                     it from a fall he had off a scaffolding, and, as he fell, he struck his wrist
                     on an old anchor."
                  "It was one of the anchors of the Macedonian, I believe," said pa.
                  "Ship ahoy!—the devil! Who are you?" exclaimed Captain Dobbler.
                  "Look here," said papa, baring his wrist, "did you ever see that before?"
                  "Did I ever see the pints of the compass in a squall? Surely the signal must be
                     true! Who are you?" he asked, and the rough old sailor trembled like a weak
                     child.
                  "I am, by the grace of God, Jack Divers still, old friend, the husband of your
                     niece Maggie, or Margaret, or Peggy, as I sometimes call her; and also, by the
                     will of the world, the flesh, and the devil, John De Vere, at your service,"
                     cried papa, grasping his hands, and shaking them cordially. "You are
                     welcome—thrice—three times three, welcome, old fellow!"
                  "And my niece—Maggie—" faltered the other.
                  "Oh, ahem! she's living and well. I am a rich man, Dobbler, and Maggie has her
                     coach and her liveried servants, her silks, and velvets, and plumes, and high
                     living and grand doings. Well-a-day! all womankind are alike."
                  "Poor Paul! Poor Paul! Poor Rache!" muttered the sailor.
                  "Who?" asked papa.
                  "Her father and sister. They thought she was dead."
                  And then followed the revelations of long years. Pa was much shocked when he
                     heard all; but in that hour he regained his sturdy independence of character,
                     as he proved, in the most unquestionable manner, the next day, at the interview
                     between mamma, Captain Dobbler, and himself.
                  Now, dear Hal, 'tis past one o'clock. Aubry has been asleep three hours; and
                     oh! my dearest Harry, I declare I am perfectly miserable, for I never
                     discovered until to-night that the wretch—snores. Good-night. Don't forget
                     those Beguine flowers. I want them for an old
                     India vase, for which Aubry paid ninety dollars. It is the sweetest thing;
                     covered with green snakes, big roses, tadpoles, and June-bugs or roaches, I
                     don't know which, and butterflies.
                  
                     I am nodding my adieu,
                     BESSIE.
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               SHOWING HOW LIFE'S PILGRIMS MEET, AND PART.
               THE whole world seemed to be thronging into Brussels. It was the eve of the annual
                  celebration of the glorious "three days," which had resulted in the expulsion of
                  the hated Nassaus, and given independence and a sovereign of their own choice to
                  the brave Belges. Every street was crowded with
                  gay pedestrians, laughing and talking, as they good-naturedly jostled each other,
                  about the festival of the morrow. Of the various
                  groups that hurried along, some discussed the musical programme—some the composers of the past and present age—others
                  talked of painting, some of philosophy, some of science; while not unfrequent
                  gibes concerning the inglorious retreat of their Dutch masters produced hearty
                  roars of laughter from the masse, whenever the
                     bonmots were heard. Caps and blouses were the
                  significant uniform of the evening, and whenever a personage appeared who, by his
                  pen or physical courage, had borne a prominent part in their deliverance from
                  oppression and misrule, prolonged vivats greeted
                  him. The everlasting meerschaum rolled up clouds of incense from innumerable
                  mouths, and military bands, on their way to the Grand Park, made the welkin ring
                  with their patriotic, stirring strains. Well-dressed women and fair-haired
                  children, laden with bouquets of early spring flowers, wound their way pleasantly
                  through the crowd, and as they passed, hats touched the ground, and caps which
                  formerly had to be stricken off by the baton of
                  a marshal, when royalty, for which they felt no leal sympathies, drove in regal
                  state through their midst, swept the dust whenever the veils of the fair
                  pedestrians revealed familiar faces. Not the least interesting features of the
                  scene were the Beguines; their hands folded and
                  completely concealed by the voluminous folds of their serge sleeves, and their
                  eyes cast down as they hurried to and fro on their missions of charity and
                  religion. Vehicles of every description, from the lumbering baronial coach, with
                  the insignia of a hundred quarterings on its panels, to the light market-wagon of
                  the flower-decked peasants, and the broad-wheeled car from the Rhine country,
                  rolled on in seemingly endless processions, emptying their living loads at the
                  portals of hotels and more humble hostelries, until a looker-on might well wonder
                  where in all Brussels sels could be
                  found lodging-places for such an innumerable company. And over all was the golden
                  glory of an unclouded sunset. Before the portals of the Hôtel de Français, Mynheer Schartzenhretzen, the landlord, stood
                  executing his most courtly bows, until his face purpled with lurid threatenings of
                  apoplexy, while he welcomed, with well-turned compliments, a party of English or
                  American travellers to his house—who had secured with him an idea of their
                  consequence by sending on a courier two days in advance, to secure a suite of
                  apartments for their use. Two ladies and two gentlemen composed the party. The
                  ladies were so muffled in their veils that it was impossible to tell whether they
                  were young or old, handsome or ugly. Only one fact could be ascertained—they were
                  tall and exquisitely formed, and had the feet and graceful step of Andalusians. Of
                  the gentlemen, one was old, very old, judging from the snowy whiteness of his
                  hair; but if one only noted the vivacity of his eyes, and the elasticity of his
                  movements, he would have felt that his real age was a problematical question. His
                  companion was wrapped in a large furred cloak, and the only portion of his face
                  that was visible beneath his travelling cap was pale and languid. His step was
                  slow and feeble, as, leaning on the arm of the elder gentleman, he proceeded, with
                  frequent pauses, up the broad flight of stairs leading into the hotel. He was an
                  invalid, it was plain, on his way possibly to some of the famous German spas; or
                  the brunnen of Langen Schwalbach, which just at that period was considered of
                  little less importance to health than the waters of life and eternal youth would
                  be to mankind, if they could only be discovered. A few waves of bright golden hair
                  escaped from beneath his cap over the large velvet collar of his cloak. He was an
                  object of great and tender solicitude to the whole party. Preceded by their
                  obsequious host, they had nearly reached the apartments that had been engaged for
                  them when a major-domo, pale and agitated,
                  intercepted their progress, by informing Mynheer Schartzenhretzen, that the "sick
                  gentleman from Aix-le-Chapelle, Monsieur Anglais, had by mistake been taken into
                  the smallest of the suite of rooms engaged for milords and the
                  doctor, and one of the madams from the Beguinage
                  declared it would be murder to remove him."
               "La Diable! ten thousand heads! But he must go! my house will be ruined! To have a
                  dying man in it at such a time, with a disease which is probably infectious! Order
                  them at once to convey him to the hospital," exclaimed mynheer, in French, which
                  is the popular language in Brussels.
               "No!" said one of the ladies, "we will not be a party to such inhuman proceedings,
                  monsieur. The sick person must not, and shall not be disturbed on our account. We
                  can get on very well; one room less is of very little importance to
                  travellers."
               "Madam is very humane—very charitable; but, madam, consider; the character of my
                  house will suffer—the dread of infection will drive every living soul from it. I
                  shall be entirely ruined—by a stranger, too, whom nobody knows; who travels
                  without a valet or baggage—on the top of a common diligence, and wears clothes
                  that a Jew would not buy," exclaimed the host, bowing in agony.
               "The greater reason exists, then, monsieur, for us to aid him," observed the lady
                  in a calm, commanding tone. "He is a stranger in a strange land, maybe dying! He
                  must not be removed. We know not who he is, but your interests shall not suffer by
                  allowing him to remain; we will be responsible for any expenses he may incur. Now
                  show us on, if you please." Just then, one of the half-veiled Beguines glided from a door at no great distance, and
                  was going past them, when some remark in English, which was made by the elder
                  gentleman of the party relative to the sick stranger, arrested her attention. She
                  lifted her meek eyes to his—paused an instant as if she would speak—then looked
                  down again as if her heart had failed her. The gentlemen bared their heads with
                  profound respect, and the ladies drew a little aside, to allow her to pass, when
                  she suddenly addressed them in a peculiarly sweet tone of voice, and inquired "if
                  there were any English among them."
               "We are Americans, lady! Can we be of service?" inquired the elder gentleman.
               "Great service, monsieur," she replied quickly; "in yonder room, almost in the
                  last agonies of death and remorse, lies a poor stranger penitent. He is evidently
                  without means, and without friends. He is your countryman! Will you not see
                  him?"
               "Mother! I will go, madam—pray do not object—I really feel much better," said the
                  invalid stripling eagerly; while his face flushed crimson, either with the
                  exertion, or the divine wish to do good.
               "Not this evening, my beloved child," replied the lady, "tomorrow you will be
                  stronger; it would only agitate your delicate frame now to witness a scene of
                  suffering. Our friend and I will see him immediately and minister promptly to his
                  wants."
               "May the Lord God deal gently with him!" murmured the stripling; "may the consoler
                  of the afflicted support him!"
               "I will show madam and monsieur the room—I have another errand to do ere night!"
                  remarked the Beguine, intent on her mission of charity. They followed her,
                  and entered noiselessly the stranger's room.
               "She's at the very root of the matter; they'd squeeze charity out of a sponge,
                  these Beguines, and there's no help; they come
                  begging in the name of the divine God, and who dare refuse them?" muttered
                  Mynheer, as, half ashamed of his conduct, he pioneered the invalid and his female
                  companion along. "Here, she comes by this evening just as the diligence stops—the
                  man faints—she orders my servants to pick him up and carry him in—they dare not
                  refuse, for they make people believe they minister to the holy Jesus himself, when
                  they do good to the poor. So—these people, though, who gave up their room whether
                  or no to him, must be of the right sort, or they'd have bolted in a huff! Well—I
                  won't overcharge them! ten thousand! no! I'll give half his expenses
                  in—and—excellent idea! let it go in on the score of my almsgiving. That is killing
                  two birds with one stone, by St. Ursula! Here, my lord! enter! These are the very
                  finest rooms in all Brussels! They command a view of the grandest church in the
                  city; from the windows you will see the procession to-morrow, and the royal family
                  go by to the cathedral, in great state, to sing the Te
                     Deum with the people, and assist at the grand high mass! It will be
                  very fine! Enter!" said the host, ushering them in with an air which seemed to
                  defy the least criticism on his handsome arrangements. Here we will leave them,
                  and proceed through various thoroughfares, down, across the antique, massive
                  bridge, into the old Spanish quarter of the town. Here there were shadow and
                  quiet, and in the moonlight the quaint old houses, gray with age and grim with
                  time, like the wornout grandees of an ancien
                     régime, looked as if they were standing proudly aloof, with dignified
                  contempt, from the gay modern innovations which were hemming them in on every
                  side. They were relics of a prouder and perchance a better age, and looked as if
                  they could not forget it, if man did. But we must not pause now to moralize about
                  the old Spanish houses of Brussels, but enter a fortress-like gateway, iron
                  studded and arched, which opens on a broad dim court, leading into one of them. In
                  former days it had been the abode of the immortal Vandyke. There he had given some
                  of the brightest visions of his ideal and almost breathing glory of life and form;
                  and within those walls the magnificent Rubens, surrounded by every appliance of
                  luxury that a highly refined taste with its thousand creative wants could suggest,
                  made his canvas glow with life's most poetic loveliness, and held a court of
                  genius where royalty itself felt honored to worship. For these associations, and
                  its quiet location, it had been chosen by the American envoy for his residence.
                  But his life was far from being solitary, or as isolated as such a choice seemed
                  to indicate. His intelligence and genius, the dignity and suavity of his manners,
                  attracted around him a circle of the choice spirits of the time. But these causes
                  alone did not endear him to the brave Belges. It
                  was his earnest and expressive sympathy with their determined and progressive
                  independence, his eloquent but silent attention to the graphic accounts of their
                  revolution, when his eyes and lips kindled with more than words could speak. The
                  same high qualities which had won the distinguished post he now occupied,
                  commanded for Henry De Vere abroad the admiration of all. From Leopold he received
                  peculiar marks of friendship, not in his official character, of course, but
                  reciprocities of amenity and confidence that one private gentleman could bestow on
                  another. It was his majesty's pleasure to receive him at certain times sans cérémonie, when he listened with profound
                  interest to the wonderful accounts of the developments and inexhaustible resources
                  of the grand confederacy of North America, of the native talents of its sons, of
                  the abilities and eloquence of its statesmen, the equity of its laws, and the
                  responsibility of its legislatures to the sovereign people who elected them! It
                  was a subject of all others the best calculated to call forth the highest toned
                  sentiments of his gifted mind; his amor patræ
                  kindled up into eloquent beauty the most common topics connected with that
                  country's honor and interests.
               His popularity so unsought, the homage paid to his talents, the smiles and
                  flattering attention of the fairest women of the court and society, were enough to
                  have turned a wiser head and more experienced heart than his. But no! there was
                  one memory that clung to him—one hope, one anxious yearning thought which, as a
                  centre of authority, held every other emotion in steady obedience; and this
                  thought, this memory, this hope was of the dark-eyed maiden of Woodreve Manor.
               He sat alone in his quiet sanctum, so moody and abstracted that the sound of the
                  distant music which mingled with the joyous din of the voices of thousands who
                  thronged the streets of Brussels, floated around him unnoticed. The solitary lamp
                  was shaded, and the moon-light, still and pure, poured its glistening flood
                  through the narrow grated windows and lay in silvery ripples along the marble
                  floor. The shaded lamp and the moonlight combined, threw a fine clare-oscura through the lofty apartment. The
                  wainscoting was black and polished with age, and from the carved foliage of the
                  cornices, grotesque Cupids and grinning satyrs, half hidden by broad leaves and
                  clustering grapes, looked down in elfin mockery. A few fine pictures relieved the
                  gloom of the walls, and a large vase of
                  flowers stood on the tiled hearth, dispensing delicious odors through the shadowy
                  room. The story of the "Prodigal Son" was skilfully illustrated on the porcelain
                  tiles of the mantel, but by the uncertain light only faint outlines could be
                  discerned. A few Persian mats relieved the marble floor of its otherwise
                  comfortless aspect, and chairs, massive black and perpendicular, were ranged in
                  regular files, along the walls on each side like petrified grenadiers. The table
                  occupying the centre of the apartment was of a piece with the rest of the
                  furniture. It was strewed with papers, maps, and drawing materials; but these were
                  pushed aside as if from over weariness, and De Vere, with his elbow leaning on it,
                  and his face half shaded by his hand, sat yielding to an abandon of retrospective thought which made the hours pass away
                  unheeded.
               Once only did words escape his lips—words which seemed, like drops, to overflow
                  the full chalice of his heart unbidden. "Unwedded! Edith free and unwedded, and I
                  chained by cold but important duties to my post!" But the thought that she
                     was free, and the hope that she might yet be his, calmed the
                  regrets stirred up by the thoughts of absence, and a serenity which almost burst
                  into a smile settled on his face.
               "Monsieur de Vere," said a middle-aged gentleman, cautiously picking his way
                  through the room. "Ha! I've had my race for naught. He's gone."
               "Most excellent councillor Von Pappheim, I am your debtor a thousand times for
                  this honor," exclaimed De Vere, starting up, and removing the dark shade from the
                  lamp to afford his visitor more light. "Pray be seated."
               "No, monsieur, excuse me. I have no time. I popped into a dozen places to-night,
                  expecting to find thee, and everywhere it was, 'Councillor, where is Mons. De
                  Vere?' until I really fancied myself thy keeper, and responsible for thy
                  appearance forthwith; so, to save myself, I determined to come to head-quarters at
                  once. I promised everybody to bring thee back. Come, thou."*
                  
               
                  
                  *Thee and thou—terms of familiar endearment in many places on
                     the Continent.
               
               "Shall I make a frank confession, Monsieur Von Pappheim?" replied De Vere,
                  laughing at the earnestness of the other. "I feel it due to myself to do so, or
                  else I may be charged with the affectation of being an ennuyé."
               "Confess, monsieur. But I must be equally frank. Whatever may be thy confession,
                  thy penance is predestined. Thou art to go instantly with me to the Théâtre Royale, where their majesties are; where all
                  the beauties, foreign and native, will greet thee with smiles; where Celeste is
                  making the divinest entrechats, and Catalani
                  condescends to rival the songs of an angel. Come."
               "Pardon me, most excellent, if I decline the penance. I have letters from home
                  which demand immediate notice."
               "So. If official business is on hand, I must begone without thee; but I shall
                  certainly be pelted with fans and vinaigrettes, and mobbed by velvets, plumes, and
                  satins, if I return alone. I will not venture on it. No. I will retire quietly
                  home, monsieur, court a divine afflatus, and finish my treatise on mesmeric
                  influences," said the councillor, in a serio-comic tone.
               "Not precisely official, monsieur—"
               "Come, then."
               "But of the first importance."
               "J'ai l'honneur de vous saluer," said the
                  councillor, who, bolting out in haste, found himself in the midst of a laughing
                  group of the most distinguished young citizens of Brussels, to all of whom he was
                  well known.
               "The excellent councillor," cried the foremost. "Is Monsieur l'Envoy within?"
               "Thou wilt find him within, Baron Otho; but if thou art come for him, thou might
                  as well invite yonder leaden statue to take a moonlight stroll," laughed the
                  councillor, as he broke away from them. "Adieu."
               De Vere threw open his door, and invited the party, in cordial tones, to enter;
                  which they did, but declined seats, declaring they had only come to bear him off
                  in triumph to the various scenes of festivity the city exhibited.
               "The most magnificent fireworks, monsieur. Not mere rockets, but blazing
                  delineations of our Revolution, that are rushing heavenward to tell the stars how
                  the Belges prize freedom," exclaimed Baron
                  Otho.
               "'The Belges
                  deserve freedom,' is the message that the stars will return by these
                  fire-winged envoys," said De Vere, with quiet enthusiasm.
               With one accord every cap was raised; and, standing uncovered, they sang, with
                  thrilling expression, a verse of the Marseillaise, which, since the restoration of their civil and social
                  privileges, had been a popular favorite with all classes.
               "America was our Gamaliel. When time shall be no more, and earth crumbles beneath
                  the eternal billow, then, and not until then, shall her glorious confederacy be
                  shaken," exclaimed the baron.
               De Vere bowed low. One prolonged vivat for the
                  land of his love greeted his patriotic
                  heart. It was the homage of strangers to the majesty of its principles—principles
                  taught by Heaven—baptized in the blood of patriot martyrs; and, in their triune
                  qualities of fraternity, equality, and self-government, opening the portals of
                  liberty as a refuge for the oppressed and suffering of every clime. He responded
                  briefly, but eloquently; and, after pledging each other in delicious old Rhenish
                  wine, they would have borne him off with them to scenes of splendor and mirth; but
                  he again pleaded "letters from home," and they were too polite to urge him
                  further. In the midst of their cheerful and exciting interview, the Beguine, from the Hôtel de
                     Français, glided in and stood with folded hands and downcast eyes
                  near the group. With profound respect the gay party greeted her. Had she been a
                  serene highness, or a Kaiser's crowned queen, their manner could not have been
                  more expressive of veneration than that which they voluntarily assumed to the meek
                  and lowly handmaid of charity. In the same low sweet voice that plead for the
                  dying stranger at the Hôtel de Français, she
                  informed De Vere "that one of his countrymen, stricken by poverty and death,
                  prayed to see him ere his mortal career was over."
               "Will my kind friends excuse me?" asked De Vere, turning towards his guests; "here
                  is an apparent and imperative duty, which must not be neglected."
               "Go," whispered Baron Otho; "the Sister Monica would not seek thee almost at
                  midnight unless on some extraordinary errand of charity. The good God speed
                  thee!"
               "So," muttered one, "he prefers a tragedy, with a Beguine for a prompter, to the pleasures of such a night as this,
                  with ourselves to give each pleasure a zest!"
               As soon as the Beguine ascertained that the
                  American envoy would promptly obey her charitable demand, she disappeared as much
                  like a gliding shadow as she had come, and drove off in a small close carriage, in
                  the direction of the Hôtel de Français. When De
                  Vere arrived, he found her awaiting him.
               "Follow me, monsieur!" she said, leading the way. In a few moments they stood by
                  the bedside of the dying stranger. A taper, which gave but a flickering light,
                  threw long shadows on the wall, as it burned dimly in a distant niche, before a
                  small statue of the Madonna and Holy Child Jesus. De Vere could only distinguish
                  the contour of a pallid face, surrounded by dark, clustering hair, which lay heavy
                  and moist with the death dews on the snowy pillow. There was no moonlight creeping
                  in through vines; there was no odor of flowers—no tears to warm up the gathering
                  chills—no love to encompass the stranger, as his steps tended downward to the
                  Lethean billows of death! Only charity—the first-born and best
                  beloved of God*
                  —stood a tearful watch, over the mysterious unveiling of the soul from its
                  mortal bonds. At a distance, seated in the deep embrasure of a window, was an old
                  man, leaning on his elbow, with his head bowed on his breast, and his eyes closed.
                  He had come thither to watch; but nature yielded to fatigue and the demands of
                  age, for he had travelled far that day; and a deep slumber had stolen over his
                  wearied frame. Near him knelt a veiled female form before the little oratory, whom
                  De Vere, by the dim light, imagined to be one of the Beguines.
               
                  
                  *"God is love."
               
               "He is come," whispered Sister Monica to the dying man, who opened his eyes,
                  looked wildly up, as if he had been awakened from a troubled dream, then gradually
                  settled his gaze on the face of De Vere.
               "You do not know me, it seems?" he said in a hollow voice.
               "Pardon me if I do not," said De Vere, taking his hand kindly. He snatched it from
                  him with a shudder.
               "I injured you, De Vere. I would have ruined you if I could," he said after a
                  pause.
               "Forget it as I forgive it, friend, whatever it was, whoever you are," he
                  replied.
               "Thy God—or nature—bestowed wonderful and noble gifts on thee, De Vere; but thou
                  art not a whit less indebted to destiny than I. Thee—it has made the honor and
                  pride of thy kind; me—an outcast"—he said, bitterly.
               "Hush—sh—sh—talk not so!" said the Beguine,
                  quickly; "our Lord God sometimes honors us by laying his cross heavily on us; but
                  he died on that cross to redeem us from the bondage of sin; and not that we might
                  be chained hand and foot for perdition." Then she resumed her prayers, at his
                  feet, where she had been kneeling ever since she returned.
               "Can I aid you?" inquired De Vere, looking with extraordinary interest on the pale
                  wan face before him, in which he perceived, now that his eyes were more accustomed
                  to the gloom of the room, traces of great beauty, and something strangely
                  familiar.
               "Your aid? no! Only your forgiveness," was all he uttered.
               "For what?"
               "I crossed your path once, De Vere—I tried to wreck your fair name—your
                  happiness—your all! She loved you—I knew it—I saw it; but I—I poisoned your
                  Eden—for you also loved her—Edith
                  Willoughby, I mean. Your love was high, and like yourself—free from all debasing
                  influences. You deserved her—and but for me—might have won her"—he said, at
                  intervals.
               De Vere's whole frame trembled with emotion, for he knew him well now; and to
                  forgive one who had so deeply stung him, who had so basely undermined the fabric
                  of his earthly happiness, was a hard thing to do; but there he lay—a fallen
                  foe—helpless—dying—repentant; and he dare not—he wished not to refuse the boon.
                  Moral and holy influences triumphed over the warring passions and instincts of
                  humanity, which, ever prone to evil, had uncoiled themselves in his heart, and
                  stung him keenly with memories of the past. He took both the cold, attenuated
                  hands in his, and said, "I forgive you, Walter Shirley, with as perfect
                  forgiveness as one erring man can forgive another."
               A serene smile flitted over the Beguine's face,
                  and the lurid, troubled scowl passed away from Shirley's brow, as he murmured a
                  few words of thanks.
               "Now," whispered the Beguine—"now, oh dying man!
                  think of the forgiveness of the Lord God—it is all that can aid thee now! I will
                  bring thee a holy man who will help thee to make thy peace with heaven."
               "Trouble me not with fables, good sister—nay, be not hurt! You have been to me a
                  ministering angel—but—I—have no faith—in priestcraft—or what men call—religion. I
                  would die—as I have lived," he murmured. "One more favor—I beg—awaken yonder old
                  man—summon her to my side—I must not leave my work incomplete! De
                  Vere—leave me not—" he said, pointing to the two persons we have before described.
                  They came, and observed for the first time that another person besides the
                     Beguine was with the dying one. De Vere's
                  back was towards them as they approached—only the outline of his cheek was
                  visible; but the old man with the snow-white hair started when his eyes fell on
                  him. Deliberately fitting on his spectacles, he walked around where he could
                  obtain a full view of the face. Henry De Vere raised his eyes at the moment, an
                  exclamation of joyful recognition escaped his lips, and, opening his arms, he
                  clasped them around him.
               "Harry!"
               "Mr. Bedford—my dearest—best friend!" It was all that either could say.
               "If I have the honor of meeting with Mr. De Vere," said the lady, coming forward,
                  and speaking, in a sad and subdued voice, "may I beg that he will not refuse the
                  hand of the mother of that son whose best friend he proved himself?" De Vere was
                  almost overcome by the sudden meeting; he bowed, and without speaking, took Mrs.
                  Willoughby's proffered hand, and pressed it gently.
               "It is all right. Call her—her—Edith, I mean—quick—I am dying!"
                  gasped Walter Shirley. "Bring her hither, I say—I command it, and will ye refuse
                  the commands of the dying? Ye dare not! Nay, Aunt Willoughby—I entreat—I entreat.
                  This is no time for false proprieties."
               "I will go—it will probably be better to avoid a meeting at such a time, and under
                  such circumstances!" whispered De Vere.
               "You shall not go, De Vere—you promised to remain with me—if you go,
                  Edith Willoughby need not come!" exclaimed Walter Shirley, whose hearing became
                  more acute as the power of other senses failed.
               "Be calm, Walter—I will bring her," said Mrs. Willoughby.
               "They have forgiven me, too, De Vere! They know I can harm them no more!" he said
                  bitterly, as Mrs. Willoughby left the room.
               Still prayed the Beguine for his departing
                  soul—hoping that, at the last moment, it would utter one cry to Heaven for
                  forgiveness.
               Ere long, Mrs. Willoughby, Edith, and the young invalid, Arthur Vernon, came in.
                  He did not observe De Vere, who stood back in the shadow—he scarcely raised his
                  eyes, for, like the Beguine, his business there
                  was not of earth, but Heaven—so, kneeling at the foot of the couch, he took from
                  his bosom the ivory crucifix, that companion of all his early wanderings, and held
                  it, so that the death-stricken might behold it while he prayed in silence. And
                  one, to have seen the rare angel loveliness of his pale face, around which flowed
                  rich waves of golden hair, the uplifted eyes, and saddened brow, on which a
                  celestial beam seemed dawning, might have imagined that he was the guardian spirit
                  of that erring and sinful man, pleading, praying, until the last life-chord was
                  severed, that he might be lured to God ere life and hope were past forever.
               "Walter!" said Edith, in a low, gentle voice, after she had stood several moments
                  beside him, and found that he did not notice her; "I have come, Walter, at your
                  bidding."
               "Ha! Edith! I cannot see—what means this sudden gloom? Is yonder light
                  extinguished? But come, the time is brief—De Vere, where are you? your hand, De
                  Vere—Edith Willoughby, yours—hasten—so—In life I dissevered ye—mine be the act, in
                  the hour of death, to unite—" A dreadful spasm convulsed his frame—one cry of
                  anguish escaped his lips, and his spirit wandered dered out from its bonds of clay to contend with
                  the awful mysteries of eternity. Edith felt her strength failing—the scene had
                  been so sudden and shocking; then her unexpected meeting with Henry De Vere, and
                  the manner of the meeting, altogether over-powered her. She tried to leave the
                  room, her steps faltered; but his watchful eye was on her, and, throwing his arm
                  around her—her head drooped on his shoulder—and feeling that she was his—his
                  forever—he bore her away, attended by Mrs. Willoughby, from the terrible scene of
                  death.
               "Edith—beloved—long cherished—first love of my heart!" he whispered, when, slowly
                  recovering, her eyes fell softly on him, and tears blended with the gentle smile
                  that lit up her face. "I cannot lose thee again, Edith—say, beloved, must I lose
                  thee again, ever?"
               "Mother! mother!" she said, clasping her hands, and looking up imploringly to Mrs.
                  Willoughby, who leaned over her, "speak for me—you know all!"
               "She is yours, Henry De Vere. My gift to you! Noble, truthful, and unfaltering has
                  been your upward career; but more precious to me than all your honors, more worthy
                  of my eternal gratitude, is the kindness you so freely lavished on a friendless
                  stranger—a foreign stripling, whom you protected from want, brutality, and
                  suffering. That stripling was my child! In exchange for him, take the
                  next dearest treasure of my heart—Edith. But hither he comes. Arthur, behold!" But
                  ere she could speak another word, with a cry of rapture, which blended in its
                  utterance the name of "Henri!" he sprang
                  forward, and in another moment was folded closely to De Vere's manly and sensitive
                  heart, where he lay panting, too full of joy to speak, like a bird that, through
                  perils and distance, had once more reached its sheltered nest. But the effort and
                  emotion together exhausted him, and De Vere tenderly laid the delicate form on a
                  pile of cushions, where he lay as pale and silent as a marble effigy. Mrs.
                  Willoughby administered a cordial which ere long imparted temporary strength to
                  the feeble frame of the patient sufferer, who, in obedience to the mandate of his
                  medical advisers, forbore speaking, when these debilitating attacks visited him,
                  for fear of rupturing a bloodvessel; but his countenance, radiant and calm,
                  indicated all the eloquent joy that filled his heart.
               Soon after, Mr. Bedford, who had remained in the room of death, to superintend the
                  last offices that human care could perform for the forsaken clay, came in, with a
                  sad, heavy look; but when he saw those beloved and familiar faces grouped
                  together, as he had often seen them in his heart dreams, the gloom passed away,
                  and a smile overspread his countenance as he lifted his hands in thankfulness, and
                  blessed them with a silent benediction.
               Mrs. Willoughby's thoughts lingered with the dead; the ties of consanguinity and
                  old association could not be forgotten, and, leaving the group to the enjoyment of
                  their own quiet sense of happiness, she returned to look with compassionate
                  forgiveness on the beautiful wreck which death had left on the sands of time, the
                  wreck of a being once as fair in his stately manhood as were the "sons of God" who
                  of old walked on earth. The marble brow was calm; the high, finely-chiselled nose,
                  the proudly curved lips, were all restored by the everlasting moulder—death—to
                  their lofty beauty. Yes! save the look of scorn that the still features wore, the
                  clay was perfect in the image and likeness of its Creator. But the soul—the
                  erring, faithless, immortal essence—oh time—oh eternity—whither fled that soul?
                  The Beguine had glided away, when the eternal
                  seal was set on the spirit of him she would fain have led to God, back to her
                  cloister, clinging more fondly than ever to the cross and crown of thorns, which,
                  transitory in their sufferings as life, would be her passport to the beatific
                  vision of eternity.
               With De Vere's hand clasped in his, Vernon had fallen into a light doze. Near
                  them, on a low tabouret, sat Edith, holding a
                  vial of aromatic drops, with which to refresh the invalid, should he need them,
                  and watching with tender solicitude every change that flitted, like the "shadows
                  of clouds," over his face. But few words had passed between Edith and De Vere; but
                  these few were enough. The rapture of their long-separated and faithful hearts in
                  this hour of reunion, which had been attended by such strange incidents, would
                  have been desecrated by language which was all inadequate to express its depth.
                  The death-scene left its solemn shadow over all, but they knew that shadow would
                  pass away like the rest; and their minds were too well disciplined, their
                  affections too pure, not to be patient, until, with the sunlight and life-stir of
                  a brighter morrow, they could mutually reveal the trying story of their past.
               Mr. Bedford approached them, and paused before De Vere, on whose face the light
                  from a lamp near them shone, brightly revealing every noble lineament. Through his
                  spectacles he scanned every feature, and looked with an inquiring gaze into the
                  clear, unclouded eyes that blanched not beneath his scrutiny. "So," he murmured;
                  then, reaching out his hand, he pushed back the curling masses of dark hair that
                  lay on De Vere's broad forehead, and resumed his study. De Vere was, at first,
                  surprised at his unusual proceeding;
                  then amused; and, finally, a smile of yore burst like a sun-ray over his
                  countenance. It was reflected by Edith. Then Mr. Bedford, with another "so,"
                  expressive of great inward satisfaction, smiled also.
               "Why did you not write, Harry? I have not heard from you for one long year," he
                  inquired, abruptly. "I suppose, from your silence, that the tales we heard about
                  the opera-dancer and a noble young fraulien are
                  true?"
               "Dear sir," interposed Edith, "we have been on the wing, for months past, through
                  southern Europe. Mr. De Vere's letters have doubtless miscarried."
               "Of course, Etha; of course, child. But let him answer for himself. I am perfectly
                  aware that no jury would have you among them if he were on trial for
                  a capital offence. Now, Harry, tell me."
               "My best of friends, the simple fact that I did not know you had left the United
                  States must be my apology. I have written, and written again, directing my letters
                  to your address at home; nor had I the remotest idea of your being in Europe until
                  our meeting to-night."
               "Very well. So far, so good. I shall doubtless find my letters at home, when I get
                  there."
               "You cannot imagine my annoyance. Nay, I must confess it, I felt hurt at receiving
                  no response whatever to my communications, particularly those which contained
                  inquiries important to my happiness," observed De Vere, glancing at Edith. "The
                  rest related to matters connected with my affairs at home, and subjects suggested
                  by a residence in this truly delightful country."
               "Not a word yet of the opera-dancer, or the baron's handsome daughter?" said Mr.
                  Bedford, folding his arms.
               "I only did, sir, what any humane person would have done in my place," he
                  began.
               "You did?" said Mr. Bedford, dryly.
               "It is never agreeable to me to speak of myself," he continued, flushing up. "But,
                  in the present instance, I must yield to necessity. There was a young creature,
                  pretty and virtuous, belonging to the ballet,
                  who supported her aged parents by her dancing, which was really graceful; but one
                  night, from some unfortunate cause or other, she lost her balance in the midst of
                  a pirouette, and, in trying to recover her
                  posture, her foot slipped, and she fell with such violence that she broke a limb.
                  Although she suffered intensely, her sole anxiety was about her parents, and how
                  they would obtain their daily bread; for the idea of their being dependent on
                  charity was distressing in the extreme to her. The physicians told her she must be
                  calm, or fever and inflammation would ensue. But she asked, plaintively, 'How can
                  I be still—how can my heart be still, when I know they suffer?'"
               "Well," said Mr. Bedford, as De Vere hesitated a little while; "go on. What was it
                  all to you?"
               "Personally, nothing; but to humanity, all. She was carried with care to the
                  hospital, and sufficient funds placed in the hands of the Beguines, who are the ministering angels of that place of suffering,
                  not only to defray her expenses, but to furnish a necessary support for her
                  parents, until she could assist them again."
               "And did she recover, this noble and heroic girl?" asked Edith, with kindling
                  cheeks.
               "She recovered," replied De Vere, looking fondly on her, "but did not resume her
                  profession. Her limb was so injured that it was impossible; but the charitable
                  ladies at the Beguinage took her under their
                  protection, and taught her the art of making wax fruit and flowers, from the sale
                  of which she derives a handsome support. Her story excited great interest in
                  Brussels; an interest which her virtue and filial devotion were well worthy of.
                  Some absurd reports were, however, mixed up with the affair, which I scarcely
                  think it necessary to say were utterly false."
               "It has turned out just as I expected it would," said Mr. Bedford, rubbing his
                  hands together in the old way. "I understand the whole thing exactly. You were the
                  benefactor of this distressed family. Just like you. Thank God, the Harry De Vere
                  of tonight is the Harry De Vere of my old heart. You may have him, Etha;—but stop!
                  What about the noble fraulien with whom you were
                  in love?"
               "Behold her—the first, only beloved fraulien of
                  my heart," he replied, clasping Edith's hand in his own. "It has never known
                  another."
               "And thine, Edith?" asked Mr. Bedford.
               "Mine? Its faith and truth have been sorely tried. But now—" she hesitated.
               "Now. Nay, falter not, beloved," said De Vere, gently. "How is it
                  now?"
               "Now, the bitter ordeal past, its brightest dreams are more than realized in
                  finding another as true and constant," she said, in a low voice, while the damask
                  hue deepened on her cheeks and brow. Then, pressing gently the hand that still
                  held hers, she whispered "Good-night," and left the room.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               THE GOOD-NIGHT.
               VERNON'S recuperative powers received a momentary impetus during the short stay of
                  our pilgrims in Brussels. The weather was balmy and lovely, which enabled him to
                  drive or take a short promenade every day. The picture galleries and fine old
                  churches, among whose dim aisles the imagination held pleasant converse with time,
                  of stirring and glorious tradition—the shadowy forest beyond the city, which also
                  presented to his amused fancy legendary associations, were his favorite places of
                  resort. At intervals, when his cough was not troublesome, he sketched; and once or
                  twice attempted to color his designs, but the smell of the oils overpowered him,
                  and compelled him to desist. The quiet flow of happiness around him, and the
                  confidential spirit that marked the intercourse of those he most loved on earth,
                  exercised such a genial charm over him that the current of disease seemed to pause
                  in its silent ravages on his system. Mrs. Willoughby was full of hope; and Edith,
                  through the medium of her own happiness, could perceive nothing in the brightened
                  eye and glowing cheeks of the invalid but indications of returning health. Even
                  Mr. Bedford was sanguine—not of his recovery, but a prolongation of his life. De
                  Vere was with them every moment he could spare from his official duties.
               But in the midst of their hopes and happy exultations, the weather lowered, the
                  winds came chill and piercing from the distant mountains, and a heavy mist
                  enveloped everything in its damp embrace. The delicate frame of Vernon yielded to
                  its depressing influences; his cough became more frequent, and his rest more
                  broken by fevers, and the debilitating night-sweats, than ever; but he murmured
                  not—an angelic patience supported him, and of them all, his face was the only one
                  that wore a smile. It was agreed that, as soon as the weather again became bland,
                  they would recommence their journey. The thought was rife with pain to them all,
                  for one link in the chain of their love would be disunited—De Vere could not
                  accompany them; his presence was necessary in Brussels for the honor and interests
                  of his country; and duty to that was the paramount principle of his life. But when
                  the hour of separation came, he went with them some leagues on their pilgrimage
                  towards the Neiderwald, whither they were going to spend the summer months, among
                  the lovely valleys and sunny hill-sides of the Rhine.
               "Farewell, brother of my soul—farewell, Henry! Twice hast thou met me a wandering
                  pilgrim; our next meeting will be where life's weary pilgrims repose forever,"
                  murmured Arthur Vernon, as his head reclined on De Vere's bosom, and tears flowed
                  silently over his cheeks.
               "Hope, Arthur; yield not to gloomy fancies!" replied De Vere, holding him more
                  closely to his heart.
               "I am filled with hope, Henry, which is eternal!" he replied, quickly.
               Tender and touching were the adieux of the rest;
                  and through their tears they gazed after one another, until distance made all
                  indistinct.
               A few days they rested at the quiet and beautiful little
                  village of Neudorf; the change of weather and scene, and the wild picturesque
                  views of the country through which they slowly travelled, again revived the
                  invalid, and, more hopefully, they proceeded by easy stages towards Mainz. On
                  their route, they reposed a short time at Erbach, Hattenheim, and Johannesberg,
                  which, situated at the foot of a picturesque hill on whose summit proudly rises
                  the marble palace of Metternich, afforded them many points of interest. At last
                  they reached their destined spot of rest—a hof
                  which had been vacated by its inmates for the purpose of emigrating to America, a
                  short time previous, and which had been secured for the Willoughbys by the
                  kindness of a compagnon du voyage, who had
                  preceded them some weeks to the Rhine land. Located beautifully on the sloping
                  side of a mountain, it commanded one of the finest and most legendary prospects on
                  the Rhine. High above them, standing on a point of the Neiderwald, like a deserted
                  eyrie, were the ruins of the Rosser, an old feudal castle; below lay
                  belts of oak foliage, waving and rustling in the summer winds, like glittering
                  zones of emerald; while still farther down wrestled and tumbled the Rhine billows,
                  in whose midst, like gems on the waves, reposed three Eden-like isles, pinnacled
                  by graceful poplars, and fringed with willows whose drooping tendrils made love to
                  the whispering river. From one arose the ruins of the Mausethurm, where, legends say, the infamous Hatto took shelter from
                  myriads of ferocious rats, which, from the period of his murderous cruelty to the
                  famine-stricken peasantry, who had applied to him for aid from his bursting
                  garners, had ruthlessly pursued him. Even here, isolated in his lonely tower, and
                  surrounded by the waves, he did not escape, but perished miserably, literally torn
                  to death by these singular avengers. On
                  the opposite side of the river, as an amende
                     honorable to religion and humanity for this enduring memorial of sin
                  and crime, rises the Rochus capelle, which was
                  erected in thanksgiving to Heaven for the cessation of the plague. With the
                  sunlight or moon rays, brooding like a glory around it, the heart of the gazer
                  turned thitherward with a feeling of refreshment from the gloomy tower of Hatto,
                  feeling earnestly and sadly how the beautiful earth can be marred by crime, and
                  its sunniest scenes clouded by inhumanity. There, like the spirit of a hoary
                  Kaiser in solemn and beautiful pomp, rich in wild legends, and filled with dreams
                  of old, arose the old castle of Rhinestien;
                  while below it, glistening among the trees, lay the distant town of Bingen, its
                  graceful bridge spanning the Nahe, which, brawling and noisy, pours its discolored
                  waters into the clear green crystal of the Rhine.
               On these and many other lovely and remarkable features of nature and the past, did
                  the eyes of the Willoughbys rest, whenever they looked forth from the windows or
                  grounds of the hof. Surrounded by flowers of
                  every hue, and draped by vines, which hung earthward heavy clusters of purple
                  fruit, and sheltered by great shade-trees, beneath whose leaves innumerable
                  song-birds trilled their unwearied song, there was such a home look, and such home
                  music around the hof, that they often felt as if
                  under the influence of-some spell, which carried them on instant flight to their
                  beloved Woodreve.
               But he, for whose sake they had wandered in a strange land, faded daily! They
                  would have gone again to southern Italy; but he objected strongly to being
                  removed, and they yielded, for it was evident to the most hopeful heart among them
                  that the "golden bowl of life would soon be broken." Mrs. Willoughby's anguish was
                  keen when she felt that the cheatery of Hope was over. Many and long were the
                  years she had sought him sorrowing; few and brief had been the days of their
                  reunion; but Heaven had given him, and Heaven now recalled its bright gift,
                  leaving her naught to do but prepare her heart for the blow of separation, then,
                  on the angelic ladder of faith, follow him thitherward. Vernon could walk no
                  further now than the little hermitage chapel on the hill-side, and ere long his
                  increasing weakness obliged him to discontinue his visits there; but the good
                  cure, his consoler, spent one hour with him daily in cheerful converse, which ever
                  directed itself heavenward. Frequent letters from De Vere to Edith, filled with
                  hope, and love, and dreams of their future, came like angel visitors to her
                  drooping heart. He also wrote frequently to Vernon, who kept them in his
                  portfolio, always within reach, and often begged his mother or Edith to read them
                  aloud to him, seeming to derive the greatest pleasure from their cheerful
                  contents.
               One night they had watched over him, dreading the chime of every hour, lest it
                  should be his last. There was no pain, no agony, only a gradual ebbing away of
                  life's bright billow—a silent closing of its chalice leaves—a serene pluming of
                  the spirit wings for that home whence, already, brightness flickered down on them.
                  Towards dawn the moon rose, full and fair, over the Neiderwald; the Taunus hills
                  were crowned with pearls, and the quivering tops of the old forest trees netted
                  over with meshes of silver. Between its dark shores, from Bingen to Mainz, the
                  Rhine gleamed like a milky-way; nay, its whirling eddies and glittering foam
                  concentrating here and there a nucleus of light like starry constellations. It was
                  beautiful, like the night of death opening to the dawn of a day supernal. Even the
                  ruined towers, wrapped in their silvery haze, appeared to reclaim from time the
                  glories it had robbed them of, and looked proudly down on the billows as they
                  swept past.
               Presently, floating out on the night winds, came the sound of music, solemn and
                  sweet, as it rose and fell in prolonged cadences. It was Mrs. Willoughby's organ,
                  one that had been brought from Bingen to the hof, soon after their arrival.
               "Kiss me, madre bella," said the dying youth;
                  "then sing the Laudate Dominum. I feel weary,
                  and the morning will soon dawn." Music frequently soothed him to
                  slumber when all else failed to do so—music of that kind. "Here, dear Etha," he
                  continued, as she knelt beside him, "here is a rose the good cure brought me, last
                  evening, from the hermitage altar, when he came to anoint me for my journey, Etha.
                  Keep it, sister, in memory of this night. And Etha, listen, dear—to-morrow, sever
                  one of these long curls from my head, and give it, with my love, to Henry." Then
                  he paused to listen to the thrilling music. "Kiss me, Etha. There, leave me now,"
                  he whispered. "I shall sleep in a few moments." And while the jubilant words of
                  the Laudate Dominum ascended heavenward, his
                  eyes gently closed—a smile, serene and holy, settled on his face—his transparent
                  fingers folded the image of the Crucified to his heart—and, while the day dawned,
                  and the stars melted away in its broader light, his spirit went forth with angels
                  to the DAY ETERNAL. Mrs. Willoughby, when she turned, ever watchful, from the
                  instrument, thought he slept, and the holy strains died away beneath her fingers;
                  then rising, she noiselessly approached his couch, and, half leaning on his
                  pillow, overcome by ceaseless vigils, she fell into a refreshing slumber. Nor did
                  she awake until the golden sunlight stole aslant her face, startling her from a dream so filled with
                  joyous imagery that, as she lifted her head to contemplate the features of her
                  darling, a smile brightened her countenance, but instantly faded when she saw Mr.
                  Bedford and Edith kneeling, and in tears, at the foot of the couch. They had
                  feared to waken her. Wildly her glances flew from them to the still form beside
                  her; frantically she laid both hands on his cold, white cheeks, and peered beneath
                  the lids of the dimmed eyes; and heartrending was the cry of maternal anguish,
                  when, calling him by every endearing name her love could suggest, he smiled not,
                  the eyes brightened not, and no responsive word of affection stole from those
                  serenely calm lips. Then she knew that all was over—that her child was dead.
               Some months after, the vault beneath the marble pavilion at Woodreve Manor was
                  once more unsealed; the pilgrims from the Neiderwald had returned with their
                     dead. Beside the old patriot Shirley and his noble wife, their
                  descendant, who had died so far away on the banks of the Rhine, was laid to rest.
                  Faith and time mellowed the pangs that had wrung Mrs. Willoughby's heart, and she
                  was wont to say, when speaking of her dead son, "We will meet again; but it will
                  be whither he has gone, like an angel pioneer, before me. That reunion will be
                  everlasting. My child and I will be parted no more for aye."
               
               A few years after, the senate chamber of the capitol at Washington was crowded to
                  suffocation, and every avenue leading to it thronged with citizens, all eager to
                  secure places to hear a young senator, celebrated for his statesmanlike abilities
                  and remarkable eloquence, speak on a certain question which involved the most
                  vital principles of the Union; for, strange as it may seem, its dissolution was
                  threatened—not by patriots, or for ends that would eventually serve
                  the interests of the people; but by selfish fanatics and their mercenary
                  partisans.
               A party of elegant women, attended by several distinguished gentlemen, among whom
                  were two noble foreigners, occupied a part of the gallery which would command a
                  full view of the speaker when he arose to address the Senate. Among them were Mrs.
                  Lacy, Bessie Aubry; and, further back, Mrs. Willoughby, veiled in deep mourning,
                  and Edith, looking more than beautiful, sat together, almost screened from general
                  observation by a massive marble pillar beside them. And those two snow-white
                  heads, so close together, as the proud old men whisper and nod to each other,
                  whose should they be but Mr. Bedford's and Mr. De Vere's? Another individual joins
                  the group; high-featured, keen-eyed, and lofty in his bearing, yet with a mark of
                  sadness on his high narrow brow that the slightly frosted raven hair could not
                  hide. It was the Jew—Moysa, the humane. But soon every whisper was hushed. The
                  young senator, Henry De Vere, for it was he, had risen to address the dignified
                  and honorable body of which he was a member. There were a gravity and dignity in
                  every gesture and movement which commanded respectful attention ere he spoke—an
                  expression which indicated how fraught, in his opinion, was the subject in
                  question with results awful and critical to his country's weal. It was evident
                  that he felt responsible to his GOD and his native land for all that might that
                  day fall from his lips relative to the momentous subject. And as, in calm,
                  deep-toned, and sublime eloquence, the dispassionate argument and magnanimous
                  suggestion, proposing antidotes for the grave evil that threatened the
                  Constitution, flowed from his lips, the attention of the oldest statesmen, and the
                  vast crowd in attendance, was enchained as if by a spell. They knew, at once, that
                  he was no demagogue—no idle declaimer—no smuggler of other men's ideas, under
                  cover of rhetorical flowers—no truckler to mere party, no hair-splitting logician;
                  but a pure-hearted, highly-gifted patriot, who would have sacrificed every human
                  advantage, rather than one link in the bond of union which held together the
                  sublime confederacy of his country should be broken. And while the burning coal
                  from the altar of liberty touched his lips with wondrous eloquence, it was
                  observed by many that the thin visage of CLAY, the beloved of his country, kindled
                  with enthusiastic sympathy as he listened; while the deep-set eyes of the
                  magnanimous WEBSTER glowed like orbs of fire, his heart echoed back, with
                  responsive patriotism, the sentiments that fell from the young senator's tongue.
                  They both felt that the country which could give birth to sons who would thus
                  defend it in the hour of sore trial would and must be
                  saved. Their own splendid and successful efforts, at a subsequent period,
                  appealing, in language of impressive and overpowering eloquence, to the nation to
                  save itself from the ruin of desolation by one united and fraternal compromise,
                  the pages of history have preserved for posterity. We can add nothing to their
                  fame. The archives of the longest congressional session the Republic ever knew
                  will tell, in an after age, how they stood in the breach when the storm-tossed
                  Constitution was almost wrecked by civil and unholy sectional feuds, and, in the
                  name of God and Justice, preserved it intact.
               It was late when Henry De Vere closed his speech, and the most distinguished
                  personages of the Senate gathered around him to congratulate and wish him God
                  speed in his upward career.
               "Madam," inquired a noble Frenchman, of Edith, "pardon me, but may I take the
                  liberty of inquiring the name of that very grand and eloquent personage to whom I have
                  listened with so much pleasure?"
               "That personage, monsieur," said Edith, with the proud air of a Roman matron, "is
                  my husband;" then, unconscious of the unsatisfactory character of her reply, she
                  again turned her eyes toward the beloved object, that she might lose no incident
                  of his triumph.
               "And, Monsieur le Compte," whispered Mrs. Lacy, laughing at the puzzled looks of
                  the polite foreigner whom she had on several occasions met in society, "that
                  personage, of whom we Americans are very proud, besides being the husband of this
                  lady, is the son of yonder old gentleman with the queue. His name is De Vere, De
                  Vere of Woodreve." Edith smiled and apologized instantly, with sweet dignity, for
                  her apparent inattention, and felt highly gratified by the noble Frenchman's
                  evident appreciation of her husband's rare talents, which he expressed in voluble
                  and elegantly-turned compliments, all enhanced by a high-bred grace of manner
                  which is seldom met with out of la belle
                  France.
               "He is one of us," said a man whose bronzed face and muscular arms declared him to
                  be a son of labor.
               "Yes," replied another; "our interests will never be neglected while he lives.
                  He's great, but not too great to carry on his manufactories and give employment
                  and bread to hundreds."
               "I wish there were a few more like him! Lord! how infinitely superior he is to
                  these things made up by tailors and barbers, known among us as
                     dandies!" said the artisan, laughing, as the three walked down the
                  broad marble steps of the capitol.
               "Mr. Bedford!" said Mrs. Lacy, that evening at Mrs. Willoughby's, where a family
                  party were assembled, "I asked you the other day why you had never married, and
                  you told me a beautiful story which I must suppose contained, par courtesy, a
                  moral, about some malicious old philosopher of Greece, misnamed one of the seven
                  wise men of that classical land, who, too much of a curmudgeon to marry himself,
                  terrified one of his wise brethren, who was not only a Benedict, but the father of
                  one of the handsomest, most learned and accomplished young men of his time, by a
                  false report of that son's death. If I remember, the wicked old sinner, after
                  enjoying his friend's anguish and affliction to his heart's content, told him very
                  calmly that his son lived, and that it was all only a little comedy got up for his
                  private diversion, and to illustrate forcibly his reasons for not marrying; am I
                  not right?"
               "Fudge! you have parodied the whole story—Socrates—"began Mr. Bedford.
               "From Socrates may the Penates of a household graciously defend us!" laughed Mrs.
                  Lacy. "But confess, now—confess truly, that you would rather this day have been
                  old father De Vere than that surly old philosopher of Greece!"
               "And pray, Mrs. Lacy," asked the still gay-hearted old man, evading her close
                  question, "am I not the father of the whole of you? Do ye acknowledge
                  me, children, or not? All who do, come and give me a good-night kiss, for Mrs.
                  Grimshaw must not be kept up late; she's getting old, poor woman."
               "Cunning young gentleman!" exclaimed Mrs. Lacy; "how very thoughtful he is of old
                  folks! But good-night; I'm afraid to say father, as I counted ten gray hairs in my
                  head this morning." He pinched her cheek as she stooped over to kiss him.
               Close and loving was the circle that gathered around him with affectionate
                  caresses and "good-night" kisses. Mrs. Willoughby was among them, her pale sad
                  face expressive of human feelings subdued by the chastisements and resigned to the
                  will of Almighty God.
               "A good-night kiss and a blessing too, friend and father!" she whispered, bending
                  her knee before him. He laid his hand on her head, and blessed her fervently. And
                  it was all well, for it was their last good-night. The next morning, with his
                  hands folded together on his breast as if in prayer, he was found calmly
                  sleeping—every limb and feature composed to rest—that long sleep which pilgrims
                  who have journeyed far love to take. As among them in life he had found a home for
                  his heart, so in death they made his resting-place among the pale sleepers beneath
                  the family tomb at Woodreve. Devoted to charity and religion, Mrs. Willoughby's
                  days glided by unruffled by further storms, and when her last hours drew near, it
                  was a consolation which sweetened the bitter waves of death to reflect that, by
                  her benevolence and munificent gifts to the Magdalen Asylum—which exhibited in its
                  finely-sculptured marble portals a monument of her commiseration and pity for the
                  erring—many a soul, otherwise despairing, had been rescued, sheltered, and
                  restored to the pursuit of virtue.
               Over the portals of the Magdalen may be seen the picture of the Divine Saviour,
                  forgiving her who had "sinned much;" and on each side, the sculptured images of
                  the angels of mercy in their niches, lifting from the dust a soul fainting beneath
                  the burthen of its crimes; then serenely conducting it, regenerated and chastened,
                  heavenward. These had been executed after Vernon's design in Florence, during the
                  pilgrimage of the Willoughbys in Europe.
               There, in the humble garb of a sister penitent, Amy Markham is spending the
                  residue of her life in practical works of religion and charity towards those who,
                  like herself, had fallen and repented. Once more she visited her early home, but
                  it was meekly to implore plore the forgiveness of her sorrow-stricken and dying parents, while she
                  watered their pillows with tears of penitence. With their last breath they forgave
                  and blessed her; then, with a heart more at peace, she returned to the refuge
                  whither she had been led and saved in the hour of her wildest despair.
               Mrs. De Vere had the proud satisfaction of seeing Alice wedded at last to Col.
                  Forsyth, and, surrounded by her family, who were distinguished for all those rare
                  virtues which give to life its true worth, and friends who occupied a noble
                  position in society, sustained by their own excellence and intelligence more than
                  by wealth or fashion, she enjoyed uninterrupted happiness, and ceased entirely to
                  regret the garish splendors and fictitious pleasures of Chiswicke Square.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            NEW BOOKS RECENTLY PUBLISHED BY A. HART, late CAREY & HART,
            No. 126 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
            
               HISTORICAL AND SECRET MEMOIRS OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE,
               (Marie Rose Tascher de la Pagerie,)
               FIRST WIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.
               BY MLLE. M. A. LE NORMAND.
               
                  Translated from the French by Jacob M. Howard, Esq.
               In 2 vols., 700 pages, muslin extra gilt.
               "It possesses great intrinsic interest. It is a chequered exhibition of the undress life of Napoleon. All the glitter and pomp and dust of glory
                  which bewilder the mind is laid; and we behold not the hero; the emperor, the
                  guide and moulder of destiny, but a poor sickly child and creature of
                  circumstance—affrighted by shadows and tortured by straws."—Philada. City
                     Item.
               
               "This is one of the most interesting works of the day, containing a multiplicity
                  of incidents in the life of Josephine and her renowned husband, which have never
                  before been in print."—N. O. Times.
               
               "This is a work of high and commanding interest, and derives great additional
                  value from the fact asserted by the authoress, that the greater portion of it was
                  written by the empress herself. It has a vast amount of information on the subject
                  of Napoleon's career, with copies of original documents not to be found elsewhere,
                  and with copious notes at the end of the work."—N. O. Com. Bulletin
               
               "Affords the reader a clearer insight into the private character of Napoleon than
                  he can obtain through any other source."—Baltimore American.
               
               "They are agreeably and well written; and it would be strange if it were not so,
                  enjoying as Josephine did, familiar colloquial intercourse with the most
                  distinguished men and minds of the age. The work does not, apparently, suffer by
                     translation."—Baltimore Patriot.
               
               "It is the history—in part the secret history, written by her own hand with rare
                  elegance and force, and at times with surpassing pathos—of the remarkable woman
                  who, by the greatness of her spirit was worthy to be the wife of the soaring
                  Napoleon. It combines all the value of authentic history with the absorbing
                  interest of an autobiography or exciting romance."—Item.
               
            
            
               PROSE WRITERS OF GERMANY.
               BY FREDERICK H. HEDGE.
               ILLUSTRATED WITH EIGHT PORTRAITS AND AN ENGRAVED TITLE-PAGE, FROM A
                  DESIGN BY LEUTZE.
               
                  Complete in One Volume Octavo.
               
                  Contents.
                  Luther, Bœhme, Sancta Clara, Moser Kant, Lessing, Mendelssohn, Hamann, Wieland,
                     Musäus, Claudius, Lavater, Jacobi, Herder, Gœthe, Schiller, Fichte, Richter, A.
                     W. Schlegel, Schleiermacher, Hegel, Zschokke, F. Schlegel, Hardenberg, Tieck,
                     Schelling, Hoffmann, Chamisso.
                  "The author of this work—for it is well entitled to the name of an original
                     production, though mainly consisting of translations—Frederick H. Hedge of
                     Bangor, is qualified, as few men are in this country, or wherever the English
                     language is written, for the successful accomplishment of the great literary
                     enterprise to which he has devoted his leisure for several years.
                  "Mr. Hedge has displayed great wisdom in the selection of the pieces to be
                     translated; he has given the best specimens of the best authors, so far as was
                     possible in his limited space.
                  "We venture to say that there cannot be crowded into the same compass a more
                     faithful representation of the German mind, or a richer exhibition of the
                     profound thought, subtle speculation, massive learning and genial temper, that
                     characterize the most eminent literary men of that
                        nation."—Harbinger.
                  
                  "What excellent matter we here have. The choicest gems of exuberant fancy, the
                     most polished productions of scholarship, the richest flow of the heart, the
                     deepest lessons of wisdom, all translated so well by Mr Hedge and his friends,
                     that they seem to have been first written by masters of the English
                        tongue."—The City Item.
                  
                  "We have read the book with rare pleasure, and have derived not less
                     information than enjoyment."—Knickerbocker.
                  
                  "The selections are judicious and tasteful, the biographies well written and
                        comprehensive."—Inquirer
                  
               
            
            
               
               NAPOLEON AND THE MARSHALS OF THE EMPIRE.
               Complete in 2 vols. 12mo.,
               
                  With 16 Steel Portraits in Military Costume.
               
                  Contents.
                  Napoleon, Jourdan, Serrurier, Lannes, Brune, Perignon, Oudinot, Soult, Davoust,
                     Massena, Murat, Mortier, Ney, Poniatowski, Grouchy, Bessieres, Berthier,
                     Souchet, St. Cyr, Victor, Moncey, Marmont, Macdonald, Bernadotte, Augereau,
                     Lefebvre, Kellermann.
                  The biographies are twenty-seven in number—Napoleon and his twenty-six
                     marshals, being all those created by him—and therefore these pages have a
                     completeness about them which no other work of a similar design possesses.
                  The style is clear and comprehensive, and the book may be relied upon for
                     historical accuracy, as the materials have been drawn from sources the most
                     authentic. The Conversations of Napoleon, with Montholon, Gourgaud, Las Cases
                     and Dr. O'Meara have all been consulted as the true basis upon which the lives
                     of Napoleon and his commanders under him should be founded.
                  "The article on Napoleon, which occupies the greater part of the first volume,
                     is written in a clear and forcible style and displays marked ability in the
                     author. Particular attention has-been paid to the early portion of Napoleon's
                     life, which other writers have hurriedly dispatched as though they were
                     impatient to arrive at the opening glories of his great career."—N. Y.
                        Mirror.
                  
                  "The lives of the Marshals and their Chief, the military paladins of the
                     gorgeous modern romance of the 'Empire,' are given with historic accuracy and
                     without exaggeration of fact, style or language."—Baltimore
                        Patriot.
                  
                  "We have long been convinced that the character of Napoleon would never receive
                     'even handed justice' until some impartial and intelligent American should
                     undertake the task of weighing his merits and demerits. In the present volume
                     this has been done with great judgment. We do not know the author of the paper
                     on Napoleon, but whoever he may be, allow us to say to him that he has executed
                     his duty better than any predecessor."—Evening
                        Bulletin.
                  
                  "The style of this work is worthy of commendation—plain, pleasing and
                     narrative, the proper style of history and biography in which the reader does
                     not seek fancy sketches, and dashing vivid pictures, but what the work
                     professes to contain, biographies. We commend this as a valuable library book
                     worthy of preservation as a work of reference, after having been
                        read."—Balt American.
                  
                  "This is the clearest, most concise, and most interesting life of Napoleon and
                     his marshals which has yet been given to the public. The arrangement is
                     judicious and the charm of the narrative continues unbroken to the
                        end."—City Item
                  
                  "The publishers have spared no pains or expense in its production, and the best
                     talent in the country has been engaged on its various histories. The style is
                     plain and graphic, and the reader feels that he is perusing true history rather
                     than the ramblings of a romantic mind."—Lady's Book.
                  
                  "The result of these joint labors is a series of narratives, in which the
                     events succeed each other so rapidly, and are of so marvelous a cast, as to
                     require only the method in arrangement and the good taste in description which
                     they have received from the hands of their authors. The inflated and the
                     Ossianic have been happily avoided."—Colonization Herald.
                  
                  "Their historical accuracy is unimpeachable, and many of them (the biographies)
                     are stamped with originality of thought and opinion. The engravings are
                     numerous and very fine. The book is well printed on fine white paper, and
                     substantially bound. It deserves a place in all family and school
                        libraries."—Bulletin.
                  
                  "It abounds in graphic narratives of battles, anecdotes of the world-famed
                     actors, and valuable historical information."—Richmond Inquirer.
                  
                  "We receive, therefore, with real pleasure, this new publication, having
                     assurance that great pains have been taken in the preparation of each
                     individual biography, and especially in collating the various authorities upon
                     the early history of the Emperor. There appears to be nowhere any attempt to
                     blind the reader by dazzling epithets, and the accuracy of construction
                     throughout is highly creditable to the editor."—Commercial Advertiser N.
                        Y.
                  
                  "The style is simplicity itself, wholly free from the amusing pomposity and
                     absurd inflation that distinguish some of the works which have gone before
                     it."
               
            
            
               BRYANT'S POEMS.
               ILLUSTRATED BY TWENTY SUPERB ENGRAVINGS,
               From Designs by E. LEUTZE,
               Expressly for this Volume,
               ENGRAVED BY AMERICAN ARTISTS,
               And printed on fine Vellum paper.
               COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME OCTAVO.
               Sixth Edition. (Just ready.)
               
                  Price $5.00 bound in scarlet, gilt edges; or beautifully bound by S.
                  Moore in calf or Turkey morocco, $7.00.
               "This is really a splendid book, and one of the most magnificent of Carey &
                  Hart's collection of "The Illustrated Poets.'"—U. S. Gaz
               
               "The 'getting up' of this edition is creditable in the highest degree to the
                  publishers and the fine arts of the country. The paper binding, and the engravings
                  are all of the very best kind."—Inquirer and Courier.
               
            
            
               WASHINGTON AND THE GENERALS OF THE REVOLUTION.
               BY VARIOUS EMINENT AUTHORS.
               CONTAINING Biographical Sketches of all the Major and Brigadier
                  Generals who acted under commissions from Congress during the Revolutionary
                  War.
               Now ready, in 1 vol. post 8vo., price $1 25, with Portraits.
               WE hail these beautiful volumes with undisguised delight. They supply, in a
                  dignified and comprehensive form, valuable information, which will be sought with
                  avidity, not only by the American public, but by the world at large. The want of a
                  work of positive authority on this subject has long been felt and
                  deplored. The enterprise and good taste of Messrs. Carey and Hart have given us
                  two handsome and reliable volumes, betraying industry and talent, and replete with
                  facts of the deepest interest. There is no idle romancing—no school-boy attempts
                  at rhetorical display; on the contrary, the work is written in a clear,
                  unaffected, business-like, yet beautiful manner. The authors had the good sense to
                  think that the stirring events of "the times that tried men's souls," needed no
                  embellishment. It is a complete, impartial, and well written history of the
                  American Revolution, and, at the same time, a faithful biography of the most
                  distinguished actors in that great struggle, whose memories are enshrined in our
                  hearts. The typographical execution of the work is excellent, and the sixteen
                  portraits on steel are remarkably well done. The first volume is embellished with
                  a life-like portrait of Washington mounted on his charger, from Sully's picture,
                     "Quelling the Whisky Riots." This is, we believe, the first
                  engraving taken from it. There are biographies of eighty-eight
                     Generals, beginning with "the Father of his country," and closing with
                  General Maxwell. To accomplish this task, we are assured that "the accessible
                  published and unpublished memoirs, correspondence, and other materials relating to
                  the period, have been carefully examined and faithfully reflected." We earnestly
                  commend this work. It will be found an unerring record of the most interesting
                  portion of our history.—The City Item.
               
               This work differs from Mr. Headley's, having nearly the same title, in many
                  important particulars; and as an historical book is much
                     superior.—N. Y. Com. Advertiser.
               
               Certainly the most comprehensive and individualized work that has ever been
                  published on the subject—each member of the great dramatis
                     personæ of the Revolutionary tragedy, standing out in bold and
                  "sculptured" relief, on his own glorious deeds.—Saturday Courier.
               
               This work is a very different affair from the flashy and superficial book of the
                  Rev. J. T. Headley, entitled "Washington and the Generals." It appears without the
                  name of any author, because it is the joint production of many of the most eminent
                  writers in the country, resident in various states in the Union, and having, from
                  the circumstance, access to original materials in private hands, and to public
                  archives not accessible to any one individual without long journey and much
                  consumption of time. The result, however, is a complete and authentic work,
                  embracing biographical notices of every one of the Revolutionary Generals. The
                  amount of fresh and original matter thus brought together in these moderate-sized
                  volumes, is not less surprising than it is gratifying to the historical reader.
                  This will become a standard book of reference, and will maintain its place in
                  libraries long after the present generation shall have enjoyed the gratification
                  of perusing its interesting pages, exhibiting in a lively style the personal
                  adventures and private characters of the sturdy defenders of American
                     Independence.—Scott's Weekly Newspaper.
               
               The author's name is not given, and from what we have read, we presume that
                  various pens have been employed in these interesting biographies. This is no
                  disadvantage, but, on the contrary, a decided benefit, for it insures greater
                  accuracy than could be looked for in such a series of biographies written by one
                  person in a few months. The volumes are published in a very handsome style. The
                  first sixty pages are occupied with the biography of Washington, which is written
                  with force and elegance, and illustrated by an original view of the character of
                  that great man. The number of the biographies in these volumes is much greater
                  than that of Mr. Headley's work. There are eighty-eight distinct
                     subjects.—N. Y. Mirror.
               
               We have read a number of the articles, find them to be written with ability, and
                  to possess a deep interest. The author has manifested excellent judgment in
                  avoiding all ambitious attempts at what is styled fine writing; but
                  gives a connected recital of the important events in the lives of his heroes. The
                  work will be highly interesting and valuable to all readers—particularly so to
                  youth, who are always attracted by biographies. If a father wishes to present to
                  his sons noble instances of uncorrupted and incorruptible patriotism, let him
                  place this work in their hands. It should have a place in every American library,
                  and is among the most valuable books of the season.—Baltimore
                     American.
               
            
         
         
            
            A. HART'S PRACTICAL AND SCIENTIFIC WORKS.
            
               MISS LESLIE'S LADY'S NEW RECEIPT BOOK.
               A USEFUL GUIDE FOR LARGE OR SMALL FAMILIES.
               
                  New Edition, Enlarged. 1 Vol. 12mo., 400 pages.
               PRICE $1.
               "Miss Leslie's 'Complete Cookery' is perhaps better known than any similar
                  collection of receipts. The very elegant volume before us is designed as a sequel
                  to it, and should be its companion in every family. It contains directions for
                  cooking, preserving, pickling; and commencing with soups, gives new receipts for
                  every course of an excellent dinner, to the jellies and confectionary of the
                  dessert. Besides this, there are directions for perfumery, miscellaneous receipts,
                  etc., and the celebrated 'Indian Meal Book,' which embraces every method in which
                  that most valuable staple can be prepared. Our readers are no strangers to the
                  accuracy and minuteness of Miss Leslie's receipts, as, since the first number of
                  the Gazette, she has contributed to our housekeepers' department. This is the more
                  noticeable, that she has no other similar engagement with any family paper. The
                  new receipts in this volume are admirable. Many of them are modified from French
                  sources, though foreign terms and designations are avoided. The publisher has
                  brought it out in an extremely tasteful style."—Saturday Gazette.
               
               "Mr. A. Hart, Fourth and Chestnut sts., has just published a new edition of Miss
                  Leslie's Receipt Book for Cooking. This is a truly popular work. Thousands of
                  copies have already been disposed of, and other thousands will be needed. It
                  contains directions for cooking, preserving, pickling, and preparing almost every
                  description of dish; also one hundred and twenty recipes for preparing farina,
                  Indian meal, fancy tea-cakes, marmalades, &c. We know of no more useful work
                  for families."—Inquirer.
               
            
            
               History, Structure, & Statistics of Plank Roads
               IN THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA.
               BY W. KINGSFORD,
               Civil Engineer on the Hudson River Railroad. With remarks on Roads
                  in General, by F. G. Skinner; and a Letter on Plank Roads, by Hon. Chas. E.
                  Clarke.
               Price 50 Cents.
               "Those who desire information upon the subject so fully treated of in this
                  pamphlet, could not do better than purchase and read it."—Saturday
                     Post.
               
            
            
               HORSEMANSHIP.
               
                  A Method of Horsemanship, founded upon new Principles; including the
                  Breaking and Training of Horses, with instructions for obtaining a good Seat.
               ILLUSTRATED WITH ENGRAVINGS.
               BY F. BAUCHER, TRANSLATED FROM THE NINTH PARIS EDITION.
               Cloth Gilt. Price $1.25.
               "Here is something which looks like a system of horsemanship. We have often
                  lamented over the wrongs done to horses, and wondered if there were no better
                  means of conveying our wishes to the animals than by brutally belabouring them
                  with a whip. Baucher's method has one great merit; it is humane. His instructions
                  are conveyed by a series of gentle checks and impulses, which so far from tiring
                  the horse, only tend to bring out his latent powers and better instincts, through
                  an intelligent course of exercise. Baucher's method has proved highly successful
                  in France, not only with the trick- horses of the ring and the gentleman's
                  hackney, but with the cavalry of the army. It has also been extensively adopted in
                  the Prussian service; and Baucher received a diamond snuff-box, and other marks of
                  favour, from the King of Prussia, together with many commendatory letters from the
                  officers of his army. We understand, from the translator's preface, that all the
                  astonishment which we bestowed on Gen. Welch's horse 'May-fly,' Madame Loyo and
                  her stud, was due to the instructions of Baucher. No further proofs are needed of
                  the practical workings of a system which can perform such wonders with horses. The
                  present translation is finely gotten up, and contains many neat illustrative
                  engravings. The translator's part appears to be well and carefully done, while its
                  value is increased by a number of original notes, explaining the technical meaning
                  of the French stable-terms. A book on a subject so interesting to equestrians
                  cannot fail to be popular."—Inquirer.
               
               "This work is certainly calculated to produce a sensation among those 'whose talk
                  is of horses.' It is singular that the present should be the first English
                  translation of a work which has passed through nine editions in Paris, has been
                  reprinted again and again in Belgium, and has been translated into both Dutch and
                  German. Of the great value of Baucher's system no one, who has given it attention,
                  can have a reasonable doubt. Its great merit is that it can properly be called a
                  system based upon admitted principles—not a collection of unphilosophical
                  rules—and that it is capable of the most extended development. Even Baucher, a man
                  of no common vanity, confesses that by pursuing his method, the horse's education
                  may be carried far beyond any result which he has yet obtained. Further
                  developments would indeed be profitable to the circus, and curious to the
                  naturalist, as proving the extent of the animal's sagacity, under a proper plan of
                     instruction."—Bulletin.
               
            
         
         
            A. HART'S MISCELLANEOUS WORKS.
            
               Anne Boleyn: A Tragedy.
               BY GEORGE H. BOKER,
               Author of Calaynos, &c.
               COMPLETE IN ONE VOL. 12MO., SCARLET CLOTH.
               PRICE 75 CENTS.
               "On a former occasion we spoke in high terms of the tragedy of Calaynos, and our
                  judgment has been affirmed by some of the ablest critics of England and America.
                  In the former country, it was put upon the stage and met with distinguished
                  approval. This is a compliment of which the young author has just cause to feel
                  proud. But the tragedy of Calaynos, though ably written, and abounding with
                  passages of thrilling interest, will never enjoy the measure of popularity to
                  which 'Anne Boleyn' is destined."—City Item.
               
               "The tragedy of 'Anne Boleyn' is, in very essence, a stage play—full of incident
                  and replete with brilliant dialogue. The individuality of character, throughout,
                  is admirably sustained. From the very first scene, which introduces Norfolk on the
                  stage, we become interested in the plot, and so continue to the sad denouement of
                  this tragic history. Henry VIII., though somewhat in a new dress, is in perfect
                  relevance with history. Thomas Wyatt is beautifully imbodied in Mr. Boker's just
                  and fine appreciation of this celebrated gentleman and poet. Queen Anne is the
                  principal character, and skilfully drawn. The exquisite tenderness of her language
                  and the dignity of her grief touch us with that probe which reaches the heart
                  through the admiration. We were struck with the great force and personification of
                  her character, and secretly indulged the hope that the time might come when we
                  should see it enacted by the peerless representative of Shakspeare's heroines—MRS.
                  FRANCES ANNE KEMBLE."—Drawing-Room Journal.
               
               "But we might run on so all day, and must leave the book, with its intrinsic
                  beauties, its clean print and fine paper, at once, and without
                  fault-finding—unless it be, with its red, instead of neutral-tinted covers—after
                  congratulating the author, not on the laurels it is sure to win him, but on the
                  joy and enlargement he must have received in its creation, and on the reaction
                  upon his own mind of its healthful influences on the minds of
                     others."—Newark Daily Advertiser.
               
               "We must commend these passages, with the rest of the play, to the good taste of
                  the reader, and hasten to an award of praise, which we unhesitatingly pronounce
                  upon the poet and his work. We are sure he has not, as yet, mined his richest ore,
                  and that the future will verify this assertion.
               "'Anne Boleyn' is printed in luxurious type upon exquisite paper, and is prettily
                  and tastefully bound; so that altogether it reflects high credit upon the
                  publisher, the successor of the late firm of Carey & Hart."—Saturday
                     Gazette.
               
               "'Anne Boleyn' is better than 'Calaynos,' both positively and relatively:
                  positively, because it is of a bolder and wider range, and evinces more artistic
                  skill; relatively, because notwithstanding it is subsequent to 'Calaynos,' and
                  therefore was expected to surpass it, its excellence is even greater than this
                  circumstance required. In the past year, Mr. Boker's mind has made a vast stride.
                  He has gained confidence in himself; his range of thought has widened and
                  deepened; and he has acquired alike greater dramatic strength and a finer
                  perception of the poetical. The present tragedy is founded on the melancholy story
                  of Anne Boleyn, the second wife of Henry the Eighth. The principal characters are
                  the King, the Duke of Norfolk, the Queen, her rival Jane Seymour, Wyatt the poet,
                  Wyatt's sister, Lord Rochford, and Mark Smeaton: and the action of the play
                  embraces the interval between the commencement of the King's passion for Jane
                  Seymour, and the execution of Anne Boleyn. In depicting the characters, as well as
                  in narrating the incidents of his drama, Mr. Boker has adhered mainly to history;
                  and in this displayed his good sense; for the closing career of Anne Boleyn is a
                  drama in real life. Henry the Eighth, Jane Seymour, Norfolk, and Wyatt are drawn
                  with equal truth and power."—Evening Bulletin.
               
               "We would make extracts from this work, did our limits permit. It is one eminently
                  worthy of perusal; and as the production of a native author, will exalt our
                  national literature. As we peruse it again, with more care, we may present
                  extracts; but in the mean time, we advise our readers to possess themselves with
                  the book, and regale their tastes by an entire perusal of its
                     contents."—Pennsylvanian.
               
            
            
               THE NEW TIMON.
               A ROMANCE OF LONDON.
               BY SIR E. BULWER LYTTON, Author of "Pelham, Rienzi," &c.
               "In originality of conception, terseness, vigour, and melodiousness of diction,
                  novelty of imagery, keenness of satire, and purity and elevation of sentiment,
                  this work will bear comparison with the best poems in the English language. We
                  hazard the opinion that posterity will place it by the side of the best of Byron's
                  poetic tales. The author's skill in the analysis of character is well exhibited in
                  his sketches of the Duke of Wellington, Sir Robert Peel, O'Connell, and others.
                  His descriptive powers find expression in some exquisite passages. The popularity
                  of the work, both here and in England, may be inferred from the fact that this is
                  the third American from the fourth London
                     edition."—Weekly Gazette.
               
            
            
               
               THE PODESTA'S DAUGHTER, AND OTHER MISCELLANEOUS POEMS.
               BY GEO. H. BOKER, Author of "Calaynos," "Anne Boleyn," "The
                  Betrothal," &c.
               ONE VOL. 18MO., CLOTH GILT.
               PRICE 62 CENTS.
               "It always gives us pleasure to welcome a new volume of poems, by this author, to
                  our table. He is one of the few Americans who write with care. He is, moreover, a
                  townsman. And, withal, he possesses the poetic faculty in a very high degree, and
                  is destined to go down to future times crowned with 'immortal bays.' Indeed, in
                  many respects, Mr. Boker has no living rival.
               "The principal poem in the volume before us is 'The Podesta's Daughter,' a
                  dramatic sketch of rare merit. In compositions of this character, Mr. Boker
                  excels; but he never published any thing superior, or, in some particulars, even
                  equal to this. The story is that of two lovers, who, from being children together,
                  become finally passionately attached. But while the youth is heir to a haughty
                  lineage, the maiden is the humble daughter of the podesta, a disparity of rank
                  that affords the author material out of which to weave his touching tragedy. The
                  delicate skill with which the two principal characters are contrasted, is worthy
                  of all praise.
               "We take leave of this volume with regret. Its elevated tone, its delicacy of
                  thought, its chastened style, the fire of some passages, the sweetness of others,
                  and last, but not least, the lofty ideal of womanhood which prevails throughout,
                  whether in the dramatic or lyric parts, have sweetened, for a brief space, the
                  exacting toil and dry details of a journalist's life.
               "The volume is very neatly issued, and does credit to Mr. Hart, the
                     publisher."—Evening Bulletin.
               
            
            
               CLARA:
               OR, The Discipline of Affliction,
               Translated from the French of Madame Guizot.
               CLOTH GILT. PRICE 50 CTS.
               "If this work for youth has not a brilliant title, it can claim to be written by a
                  brilliant woman—a woman of fine sensibilities and motherly sympathies, whose
                  judgment is as capable of guiding as her charms are capable of attracting. Amidst
                  the rest of Hart's publications, this may be compared to a shadowy leaf in a
                  brilliant chaplet of the rarest flowers."—City Item.
               
            
            
               THE Ministry of the Beautiful,
               BY HENRY JAMES SLACK, F. G. S. (Of the Middle Temple.)
               ELEGANTLY PRINTED. COMPLETE IN ONE VOL. CLOTH GILT.
               PRICE 62 CENTS.
               "This little book is full of rich and beautiful thoughts, and that it may speak
                  for itself, we extract the tenth conversation. Its teaching reminds us of
                  'Channing, on Self-culture,' in which he enforces the love of the beautiful, as a
                  source of happiness spread by Divine beneficence on every side, and within the
                  reach of all; a capacity of which all possess, and which is susceptible of
                  indefinite expansion. 'Geology is the most imaginative of sciences,' says Hugh
                  Miller, and this work is full of proof of the power of geological revelations to
                  elevate our conceptions of the grandeur and vastness of creative power, wisdom,
                  and goodness."—National Intelligencer.
               
               "This little work is full of poetry—but poetry that every mind experiences, and by
                  which every mind is influenced. It translates the voice of nature, it makes clear
                  those dictates which come from our hearts, where lies buried oftentimes the
                  master-key of knowledge, and inculcates a love of the beautiful."—Boston
                     Evening Gazette.
               
            
            
               TALES FROM THE ARABIAN NIGHTS' ENTERTAINMENTS.
               
                  As related by a Mother for the amusement of her Children.
               WITH FORTY ENGRAVINGS BY BUTLER, FROM DESIGNS BY J. GILBERT.
               CLOTH GILT. PRICE 50 CENTS.
               "Let every parent buy this little volume. The pomp and glory of these wonderful
                  stories, which could even beguile the imaginative mind of the radiant East, were
                  never so beautifully unfolded to the view of children. We can fairly envy the
                  delight of the child presented with the above beautiful edition, which is a
                  capital specimen of the taste and liberality of the publishers."—City
                     Item.
               
            
            
               ROBIN HOOD AND HIS MERRY FORESTERS.
               BY STEPHEN PERCY.
               
                  Eight Plates, Cloth gilt.
               "Here is another book for the juveniles, that needs no puffing. All the children
                  old enough to read such a book, will want this beautiful little
                     volume."—Southern Literary Gazette.
               
            
            
               RENA;
               OR, THE SNOW-BIRD.
               A TALE OF REAL LIFE.
               BY CAROLINE LEE HENTZ.
               
                  This day is published, in one vol. 273 pages, the Third Edition,
                  price 50 cents.
               "An unusually clever tale, that by its sprightliness, its clear delineations of
                  character, and its vigorous and sparkling style, will afford entertainment to
                  every class of readers."—Book Trade.
               
               "The 'Snow-Bird' elicits a thrill of deep and exquisite pleasure, even exceeding
                  that which accompanied 'Linda,' which was generally admitted to be the best story
                  ever written for a newspaper. That was certainly high praise, but 'Rena' takes
                  precedence even of its predecessor, and, in both, Mrs. Lee Hentz has achieved a
                  triumph of no ordinary kind. It is not that old associations bias our judgment,
                  for though from the appearance, years since, of the famous 'Mob Cap,' in this
                  paper, we formed an exalted opinion of the womanly and literary excellence of the
                  writer, our feelings have, in the interim, had quite sufficient leisure to cool;
                  yet after the lapse of years, we have continued to maintain the same literary
                  devotion to this best of our female writers. The two last productions of Mrs. Lee
                  Hentz now fully confirm our previously formed opinion, and we unhesitatingly
                  commend 'Rena,' now published in book form by A. Hart, Chestnut and Fourth
                  streets, as a story which, in its varied, deep, and thrilling interest, has no
                     superior."—Am. Courier.
               
            
            
               NELL GWYNNE;
               OR, THE COURT OF THE STUARTS UNDER THE REIGNS OF CHARLES II. AND
                  JAMES II.
               AN HISTORICAL ROMANCE.
               
                  Complete in One Volume. Price 50 cents.
               "The period during the reigns of Charles II. and James II. is one of the most
                  interesting in English history. Nell Gwynne, first a poor actress, and again as
                  the king's mistress, and possessing more than a queen's influence, is the
                  prominent character. The various characters are well drawn, and the construction
                  of the tale is thoroughly artistic. The scenes shift continually, and the interest
                  of the reader is well sustained to the close."—Evening Bulletin.
               
               "This is an historical romance of a brilliant period of English annals, and its
                  author has caught the spirit of the times, and worked up his materials with no
                  common degree of skill. The book will be found exceedingly
                     interesting."—Southern Literary Gazette.
               
            
            
               LINDA;
               OR, THE YOUNG PILOT OF THE BELLE CREOLE.
               A TALE OF SOUTHERN LIFE.
               By Mrs. CAROLINE LEE HENTZ.
               
                  Recently published in one vol. 276 pages, the Fifth
                  Edition, price 50 cents.
               "Mrs. Hentz has given us here a very delightful romance, illustrative of life in
                  the South-west, on a Mississippi plantation. There is a well-wrought love-plot;
                  the characters are well drawn, the incidents are striking and novel, the
                  dénouement happy, and moral excellent. Mrs. Hentz may twine new laurels above her
                  'Mob Cap.'"—Evening Bulletin.
               
               "We hail with pleasure this contribution to the literature of the South. Works
                  containing faithful delineations of Southern life, society, and scenery, whether
                  in the garb of romance or in the soberer attire of simple narrative, cannot fail
                  to have a salutary influence in correcting the false impressions which prevail in
                  regard to our people and institutions; and our thanks are due to Mrs. Hentz for
                  the addition she has made to this department of our native literature. We cannot
                  close without expressing a hope that 'Linda' may be followed by many other works
                  of the same class from the pen of its gifted author."—Southern Literary
                     Gazette.
               
               "Remarkable for the deep interest of the plot and touching beauty of its well-told
                  incidents; some of our newspaper editors, indeed, pronounce it 'the best
                     story ever published in a newspaper.' This is certainly high praise, and
                  from our knowledge of Mrs. Lee Hentz's ability, as an accomplished writer, we have
                  no doubt the praise is well merited."—American Courier.
               
            
            
               THE SEA-KING.
               A NAUTICAL ROMANCE.
               By the Author of "The Scourge of the Ocean."
               
                  Complete in One Volume. Price 50 cents.
               "It will prove deeply interesting to those fond of maritime stories, and abounds
                  in relations of daring deeds and gallant adventures."—Baltimore
                     American.
               
               "This is a brilliant story of the sea, by the author of that very popular work,
                  'The Scourge of the Ocean,' who did not live, however, to complete the present
                  one. This task was performed for the publisher by the same able hand that
                  completed 'Valerie,' the work left unfinished by Capt. Marryatt. The reader will
                  find 'The Sea-King' a most deeply interesting and absorbing story, abounding with
                  incident and character, and exhibiting much dramatic power."—Southern
                     Literary Gazette.
               
            
            
               
               MEMOIRS OF THE Life of Mary, Queen of Scots,
               With Anecdotes of the Court of Henry II., during her residence in
                  France.
               BY MISS BENGER, Author of Memoirs of "Anne Boleyn," &c.
               FROM THE SECOND LONDON EDITION.
               Two Volumes, cloth, extra gilt, price $2.
               "From very flattering reviews of this work, that have appeared in English
                  publications, and a perusal of the eventful life of Anne Boleyn, we had
                  anticipated a very agreeable treat, and our expectations have been more than
                  realized. Miss Benger has a most happy faculty of condensing historical
                  information, and while occupied in portraying the events of Mary's career, gives
                  the reader a bird's-eye glance at those institutions and laws which contributed,
                  while a resident in France, to the formation of her character, and at the same
                  time introduces on the stage the prominent actors, whose influence or example may
                  have had an influence over her. Her description of the Court of Henry II. cannot
                  fail to interest the reader, for she descends at times to details, which possess
                  all the attractions of romance, but which are strictly historical. An objection
                  may be urged to her copious notes, many of which might have been incorporated in
                  the text, without injury, but her desire probably to authenticate every fact of
                  any importance, has been the cause of this, and by the critical reader will be
                  deemed as essential. No lengthy review of this work is necessary to insure it a
                  perusal from our readers, for no reader of history can fail to take a deep
                  interest in the unfortunate Mary; and our friends, who are preparing volumes for
                  winter evening perusal, will find these every way worthy their
                     attention."—Boston Evening Gazette.
               
               "In these days of shabby reprints, it is a treat to get hold of a publication in
                  the best style of type and paper, for which Mr. Hart is famous. We have not, for a
                  long time, seen two such beautifully printed volumes.
               "Miss Benger, who has undertaken this new memoir of the hapless Queen of Scots, is
                  known as the capable writer of 'Memoirs of Anne Boleyn,' and other works. Of
                  course there cannot be a great deal that is strictly new said of the life of one
                  who has been so much written and talked of as Mary Stuart; but Miss Benger, while
                  she has obtained many new particulars, has made the best use of the old materials,
                  and thus given us a most graceful and interesting version of one of the most
                  touching histories on record. Three original letters of Mary to the Duke of Argyle
                  are published, and an autograph copy of a portion of a letter is engraved for the
                  second volume. To the first volume a well-executed engraved likeness is
                     prefixed."—Evening Bulletin.
               
               "This is a handsome reprint from the second London edition. The author is
                  favourably known from her 'Memoirs of Anne Boleyn.'"—Arthur's Home
                     Gazette.
               
            
            
               MEMOIRS OF THE HOUSE OF ORLEANS;
               Including Sketches and Anecdotes of the most distinguished
                  Characters of France during the 17th and 18th Centuries.
               BY DR. W. COOKE TAYLOR, Author of "Romantic Biography of the Age of
                  Elizabeth," "Manual of Ancient and Modern History," &c.
               TWO VOLUMES, POST 8VO, WITH PORTRAITS, CLOTH, EXTRA GILT, $2.50.
               "A very pleasant book; some of its pages are as full of interest as a romance. Dr.
                  Taylor is happy in many of his portraitures, but in none more than in that of the
                  lovely but unfortunate Henrietta, Duchess of Orleans, and of her daughter, the
                  charming and equally unfortunate Maria Louisa, Queen of Spain. The book cannot be
                  read without the deepest interest."—Morning Herald.
               
               "We have found this one of the most lively, spirited, and interesting histories we
                  have met with in a long while."—American Courier.
               
               "Dr. Taylor's information respecting the Orleans family is very great: he knows
                  every authentic detail in that long career. His accounts are decidedly amusing;
                  few novels indeed afford so much. The book is full of anecdotes, now stimulating,
                  scandalous, and delightful, and now dark, mysterious, romantic, and
                     terrible."—Morning Post.
               
            
            
               THE GENIUS AND CHARACTER OF BURNS, (The Poet.)
               BY PROFESSOR WILSON, OF THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH,
               
                  Author of the "Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life," "The
                  Recollections of Christopher North," &c. &c.
               IN ONE VOL. 12MO, CLOTH GILT.
               PRICE $1.
               "The lovers of Burns—and where are they not—will not fail to value the opinion of
                  Christopher North, far-seeing, all-seeing Christopher—of the life, intellect, and
                  genius of him whose strongest wish was 
                     
                        'for poor auld Scotland's sake,
                        Some useful plan of book to make,
                        Or sing a sang at least!'
                     
                  
               
               "And how tenderly, how earnestly, how gloriously he sang!
               "Professor Wilson defends the poet from much ungenerous and unwarranted reproach,
                  and gives the reader new views of his character. His book is a high and charming
                  tribute to the memory of one whom the world will always delight to
                     honour."—Western Literary Advertiser.
               
            
         
         
            A. HART'S NEW WORKS.
            
               MEMOIRS OF THE COURT OF MARIE ANTOINETTE, (QUEEN OF FRANCE.)
               BY MADAME CAMPAN.
               First Lady of the Bed-chamber to the Queen.
               With a Biographical Introduction from "The Heroic Women of the
                  French Revolution."
               BY M. DE LAMARTINE.
               RECENTLY PUBLISHED, IN TWO VOLUMES, POST 8VO., WITH PORTRAITS, CLOTH, EXTRA GILT,
                  $2.
               
                  OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
                  "THE book is a noble defence of Marie Antoinette against the many calumnies
                     breathed against her. Moreover, as a picture of manners during the latter years
                     of Louis XV., and the entire reign of his successor, it has no superior; it is
                     at once more decent and more veracious than the 'Life of Dubarry,' and the
                     thousand other garbled memoirs of that period. A large number of notes,
                     explanatory and otherwise, accompany the volume, and add materially to its
                     value. Mr. Hart has published the book in a style of great elegance, and
                     illustrated it with portraits, on steel, of Marie Antoinette and Madame
                     Elizabeth. It is a book that should find a place on every lady's
                        centre-table."—Neal's Gazette.
                  
                  "Two very interesting volumes, which the reader will not be likely to leave
                     till he has finished them."—Public Ledger.
                  
                  "The material of this history could not have emanated from a more authentic or
                     official source, nor have been honoured with a more distinguished or capable
                     god-father than De Lamartine."—Saturday Courier.
                  
                  "These elegant volumes are a reprint from the third London edition of this very
                     delightful work. The vicissitudes depicted in the volumes, and scarcely less
                     the charming style of the author and the entire familiarity of her theme, make
                     the work one of the most interesting that has recently issued from the American
                     press, and no less instructive and entertaining."—N. Y. Commercial
                        Advertiser.
                  
                  "This delightful work, abounding with historical incidents connected with one
                     of the most stirring periods of French history, presents the reader with the
                     personal annals of one of the most amiable and excellent women that ever shared
                     the honours of royalty. Compiled by one every way competent by talent and
                     education, and qualified by personal familiarity, the facts are entitled to the
                     confidence of the reader, while the style is piquant and graceful. The work is
                     got up in a very superior style of mechanical execution."—Baltimore
                        Sun.
                  
                  "We have seldom perused so entertaining a work—it is as a mirror of the most
                     splendid court of Europe, at a time when monarchy had not been shorn of any of
                     its beams, that it is particularly worthy of our attention."—Morning
                        Chronicle.
                  
                  "There is not a page of the work which is not deeply or amusingly interesting.
                     The position of the author at the court of Louis XVI. gave her extraordinary
                     opportunities for looking behind the scenes for the causes of much that was
                     entirely inexplicable to the public. Indeed, there can be no question of her
                     knowledge, while of her truthfulness, as far as she goes, there is abundant
                     evidence in the volumes themselves. We cannot believe Marie Antoinette to have
                     been as immaculate as she is painted by Madame Campan. Young, giddy,
                     inexperienced and wilful, she was cast headlong into the most profligate court
                     of Christendom. Surrounded by pleasures and temptations, amid a set of beings
                     to whom gallantry was so habitual that it ceased to be remarked—with an
                     impotent husband, and with all around him corrupt, venal, and licentious, we
                     cannot believe that all the scandalous stories respecting the queen were
                     entirely without foundation, that she was always misconstrued and
                        maligned."—Boston Morning Post.
                  
               
            
            
               
               A DESCRIPTIVE GEOGRAPHY AND BRIEF HISTORICAL SKETCH OF PALESTINE.
               BY RABBI JOSEPH SCHWARZ, FOR SIXTEEN YEARS A RESIDENT IN THE "HOLY
                  LAND."
               Translated by ISAAC LEESER, One of the Editors of the New Edition of the "Hebrew
                  Bible."
               ILLUSTRATED WITH MAPS AND NUMEROUS ENGRAVINGS,
               In One Volume 8vo. Uniform with "Lynch's Dead Sea Expedition."
               PRICE $2.50.
               "The volume is full of interest and information, is printed in the most beautiful
                  style, and is illustrated with numerous maps and engravings. A more detailed and
                  comprehensive publication on the Holy Land, as relates to its more remote
                  antiquities, has never been issued from the American press."—Inquirer &
                     Courier.
               
               "It is the result of wide and diligent research, and that it possesses an
                  unusually large amount of information concerning the physical history of that
                  land, so full of interest and so linked with the most sacred associations and
                  memories, as to be fitly called the Holy Land. The work is beautifully printed on
                  fine paper, and it is illustrated by maps and engravings on
                     stone."—Southern Literary Gazette.
               
               "This is a very learned and valuable work, deserving the consideration which it
                  will be sure to obtain from savans and others interested in the study of the Holy
                  Land; and the thanks of such are due to the erudite translator for the labour and
                  care with which he has prepared it for American readers."—North
                     American.
               
               "To the theological student it must especially prove of incalculable value, and
                  will doubtless find its way into every library and institution of
                     learning."—American Courier.
               
               "This is a work of vast erudition and research, and we commend it to the biblical
                  student, and to the man of letters, and the scholar, as perhaps the most
                  elaborate, and certainly the most accurate and authentic account of the Holy Land
                  ever published. Mr. Leeser, the translator, has executed his task very creditably,
                  and has taken great pains to make an easy and intelligible version from the
                  original Hebrew copy, and has occasionally enriched the text with useful
                  explanatory notes."—New Orleans Bee.
               
            
            
               PICTURESQUE SKETCHES IN GREECE AND TURKEY,
               BY AUBREY DE VERE, Esq.
               IN ONE VOLUME 12MO, 335 PAGES, CLOTH GILT. PRICE $1.
               "Threadbare as the east has become under the labours of hundreds of tourists. Mr.
                  de Vere has yet found spots in it that are still fresh 'with all their virgin
                  gloss.' The volume, in addition, is written in a pleasant style, that wins
                  insensibly on the reader, and leaves a high impression of the author's mental
                     cultivation."—Saturday Gazette.
               
               "To the classical reader, as well as to those in search of geographical
                  information in regard to the countries described, this pleasant volume will be
                  found full of interest."—Boston Transcript.
               
               "We find the book exactly what its title imports it to be, picturesque sketches of
                  Greece and Turkey, made by a refined gentleman and judicious observer, well stored
                  with ancient and modern associations. His sketches are really finished pictures,
                  and there is an elegance and placidity of style in his descriptions, which can be
                  better appreciated than described. We do not remember to have read a book of
                  sketches written in such cheerful good taste, or in so continuous a stream of
                     elegance."—Washington Union.
               
            
         
      
   
