
    ----CITATION----
        Diaz, Abby Morton, (1821-1904). Lucy Maria .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6277 wright2-0749
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               LUCY MARIA.
            
         
         
         
            
            
               
                  "I WENT OUT UPON THE KNOLL."
               
            
         
         
         
            
            
               LUCY MARIA.
            
            BY MRS. ABBY MORTON DIAZ, AUTHOR OF "THE WILLIAM HENRY
               LETTERS," "WILLIAM HENRY AND HIS FRIENDS," "KING'S LILY AND ROSEBUD," ETC.,
               ETC.
            With Illustrations.
            
               BOSTON:
               JAMES R. OSGOOD AND COMPANY,
               (LATE TICKNOR & FIELDS, AND FIELDS, OSGOOD, & CO.)
            
            1874.
            
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, BY JAMES R. OSGOOD
               & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.
               BOSTON:
               RAND, AVERY, & CO., ELECTROTYPERS AND PRINTERS.
            
         
     
      
         
            Lucy Maria
            LUCY MARIA.
            
               LETTER I.—PLANS.
               LUCY MARIA TO MYRA.
               
                  SUMMER-SWEETING PLACE.
                  DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—Thanks, beloved, for your speedy answering; albeit I fear its
                     speediness must be accounted for by your curiosity to learn the plans, which,
                     as you say so wickedly, "loom up in the fog" of my letter. Yes, yes, dear: I
                     will "reveal instantly," yet slowly, taking time to make them appear to you
                     both sensible and practicable.
                  I suppose, that, when a person sees a rightful way leading to a really good
                     object, there can be nothing out of the way in following such a way. Agreed?
                     Very well: I am that person; and the object is knowledge. There can be nothing
                        foggy about this, sure!
                  I took up school-keeping lightly, and with too much self-confidence (and also
                     because we needed the money). Anybody would do for the small ones, they said.
                     How can they think so? A sense of incapacity weighs upon me more and more each
                     day of school-life. When one of these little children looks up into my face in
                     such an innocent, confiding way, I feel,
                     as it were, very close to its soul,—it really seems as if you could see the
                     soul of a little child through its eyes,—and I think, "O you precious immortal!
                     how shall such a bungler as I dare to try my skill on you?" It is a very solemn
                     thing to help in giving even one young life its first direction. Every
                     impression tells. Think of that!—every look, every word, every action. Anybody
                     will do for the small ones? Instead of anybody, read nobody. It needs a seraph.
                     I believe that the wisest and best and most angelic and most beautiful-looking
                     persons in the land ought to be picked out and educated into teachers for the
                     little children; and they ought to be ordained and set apart for their calling,
                     and consider it a sacred one.
                  Why, I find, that, even to teach young scholars like mine, a person should
                     possess every one of the Christian virtues, and know something of every branch
                     of knowledge under the sun. My ignorance encompasseth me like a wall; and I am
                     brought up square against it constantly. I need to be acquainted with botany,
                     astronomy, geology, theology, physiology, the habits of every living creature,
                     the science of education (especially of heart-education), and the
                     history of all noble lives.
                  And, apart from this object, I long, just for my own private gratification, to
                     be where there is a whole meeting-house full of books,—where all those books
                     are which magazine-writers quote in such an aggravating way, as if everybody
                     knew. They send us country-folk samples; but I, for one, want to get at the
                     whole piece. There are fictitious characters I have seen mentioned in print all
                     my reading-life, with whom I would like a nearer acquaintance. Then there are
                     the poets, ancient and modern: I am not sure which one lived when, or of
                     scarcely any thing about them. Little scraps and waifs of beauty which drift
                     past in the newspaper flood are so tantalizing! They must float out from
                     somewhere; and that somewhere is an undiscovered country to me. But I am sure
                     there is one,—just as sure as Columbus was when he saw the bright birds and the
                     driftwood, and smelled the fragrance of unseen flowers.
                  I have had for some time a half-formed plan in my mind, something like this,—to
                     try to find some employment in the city which would pay my board and a trifle
                     over, leaving me a little time each day to spend at picture-galleries,
                     libraries, concerts, lectures, &c., but especially libraries; though I
                     believe there is no kind of culture but will make me a better teacher of little
                     children.
                  That this indefinite plan has at last taken definite shape is owing to a letter
                     I lately received from Mrs. Calloon of the "royal family," who, as you may
                     remember, had her lowly origin in this village, and, while at service in the
                     city, married money. The Calloons spend their summers here; and the neighbors
                     call them the "royal family" on account of Mrs. Calloon's taking such infinite
                     and ridiculous pains to have it understood that she and hers are—oh! way, way
                     up, ever so high above us and ours!
                  The letter was concerning a seamstress. Could I find her one, she asked, who
                     would work "for reasonable, that is, quite low wages." While reading the
                     letter, I thought, "Why not go myself, if she will take me on my own
                     conditions?"
                  And after due deliberation I wrote her, with the advice and consent of the council, offering to
                     come at one-half the usual rates, if she would allow me a fourth of each day,
                     or what in a week would amount to that, for myself. Matilda and the Snow girls
                     think 'tis the strangest thing in the world, my feeling willing to live in a
                     family where I shall be looked down upon and snubbed. Even father and mother
                     held back at first. But Uncle Carver said, and they soon agreed with him, that
                        everybody ought to mind the main chance; or, in other words,
                     that whatever is the main chance at a given time should be mainly
                     attended to. This is Uncle Carver's favorite idea, or one of his favorite
                     ideas.
                  Now, my main chance is to live a while where I can have the
                     benefit of certain advantages. This is my aim; and I shall aim at this alone:
                     so why trouble myself with other considerations? Suppose I wished to go to my
                     sister Hannah's on an important errand, and no vehicle but a cart could be
                     found to take me: wouldn't I go in that? Yes: I should mind the main
                        chance; which would be to reach Hannah's. The jolting, or sitting on
                     a meal-bag, or the chips in the bottom of the cart, or not taking the
                     pleasantest road,—these things would seem of but small account.
                  And just so in carrying out this plan of mine. Those snubs and slights the
                     girls speak of won't be any thing more than the chips in the bottom of the
                     cart. Looking down on me can't change me, you know; neither can looking up.
                     For, as Uncle Carver says, "Put a diamond on the ground, and look
                        down upon it, 'twill still be a diamond; or look
                        up to a crow on the ridge-pole, 'tis nothing but a crow.
                     Looking up to it will never change it to an eagle. People are what they are."
                     Sha'n't I be just Lucy Maria Carver wherever I am,—nothing less, and nothing
                     more,—whether people look up or down or sideways, or out of the backs of their
                     heads? I can't see that their lookings have any thing to do with
                     my finding out what it is desirable to know, or with my enjoyment of a
                     picture-gallery or an oratorio. Oratorio!—waves and floods of music, I've been told. Just the
                     thought of hearing one takes my breath away.
                  Could you lend me a well-fitting overskirt pattern? If so, do forward it by
                     mail, post-haste. You may imagine that I have something to do. Matilda helps;
                     but poor, dear little sister, she can hardly see for the tears in her eyes. I
                     find that leaving home is going to be hard. Father and mother both wear
                     spectacles now. I think that is a sad sight for a daughter to see. O Myra! I
                     can't bear to think of them as growing old. Their loving care has been over and
                     about me so long, that, were they to be taken away, I should feel like a poor,
                     lost child. They must, they must live long enough for me to do the
                     things I want to do for them! But you know all about these feelings. Father
                     wants I should tell your father, that, if your father has made up his mind to
                     sell those oxen, my father would like to buy them. He and Uncle Carver have
                     bought twenty acres of wood, standing, to keep them in work this winter in case
                     they lose Mr. Vose's teaming.
                  What do you suppose I have been doing this afternoon? Taking a lesson on a
                     broom-stick. Nothing to do with sweeping, except that Uncle Carver thought I
                     made rather a sweeping remark. There is one thing that has always vexed me;
                     which is, that I, Lucy M. Carver,
                     though seemingly possessed of a moderate share of common sense, do have more
                     respect, other things being equal, for a richly-dressed person than for a
                     poorly-dressed person. 'Tis not an act of free will; but, in some mysterious
                     way, my being bows to appearances. Myra, you can tell by yourself. Travelling,
                     you would think more at first sight of a lady-passenger in silk-velvet than of
                     one in delaine. You would: you know you would. And so would I; and hence my
                     lesson. I arrayed the broom in my best things,—dress, hat, sack, neck-tie.
                     "Georgiana," said I (she and grandmother and Uncle Carver were in to tea this
                     afternoon),—"Georgiana, what's that dressed up?"
                  "Broomstick, Cousin Lucy."
                  Then I took father's gold-headed cane, that Mr. Fry gave him, and put on to it
                     a calico gown and mother's old sun-bonnet. "Georgiana, what's that dressed
                     up?"
                  "Uncle Jacob's cane, Cousin Lucy."
                  "Lucy Maria, what are you trying to make out?" asked Matilda.
                  "Trying to make out, for one thing, that a broomstick is a broomstick, no
                     matter what it wears. Whoever goes among stylish people ought to bear that in
                     mind," I answered.
                  "There you show a narrowness," said Uncle Carver. "I rather think the
                     broomsticks are pretty equally distributed up and down the community. Looking
                     up for broomsticks, and down for gold-headed canes, savors of class-feeling;
                     and class-feeling is one of the world's evils."
                  "Rich folks keep it up," said Matilda.
                  Don't know about that," said Uncle Carver. "Poor folks are too ready, I think,
                     to take it for granted that rich folks are proud, and not quite so virtuous as
                     they themselves are. This helps keep up class-feeling; and besides, by taking
                     it for granted that people are proud of money, they show their own high opinion
                     of money."
                  I said I merely wished to impress it upon myself that character
                     was the main thing. And, Myra, speaking of dressing up broomsticks, isn't it
                     lucky I put off my spring suit till fall? All overskirts must
                     "catch up," I suppose. If you send a pattern, pray mark where; or notch it. I
                     do wish they would go out of fashion, or else hang better!
                  I don't know of any more perplexing question—except how evil came into the
                     world—than whether or not to follow the fashions. Uncle Carver says he thinks
                     the right way is for every woman to wear what looks best according to her own
                     taste, and not mind the fashions; but the droll of it is, that whatever is in
                     the fashion does look best, after a while. If we only knew sure just where the
                     path of duty leads! But how can we? It goes against our natural feelings to
                     appear conspicuous; and our best clothes will outlast the fashions, and it
                     takes precious time to alter them. A three-horned dilemma! There must be a
                     straight course through these perplexities. Perhaps I may study it out in some
                     of those great books in some of those great libraries.
                  Sept. 12 is the time fixed upon. It is a busy time of year for leaving home,—so
                     much fruit to be taken care of! Though, as for that matter, all times of year
                     are busy times for us. I shall go by the way of Crooked-Pond Village, and stay
                     one night at the Two Betseys' shop.
                     Have been promising to go and see them ever since they made us that
                        surprising visit four or five years ago. Don't you remember my
                     writing about it? Dear hearts! we've not heard from them for a long time.
                  
                     Ever affectionately,
                     LUCY M. CARVER.
                  
               
               
                  I will write immediately after my arrival, either to you or 'Tilda. If to her,
                     you shall see the letter. 'Tilda wants me to have one trained skirt. What do
                     you think about it? I have about made up my mind not to; but if the mayor
                     should invite me to his party, why—Well, perhaps, on the whole, it will be
                     safer to—think the matter over.
                  I wish Mr. Calloon were a man for whom we had more respect. I shall probably
                     see very little of him, however.
                  
                     L. M. C.
                  
               
               
                  How are Aunt Myra and Uncle Oliver and the rest of the people at Dewsbury
                     Centre? Tell little Oliver that Tommy and Georgiana are going to keep hens
                     together, and have a new hen-house built,—half on Uncle Carver's side, and half
                     on ours.
               
            
            
               LETTER II.—IN THE CITY.
               
                  LUCY MARIA TO MYRA.
                  DEAR COUSIN MARIA,—If I were of the "royal family," and born in
                     the purple, I would have my apartments on the palace roof, and be
                     conveyed to them on a stretcher: how absurd! on a palanquin, of course! When
                     you think of it, isn't it funny that the lower orders have the highest rooms?
                     There is more view from these attics than from all the other
                     windows. Thus are blessings divided,—some getting the mirrors and carpets,
                     others the air and sunshine. The fun is divided too; and I am getting my share.
                     On the very first hour of my arrival, while waiting in the reception-room, I
                     had the fun of listening to parts of a conversation on a very entertaining
                     subject; namely, myself. Bessie, the oldest girl, said she was afraid I should
                     expect to be made much of, and perhaps to eat at the table, "just because we
                     took a little notice of those Carvers in the country." Mrs. Calloon said she
                     should give me a hint to keep in my place.
                  "Who is she?—some rustic simpleton?" A gentleman they called Cousin
                        Colby asked this, and hit the case exactly, as I thought.
                  "Oh no!" Mrs. Calloon answered: "she's a well-appearing appearing young woman in her twenties. Trouble
                     is, she knows too much. This educating the lower classes is going to play the
                     mischief with every thing. These seamstresses—why, there was one here last
                     spring had a Latin book in her pocket!"
                  "What a dreadful state of things!" This from Cousin Colby.
                  "Oh, yes! Cousin Colby: you can make fun," cried Bessie. "You don't have any of
                     the trouble of taking care of people that are betwixt and between, and feel
                     respectable."
                  I wonder who this Cousin Colby is. He appears to be one of the family. Mrs.
                     Calloon is rather a kind-hearted woman. She asked after every one of our two
                     families, from grandmother way down to Tommy. I wonder if a person can be
                     shallow and proud and kind-hearted, all three at a time. "Judge not" is
                     mother's maxim. Well, I will judge not.
                  The "hint" came at noon in the sewing-room. "Miss Carver, I suppose you would
                     prefer your meals sent up. Our seamstresses usually do prefer their meals sent
                     up to taking them in the kitchen with the servants."
                  I thought a moment, and then answered, that, if it were just as convenient, I
                     would take them in the kitchen. She seemed surprised, but made no objection. To
                     tell the truth, I would like to see something of the Bridget side of life.
                     Irish girls are a novelty to me. They belong to humanity: and the study of
                     humanity is a part of my business. We dine at twelve, the family at six. As for
                     cleanliness, our dinner is as likely to be neatly cooked as theirs; perhaps
                     more likely. The girls appear to be good-natured, and just about half pleased
                     at my choosing to eat with them,—not a fraction over.
                  O Myra! my life is going to be so full here! Think of the new
                     dresses to be made up, and of such lovely material, and plenty of it! I always
                     did like to work over pretty things. Then the walls are hung with pictures; and
                     I never saw many pictures; and some of these are so beautiful, that—I have to
                     look away from them. Now laugh! But 'tis the living truth. Don't you know what
                     I mean? Did you never have this kind of feeling when looking at any thing that
                     was so perfect in its beauty it brought tears to your eyes?—some lovely flower,
                     for instance. And, besides the pictures, they have books,—desirable books
                     too,—the reading of which, I trust, will not be denied me.
                  Then here are all these people and their unfamiliar ways for me to study; and
                     an interesting study they are. Mrs. Calloon has those same light frizzy curls,
                     turning gray a little now. Her nose is as—small as ever: don't like to say
                     snubby when I am eating her salt. Bessie has her mother's style, excepting the
                     nose. She is remarkably pretty, and so are the younger girls. So nice to have
                     pretty faces to look at! Then, again, I hope to get a glimpse and a sniff, once
                     in a while, of a charming little conservatory which lets out of the
                     back-parlor.
                  All this entertainment, Myra, inside the house. And one more item might be
                     added,—a slightly romantic item. I expect to see inside the house—for she is a
                     relative of the family—Emmeline Gooding, the Rustic Beauty, the Wild-strawberry
                     Girl, the Meadow Bell, or Lily Bell, I am not sure which; in other words, the
                     heartless coquette, who, so many years ago, brought grief to the adopted son of
                     our precious Two Betseys
                     seys, thereby giving them one more sad experience,—the saddest of all, they
                     said.
                  And, speaking of experience, how much of it there is! millions and
                     billions of people going through experiences. Lovers and friends
                     meet to part no more, or part to meet no more. Parents rejoice or weep over
                     their children. Children are left orphans. So many things have happened right
                     around us there at home! Think of the anxieties, anguish, raptures, longings,
                     fearings, sighings, of just one small village! and then think of the
                     innumerable villages, towns, cities, teeming with humanity! What an amount of
                     emotion this earthly ball is carrying round the sun! For 'tis just as mother
                     says, a story to everybody, even to the humblest. Take, for instance, the Two
                     Betseys, who for years have known no other home than that little shop. A pair
                     of flat-irons could not seem more unpromising. It never occurred to us, from
                     reading Billy's school-letters about their hens, apple-tree, and yard-stick,
                     their flap-jacks, slate-pencils, and pocket-combs, that they had ever had more
                     serious and grievous matters to think of; but, if you should hear the story of
                     their lives, you would hear a story of trials and hardships. The trouble to
                     which I just now alluded came to them soon after Billy left Crooked-Pond
                     School. During that famous visit at our place four years ago, they told us just
                     the few main facts of the case, and those only. The night I staid there,
                     however, coming on, I learned more: indeed, it seemed a relief to them talking
                     about their boy, as they called him; though he must be nearly
                     thirty by this time. It was a sad story,—too long for telling in a letter;
                     though I will say, just for my own gratification, that
                        "GHOSTS OF MIXED BLUE SOCKS."
                     
                      he first met his fate in a wood in
                     wild-strawberry time. Her father went into business with Mr. Calloon, and is
                     wealthy now.
                  But, speaking of lovers, we girls call Billy and grandmother about as devoted a
                     pair as one commonly sees. Have you heard about the apron? He wanted to send
                     her some little thing; and we suggested "two yards of cheerful calico for an
                     apron." Matilda has written him to get her some seeds of the flowers that grow
                     on it, as she never saw any "running fuchsias" before, and yellow at that!
                     Cheerful? Beaming, refulgent! Grandmother might darn his stockings by the light
                     of it, if she only had them to darn. But, alas! Billy's clothes are washed away
                     now (in more senses than one).
                  Dear, blessed old grandmother! She counts her labors of love as nothing, and
                     accepts any little gift, or act of kindness, as though it were some mysterious
                     interposition of Providence. "To think," she said, "of Billy's thinking to do
                     it!" Dear soul! she has been "thinking to do" for him all these years. I
                     believe the one thing which reconciled her to my coming here was, that I could
                     do his darning. The gentleman who brought that calico doubtless supposed he was
                     making a very comforting statement when he spoke of seeing Billy standing at
                     the gaslight "drawing up the holes in his stockings." But it was
                     unwise in him to bring before her mind, and in such strong light, those seamed
                     and wayworn travellers she fain would darn so tenderly. That ghosts of mixed
                     blue socks in bad condition haunt her nightly pillow, who can doubt?
                  Just let me make a sketch of that idea. There! do you recognize those toeless, heelless
                     shadows, and the dreamer beneath? or are they all too shadowy?
                  
                     Truly your affectionate cousin,
                     LUCY M. CARVER.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—William Henry has been to see me. I hardly knew him in his tall hat. He
                     has plenty of hair still; but it is under pretty good subjection,
                        considering. Billy is not going to be so very
                     tall, after all. He is plenty tall enough, though; and is well built about the
                     shoulders: only I wish his shoulders were not quite so
                     sloping.
               
            
            
               LETTER III.—MATILDA'S VIEWS.
               
                  MATILDA TO LUCY MARIA.
                  DEAR SISTER LUCY,—You don't know how we do miss you. And as for me, I have
                     nobody to depend upon: no sister, I mean. I have been thinking what home news
                     to tell; but there doesn't very much happen. Now you are away, there isn't
                     anybody to make things happen, and to get up secrets and
                     surprises; though grand-mother pretends to say that she and Billy have got one.
                     "Starry Banner" is going to Cattle Show; and we expect she will draw a prize. I
                     shall send some geraniums, but do not expect they will draw any thing. Tommy
                     has bought two Guinea-hens. They make a dreadful noise. We are drying apples. I
                     don't think much of dried-apple sauce. Oh, L. M., we do miss you so! Now, you
                     know you are not mother's third best girl, even if you are romantic, and do
                     have wild notions. I am the third best. You can make things go lively; but I am
                     a dump. Hannah Jane could go ahead with the work ten times better
                     than I can. Grandmother is always telling how much faculty Hannah had. I wish
                     she had left me some! Now she has a husband, she will not need it so much.
                  I wish I could go into the prisons like a woman I have been reading about, and talk to the
                     prisoners, and do them good. But I suppose I should not know how to talk to
                     them. You would. But I might give them money, or give poor people money,—if I
                     had any to give. That's the worst of being poor. I know what you will say. You
                     will say that it is doing good to be a comfort to the folks at home. But
                     counting in Tommy only makes four, besides Uncle Carver's family; and they only
                     make seven. But, then, what is the use of talking, if anybody has no money, and
                     not much faculty? I can't even be tall. I believe, that, if I were tall and
                     slender, I should be thought much more of; but I don't complain. Maggie Baker
                     told me once that she would rather be remarkable than go about doing good.
                     Perhaps you will see Maggie, as their place is only six miles out of the city.
                     She thought every thing of you when she boarded here last summer. Do you
                     suppose her mother would like to have you come? If her brother Dorry were at
                     home, he would: I don't know about Madame. Susie Snow has been
                     making a visit in that neighborhood, and she says their grounds are perfectly
                     elegant. Does Billy go there very often now? I wish I
                        knew—something! You know what I mean. If it is so, what
                        will Madame say? I think she will set her foot down: but Dorry
                     would be very glad, I almost know; for he told me once that William Henry
                     seemed like a brother to him.
                  Dear little grandmother is just coming stepping across the garden from her
                     house, with a shawl over her head. She seems quite proud of having a secret
                     with Billy: says it is not about any girl. We guessed another new apron. Oh!
                     what do you think? Father is making himself an arm-chair out of a hogshead; not
                     the very biggest, but pretty big. Says he wants a comfortable chair large
                     enough to contain his whole length; and he is stuffing it with chopped hay and
                     cotton-wool, and never is going to have a tidy on it. We advise him to take
                     grandmother's new apron to cover it with; but he says he is going to buy some
                     "copper-plate tapestry, damask," and take solid comfort, and no
                        tidy. (I have begun one for it.)
                  Uncle Carver will put in a note: so no more at present.
                  
                     From your affectionate sister,
                     'TILDA CARVER.
                  
               
               
                  Write often. Do: won't you?
                  P. S.—Father and Uncle Carver have got a very good job of teaming to do, which
                     is going to pay,—oh! very well indeed. Just got it. Mother and I are planning
                     what to do with the money. Georgiana is going to have a bossy calf given her
                     the day she is fifteen, if she will promise to milk it when the time comes.
                     Grandmother says the minister and Uncle Carver are talking about evil.
                  
                     T.
                  
               
               
                  MR. CARVER'S NOTE.—CONCERNING HUMILITY.
                  MY DEAR NIECE,—A thought has come into my mind which I will express in writing.
                     It is concerning humility. You may not need this thought: still it will not
                     harm you, expressed in a general way.
                  Your earnest desire is to do good, and you have chosen your method. Now, I
                     should like to say, in a general way, that it has sometimes seemed to me that
                     people who are conscious of having a high aim in life are inclined to look down
                     with some contempt on those who differ from them in this respect.
                  
                  Again: you have taken a humble station. Now, though this second remark may be
                     unnecessary, still it will not harm you to have me say, in a general way, that
                     there may be such a thing as taking pride in being humble.
                  Also it is a good rule, with whomsoever you may be, the lofty or the lowly, to
                     look straight through all outward circumstances to the character.
                     A person who does this will not be dazzled by the splendor of the rich; neither
                     will he despise the beggar for his poverty, and neither will he despise the
                     wealthy for their wealth.
                  Grandmother and Georgiana send their love; and as for myself, you know well
                     that Jacob's children are to me almost as near and dear as William Henry and
                     Georgiana.
                  
                     From your affectionate uncle,
                     W. CARVER.
                  
               
            
            
               LETTER IV.—FURTHER EXPERIENCES.
               
                  LUCY MARIA TO MYRA.
                  DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—I had no idea that three weeks would take the opportunity of
                     slipping away while I was too busy to keep watch of them. But in all my letters
                     home I have written, "Send to Myra:" so you cannot have been left
                     letterless.
                  No: I have never regretted coming, for one single moment. I am getting what I
                     wanted, and am having a good time all the time. Why, just moving along the
                     street with the crowd works me up to a high pitch; for I catch the hurry and
                     excitement; and my breath comes fast, and my pulses fly; and I go with a rush,
                     if only for a spool of cotton.
                  Work is brisk. We have been busy five days now, two of us steadily,—machine and
                     I,—on Miss Bessie's silver poplin; and it is not finished yet. To-day we broke
                     ground on two party-dresses. Intimate acquaintances often drop into the
                     sewing-room; and it is fun to be dummy, and listen. Sometimes Cousin Colby
                     stops at the door, and says, in his solemn, impressive manner, "Trim it with
                     green cord! Cut bias!" His favorite advice is to "trim with green cord." I have
                     not yet made out this sombre-faced individual, but feel almost sure of his nourishing a secret woe. From
                     remarks dropped in conversation, I infer that he has plenty of money. He is a
                     slender, oldish-young man, of, say, thirty; has a dark skin, high narrow
                     forehead, prominent nose (not a Roman), thin face, and small, bright black
                     eyes, deep set. He makes fun in his sarcastic way of the girls' dresses and
                     beaux; seldom laughing, though.
                  Alas for this vexing question of clothes! Now, some pretend to say that you
                     must dress entirely plain, without ruffling or embroidering; thus saving time
                     for matters of real importance,—such as reading, visiting the poor, and the
                     like. This seems sensible and reasonable. But, then, we are so made as to like
                     pretty things; and Nature ruffles in her way, and takes pains to
                     embroider her dress. She doesn't get up her rose-bushes and
                     apple-trees entirely plain.
                  Still there must be something wrong somewhere, when half a dozen women, meeting
                     together, take dress for the chief topic of conversation. No wonder men call
                     women weak-minded! Half a dozen men would not sit down and make business of
                     talking about coats, vests, boots, and tailors: would they, now? Men are vain
                     enough, I'll allow; and fussy enough about their clothes. There's no sex in
                     vanity. A shoemaker once said to me, "Only let a man get the idea that he has a
                     small foot, and there's no satisfying that man with the fit of a boot ever
                     after." Said a small-footed man was worse to work for than a small-footed
                     woman.
                  Yet it must be confessed that men's talk, on the whole, is not so silly as
                     women's, on the whole. A gathering of men at a country store will discuss
                     politics, religion, reforms, &c.; while their wives at the sewing-circle
                     discuss cuss gossip, mostly. Oh, the talk about beaux here does put me into
                     such an agony of fun!—agony, because I have to bear it inwardly. "Never talk
                     about folks," mother always told me: so I'll be a good girl, and not do so any
                     more. Mrs. Calloon treats me politely enough; and so do the older girls.
                     Perhaps they are a trifle grateful to me for knowing my place without any
                     showing. I never make complaints, nor step over the line. Why should I? The
                     chamber-girl told the parlor-girl that she thought I was "stuck up." The remark
                     was probably caused by my hanging a picture or two in my room, and spreading
                     down a few yards of bocking, and putting up muslin curtains at the
                     window. (I thought these things would work in at home.) Still it is so natural
                     to look down on those whom we think beneath us, and who really are in some
                     respects, that, quite likely, my manner is, unconsciously to myself, "stuck
                     up." Trying not to look down is an entirely different thing from
                        not looking down. I suppose there are no two human beings, be
                     their surroundings ever so unlike, but that touch at some points.
                  When I was awakened (I told you something about that once), I
                     remember that there suddenly dawned or flashed upon me a conviction of the
                     equality,—no, that isn't a good word,—the alikeness, the oneness,
                     of all humanity; and I felt in sympathy with everybody. And why not? We are all
                     composed of the same materials; as lime, phosphorus, iron, albumen. We are all
                     pleased with the same things; as love, praise, flattery. We all fear the same
                     things; as pain, death, a bad name. And certainly our souls all emanate from
                     the same divine source. Why! we touch at all points; don't we, now? And so, as Uncle Carver says, we
                     should look at people, not according to their circumstances, but
                        through their circumstances.
                  I had a kind note from Uncle Carver, the other day, in a letter from Matilda.
                     Matilda says grandmother and Billy have a secret, "not about any girl."
                     Possibly the retentive youth may have two secrets. You remember, (don't you?)
                     that, when he was a little boy at Crooked-Pond School, he went home with
                        Dorry Baker to spend Sunday, and that said Dorry
                     had a little sister. Well, do you know, Myra, I have sometimes thought, that,
                     when Billy builds his "grand house," he will want a certain pretty damsel named
                        Maggie Baker to be the angel in the household? I saw signs and
                     wonders last summer: for is it not a wonder that one person's name should alter
                     another person's complexion? How doth the sense of hearing affect the
                     circulation of the blood! Such delight as I took, those weeks she boarded with
                     us, in speaking his name suddenly, and watching the rising of the beautiful
                     blush! Mother said I ought to have lived in the times of the Inquisition. (Only
                     a pleasing torture, I told her.) Hannah Jane's courtship was far from
                     satisfactory: and now, if we are going to have another pair of lovers in the
                     family, I do feel that justice entitles us to a fair amount of blushing.
                     Certainly Billy's complexion is favorable: though, as for being red-headed
                        now, the person shall be frowned down who says it!
                  He has been to call on me three times. So pleasant to have him come! though, to
                     be sure, his last call just lost me the chance of seeing the Wild-strawberry
                     Girl. The fashionable Miss Emmeline Gooding would smile, probably, to think of
                     a poor seamstress calling her that. She has been out of town. I am so impatient
                     to see her! You would be, too, had you heard what the Two Betseys told. I am
                     hoping she will come into the sewing-room some time, in company with other
                     young ladies, to try whether I could pick her out from among them by means of
                     the Meadow Bell description. Matilda is good authority in floral matters; and
                     she says she knows no such flower. It is probably a local name. The Two Betseys
                     described it as a pinkish bell-flower hanging on a slender stalk. They never
                     saw the girl themselves; and he, that is, Albert Daniel—Oh, dear! I'm getting
                     myself into a story,—the story I'm keeping to tell you next time we sleep
                     together. I was going to say, that he never spoke of her to them but once: and
                     then he was in a "dreadful frame of mind," as they expressed it. They have
                     never seen him since. The flowers were in a tumbler on the table. The Other
                     Betsey picked them in a meadow.
                  It is too bad to tantalize you with these scraps of a story; and I won't do so
                     any more, especially as Margaret (chamber-girl) has just come to ask me to
                     write a letter for her. She and her sweetheart are in a falling-out; and I
                     mistrust the letter will be to him. These girls are beginning to confide to me
                     their troubles and their cousins' troubles, which are wonderfully like other
                     people's troubles, and other people's cousins' troubles. Mary, the parlor-girl,
                     has a round, blooming, sweet face, and a witching air; and her lover is really
                     to be pitied. He brings the marketing of mornings, lingering for a word or a
                     smile, but gets neither. Sometimes he comes of an evening, and sits a while
                     glum and disconsolate; she looking her
                     prettiest, and acting her coldest. Margaret says that Mary "likes the company
                     of a young man who goes round with another girl." Such is life.
                  
                     Affectionately,
                     LUCY M. C.
                  
               
               
                  Yes, when they have dancing here, I should like to be "treated as
                     one of the family." It is very hard to keep your feet from dancing when the
                     music plays. Please send my letters to our folks.
               
            
            
               LETTER V.—THE PEACEFUL LADY.
               LUCY MARIA TO MYRA.
               DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—To whom thanks for her scolding letter. You must remember,
                  beloved, that I have to write to the old folks at home and the young folks at
                  home, and to Hannah Jane and the Snow girls, and have written once to Mother
                  Delight. And we have been very much hurried. The dressmaker
                     disappointed, and the machine acted, and the cook
                  left suddenly; so that, for a few days, we were in a crisis nearly the whole time.
                  I took the cook's place in some respects, and vibrated between the sewing-room and
                  the kitchen, busy as a bee, and having a splendid time. It did come so natural to
                  take hold of a long-handled spoon once more! Mrs. Calloon was astonished at my
                  being willing to roast a turkey and make a pudding; but said, if I really were
                  willing to make a pudding, she wished it might be like one she saw my mother turn
                  out of a tin pudding-bag once, which had a delicious smell. I knew what she
                  meant,—a suet-pudding, with plums in it; and said, "Oh, yes! I will
                  make one;" and felt so proud, stirring away, thinking how light it would be, and
                  how they would all praise it. Probably stirred in some of my pride with the plums,
                  and it had a fall, and made the pudding
                  heavy; or else the pot stopped boiling. I never was more mortified than when that
                  sticky lump fell out.
               But let my cooking experiences go now; for I want to tell you of my new-found
                  friend. On my very first visit to the Public Library I fell in love with a lovely
                  lady. She had regular features, wavy gray hair, a delicate complexion (just a
                  little flushed), beautiful hazel eyes, and altogether what I should call a serene
                  presence. I could hardly keep from watching her while she read or took notes, and
                  especially when she spoke to the attendants, there was such a fascination, such
                  refinement, in her whole manner. She had very white, soft hands, and was—oh!
                     elegantly dressed, though in a quiet style. I stole looks at her
                  till I felt ashamed, for she caught me several times; but I was trying to give a
                  name to the expression of her countenance. Pleasant, beautiful, sad, thoughtful,
                  gentle,—it was all of these. But at last peaceful came to me; and
                  that seemed as good a word as any: so ever after that I called her my
                     Peaceful Lady. She came often, and appeared to be taking notes;
                  and, as I was doing the same, it followed that we met there quite frequently, and
                  at last began to recognize each other by a kind of half-bow and half-smile;
                  though, of course, I was not the first to begin.
               Yesterday afternoon I had gone through the usual routine of consulting catalogues,
                  waiting for books, getting the wrong ones, and waiting again, and sat with my head
                  leaning on my hand in a discouraged attitude, when, to my surprise, a voice near
                  me said in gentle tones, "Pardon me; but—can I help you, my young friend?" I
                  turned; and there was my Peaceful Lady, bending toward me with such a sweet
                  sympathizing expression! My reverence and admiration for her were such, that I
                  felt as bashful as a real lover when she actually spoke to me; and not only
                  bashful, but—well, her refinement made me feel—oh, dear! I can't express it
                  exactly; say awkward, rough-shelled, rough-hewn, or something as raw quince might
                  beside a delicate mould of quince-jelly. Laugh away, dear, if you only get the
                  idea.
               She asked what book I was trying to find. I answered, blushing, that I was trying
                  to find some book about little children,—something that would show me a way of
                  teaching them.
               "You speak, doubtless, of intellectual teaching," she said.
               I answered, "No, ma'am: of heart-teaching."
               She moved close up, took hold of my hand, and said, speaking earnestly, "Pardon me
                  again; but you do not mean" (emphasis on the "do not"),—"you do
                     not mean that you wish to learn how to train the moral natures of little
                  children?"
               Her earnestness made me smile. "Yes, ma'am," I said: "that is what I would like to
                  learn."
               "I want to tell you," she began; then stopped, saying that we must not converse in
                  the library. She walked part way home with me; and, oh! her talk was so different
                  from any I ever heard, and she was so kind! And I feel, Myra, that I have gained a
                  delightful friend; for she asked me to come and see her (though, of course, I
                  shall feel too bashful to), and expressed some very elevated ideas (you shall have
                  them some time); and really seemed pleased, I thought, to meet a person
                     interested ested in what she called
                  the heart-training of little children. Said the subject had been
                  uppermost in her mind for some years. If I could only send you her picture! though
                  it would give you no idea of the earnest, soulful expression of her
                  countenance. Speaking of Walter Scott's novels (I told her I was reading them),
                  she said they ought to be made a study; said there was honor enough in the
                  character of Sir Kenneth, in "The Talisman," to supply a whole congressful of
                  modern politicians. I am just reading that (and, oh, how fascinating it is!) and
                  "Ivanhoe" and "Old Mortality," Wonderful, wonderful!
               I was led to read them by something the Two Betseys told me about their
                     Albert Daniel. He, it seems, was a matter-of-fact young fellow,
                  not over-fond of reading, and especially averse to story-books. But Walter Scott's
                  story-books, to please Lame Betsey, he sometimes read aloud of evenings. Perhaps
                  it is because I have just finished a novel that I feel exactly in the mood of
                  telling you this true-love tale,—true on one side,—or as much of it as can be put
                  upon a sheet of letter-paper.
               Unless I do, you will not be in full sympathy with me, and cannot possibly
                  understand how much I want to behold this wicked Emmeline Gooding. So, to please
                  you and please myself, I will tell you briefly the whole story. But, though short,
                  it must have a name. What is a story without a name?
               When a ship-owner launches his ship, he breaks a bottle of wine over its bows, and
                  christens it according to his fancy or his liking for certain persons,—"The Emma
                  Jane," for instance, "The Lively Sally," "The Flying Cloud;" and so I, out of
                  respect and affection for two dear old ladies, will christen my little one-sheet
                  story "The Two Betseys' Shop," breaking over its bows an imaginary cup of tea, and
                  saying to its godmothers, "Dearly beloved Two Betseys, may you live long to bless
                  us by the influence of your simple, kindly natures!"
               But they will not, will not, live long: nobody does. Our friends drop away; and
                  who shall fill their places? Think of Aunt Harriet, of lovely Cousin Ellen, of
                  merry Uncle Archie! Can there be another Uncle Archie, Cousin Ellen, Aunt Harriet?
                  How much richer life would be with their dear company! In one sense, every friend
                  that goes is a total loss, a piece gone out of the set: no replacing; each piece
                  is made from a separate pattern.
               Think what a mother Aunt Harriet would have been to William Henry! Still I doubt
                  not that the influence of her beautiful character controls his life somewhat.
               And now for the little story, which, if I knew how, should be laid out in neat
                  little chapters,—chapters with beautiful headings, or striking ones. But why speak
                  of knowing how? I have just heard from Aristotle (through a newspaper extract);
                  and this is what he says: "Those things which we would learn to do we must learn
                  by doing them."
            
            
               
               LETTER VI.—THE TWO BETSEYS' SHOP.
               LUCY MARIA TO MYRA.
               
                  CHAP. I.—THE BLUE-EYED BOY.
                  DEAR MYRA,—There are so many interesting details, that the question will be,
                     which to leave out.
                  It seems, that, when the Two Betseys were between forty and fifty years old,
                     the neighbors, who had long felt a care over them, advised their setting up
                     housekeeping in the chambers of a small old house on the outskirts of the
                     village; and not only advised it, but helped to establish them by sending in
                     such articles of furniture, bedding, and crockery-ware, as could be spared from
                     their own homes. Ticking for a bed was bought by subscription; and each family
                     contributed feathers according to the number of its fowls.
                  One day, Lame Betsey burned her hand in pressing: they took in tailoring. The
                     neighbors recommended touchwood; and the Other Betsey went into
                     the swamps to look for some, and lost her way, and, in wandering here and
                     there, came, at last, to a hut in the woods. The door stood open: it opened
                     outside like a barn-door. Finding no one there, she looked around, and saw
                     presently a fire burning down in a hollow, and went toward it, thinking to find
                     some person who would show her the way home. The fire, as it proved, was made
                     in a sort of out-doors fireplace,—just a few stones piled together. A kettle of
                     clothes rested on the stones; and not far off a man sat leaning against a
                     tree,—an emaciated, sickly-looking man, ragged, barefoot, unshaven, and having
                     altogether, according to her account, a most ghastly appearance. She turned,
                     and was walking away pretty fast, when the man called out in the most
                     beseeching tones, "Stop, stop! Let me speak to you! Oh! won't you stop?"
                  It was a case, it would seem, of special answer to prayer. The man said he had
                     been praying ever since sunrise for some one to come to whom he might speak of
                     his anxiety. She sat down on a log near by, and let him tell her all about the
                     death of his wife Luella, and about his own sickness, and about Luella's child.
                     He made a fire there to wash; because that was easier than to carry water
                     up-hill. He had promised Luella to keep their boy looking
                        respectable. The boy was three years old. There he lay asleep
                     by some elderberry-bushes. He himself was going to die; had caught the
                     consumption of Luella. He knew the sickness, every step of it. The child had no
                     relatives; and did she know of any one who would take it, and bring it up
                        respectable? The talk ended by her promising to make inquiries
                     among the neighbors.
               
               
                  CHAP. II.—TOWN'S TALK.
                  NONE of the neighbors cared to adopt Luella's child; and, while the overseers
                     were deciding the case, he staid with
                     the Two Betseys. They borrowed a little chair; and three times a day they tied
                     an apron around his neck, gave him a porringer of milk-porridge, and set him
                     down to eat it; and, when they saw him eating his porridge so innocent and
                     helpless, they could not help loving him. At first he slept on a chest; but
                     afterward a trundle-bed was borrowed. They cut his hair round about his little
                     head; they made him some clothes with bright buttons up over the shoulder, and
                     down behind; they gave him a tin plate, a mug with "A Gift of Affection" on it,
                     and let him sit up to the table. Night and morning, in his long blue calico
                     night-gown, he folded his little hands, and said his little prayers. And when,
                     at last, the overseers sent word that the boy must go to the poorhouse, the Two
                     Betseys made known their intention of keeping him.
                  The neighborhood was up in arms at once. Such an encumbrance! If anybody hadn't
                     the bother of children of their own, why not be easy and take comfort? What did
                     two old maids want with a child? So sure as they took him, so sure they'd be
                     sorry!
                  "Folks couldn't understand," the two said, both talking together
                     in their peculiar way,—"folks couldn't understand the lonesomeness of two lone
                     women that had seen trouble. Besides, he belonged to us, after we loved
                     him."
                  Some of the neighbors befriended them, however. A Mr. —— (his name escapes me
                     now) sent in meat when he killed; another person almost found them
                     in firewood; and the man who kept the mill gave them a great deal of meal.
                  As the case proceeded, the neighborhood had cause to be dissatisfied, inasmuch
                     as "Albert Daniel" did not give one-quarter of the prophesied trouble to his
                     two mothers. To be sure, they kept the door of one closet well
                        "listed," and "something thick on the floor to deaden the
                     sound;" and, when he had one of his "trangums," he was placed inside, that the
                     down-below people might not hear. So well established was this custom, that,
                     whenever a "trangum" took him, he would run screaming to the closet of his own
                     accord, knowing, they said, that there was the place for him. He was a child
                     who fell naturally into regular habits,—"ran well in the ruts, but was hard to
                     turn."
                  And no words could express, they told me, the comfort they took in that boy.
                     Such an orderly, sensible, willing creature! so reasonable after being
                     convinced! no little sly ways; so open-hearted and true-spoken! always wanted
                     to brush his hair the same way, and hang his hat on the same nail, and take off
                     his shoes in the same corner, and go to meeting regular, and to
                     school in season; and tried hard to learn, though he wasn't over quick to; and
                     wouldn't whittle on the floor, nor slobber round with his glue nor his
                     paste,—though that wouldn't have been such a dreadful put-out. And the pleasure
                     that it was to pin on his clean collar, and slick down his hair, and tie on his
                     bow, and then to look out the window to see him go, and then to watch for his
                     coming back! Ah, but the Two Betseys took comfort in those days!
                  And then, when he grew to be a young man, they were so fond of his company!
                     Why, he was all the company they wanted; for, though no talker, he had judgment
                     to advise, and was quiet and steady in all his ways.
                  
                  He began to go with a pleasing young woman of the neighborhood; and there was
                     every prospect of a serene future.
                  Even the best and happiest, it is said, look back with an if. The
                     Two Betseys' if is, if they had not advised him to
                     learn a carpenter's trade. But, as I told them, no trade is exempt from the
                     trial he met.
                  The young man's appearance at twenty-one was thus described by the Two Betseys:
                     He had a square, heavy forehead, a widish face, dark curly hair, heavy
                        eyebrews, dark blue eyes, full lips; was five feet nine inches
                     in height; considerable thick-set, though not fat. Handsome enough
                     for them, they said; nothing out of the way in his face, except that one
                        eyebrew worked up a little mite above the other, especially
                     when he got roused, or much interested in what was going on, or in what he was
                     reading. Lame Betsey, it seems, was always fond of her book. She has more
                     refinement of mind, of face too, than the Other, and is smaller in
                     stature. The Other is tall, energetic, and a good honest soul as
                     ever breathed. She gave up her own "prospects," rather than leave her sister. I
                     was going to say that Lame Betsey used to borrow, now and then, a volume of
                     Scott's novels; which Albert Daniel, for her gratification, would sometimes
                     allow himself to be coaxed into reading aloud of an evening. Always loath to
                     begin one, he would eventually become interested, though more in the fighting
                     passages than the love-scenes. The dear Two Betseys wiped the tears from their
                     eyes as they told how the three of them used to sit at the table,—they two
                     sewing, and he reading on so faithfully through the long dull places
                     ("faithful" was a word they used repeatedly in describing him), because he
                     thought every word of one page must be finished before turning over; and how
                     mad he would get, and work his eyebrew, and slat down the book,
                     when the villain made mischief; and how he would stop sometimes, when the eyes
                     of their needles plagued them, and thread 'em himself!
               
               
                  CHAP. III.—THE WILD-STRAWBERRY GIRL.
                  ALL would have been well, had not the very unlikeliest thing in the world come
                     to pass,—unlikeliest, that is, for a steady, matter-of-fact young man like the
                     Two Betseys' Albert.
                  He went away to work, it seems, soon after learning his trade, and remained
                     away several years; coming home occasionally, of course, to see his girl and
                     his two mothers. I should have told that he began to "wait upon" this girl in
                     the first place, because they both came home the same way; and this went on
                     until at last their names naturally were mentioned together. She was some years
                     older than himself. Judging from one sentence the young man afterward let drop
                     when in a state of excitement, it would seem that he had not the least idea, at
                     that time, of there being in real life such passionate emotions as the novels
                     described; and that he believed his own experience, when it came, to be
                     something entirely out of the common course.
                  At a time when work was dull almost everywhere, it happened that a friend of
                     his, who had moved away to a little town called Beulah, wrote that carpenters
                     were in demand there, and advised him to come. He accepted the call, and
                     went.
                  There is, after all, not much to tell of the Beulah episode sode, except that this very steady, reserved,
                     matter-of-fact young man fell terribly in love with a bewitching young girl of
                     Beulah, named Emmeline Gooding,—a poor man's daughter then. "Terribly" is not a
                     good word, but the only one which fitly expresses the tumultuous condition to
                     which he came at last.
                  Their first meeting was in a wood, where she was picking wild strawberries as
                     he passed through to his work. This was seven years ago; he being then
                     twenty-two years old.
                  The girl, it seems, was a village belle, very young,—not quite seventeen,—and
                     had an abundance of beaux. A vain, heartless coquette: no doubt of that. She
                     encouraged Albert to "keep company with her;" and then turned him off, actually
                     telling the unhappy youth in plain words, that, if he could come with wealth to
                     offer her, she might think of it.
                  One evening, when Lame Betsey was at home alone, she was alarmed by the sudden
                     return of Albert. "Albert in looks," she said, "not in behavior." He was
                     excited, and appeared altogether strange. Would be talkative one moment, silent
                     the next. He never once mentioned the girl's name: they found that out
                     afterward, accidentally. But never mind these details. He spoke of her as
                        "a wicked creature." It was then, after Lame Betsey had
                     sympathizingly drawn him out to talk about his troubles, that he made the
                     remark alluded to just now,—"Oh! I never thought there was, in reality, any
                     such thing as this." It was also on the same evening that he spoke of those
                     flowers in the tumbler.
                  Next morning his mood had changed. The excitement had given place to a cold,
                     hard reserve. Before noon he left them abruptly, saying that he was going away
                     to make his fortune; and, Myra, from that day to this—over seven years—they
                     have never heard a word from him!
                  Of course, the neighborhood took the comfort of knowing that its predictions
                     had at last proved true. Oh! several years before this, the neighborhood came
                     to the conclusion that the Two Betseys were too old to take in tailoring any
                     longer. The small building which had belonged to Albert's father was only
                     three-quarters of a mile away; and when the school was established at Crooked
                     Pond, and a factory built, and a little village had begun to spring up, it was
                     decided that the building be moved down, and that the Two Betseys live in it,
                     and keep a few things to sell.
                  You will understand now, Myra, my anxiety to see this bewitching Emmeline. By
                     what I can hear, there must have been, at one time, an engagement between her
                     and Cousin Colby.
                  
                  
                     Affectionately,
                     LUCY M. C.
                  
               
            
            
               
               LETTER VII.—DILEMMAS.
               
                  LUCY MARIA TO MYRA.
                  DEAR COUSIN,—You are almost as impatient as I am. Well, it was my wish to put
                     you in sympathy with myself on that point. No: I have not seen her yet. She is
                     out of town.
                  You ask how much I am learning. A great deal; and not only learning, but
                     unlearning. I used to think, "Oh these rich ones! they don't have to work and
                     worry: they glide along just as easy as sliding across the pond." Sometimes,
                     when I've been turning old dresses, cutting and contriving, I've said to
                     myself, "Now, if we only had money, I could buy new, and save all this time for
                     reading." But these people have no leisure. Why, you can't begin to imagine the
                     head-work and hand-work and feet-work it takes to turn goods into clothes! Mrs.
                     Calloon comes home from a forenoon's shopping as much used up as mother is
                     after a hard forenoon in the kitchen. And consider what has to go on
                     perpetually,—dinner-parties, evening-parties, dressing three or four times a
                     day or five, calling, receiving calls! Leisure, indeed!—they are hurried
                     always.
                  Uncle Carver says things are pretty well balanced in this world, as far as
                     taking comfort goes; and I begin to believe it. High or low, all have their
                     tribulations. Fishes are hooked, worms are trodden on, birds are fired at.
                     Worry is everywhere. Poor men's wives worry because the bread won't rise, or
                     the stove won't draw, or the clothesline breaks, or the milk burns on, or the
                     pane of glass is mended with putty, or they can't afford to hire help. Rich
                     men's wives worry because the preserve-dish is not of the latest pattern; or
                     because somebody finds out how a party dress is trimmed before the party
                     happens; or because some grandee's wife overlooks them; or because their help
                        sarses 'em, breaks up tea-sets, spoils dinners, gets drunk, and
                     cuts up sheets into under-clothing. Causes vary; but worry
                     averages about the same. The scale of miles is different on different maps; but
                     places remain just so far apart, and so do humanity and content.
                  I'm sure I can't imagine myself ever being content. I want to buy, oh! so many
                     beautiful things for our home; and I want certainly two more good dresses, and
                     another pair of hands, and six more pairs of eyes, and ten more hours to a day,
                     and twice as many days in a year. Did you ever hear of people being hungry
                     enough to eat all there was on the table? That's just the way I feel going into
                     a library,—hungry enough to devour all the books at one meal.
                  The question is, Why have we a natural longing to do more than we can do? Take,
                     for instance, me, your cousin, who perfectly longs to perfect herself in music,
                     painting, several of the sciences, the study of poetry, prose too, and also to
                     interest herself personally in the poverty-stricken and the debased. Now, if
                     such longings come by nature (and they do), it really would seem that the time
                     and vital force necessary for satisfying them ought to come by nature too (and
                     they don't).
                  
                  A similar conundrum is puzzling this dear cousin of ours. You know William
                     Henry always did like to get just as close up to the exactly right line as
                     possible; which propensity we think, who love him, is to be
                     esteemed far above brilliancy. It is almost touching, the honest perplexity
                     which troubles his breast.
                  "What is a poor fellow to do?" he asks. "My father says, 'Keep up with the
                     times. Interest yourself in the leading ideas of the day, and in every worthy
                     cause. Try to do some good in the world, not live for yourself wholly. Also
                     study politics; for it will be your duty to help in shaping them by and by.'
                     Then comes Mr. Fry; and he says, 'William Henry, don't scatter your forces.
                     Bend all your energies to business. Never mind staying after
                     hours: that will please your employers.' Next the doctor: 'Exercise every day
                     in the open air, young man, and give some time to gymnastics. Your body is
                     worth taking care of, or no body would have been given you.' And you tell me to
                        'Read, Billy; read,'—not trash, so you say, but
                     what will refine my mind; and also to visit picture-galleries for that same
                     purpose; and also by no means to give up amusements altogether. Now, how is a
                     fellow to work all day, and stay over hours, and keep up with the times, and
                     study politics, and do good, and do gymnastics, and take out-door exercise, and
                     amuse himself, and refine his mind with high reading?" The best advice I could
                     give him was to divide his time, so that some important duty fall to each day.
                     Something would certainly be thus accomplished in the long-run.
                  Who knows but that, in the far future, say a thousand years from now, dilemmas
                     of this kind will be taken into consideration in arranging the affairs of the
                     world? Money-making is commendable. Should it, however, use up all the daylight
                     of the country, considering that our natures have such manifold needs? Sundays,
                     to be sure; but they, you know, are for one particular purpose. Billy and I
                     usually go to meeting together somewhere. Uncle Carver is anxious for him to
                     hear preachers of different opinions, and judge for himself; says beliefs are
                     usually handed down in families—with the silver. He thinks it would tend to
                     bring about harmony if the sheep would change pasture
                     occasionally, and get a taste of each other's feed; but, as it is now, each
                     sect takes its bit of truth, and fences itself in, and hears that bit preached
                     over and over, and over and over. Then in politics: he says, that, if each side
                     would read the papers printed by the other side, both sides would get nearer
                     the truth; taking it for granted, of course, that the truth is the chief desire
                     of every politician. Very likely, after a season, I may settle down to hearing
                     one preacher regularly, though not invariably. In keeping to one, there is this
                     advantage,—that you get the best he has. There is also a chance of making
                     friends in the congregation; which, in the city, is something to be
                     considered.
                  On Sunday evenings, or on some Sunday evenings, our young man in a
                        dilemma goes out of town to see a certain damsel by the name of
                     Maggie Baker, of whom you have heard before. Let us hope he may not get himself
                     into a dilemma of another sort by so doing. I have misgivings.
                     Were that brother Dorry of hers at home, he would be delighted, I think; but
                        Madame, as 'Tilda calls her, is proud, and never did look
                     kindly on our precious, but a trifle
                     ungainly, Billy boy. I believe, that, to this day, she lays up against him the
                     mud his boyish feet brought upon her carpets that time he went home with Dorry
                     from Crooked-Pond School. Maggie is flattered in society, and petted at home.
                     She has some mind of her own; too much, perhaps, in some respects. At least, I
                     have got the impression, one way or another, that she is—is rather—that she
                     shows an uppish manner toward her mother. I took this impression
                     partly from her own talk, and partly from some words Dorry has dropped in years
                     past. She made herself exceedingly agreeable at Summer-Sweeting Place last
                     summer; called mother Aunt Phebe, and grandmother
                        grandmother, and was really affectionate towards them. Matilda
                     believes in her; and mother, who is pretty keen to find out character, has
                     always liked Maggie ever since that first visit of hers at our house,—the
                     summer we had such a lively experience at "Coot Pint." You remember (don't
                     you?) my writing about it.
                  Ah, how beautiful must look the wooded hills around "Coot Pint" in these
                     October days!—though hardly more beautiful than our own hills nearer home. When
                     I see the ladies out in their bright fall trimmings, and pass shop-windows all
                     alive with goods of gorgeous hue, I sigh for Summer-Sweeting Place; for I know
                     that those dear woods are coming out in their fall trimmings, and that every
                     little huckleberry-hill puts on its bright array.
                  Still I enjoy myself here, and in many ways. I'll give you ten guesses for
                     guessing where I am going to-morrow evening. Ten? Twenty; and then you
                     couldn't. To a very fine place: I assure you that. Not a place of
                     entertainment, so called; though I shall be vastly entertained. Not a place of
                     instruction; though I shall be instructed. Nobody can go by paying: only a
                     select few are invited; and I am not among them.
                  You are so fond of conundrums, perhaps it will be an amusement for you to
                     puzzle this out.
                  
                     LUCY M.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—Should any little bird whisper in your ear that I am a trifle home-sick,
                     don't believe one word he says. How does he know?
                  I am going down to see Billy's room this evening. Will report.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER VIII.—THE EXPLANATION.
               LUCY MARIA TO MYRA.
               
                  MORNING, EARLY.
               
               DEAR MYRA,—Oh! I feel just like a poet. The sun's rays are gilding house-tops and
                  spires. Think of me sitting at my attic-window, overlooking the city, trying to
                  imagine the different states of mind with which the people in all these different
                  homes are greeting at this moment the morning sunshine. Heaven help the
                  grief-stricken ones, to whom its brightness must seem a mockery!
               But it is in a penitential mood that I am, beloved, on account of having,
                  probably, raised your curiosity to an unwarrantable pitch by my last letter. To
                  satisfy it shall be my penance.
               I wonder why it is that most people think it matters so much what we do with our
                  hands and feet, since thoughts and feelings are much more our real selves than
                  hands and feet are. You laughed a little at the idea of my cooking the dinners
                  here; but, honestly now, if Mrs. Calloon wanted me to cook, and did
                     not want me to sew, I would be willing to cook, provided no better
                  situation offered whereby my aim might be accomplished. I know a young-lady
                  teacher in this city who every summer pays her expenses at the White Mountains by
                  tending table at the hotels there. Her main chance, as Uncle Carver
                  would call it, is to enjoy the mountains. All this is the forerunner of my
                     explanation.
               
               The "entertaining occasion" of which my letter spoke meant a tea-party, to which I
                  had promised to go as waiter, and which, for good reasons, has been put off until
                  next week. The Calloons were surprised at my making such a promise. I will tell
                  you how it came about. Cousin Colby, who has a large circle of acquaintances,
                  frequently recounts the straits to which his lady-friends are driven by the
                  vicissitudes of help; and one day, in the sewing-room, he portrayed
                  the sorrows of a Mrs. L., who was in dire distress on account of the "second girl"
                  being called away. Mrs. L. keeps only two girls, and was in a really pitiable
                  condition; having already invited Mr. —— and a few other celebrities to a
                  tea-party. Cousin Colby, it seems, promised to borrow a girl for her. I do not
                  jest in saying "pitiable condition." Mrs. L. relied on certain means to carry out
                  a plan; and one of them failed. Hers was a genuine perplexity, and as well worth
                  relieving as the common run of perplexities.
               Now, while Cousin Colby was talking, I thought, "What a capital chance to see
                  those celebrities, and hear them!" So, without stopping to consider, I said to
                  him, that, for the sake of seeing Mr. —— and the others, I would be the
                  waiting-girl, if any one would tell me how.
               "You?" Bessie and her mother cried both at once.
               "She is, of course, not in earnest," said Cousin Colby.
               I said, "Oh, yes!" and explained that I wished to see those people.
               
               "Miss Carver, it would be beneath you. Your friends would never
                  approve of your degrading yourself in that way." This from Mrs. Calloon with
                  strong emphasis.
               "I shouldn't think you'd do such menial work," said Bessie with stronger
                  emphasis.
               "Perhaps I would not," I said, "if the motive weren't powerful enough; but the
                  motive is. It will be a treat, seeing those people. Besides, I always enjoy new
                  scenes and new ways." Then I told her that my mother brought me up to believe that
                  a person's real self is not affected by what the hands do. "For instance," said I,
                  "if Dickens had swept the streets even between writing his stories, his genius
                  could not have been touched by it."
               "That's true," Cousin Colby said.
               "And I'm sure," said I, remembering at just the happy moment another of mother's
                  teachings,—"I'm sure we read in the New Testament, that He whom this whole country
                  professes to take for an example did menial things. If he washed the feet of
                  fishermen, can't I, a mere nobody, pour out a glass of water for a poet?"
               Mrs. Calloon said it would not do to take things out of the Bible, and apply them
                  to common life; and then, other people coming in, the talk ended. But I spoke to
                  Cousin Colby aside, and convinced him of my being in earnest, and asked if he
                  would give me a few simple directions.
               He smiled, and answered with some liveliness,—a rare thing for him. The following
                  are some of the directions he gave: "The hander stands on the left of
                  the handee. Step lightly. See without being seen, speak without being
                  heard—by more than one. The guests will probably be served as they sit, in groups
                  about the room. In that case, flit, glide, as unnoticeable as a zephyr."
               "Which carries sweet things," I ventured, "but is never"—then stopped abruptly,
                  remembering that I should not have answered in so familiar a manner. He added a
                  few remarks, and went out. I am longing for the time to come, though trembling
                  almost with the fear of making blunders. "Never interrupt a person talking" (my
                  own unenlightened instincts would have taught me that). "Carry the tray steadily.
                  Look into their cups without seeming to look into their cups; and, if their cups
                  prove empty, ask shall their cups be filled." The rules way over in the back part
                  were harder than these; yet I ciphered my way through.
               Billy laughs at me, of course; but then he looks handsomer when he laughs than at
                  any other time. I went down to see Billy last evening. The young man who rooms
                  with him had gone home to spend the night. Judging by his
                  traces,—namely, his books, his pictures, his hanging-plants,—I should
                  rank him among the high-pitched. Some young men are high-pitched, and
                  some are low-pitched. I call the ones high-pitched who are interested in ideas, in
                  reforms, in books, flowers, music, pictures. I call the ones low-pitched who just
                  drift along with no aim, filling up their spare time with any thing that comes to
                  hand. Then there are the coarse and the vicious way down below the line. Billy
                  is—say, medium-pitched and a little over; though just now his "aim" is, judging
                  from his talk, to "hurry up Thanksgiving." It is almost November; and he and I are
                  both counting the days to that day of days, which, as father says, "is appointed
                  by nature and the governor." What a blessed thing that they agree in appointing it
                  in the dreariest time of the year! Such a sad month! In midwinter the poor flowers are dead and
                  forgot; but in November we witness their last agonies. Matilda mourns over her
                  precious dead and dying, but especially over those who "were just going to bloom,
                  when suddenly frost came." Poor things! they made ready to give us their fragrance
                  too late. Well, and so do some human plants get ready to bloom too
                     late. They keep shut up within themselves, putting off their deeds of
                  loving-kindness, until, suddenly, frost comes. Alas for kindnesses
                  deferred! How they do rise up to haunt us when the season for doing them is over
                  and gone!
               I had such a lovely talk yesterday with my friend (she lets me call her so) the
                  Peaceful Lady! Her name is Everson,—Mrs. Everson. In the course of it I told her
                  about William Henry's dilemma. She said something like this,—that I
                  was fortunate to have a cousin in such a dilemma at nineteen, as
                  young men did not usually think enough to get themselves into any thing of the
                  kind. They passed the time, but did not live. She said that people
                  usually found some way of getting that which their natures really craved, and told
                  me to tell him the story of the roots of a tree which crept over yards of bare
                  rock to reach water. She says you can judge of a man's nature by seeing what
                  satisfies him.
               The sun looks in at a higher pane of glass now, and tells me to put away my pen
                  immediately.
               Love to Aunt Myra and Uncle Oliver. Will Cousin Joe's ship really arrive, do you
                  suppose, in time for Thanksgiving? Just think!—less than a month to it now! I did
                  have an idea of asking the Two Betseys to go; but they could not afford the
                  expense, and would not consent to our bearing it. Matilda calls me a "romantic
                  goosey" because I told her I had planned to have that rover of theirs
                  come home rolling in gold,—gold which shall gild the evening of their days as the
                  refulgent rays of the setting—But you are so bright, you must have taken in the
                  whole of this striking idea several words ago. Myra, it has never crossed my mind
                  until this minute, what if he should, and marry his Emmeline? But stop. Do I
                  desire Albert Daniel, supposing him still a worthy person, to marry a coquette,
                  even should he wish it and she wish it? I will consider this question, and
                     let them know. Only think! she has been engaged three times,—once,
                  as I told you, to Cousin Colby, who, they say, loves the very ground she treads
                  on.
               My chance holds good yet for going to the party. The girl has not returned, and
                  Mrs. L. chooses to wait rather than run the risk of a new one. My cloth slippers
                  and bib-apron (white) are ready and waiting.
            
            
               
               LETTER IX.—MORAL RIPPLES.
               LUCY MARIA TO MATILDA.
               MY DEAR PRECIOUS SISTER,—I long for home inexpressibly; and, oh, it is such a
                  comfort to hear that you all feel so badly at having me away! The box came
                  yesterday. Tell grandmother Billy said—now, mind and tell her this—that he had
                  felt, for ever so long, just like biting into some gingerbread-cakes precisely,
                  exactly, and every way like those,—just as thick, just as gingery, and just that
                  color.
               I was in his room the other evening, and took the opportunity of looking over the
                  young man's stockings. They were in a wretched state,—blue holes darned with—pray
                  skip this to grandmother—white, gray with blue, white with gray.
                     Darned, did I say?—basted, hemmed, cross-stitched, back-stitched,
                  chain-stitched, gathered, sewed over and over and over! He is coming up some time
                  to take a darning-lesson, as I shall not always be with him.
               Opposite his bed, Matilda, just as it used to be at home, was that beautiful
                  picture of his mother; and Billy, poor child! had hung some cut paper around it,
                  not perfectly even of course. Though, after all, William Henry is a
                  sprucer-looking young man than one would have supposed, remembering the dust,
                  lint, rents, and one-sidednesses of his boyhood.
               I doubt not but this picture of Aunt Harriet has its influence on Billy. Perhaps
                  the eyes say to him what, when a little fellow, he once said they did,
                     "Do be good boy;" and perhaps she is, in reality, saying it to him
                  in some way of which he is not sensible. If our friends that are gone do hover
                  about us, as the hymn-books and other books say, I should think they could
                  influence us more easily than our living friends can; because, seeing our inmost
                  natures, they know what we need. Perhaps Aunt Harriet is watching over the rest of
                  us too; but, whether she is or not, I know that her character has done a great
                  deal for me. Just hearing it described and praised, when I was a little girl,
                  influenced mine without my knowing that it did then.
               Speaking of the influence of a good character reminds me of a remark I heard in
                  the horse-car the other day. You have no idea of the interest one takes in the
                  passengers sometimes, just from riding up or down town with them. In some cases I
                  have actually spoken to people; though, of course, it is shocking for two human
                  beings to show interest in each other without an introduction! William Henry says
                  I act as if everybody were kin to me; and that 'tis all along of my being so
                  countrified. Perhaps it is no worse to be countrified than citified, considering
                  who made the country, and who the city. The remark I overheard was this: Two
                  ladies were talking together of some person who had recently died; and one of them
                  said, her voice trembling as she spoke, "He never had a good thing, nor
                     never had a pleasure, that he didn't want to share it with everybody about
                     him."
               
               It made me feel condemned and ashamed. "Oh, if we all did so," I thought, "even in
                  a small village like ours, what a pleasurable commotion would prevail!" And
                  straightway there came into my mind an idea, or picture, of a pleasant water, with
                  tiny bits of things continually dropping into it, starting tiny ripples, which
                  circled and widened over the whole. Imagine, now, the sea of humanity,—or at least
                  such a pond of humanity as goes to the making-up of a neighborhood,—and imagine
                  little kindnesses dropping into it all the time, each starting its little circle
                  of good feeling. Oh, how the circles would widen into each other! and what a
                  pleasant ripple would be kept up all over the pond!
               I never realized the influence of character more deeply than on that day in the
                  horse-car, in feeling my own life condemned by the example of a man of whom I knew
                  nothing, except that "he never had a good thing, nor never had a pleasure,
                     that he didn't want to share it with everybody about him." Just think
                  how his circle has rippled away, way, way, out to us two!
               I remembered your letter that day in the horse-car,—the first letter, dear, in
                  which you spoke of longing to do good. O 'Tilda! I know all about it,—I mean, all
                  about the longing,—and used to read that very book you mentioned, I'm almost sure.
                  Wasn't it marble-paper covers, red morocco on the corners? and didn't you find it
                  in the chest in grandmother's garret among Grandfather Carver's old books? Many's
                  the summer afternoon I have sat on the floor by that blue chest, my sewing within
                  reach, and a volume, or two or three, in my hands.
               You want to do good. Well, the wish is something: the wish is a great deal: the
                  wish is more than half.
               Now, in every-day affairs, if we have, say, rugs or needle-books or patchwork
                  bed-quilts to do, the first thing is to find what we have on hand to do
                     with. So, if a girl has "good" to do, the first thing is to find
                  what she has to do with. Matilda Carver has no money, and, according
                  to her own account, no brains: but she has a good heart; and a good heart is as
                  good as a good head, and better too. And 'Tilda, now I think of it, you have
                  something else; namely, a remarkable love for flowers, and skill in making them
                  grow. I never loved flowers as you do: they are your dear friends. Now, this
                  thought has just come into my head: Suppose you take the children of our
                  neighborhood, and interest them all in flowers and flower-growing. This would be
                  to them at least one saving influence, or a refining one; which is about the same
                  thing. Did you never notice, that, when we set a vase of flowers on the table, we
                  always, by instinct, move away whatever unsightly object may be lying near? I
                  wonder, now, if cultivating a love for flowers in a child's mind wouldn't have a
                  similar effect. I should like to take hold of this work with you. They might begin
                  to start slips during the winter. Perhaps Miss Bessie will give me some to send
                  you. She has quite a little conservatory opening out of the back-parlor; and a man
                  is hired to take care of it. You would go wild, dear child, to see the abounding
                  heliotropes and carnations.
               But, 'Tilda, here again comes in Uncle Carver's balance idea,—his
                  idea, I mean, as to happiness being equally distributed. Miss Bessie is fond of
                  her plants, and enjoys arranging the flowers in vases after the man has cut them.
                  She does not, however, interest herself in their individual growth. Now, you have a personal love for each plant. You
                  watch over, for instance, your precious tea-rose bush; chase the sun with it all
                  day; cover it at night, or carry it from Dan (in the kitchen) to Beersheba (up in
                  our chamber); water it; sprinkle it; wipe its leaves tenderly; search out its
                  ailments in the "Florist's Guide;" doctor it with every thing recommended; welcome
                  a new shoot, with a shout, a bud with another; and when, at last, it blooms, you
                  feel almost as if you had bloomed yourself. I am not prepared to say that Miss
                  Bessie gets, on the whole, less pleasure than you; for her plants are magnificent,
                  and she has a genuine love of flowers. Perhaps it might be said that her enjoyment
                  exceeds yours in quantity, while yours exceeds hers in quality (the quality of
                  intenseness). This restores the balance, and helps Uncle Carver's theory.
               Some writer, whose name I forget, has amused himself, and entertained his readers,
                  by imagining people classed, not according to their wealth, as is the case now,
                  but variously, according to other circumstances,—to their different traits of
                  character, for instance, as meanness, honor, benevolence. Were they classed
                  according to their love for flowers, some very rich and very poor would stand
                  close together. The other day, at my washerwoman's, noticing that she looked
                  earnestly and often at a carnation stuck in my belt, I gave it to her. The color
                  flashed into her pale cheeks, and her eyes-actually grew moist, as she thanked me.
                  I'm sure your eyes would have grown moist at sight of the poor half-naked
                  rose-geranium stalk dying slowly in a rusty tin porringer on the window-frame,
                  where no sunlight ever came. It reminded me a little of Mother Delight's; though
                  hers had a sugar-bowl, and did bloom once. Will she take it with her to the
                  poorhouse? She must, by all means.
               So the old lady really prefers going there to "visiting round and being a burden."
                  Well, I don't blame her. I should feel that way myself. Oh, how remarkable it will
                  be if she and old Gus, who were engaged lovers fifty years ago,
                  should spend their last days together in a poorhouse! What if—No, my pen: no
                  farther go. You will call me romantic if I dare to mention such a thing.
               But really, 'Tilda, I don't think 'tis fair to call me "romantic" for thinking so
                  much about the Wild-strawberry Girl and the Two Betseys' Albert, and to insinuate
                  that I am always on the lookout for something romantic, and will make it up of
                  common things rather than do without. I can't help hearing what is told me; and as
                  for the last charge, do you call it "common things" for youth to meet
                  maiden, as he first met her, in the spicy groves of Beulah? I'm sure there's every
                  element of romance,—the retired wood, the carpet of moss, balmy air, singing of
                  birds, breath of wild flowers, fragrance of pines: zephyrs we may take for
                  granted; and Cupid we are sure of; also that he did his work, or at least did half
                  of it. After all, it isn't wicked to be romantic: so let me brood over my "unknown
                  lovers," as Myra calls them, and dream my dreams. One of the "unknown" will soon
                  be known, I trust; for some one said in the sewing-room, the other day, that
                  Emmeline Gooding was coming home to stay all winter. I confess to being impatient
                  to behold her, even to the extent of peeping through a door-crack; though, as I
                  told Myra, my choice would be to have her enter the sewing-room in company with
                  other strangers, just to try whether I should be reminded of a meadow-bell. To be sure, I never saw
                  one; and you declare there's "no such a flower." Perhaps it was lily-bell. In
                  fact, I think it was lily-bell, and shall imagine her lily-like.
               Yes, I want to see this mighty maid of Beulah, this manslayer; and not entirely
                  from curiosity. I like to see any one who has power; and she must have a great
                  deal, even if it be the power of beauty. Yet why these evens, ifs,
                  and buts? Isn't beauty a recognized power every where in Nature?.
            
            
               LETTER X.—THE TEA-PARTY SURPRISE.
               
                  LUCY MARIA TO MYRA.
                  DEAR COUSIN,—Tell Leonice, No: my offering to be waiting-girl was
                        not made for the sake of doing a striking thing, or of showing
                     my independence. How do I know? Because I have been down into myself, and
                     searched out my motives.
                  In the good time coming,—so says dear Mrs. Everson (the Peaceful Lady, you
                     remember),—there will be less following the leader, and more
                     individuality of expression both in dress and in actions. As it is now, he
                     march in procession through life, all in uniform, and all keeping step. The
                     procession is fenced in; and whatever good thing grows between the fences we
                     may take. No stepping over, though. There's a fence put up, for instance,
                     between the field of physical labor and the road of respectability. Now, if a
                     path leads straight across this field to the point one wishes to
                     reach,—why, it would seem a sensible thing to step over and walk in it, instead
                     of marching all the way around. Or if, in any of the fenced-off fields, there
                     are flowers growing which suit our tastes, or herbs which are good for our
                     complaints, why not scatter right and left, and all of us help ourselves to what we need most? provided, of
                     course, we do no wrong.
                  This, however, is only another way of stating Uncle Carver's doctrine of
                        minding the main chance, which he 
                        "DANGEROUS INSTRUMENTS."
                      affirms should be applied even to the small affairs of life.
                  Now, my main chance that evening was to see Mr. —— and the others;
                     also to have the fun of doing something I never did before. All this for your
                     "inquiring friend:" though I read, the other day, an extract from Fénelon's
                     writings, which goes to show that he thought people should never explain their
                     motives; that it was enough if their own consciences were satisfied. But I must
                     confess to not being able to stand on this high stool of indifference. I like
                     to be liked, and I love to be loved; and am willing to make explanations for
                     the sake of being thought well of. Still my reverence for those who
                        can live up to Fénelon's idea is very great.
                  This simple little matter of passing the tray to Mrs. L.'s guests were hardly
                     worth so many words, only for the big exclamation and interrogation points seen
                     in people's faces the moment any such thing is mentioned. Though, after all, it
                     is not passing the tray that is considered so degrading; for doing
                     this at home, and to one's own guests, is all very well: but it is taking
                        pay for passing the tray. Now, what harm in taking pay for passing
                     the tray, any more than for sewing a seam, especially when one wants to buy an
                     "encyclopædia"? Uncle Carver would say, that, in such a case, the
                     "encyclopædia" would be the" main chance."
                  I am not sure, but don't think I made more than one serious blunder; though
                     being in constant fear prevented my examining the pictures and pretty things.
                     Oh, the rooms were so dazzling! One of the ladies wore a dress made in a way
                     that would be very becoming to you, Myra; and I took notes, mentally, of it,
                     for your benefit. There were some beautiful faces. Oh, I do like human faces!
                     (animals' faces too; don't you?) There were mirrors let into the walls; and,
                     oh, such pictures! and in such frames! And bronzes and
                     chandeliers, and— But I'm saving a great
                     deal to tell you when we meet. I moved softly, stepped lightly, spilled no tea,
                     stepped on no trail. Still all new duties are hard to do. You would not think
                     it; but I had to keep my wits about me, and give my whole attention to the
                     matter in hand. The guests were scattered in groups about the room, Mrs. L.
                     sitting by a small table at one end to dispense the delicacies. There were
                     about twenty present. I did not, of course, hear much of the talk, having to
                     flit here and there; but I saw Mr. —— and the others; and it is something to
                     get an idea of the looks and bearing even of celebrities. My one serious
                     blunder? Oh! but that belongs to the surprise. Myra, I have such a
                     capital surprise to tell! and all about the Wild-strawberry Girl.
                     She was there, and he was there; and they are engaged again. I had known of
                     this last for several days: indeed, his looks alone might have revealed it. Oh,
                     what a change! Up to last week, the engagement remained broken: his face was
                     hung with gloom. It is renewed: he smiles the smile of the blessed. So
                     blissful, utterly contentful, radiant, radiating an expression I never beheld,
                     save in my dreams! Don't you think these dark, sallow faces show their joy or
                     their woe more strikingly than the fair complexions do? As to the former, light
                     always shows better on a dark ground; and as to the latter, meaning woe,—why,
                     the corresponding color being already there tends to deepen the gloom.
                  It was the ecstatic expression of his countenance which directed my attention
                     to Miss Emmeline that evening. He was sitting at a little side-table, looking
                     over, or rather handling over, a set of heads (engravings),—heads
                     of the great painters, I thought they were, from
                     
                        THE TEA-PARTY SURPRISE.
                     
                      just a glimpse or two I had of them.
                     Going toward that little table with my little tray, I observed that his small
                     bright eyes—oh, how bright at that moment!—were fixed, not upon the heads of
                     the great painters, but upon some object far across the room; and, looking in
                     the same direction, I saw that a new guest had just been shown in, and had
                     taken a seat. Some young girls near me murmured, "Miss Gooding," and glanced at
                     Cousin Colby. It was then that I committed the blunder of holding an empty tray
                     before an elegant lady, waiting for her to take something. I hardly think
                     Cousin Colby knew of her (Emmeline Gooding's) arrival in town. It certainly had
                     not been mentioned at our house.
                  But you will be curious to know how she impressed me. Well, Myra, she impressed
                     me as being a good natured, graceful, beautiful person, of perhaps no great
                     force. This conclusion, which may be a wrong one, was not arrived at as
                     instantaneously as it is now expressed, for the reason that circumstances
                     required my taking her in by careless, infrequent glances.
                  Now, I had expected, I hardly know what,—silliness, cruelness, pride, vanity;
                     but her face was not so very distinctly marked with these, or, indeed, with any
                     strong quality. In fact, her appearance disappointed me in many respects.
                     Thinking, you know, of a lily-bell (when I go out to cut and baste
                     the Two Betseys' alpaca-dresses, I must make sure whether it was
                        meadow-bell or lily-bell),—thinking of
                        lily-bell, I had imagined a thin, pale, picturesque face, with
                     languishing eyes. Nothing of the kind. Or, yes; something of the kind. But,
                     instead of using the word "pale," I should say her complexion was
                        pure, very pure, with a color mingled in— well, somewhat as it is in your own complexion,
                     Myra; with this difference,—that the white in yours is of a darker
                     shade (you know there are shades of white in worsteds); and also, that, where
                     your white has crimson mingled in, hers has faint pink. Her eyes are light
                     hazel, and have a remarkably sweet expression. The lashes and brows are much
                     darker than her hair, which is not dark at all. Lashes long and noticeable.
                     Perhaps her hair is nut-brown, calling the nut a "shell-bark." She
                     does it in an easy, careless way, with easy, careless braids, and a few curls
                     loosely drooping. Her face is almost as round as yours (she does not resemble
                     you, Myra, in the least), and forehead just about as high or as low; full
                     cheeks; nose not quite perfect, but reasonably so; lovely rose-colored lips,
                     not red (mind, I don't say any thing against red lips, Myra, situated in the
                     southern part of a bright, sparkling face, with merry black eyes at the north
                     to match); figure of the medium height, graceful, slender: and, when she stood
                     up to look at a picture Mr. L. was showing her, I saw in a flash how the idea
                     of lily-bell or meadow-bell might have been
                     suggested. Her throat is exquisitely fair (any one would notice that); and the
                     head is thrown a little bit forward,—just a little tiny bit. Then her
                     movements, if not languid, are, at the very least, leisurely; and the whole
                     effect would naturally put the word "drooping" into your mind.
                  I was so glad this idea did come like a flash, and when, in the excitement of
                     the moment, I had forgotten all about it! Very possibly the thought would not
                     have occurred to me had no one ever mentioned such a thing; though it might had
                     I met her seven years ago in some romantic, lonely forest-path. She must have
                     been passing fair, this maid of ours, when, at sweet sixteen, she picked wild
                     strawberries down in Beulah, in a gypsy hat (I've always thought of her in a
                     gypsy hat), basket in hand,—one of those graceful baskets, not exactly round,
                     curving over at the rim: that's the kind of basket I have imagined
                     it was.
                  I can see her now, in my mind's eye, as she pauses beneath the branches of a
                     spreading oak, or haply hickory, while Albert Daniel—heavy-browed,
                     deep-chested, steady, sturdy, matter-of-fact Albert, in working-clothes,
                     holding a plane (quite likely) and other tools—comes to a sudden and
                     involuntary stand-still, and remains there just long enough for Cupid—if I
                     painted such a picture, I should place Cupid behind the maiden, taking aim, a
                     roguish smile on his face, as if he were tickled with the idea of shooting at
                     that unlikely mark—for Cupid to let fly an arrow!
                  Oh! what will Matilda say when she reads this "romantic" page of a letter?
                     which must, of course, be sent her, as you get the reading of all hers. Let her
                     laugh. Ah! she little knows what pure delight these same romantic dreams
                     afford. And I have more of them not told yet,—saved up for Thanksgiving. Can't
                     you stay a day or two after? Oh, how dear seems my home to me! I long to be
                     there with my own around me. Dear little grandmother! I can see
                     her so plainly moving about her house, tremulous with the joy of the near
                     presence of her precious William Henry; making vast preparations; filling
                     cookie-pot and cake-box; putting extra blankets on his bed; her pale blue eyes
                     now brightened by a smile, now moistened with a tear. How wonderful it is that smiles and tears both come
                     from the heart, and both from a joyful heart sometimes! By the way, 'Tilda
                     thinks the secret can't last over Thanksgiving. What's the
                     prospect of Cousin Joe's ship arriving? I have a hundred—speaking
                        below the truth—of items to tell about the tea-party. Am saving
                     them.
               
               
                  ONE HOUR LATER.
                  Myra, who do you think has been to see me? and on what errand? A
                     person of whom I have often heard, but whom I never met before; a person I do
                     not like, and never did like; an elderly person with a Roman nose and an
                     unpleasant errand. You have heard and seen her name: it has had the honor of
                     being mentioned in some of my letters from this place. She is an invalid (her
                     looks show that), and, as such, has my pity.
                  You were somewhat impatient under my last conundrum; and, as a punishment, I will close with this double
                     one,—Who was the lady? and what was her errand? The latter is of the greater
                     importance, as it may affect a certain cousin of ours, whom we all love, and
                     who loves us all, and, I fear, one girl over.
                  Will write again in a day or two. This delay is for your good, and to teach you
                     a patient submission.
                  Still, as pent-up curiosity may damage an irrepressible being like yourself, I
                     will answer the first half by saying that my visitor was Maggie's mother, Mrs.
                     Baker. Am I not kindness embodied?
                  
                     Ever your loving cousin,
                     L. M. CARVER.
                  
               
            
            
               LETTER XI.—MRS. BAKER'S ERRAND.
               LUCY MARIA TO MYRA.
               
                  ONE DAY LATER.
               
               DEAR MYRA,—I was so "put by" last night by Mrs. Baker's call and errand as to
                  forget entirely to answer the weighty questions in your last. Would I go to a
                  stylish party in a borrowed dress if I had not one good enough of my own? Yes,
                  under some circumstances. For instance, I should be willing to borrow a dress
                  which lack of time merely, or there being no material within reach, prevented my
                  getting; but should not be willing to borrow a dress which cost a great deal more
                  money than I could afford.
               Would I go to a stylish party if I could not dress to suit the style of it? Let us
                  think this over. If it be a show occasion, the question arises, Will our
                  appearance mar the grand effect, and thereby be displeasing to the hostess? That
                  is one consideration. As far as the guest individually is concerned, let her
                  (supposing it to be Myra) mind the main chance. If to please by the
                  beauty and richness of her dress, thereby helping out the grand effect, be her
                  object,—and I don't say but this may be a desirable object,—why, she would not
                  naturally go to the party in plain, unfashionable clothes If she wished exceedingly to see the pretty faces,
                  pretty flowers, pretty pictures, pretty dresses, hear music, dance to music, eat
                  salads and ice-creams,—why, then she would naturally go to the party in the best
                  she had. The question resolves itself into this,—to enjoy, or to be seen? Mind, I
                  am not saying any thing against those who go to be seen. A beautiful person
                  beautifully dressed is a beautiful sight to behold; and the person may be aware of
                  this, and still, having common sense, not be vain.
               "How shall I do my hair?" was the next question. I think Miss Emmeline Gooding's
                  way would be just as pretty for your dark tresses as for her lighter ones, as
                  yours and hers both present the same easy, unstudied appearance. Have your braids
                  loosely braided, and a few wavy curls straggling about in careless confusion.
                     No curls at all are better than corkscrews. And I'll tell you
                  something pretty to wear in your hair, which will suit your style
                  exactly,—blackberry-vines. It is late, I know: but they last bright all winter, in
                  some places; and the colors, red and shaded browns, are so beautiful! Clip off the
                  ugly leaves, and sew pretty ones in their places. Twine among your braids, and
                  intersperse, some of those red berries that grow in the swamp back of your
                  orchard. Wish you would bring a great bunch of those red-berry bushes to brighten
                  up our two houses at Summer-Sweeting Place. Of course we shall all be in at
                  grandmother's. I've a great mind not to tell William Henry what Maggie Baker's
                  mother wants me to until after Thanksgiving. Her errand the following lines shall
                  reveal.
               When I broke off my letter last night, and went down into the reception-room, I
                  found a person waiting there whom I never saw in my life before,—an elderly,
                  sickly-looking, Roman-nosed, stately lady in sumptuous apparel. She half rose,
                  half sat down again, at the same time introducing herself as Mrs. Baker (Maggie's
                  mother). And her object, Myra, was to insinuate to me to insinuate to William
                  Henry the propriety—no, not propriety, wisdom expresses her idea
                  better—of—of (she hesitated just in this way)—of—his calling less often to see
                  Maggie. A great many insinuations were necessary for making me
                     understand: you may be sure of that. Why, you would have supposed
                  I had not common sense, I was so obtuse! It seemed impossible for Mrs. Baker to
                  get an idea into my head; and, even after understanding, I asked her,
                  with an innocent air, if my cousin did not bear a good character.
               "Oh! perfectly. But—but—but—now my daughter goes into society, and he is not—in
                  society; and there are reasons why—why—in fact, it did very well while they were
                  boy and girl, especially when her brother was at home, for your cousin to come
                  occasionally. But now my daughter goes into society; and I have—views for her,
                  and, and—it is very awkward to explain—I think she is—is pleased with your cousin,
                  and, hem—of course you understand, Miss Carver."
               Well, Myra, the long and short of the matter is, as far as I could gather from
                  what she said and did not say, that Mrs. Baker fears that Maggie's liking for
                  Billy will grow into something serious. Our young man would not object to a fear
                  of the same kind.
               But now, to be fair and candid, I really think she believes herself to be acting
                  for the good of both parties. She is certainly a devoted mother, and seems not
                  only to love, but to admire, her
                  daughter. And when, toward the end, I allowed myself to thaw out, and spoke warmly
                  of Maggie, the whole expression of her face altered; and there was a tremulousness
                  in her voice which made me think of grandmother when she is talking about William
                  Henry.
               I don't know how many times I've heard mother say, "You can't judge how things
                  look to a person, unless you stand on the same hill that person stands on."
               Now, it is impossible for me to stand on Mrs. Baker's hill. No unmarried young
                  woman in humble life can tell what would be her sentiments were she a rich lady
                     in society, and the mother of a beautiful daughter.
               And she did really say some true things; as, for instance, "If a man marry above
                  his station, it is a hard tax upon him to support his wife according to her
                  station; and if a headstrong, romantic girl (meaning Maggie) should marry below
                  her station, she might repent when the reality of poverty bore upon her: therefore
                  such a match would bring happiness to neither."
               To be sure. Why, even I can see that a girl who has been used to luxury all her
                  life needs to have a great deal of character and a great deal of love to be a poor
                  man's happy wife; also that the poor man himself could not be happy, knowing that
                  his wife looked longingly back to her splendor. I heard some girls talking in the
                  sewing-room the other day; and one of them said, that even if she loved a man, and
                  the man loved her, she would not marry him unless he could support her handsomely.
                  To be sure, when this girl comes to feel the power of love, she may talk
                  differently. (By the way, I forgot to tell Mrs. Baker that Billy was going to have
                  "a grand house," and "blue easy-chairs," and "silver dishes.")
               Still, after every thing has been considered, the path of duty opens not plain
                  before me. If I were wholly and certainly and every way sure that it was a fixed
                  fact that these two were true lovers for life, nothing should induce me to meddle
                  in this affair. They both blush: do you think that enough to build
                  upon? You know it is Billy's nature to be in earnest. Sham and he don't know each
                  other by sight. And now, if this should go on, and he fancy that
                  Maggie encouraged him, and by and by some fellow rolling in gold
                     should step in, and Maggie shouldn't prefer Billy's
                  little finger to that whole wretch in gold,—why, it would be better were the
                  connection broken off now. Understand, please, that I am not intimately acquainted
                  with the young lady: I only know that she has been petted, that she is
                  good-hearted, warm-hearted, a trifle conceited (especially in her own family),
                  affectionate at times, and that she certainly appears to like Billy.
                  But my knowledge of her does not enable me to judge whether she would have the
                  strength of character and the strength of love never to flinch from the "reality
                  of poverty," if said reality came to the turning of old dresses, and making the
                  trimming cover the holes. Well, after all has been said, this mighty question of
                  matrimony depends entirely on the kind of girl and the kind of man.
               What puzzles me most is, how to insinuate that "insinuation" to Billy. If I do it
                  at all, it will be on some night when we are walking along together, so that he
                  may turn whatever color he chooses. It is Mrs. Baker's wish that Maggie know
                  nothing of her agency in this matter. She intimated that such knowledge might help
                  along "her—her—interest in the young man."
               Do you wonder, Myra, that what with dress-fitting, trimming-contriving, reading treatises on education
                  and Scott's novels, meditating on doubtful lovers and unknown
                     lovers, my brain is in a whirl? And one bad thing about a brain is, you
                  can't empty it at will. If a vacuum could be created there sometimes, what a
                  relief it would be, especially when one lies down to go to sleep!
               I wish Mrs. Baker's mission had been fulfilled at some other time than just now,
                  when Billy is expecting to lose his place. Do you know that the acquaintance—his
                  and Maggie's—is sustained on the wings of butterflies and bumble-bees? She
                  collects specimens, and they examine them together through a magnifying-glass.
                  Dangerous instruments, magnifying-glasses! On the whole, I think I shall do Mrs.
                  Baker's little errand on the first convenient opportunity. Will write you the
                  results. Matilda writes that Mr. Fry is expected to be back very soon.
               
                  LUCY M.
               
            
            
               LETTER XII.—FROM DEWSBURY CENTRE.
               
                  COUSIN MYRA TO LUCY MARIA.
                  O YOU cruel, cruel Lucy Maria, to treat me so, to treat me so! Here I have been
                     waiting more than a week! Just as much as father dares to come in to the house,
                     for fear of my flying at his pockets for letters may be he has forgot to take
                     out. Don't be absent-minded. Direct plain! Oh, if you haven't, and
                     that letter is circumlocuting around through the dead-letter
                     office! Have you told Billy? What did he say? How did you begin? How did he
                     look? What's he going to do about it? What did you advise him to do? How did he
                     take it? Did it act as a provocative, or a weepative? Oh that Mrs. Baker! I
                     should have felt like leading her out of the house by that aristocratic nose.
                     When's Dorry coming home? Won't he set things right? or don't you feel sure how
                     he does feel about it? I am rather glad, after all; for now we have the
                     pleasure and mystery of watching to see how things will turn. Of course 'twill
                     all come right at last. True love always does,—'most always. Billy's not the
                     chap to give up; but, if I were in his place, I'd never, never darken that
                     woman's doors again! But, then, how could he see Maggie? Do you suppose she'll
                     be true to him? that is, if she loves
                     him? You can't tell certain sure by blushes, but pretty sure. Write by
                        return mail, and tell more about the Wild-strawberry
                        Girl. Can't you contrive some miraculous plan to bring the
                        unknown lover home, and let him marry his Emmeline,
                     notwithstanding Cousin Colby, and have a gay wedding, and we two
                     be brides-maids,—you in sky blue tarletan, and I in sky rose-color? Bridesmen?
                     Trust those to the future. If Joe does come home, I'll interest him in
                        Albert Daniel, and make him inquire for him in every port. O
                     Lucy M.! when I think of Joe's coming, and of our being all
                        together at grandmother's, the very tears come into my eyes.
                        Together!—is there a more beautiful word? Don't you like to see
                     my father and your father go trotting round in their tallness,
                     taking hold hands like two little boys? And 'twill soon be here!
                     Exquisitorious! I jump up and down every time I think of it; "in the abstract,"
                     that is. Mother knew a minister once who used to say that slavery was wrong
                        in the abstract, but could not be helped in the commission. So
                     I jump up and down now in the abstract; but, when we get there,
                     'twill be in the commission. Oh, if Joe doesn't arrive! But he
                     must; and not only must, but shall! And, oh! won't his accordion play of its
                     own accord, and in sweet accord? Now, when you receive this, don't wait a
                     minute, even if you are trying on Miss Bessie's dress, and seeing how the skirt
                     hangs, but just put pen to paper in a hurry,—just such a hurry as I am leaving
                     off in; for I have a dressmaker, and she's waiting to try on,
                     mother says, at the rate of two dollars a day!
                  
                     From your very loving, affectionate, impatient twin-cousin,
                     MYRA.
                  
               
               
                  Don't you believe, that, if we had been sisters, we should have been real
                     twins?
                  Joe is studying astronomy. His letters make you see stars!
                  
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XIII.—TANGLES.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA.
                  DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—Calm yourself, calm yourself, my "twin." Bear and
                     forbear,—bear your anxiety, and forbear your curiosity. I was not
                     seeing how Miss Bessie's skirt hung; but I was dressing her hair
                     for a party. I always liked to arrange hair; and hers is so pretty! Perhaps,
                     other things failing, I might be able to earn my living at the business.
                  But you would snap my ears, if you could, for stopping to talk; and they tingle
                     now "in the abstract" with the thoughts of it. I did not tell
                     Billy until a few nights ago; kept putting off, and dreading, and changing my
                     mind about doing it at all. At last, I fixed upon a time when we were going to
                     a concert together, and determined to speak to him coming home. Almost spoiled
                     my evening thinking about it; though an evening like that could not be wholly
                     spoiled. Mrs. Everson gave me the tickets. I believe, that, were I in the
                     depths of affliction, such music would reach down to me. If I only could
                        describe! But I never can. Oh! too much, too much,
                     I thought,—too much to bear. Stop being so glorious; for I can't bear it! In
                     some places I just bowed my head, and let the waves of music roll over me and
                     over me; and there was one place where you could almost seem to hear little
                     brooks gurgling, and the tinkling of sheep-bells, and shepherds playing their
                     pipes.
                  But again I feel my ears tingle; and, bless my stars! 'tis only in the
                        abstract.
                  
                  It rained that night when the concert was over, and we had to take a car home;
                     which gave me another excuse for putting off. Last Thursday
                     evening he came up for his second darning-lesson; and, taking the
                     opportunity, I began at once in an unpremeditated way, though not being sure
                     even then what would be the best manner of proceeding, or whether it were best
                     to proceed at all: so stumbled along, ruining his peace of mind, not to mention
                     that my own mind has been in a state of torment ever since from the reflection
                     that I took, possibly, just the wrong course.
                  It was not a long talk. First I put a wooden ball into a stocking-toe, and gave
                     him a darning-needle threaded, and showed him how to darn without puckering.
                     (Unaided instinct merely teaches man to run a thread round the hole, and draw
                     the edges together.) Now, wasn't this a stroke in me, providing
                     something for him to look at?
                  Well, he sat there, making his awkward endeavors; and pretty soon, thinking it
                     would be better to toss off my business in a light, shuttlecock kind of way, I
                     mentioned something, quite accidentally, about Dorry's coming home, and then
                     about Maggie, and next Madame; and then said cheerfully,—
                  "Mrs. Baker didn't like you very well in the days of auld lang-syne."
                  "That's so," said he.
                  
                  "Probably has never changed her mind," I ventured.
                  "Oh! well" (careless indifference), "that doesn't worry me. I have no great
                     liking for her, either."
                  "But you go there."
                  "Yes, once in a while: got in that habit when Dorry was at home."
                  "I—I rather think she would like your once in a whiles to happen
                     less frequently."
                  "Well, may be. She never told me so." (Tangle in the yarn.)
                  "But she told somebody so."
                  "Did she?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Who?"
                  "Me."
                  "Where? She doesn't know you!"
                  "Here."
                  "Here?" (Tangle.) "Did she come here? What for?"
                  "To tell me that—to tell—why, what I've just mentioned."
                  (Pause.)
                  "And to tell you to tell me?"
                  "Yes, and to make explanations." Then, feeling nervous and confused, I spoke
                     out the thoughts of my mind without stopping to choose. "Mrs. Baker has nothing
                     against you," said I,—"nothing at all: but she naturally wishes Maggie to make
                     a good match; and she's afraid that—that some poor young fellow who isn't in—in
                     the right circle—will—will—you see—that is—how shall I put it? She's afraid
                     Maggie may like some poor chap before the rich chap that she ought to like
                     
                        TANGLES.
                     
                      comes along." Myra, what do you think of
                     that for an explanation? I supposed the youth would either be sad or mad, as
                     you suggested; but it really seemed as if he were trying not to look glad.
                  "Did she say that?" he asked, after a pull or two at his darning. I saw that
                     the idea of Madame being afraid of Maggie's liking him was a
                     pleasing one. I then went on to present some of Mrs. Baker's views, and
                     afterward said in a careless way, "Of course you'll not go there."
                  He looked up suddenly, as if struck by a new idea.
                  "We won't go where we're not wanted, will we?" I said with emphasis.
                  "She needn't be scared. I sha'n't trouble her lady-ship."
                  "Oh, ho!" thought I. "Red hair to the rescue!" Billy often tells of his
                        red hair getting mad; but I insist upon it that his hair now is
                     not red enough for an excuse, and has not been for these several years.
                  Sometimes I repent having spoken to Billy. But then Mrs. Baker would have done
                     it herself; for she told me, that, before I came to the city, she was intending
                     to mention the subject to him in a plain and friendly way, before things
                        went too far. Therefore, not knowing Maggie well enough to be sure of
                     her strength of character, I thought it best for both, perhaps, for me to speak
                     as plainly as Madame herself would have done; but, oh, this
                     meddling in love-affairs is detestable!
                  I talked to him in this way: "Take a girl," said I, "brought up in luxury. Now,
                     no poor man could satisfy and gratify that girl as she had been satisfied and
                     gratified. Her life with him would be a constant giving up;
                      and how dreadful it would be should
                     she ever come to feel—with reason or without—that her poor man wasn't worth the
                     price she paid for him! Every thing depends on the girl's character and the
                     man's character. There must be enough in the man to make him a good bargain at
                     any price, and there must be enough in her to appreciate him at his worth, and
                     love enough on both sides to keep them in happiness."
                  "Yes," Billy answered after a pause, in a heavy, absent-minded way; and I took
                     that one word for a reply to my long speech, and presently turned the
                     conversation upon home-matters, especially upon Thanksgiving, to which he and I
                     are looking forward as eagerly as yourself. Yes, Myra, together is
                     the word; and you have to stay away among strangers a while to feel sensibly
                     what a beautiful word it is. I used to think of Thanksgiving as a
                     day for a jolly good time; but now it seems to me I should be perfectly
                     satisfied to sit in the circle round grandmother's fire, feeling the presence
                     of all of us, if nobody spoke a word.
                  Dorry will be at home before long; and I can't help hoping a great deal from
                     his influence. Of course, Billy must go there then. Oh! I do not and can not
                     feel sure of having done the right thing by Billy. He never thought over-much
                     of himself, and is by no means a chap that needs putting down, and would be the
                     last person to think Billy Carver worth making sacrifices for, and is too
                     kind-hearted to wish to deprive a poor rich girl of her comforts, and has, and
                     always did have, an extremely low opinion of his personal appearance; though we
                     think him "just splendid," don't we, Myra? He has a good-natured,
                        heartsome look; and who says he is homely? His forehead is
                     smooth and white; and such a pleasant gray eye! and such a beautiful smile!
                     Hair rather stubborn, to be sure; by no means a gentle, lamb-like hair,—how
                     absurd! that would be woolly!—but then he has it in pretty good subjection: and
                     all the grace he lacks outside abounds in his heart. Such thoughtfulness in
                     little things! We've noticed him with Georgiana: never was a kinder brother.
                     Oh, but his wife would be treated beautifully! and, if he ever did
                     get spunky, he would be so sorry, she would love him all the more. I'm proud of
                     my cousin Billy, and he shall not be humbugged by any girl. Though, after all,
                     Maggie may appreciate him; but then, just as likely as not, he'll say, "A girl
                     shall make no sacrifices for me!" and never try to see her again.
                     Still he must go there when Dorry comes home. Oh, dear! my mind goes round and
                     round, and knows not where to rest itself. Well, well: after all, I can but
                     come to this,—that, if it be not a case of true love on each side, the affair
                     should end at once; and if it be,—why, all will come right, as you say, in the
                     end. I wish Billy were in better health. Not that there is cause for anxiety;
                     though we watch his coughs pretty narrowly on account of his
                     mother having died of consumption.
                  I want to write another sheet, and tell you about my Sunday-school class,—oh,
                     so many kinds of children in it! Germans, Irish, Americans,—but must stop now:
                     for I have many, many duties to perform before going pillow-ward;
                     one of which is the undarning and redarning of the stockings Billy practised on
                     that evening, and which have been ever since lying in wait for my spare
                     moments. Such work as he made! One might well believe a love-story was darned into them, or
                     that the course of true love was meandering there.
                  I went down town after writing the above, and happened to meet Maggie Baker on
                     the street. She was exceedingly cordial; said she had been wanting to come and
                     see me, but, when in town, had either been in a hurry, or couldn't think of the
                     number.
                  Maggie looked fresh and blooming, and younger than ever, with her hair down,
                     and in half curl (not quite half). She said Dorry would be home soon; and she
                     was getting used to wearing it down, because he liked it better that way. It
                     was certainly very becoming to her, especially with the simple velvet hat,
                     which made a straight line across her forehead. This and the flowing hair
                     brought out her profile most strikingly. I think you have seen Dorry. He used
                     to make such a deal of fun about his nose! Her face has the aquiline just
                     marked enough to make a pretty profile; and, whenever she laughs, there comes a
                     dimple in the left cheek, just big enough to hold one kiss. Maggie
                     is as stylish-looking a girl as you commonly see. Can't you stay a few days
                     over Thanksgiving? I have a talk three nights long.
                  
                  
                     Ever your cousin,
                     LUCY MARIA.
                  
               
            
            
               LETTER XIV.—PREPARATIONS.
               
                  MATILDA TO LUCY MARIA.
                  DEAR SISTER,—This is the last letter you will get from us; for 'tis only a week
                     now. We are all well as common, but Tommy. He fell down the chimney of a new
                     house that's building over the other side the pond. You see, he climbed up on
                     the roof, and then couldn't be satisfied without mounting on top the chimney. I
                     don't see how he contrived to fall such a funny way; and father says he
                     doesn't. Tommy says he jumped up and down on the board that lay across the top;
                     and somehow it tiltered up, and tiltered him upside-down in such a way, that he
                     went through headforemost, and came out at the fireplace. Didn't break any
                     thing. I suppose he rubbed slow through the flue, or he would have broken his
                     neck. He feels pretty lame and bruised, and mother has bolstered him up in
                     father's new chair; but he's well enough, and wants to keep eating, 'cause he
                     don't know what else to do. He's full as easy to get hungry as William Henry
                     ever was.
                  Father has finished his great chair at last. He stuffed it very well, for a
                     man, with moss and cotton-wool, and picked out the covering himself, and nailed
                     it on with red binding to cover the edges. Picked out large-figured bocking, dark-green ground with
                     red-and-black figures, yellow middles to the figures. Says he's got a great
                     comfortable chair now, that he can tumble around in much as he wants to, and
                     not be scared of tidies slipping all ways, and coming flapping over his head
                     when he's reading. (I shall baste mine on when I get it done.)
                  Mr. Fry*
                      has come home; and grandmother is so glad! and so we all are.
                     Grandmother says it seems as if he belonged to her family. Mother says he has
                     been as kind as an own child to her (to grandmother). Mr. Fry has not grown fat
                     any. He says the weather seems pretty cold, coming from the South; and we are
                     having a pretty cold snap for the time o' year. Father wants to know if you
                     don't want to come home and warm you. Mr. Fry says he guesses you would like to
                     come home and warm you; not meaning by the fire, you know.
                  
                     
                     *Editor of the William Henry Letters.
                  
                  We are collecting things together for Thanksgiving. Our great turkey will soon
                     strut his last strut. He'll be a bouncer. Father is going to town to-day to get
                     every thing we haven't got. Says, if he forgets any thing, 'twill be because it
                     slips his mind. I've had a letter from Maggie, and she says Dorry has arrived
                     safe. Oh, she is so glad! And I should think she would be. She must be lonely,
                     not having any sisters; and her mother isn't so much company for her as our
                     mother is for us. To be sure, she goes to a great many parties, and has
                     splendid times; but that won't make up for not having any sisters. I don't
                     think Maggie is one mite stuck up. Of course, I can't tell sure; but I don't
                     believe she thinks any more of a rich girl than of a poor girl, if they are
                     both as good as each other. Mother says that's no more than saying she has
                     common sense. Maggie always seems to enjoy herself out here very much.
                  Mr. Fry's sister Juliana sent mother a beauty cravat—lavender color—to go under
                     a collar, and she wears it afternoons sometimes; and I make her put on that cappee you sent her with lavender ribbons. They happen to match
                     first-rate. I don't know when I ever saw mother look so well. Father declares,
                     that, if she ever crimps her hair on slate-pencils, he will his. Began to make
                     a fuss about his neck-handkerchief, seeing her cravat. Said he was all in the
                     shade, and 'twasn't fair if he couldn't be dressed up to match: so I went and
                     bought him a new gingham neck-handkerchief crossed off with considerable pink
                     and brown. He tells mother she is getting vain. She said she thought 'twas
                     time, when she was over fifty years old. Then she said, "Oh, well! her poor old
                     frame had been of great service to her, and she meant to do well by it, and
                     take some pains with its looks, for the good it had done." Father
                     says it isn't fair for mother's face to grow plump, and his to grow lank; but
                     mother tells him it isn't any matter how homely a man is.
                     Georgiana's dress that William Henry sent her is done at last, and is very
                     becoming to her. She came in here a few moments ago with it tried on. Uncle
                     Carver is just as proud of Georgie as he can be. I've noticed a good many
                     times, when he's been reading, how his eyes look from behind the paper, and
                     follow her around the room. She has a beautiful expression. Mother says it is
                     her mother's expression, and that it makes her heart ache to see Uncle Carver's
                     eyes following her, because she knows just as well as can be what he is
                        thinking about. Billy has sent her
                     two neck-ties,—one blue, and one pink; perfect beauties.
                  What do you think? You know the flower-seed I planted in my fancy flower-pot,
                     that was going to be such a great curiosity? Well, it came up a cucumber! But I
                     didn't find it out for ever so long. I trained it up inside the window, and
                     across the top; and 'tis covered with yellow blossoms; and, right up on the
                     left-hand upper corner, there's a good-sized green cucumber hanging high and
                     dry. (Father says that cucumber's in a pretty pickle.) Uncle Carver always
                     makes some wise remark about every thing. He says he has seen a man climb up
                     into office; and, when he got there, he seemed about as much out of place as
                     that cucumber.
                  When you've found both of your unknown lovers, and married them,
                     it will be a good idea to come home and lay plans for a wedding at the
                     poorhouse. Mother went there the other day, and found Mother Delight braiding
                     rags with one hand and a half (that side is nearly paralyzed), and Gus reading
                     a story-book aloud to her,—"Thaddeus of Warsaw." Think of it! and they both
                     over seventy! But Mother Delight always did like story-books. Gus has to stop
                     to spell some of his words. We used to hear him sometimes when he worked for
                     us. Mother Delight says she hopes you will get your pay of Mr. Calloon; says,
                     that, a good many years ago, he cheated a hard-working woman that is staying
                     there at the poorhouse out of three hundred dollars. He was hard up for money,
                     and told this woman, that, if she would let him have her three hundred dollars,
                     he would consider it a personal debt; and that it should be paid, no matter
                     what happened to his business. He failed a few days after; though his family
                     never lived like poor folks. She went to him for the money a great many times;
                     but he kept putting her off: and at last he gave her to understand that the law
                     did not oblige him to pay, and that he had no idea of paying. Mary Snow would
                     like to have you bring home a pretty sack pattern, outside. So should I.
                  
                     Your affectionate sister,
                     MATILDA.
                  
               
               
                  When father said that about mother's face, Mr. Fry said mother's face would
                        always be fair to him. Mr. Fry thinks every thing of mother. He
                     calls her "Aunt Phebe," and father "Uncle Jacob,"—just as he used to when he
                     boarded at grandmother's. Mrs. Paulina has got a switch of hair: at any rate,
                     it looks like hair. Mr. Fry don't know but he shall have to buy one. His hair
                     is thinner than ever. He looks as much as forty years old. Tommy and Mr. Fry,
                     and Uncle Carver and father, have been standing up like a pair of stairs.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XV.—FROM AN OLD SCHOOLMATE.
               
                  DORRY TO WILLIAM HENRY.
                  DEAR "SWEET WILLIAM,"—Who pulls your hair in the morning now? Here I am, at
                     last, on my own terra firma, after ploughing
                     the watery wave. Come out and see a fellow: why don't you? Who do you think
                     sailed the ship I came across the pond in? Tom Cush! First-rate
                     captain he makes. I waited over a week on purpose to come with him. In
                     recalling the days of your youth, do you ever recall old Wonder Boy? He has
                     given up the mercantile profession, and pursues the briny deep,—pursues it with
                     his uncle, the hero of the whale-stories. Tom told me he was in
                     port; and we went to see him together. He's the same old Wonder.
                     Their ship beat I don't know how many others, if not steamers. He goes before
                     the mast, but expects to be cap'n in a month or so. Having a
                        blower on board, 'course they didn't stop for calms.
                  Come out; for I can't come in: my mother won't let me. Come out to-night, can't
                     you, and shake hands with a fellow? Maggie says you haven't been here this long
                     time. Come and stay all night; and I'll pull your hair for you in the morning,
                     in memory of old Crooked-Pond school-days. Don't you want to see
                  
                     "DORRYMAS"?
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—Heard from Robbie lately? How is he getting on at the West? Fetch out
                     some of his letters. Capt. Tom is at home; and we'll have a gay old time.
                  If you can't come, stop over one train at Shaw's-Mills Station, on
                     your way home: of course you'll be going home to Thanksgiving. We are going to
                     spend it at my grandmother's, at Shaw's Mills. Don't you remember my pointing
                     out the house once when I was going home with you?—large house with French
                     roof. I'll be on the watch for you. We go two days beforehand.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XVI.—AFFAIRS AT SUMMER-SWEETING PLACE.
               MR. FRY TO HIS SISTER.
               
                  AUNT PHEBE'S SITTING-ROOM, TUESDAY BEFORE THANKSGIVING.
                  DEAR JULIANA,—I am glad you feel able to go. It will be such a gratification to
                     your husband! and it must please his mother very much to see every one of her
                     children and her children's children gathered about her. As Lucy Maria says,
                     "The beauty of it is meeting together." She has just returned from
                     a long tarry in the city, and is really too happy even to make fun.
                  Hannah Jane has come to-day with her baby,—a fine boy and a swift creeper. He
                     and his grandfather Jacob, as we call "Uncle Jacob" now, make fun
                     enough for us all, let alone mischief; which they do not, by any means.
                  I wonder if ever baby furnished such an amount of fun and delight as does this
                     famous creeper,—this "Buddy" of Hannah Jane's! There he goes for
                     the clothes-basket, gets up by it, tips it over, cries. Uncle Jacob picks him
                     up, puts him in the basket, sets the basket on the table. Now he's all right,
                     laughing and crowing.
                  "Easy enough to keep him still," says Uncle Jacob, jumping up and down,
                     clapping his hands, and whistling "Fisher's Hornpipe." "Then just you keep on
                     doing that a spell," says Aunt Phebe, "till somebody can take him."
                  
                     Buddy is motionless with wonder, and lies still while the girls
                     cover him with evergreens, chrysanthemums, and berries; only his round,
                     innocent face peeping out. Now, that's a pretty picture! Grandma Phebe has come
                     to admire.
                  The girls are dressing the sitting-room in gorgeous array. For flowers, they
                     have only chrysanthemums; but these, with evergreens and scarlet berries, make
                     quite a show. Bouquets in the vases, upland cranberry-vines thrown over
                     looking-glass and picture-frames, ferns and autumn-leaves on brackets and in
                     the windows. The window on the sunny side projects a little; and here Matilda
                     preserves the lives of her choicest pets. Among them are a rose-bush and
                     geranium, each with a flower or two. There's a hanging-basket suspended from
                     the top, overflowing with greenery. There are also various other little vines
                     in various little pots, in various places, trailing up or down as 'tis their
                     nature to. On a corner-table are books, papers, Aunt Phebe's work-basket, and
                     sundry of Buddy's playthings. Upon the mantle-piece stands, or
                     rests, something which Lucy Maria brought home,—a sort of illuminated motto, in
                     large German letters: "God bless our Home!"
               
               
                  WEDNESDAY.
                  We were brought to a standstill in our various employments yesterday by the
                     sound of music, which gradually
                     approached the house. As we listened, the outside-door opened, then the inside,
                     and then—Juliana, it would have done you good to hear the glad shouts! Cousin
                     Joe, Cousin Myra, and the accordion!—the accordion that has played
                     to mermaids! What clappings and shoutings!—what kissings and
                     embracings! Cousin Joe rushed or whirled or twirled about, kissing the girls
                     over and over again, pretending always it was the first time! Cousin Myra is a
                     very lively cousin. Lively?—she's all life,—fairly dancing with life. The
                     enthusiasm with which she entered, throwing her arms with a grip around any
                     neck that came handy—if 'twere the neck of a relation! (I've often wished that
                     I did belong to the Carver family, as they all say I do.)
                  Cousin Joe is a short, thick-set, jolly fellow. Has a habit, when talking of a
                     place,—say, Australia or Jericho,—of making a quick motion with his thumb over
                     his shoulder, as if the place were just over there. Cousin Myra, his sister, is
                     a rather tall, slender, light-footed maiden; not tall and stately,—any thing
                     but that: tall and frisky would come nearer. Both have sparkling black eyes;
                     and both have round, full cheeks. His are red and weather-stained. Hers are not
                     exactly what you would call "red cheeks," but tinged, or flushed, and more so
                     at some times than at other times; liable to sudden changes; transparent. A
                     right mirthful face hers is, especially when it laughs; for then two rows of
                     cunning white teeth appear; which two rows do fit in between those aforesaid
                     round cheeks in a way to almost fascinate even a steady old bachelor. Her hair
                     is dark, and is arranged in the coil and tendril style, with fuzzy frizzes.
                  To-day, preparations are being made for the reception of William Henry. Lucy
                     Maria and Myra have been on a high key ever since daybreak, baking turnover
                     pies, and little cakes in the shape of birds, dogs, &c.; also cookies with
                     holes in the middle, to remind him of "Crooked-Pond" days, and of the lady
                     there who told him "not to eat the hole." Cousin Myra is constructing immense
                     paper dahlias for the presentation-bouquet.
                  It was Tommy who began the "reception." Tommy likes to dress up;
                     and he made known his intention of putting on the "artillery hat" (one that Mr.
                     Carver used to train in), and an old military coat, and take a
                     jack-a-lantern, and go and meet Billy at the head of the lane. Cousin Joe
                     entered into the idea, and is making some jack-a-lanterns such as they have in
                     China,—perfect wonders of art and science! The girls have taken hold, and they
                     propose a torchlight procession; also that a mammoth
                     jack-a-lantern shall be placed on the tall gate-post, with the word "Welcome"
                     in large letters. Now comes a cry, from the kitchen, of "Corned beef!—we've
                     forgot the corned beef! Grandmother won't think it has been Thanksgiving if we
                     don't have biled dish on one corner to look at." That was the old
                     custom, founded, I take it, on a sense of gratitude, or a feeling that the
                     homely dish which served so faithfully through the year should not be slighted
                     on this high festival.
                  The Thanksgiving proper will be held at grandmother's; but much preparatory
                     cooking is being executed here. There are great doings in the
                     kitchen,—choppings, poundings, siftings, beatings, rollings, busy hands at work, busy feet scudding here and there
                        Buddy, amazed, sits in the middle of the floor, quiet, because,
                     being equally drawn in different directions, he knows not which way to creep.
                     Uncle Jacob has just taken advantage of the general confusion to give him the
                     spoon-holder to play with, and now walks soberly away. Buddy
                     hardly dares to touch its bewildering contents. Georgiana comes to the
                     rescue.
               
               
                  THANKSGIVING-DAY MORNING.
                  I am writing in grandmother's little front-room. William Henry came last night,
                     and was duly received. The girls decided not to have a torchlight
                     procession, but, instead of that, to intersperse the jack-a-lanterns on
                     fence-posts, beginning a long way from the house. Cousin Joe's—some of
                     them—were really beautiful; the others really comical, being adorned not only
                     with suns, moons, and stars, grinning faces, and pots of flowers,
                     but with symbolic carvings which aimed to represent roast turkey,
                     plum-pudding, and mince-pies.
                  Lucy Maria said, that, as it was a dark night, she thought it would be well to
                     manage things as Shakspeare would be likely to if he were here,—have mysterious
                     music and mysterious lights, which should disappear and re-appear, and lead him
                     on. So Tommy, dressed à la militaire, was
                     provided with a dark jack-a-lantern, which showed light only on one side, and
                     received instructions to keep ahead of Billy with it coming down the lane,
                     giving it sudden turns, and making it appear on opposite sides of the road like
                     a will-o'-the-wisp. The mysterious music, it was decided, should be, out of
                     respect to "Billy's tune," "John Brown's Body," played softly and
                     sweetly by Cousin Joe; who also was ordered to "keep in advance, and lead him
                        on,—something like one of Shakspeare's plays."
                  I don't know how all this dodging and leading on were managed: but
                     I know that Cousin Joe stepped into the house just ahead of Billy; and that,
                     though this was not in the programme, the music, by a sudden inspiration,
                     struck up "Home, Sweet Home;" and that all with one accord joined in, and the
                     chorus swelled up loud and strong,—"There's no place like home! there's
                        no place like home!" If the whole thing had been planned beforehand,
                     it couldn't have been done better or as well. Billy, poor fellow!—it came near
                     being too much for him; and would have been if they had not stopped short off,
                     and seized upon him with—oh, what warm and vociferous greetings! Poor fellow
                     indeed! I don't know who wouldn't have been just such a poor fellow. If those
                     girls gave him one apiece, they gave him several. I saw grandmother wiping her
                     eyes; and even Mr. Carver's grew moist. As for Uncle Jacob, I couldn't tell
                     whether he laughed until he cried, or cried until he laughed. But then, as the
                     girls say, his eyes don't hold much, and are easy to run over.
                  The most amusing incident related to Billy's whiskers. Since his last visit
                     home, he has raised a fine, thick crop. At one time, in the course of the
                     evening, I became aware of a suddenly-increased amount of giggle and merriment,
                     and saw that there was a half-suppressed whisper coming along, all giving way
                     before it like a row of bricks. It soon reached me. "Grandmother says she
                        thinks William Henry ought to
                     
                     take off his whiskers now!" The dear woman thought they were tied
                     on for the occasion as a part of the Shakspearian arrangement!
                  As the evening progressed, the first merriment subsided; and they all gathered
                     themselves together in grandmother's sitting-room around the cheerful fire in
                     the fire-frame which I have so often mentioned.
                  The merriment subsided, chiefly, I think, because, as Lucy Maria said, they
                     were too glad to be lively. No: that was not the expression,—because the glad
                     was too deep to let them be lively. William Henry, seated close to Georgie,
                     looked, not jubilant nor jolly, but content. Cousin Joe, too, calmed down, and
                     seemed almost pensive, sitting there in the firelight; thinking, I imagined, of
                     some dreadful nights at sea by way of contrast.
                  I do enjoy so much a talk, a regular sit-down, a full meal!
                     particularly when the members of a circle, as was the case last night, have
                     been long separated. Everybody had something to tell. Lucy Maria's anecdotes,
                     remarks, descriptions, and queries afforded endless entertainment, and gave
                     rise to endless discussions. She went out one evening, while in the city, as
                     waiting-girl at a party. Nothing could be more like her than to do this,—just
                     for fun, if for no other reason. The lady, it seems, wanted to engage her
                     permanently. Myra has a more noticeably pretty face than Lucy Maria; though
                     Lucy Maria's, in my opinion,—a bachelor's opinion,—is worthier notice. If
                     neither pretty nor handsome, it is picturesque. The eyes have not lost their
                     power to "twinkle with the fun that's a-brewing behind them," nor the mouth its
                     sweetness of
                     
                        THE WELCOME.
                     
                      expression. Myra is the taller of the
                     two. For fun, for liveliness, for "carrying on," to quote Mrs. Paulina, they
                     are well matched. I should say that Lucy Maria was far more given to serious
                     thought. Some of her questions and suggestions were really quite profound for
                     a—I haven't quite said it, have I?
                  I wish you could have seen—
                  A carryall has just driven up. Two boys and a girl in front, with a tall, sober
                     man between them. I see a face at the window,—a round, black-eyed, motherly
                     face, all a-sparkle with Thanksgiving. Now its owner is being helped out,—a
                     brisk, snug-built little woman: probably Cousin Myra's mother; for that tall,
                     sober man is Uncle Jacob's brother, anybody might know. Now goes up a shout,
                     "Aunt Myra's come!" The plot thickens. No more writing at present. I was only
                     going to say, when the carryall interrupted, that I wished you could have seen
                     Uncle Jacob and Cousin Joe bring Aunt Phebe across into grandmother's last
                     night in the "ark of safety" (a great arm-chair that Uncle Jacob made out of a
                     cask). Billy declared that no other chair was large enough for him and his
                     bouquet; and Uncle Jacob allowed him to sit in it fifteen minutes by the
                     clock.
               
               
                  MORNING AFTER THANKSGIVING.
                  I meant to continue this letter yesterday afternoon, but found no time to
                     compose my thoughts, much less a letter.
                  I left off when the carryall drove up yesterday morning. Before that could
                     unload, Aunt Emily arrived with her two little girls and boy; also Hannah
                     Jane's husband, and Myra's sister
                     Leonice and her husband and baby. All these last came by the cars. Those that
                     came in the carryall were Aunt Myra, Uncle Oliver (brother to Uncle Jacob and
                     Mr. Carver), their two boys and little girl. Aunt Emily is a widow, and is
                     grandmother's only daughter,—a slender, delicate, gentle-eyed woman. Aunt Myra
                     is a lively, stirring little body. She has small features, a high, bulging
                     forehead, and shining black hair. She wears a black head-dress—not a cap
                     exactly—with green ribbons. Aunt Emily wears something, I don't know what,
                     shaped like a small-sized tidy, that comes to a point where her hair parts.
                     Please observe that my old liking for caps has not abated.
                  These two arrivals come upon us like a flood.
                  "Drop every thing," said Aunt Phebe, "and take the children's things off. And
                     turn away the teakettle nose. Steam-scalds are worse than any."
                  "Here we are," cried Aunt Myra, shaking hands right and left,—"here we are, all
                     in a bunch! How do you do? and how do you do? And how goes on the
                     good work? Such a hurry as we've been in, ever since long before daylight,
                     getting the children ready! They were so wild, we couldn't keep hold of one
                     half a minute. Pray, who's that singing 'By lo, by lo'?"
                  "Georgiana," said Aunt Phebe,—"in the bedroom, trying to get the baby to
                     sleep."
                  "Dear me!" said Aunt Myra. "What kind of a baby is it having its regular nap
                     Thanksgiving Day? Bring him out, Georgie!—Blessed ting! Come to
                     aunty, peshious! How he has grown! Most as big as Leonice's, and two months'
                     difference! Put them close together. Which would take the prize? You think
                     yours; and I think ours: so we agree nicely. Can your baby kiss? Ours can! Now
                     for something to do. Come, I'm all ready to help!"
                  It was Aunt Myra who started the idea of taking down the fireboard in the "long
                     room," and having the turkey roasted in a "tin-kitchen" before a fire,—the same
                     as it was that time she and Oliver came here to Thanksgiving, the year they
                     were married. This exactly suited Lucy Maria and Myra. "The long room" was
                     formerly the kitchen; but in later years a smaller one has been built at the
                     back, and the "long room" has merely served, as the girls said, "to travel
                     through."
                  Lucy Maria called, "Boy wanted!" and, in response to that
                     well-remembered cry, William Henry came forward; and, with Cousin Joe's help,
                     the fireboard was taken away. The andirons from "Mrs. Brick's"
                     fireplace up garret were brought down; the "tin-kitchen" was rubbed bright,
                     and, with a mammoth turkey inside, was set in its place; and Georgie
                        didn't doubt but he'd "rather be roasted before that pretty
                     fire than be shut up in a dark oven." The old crane was still swinging in the
                     chimney; and, in the multiplicity of operations going on in the kitchen, its
                        hooks came very handy to hang a pot or kettle on.
                  An attempt was made to keep grandmother shut up in the sitting-room; but she
                     was constantly breaking jail to get where the work was, until, at last, Aunt
                     Phebe set both babies in the middle of the floor, and gave her a charge to keep
                     them away from the fire-frame.
                  Presently Aunt Myra was called upon to come and take care of Cousin Joe, who
                     was "up to his old tricks." (It seems that Joe was famous in his boyhood for
                     climbing buttery-shelves.)
                  
                  "Are all these rows real pies, or only imitation? That's all what I climbed up
                     for to see!" shouted Cousin Joe.
                  "He thinks he's at the mast-head," cried William Henry. "Come down, sir!
                     They're not for Joseph. Come, let's go kick case."
                  "Lot's of 'em kicking over'n Slade's Field!" cried Tommy. And away they all
                     went,—big boys and little boys.
                  Next thing, "Jacob and Oliver, "who had been going the rounds of the farm with
                     Mr. Carver, came capering into the house, hand in hand, pleased as two children
                     at being together, and about as full of frolic, for all Oliver has so sober an
                     exterior. Prowling into the butteries they went, opening closet-doors, drawers,
                     cookie-pails, lifting pot-lids, peeping in at the turkey, wanting to taste here
                     and there.
                  "Not a morsel until dinner - time," the girls told them.
                  "Oh! we don't want to go into the glory all at once," said Uncle Jacob: "we
                     want a foretaste."
                  "Off with you!—off with you! We are cap'ns today!" the women cried.
                  "I know it; I feel it!" said Uncle Jacob. Uncle Jacob. Uncle Carver sat by, and
                     laughed. "So good of Uncle Carver," Lucy Maria says, "to enter into things,
                     when Thanksgiving is such a trying time for him!"
                  The two lively patriarchs, having been driven from the kitchen,
                     fled to the sitting-room, where they began to take care of the
                     babies in the most astonishing manner; Uncle Jacob bringing out the best
                     sugar-bowl, and placing it between the two. But presently Hannah Jane happened
                     in, and carried off Buddy. Then Leonice came for her baby; and
                     both infants were taken to the uttermost corners of the house to have their
                     naps.
                  When Hannah Jane came in, it was to bring a saucepan of raisins to be cooked on
                     the coals. I had heard, previously, cries of consternation from the kitchen,
                     mingled with uproarious laughter from William Henry, who, in answer to our
                     inquiries, informed us that the plums had "forgot to be put into the pudding;"
                     to which Lucy Maria added, that "the pudding was doing without them." After
                     consultation, it was decided to stew them up separately, and poke them in when
                     the pudding was done; or else Uncle Jacob wouldn't be satisfied.
                  At half-past one, the whole company gathered around the table,—the younger ones
                     jolly; the older ones not quite that, or perhaps I should say more than that.
                     "Jolly" is not' the word for the meeting of those who have lived long enough to
                     know the sorrow of partings, and even of partings by death. So many dear ones
                     together! And will it ever be so again? No, "jolly" is not the word; nor
                     "happy," either. We want something deeper, something tenderer, something that
                     will express Lucy Maria's feeling, when, as she glanced around as all were
                     seated, her eyes grew moist, and her liveliness subsided into silence.
                  Our conversation, however, by no means took a sentimental turn; though it
                     inclined to run backward, as anniversary conversations do usually. Grandmother
                     told what hard work it used to be, Thanksgiving mornings, to get her little
                     tribe ready to go to their grandfather's; and how, after all her exertions,
                     Jacob got off once with one boot and
                     one shoe. She said, that, in old times, every family went into its new winter
                     clothes on Thanksgiving Day; keeping on their summer clothes until then,
                     irrespective of weather.
                  Aunt Myra and Uncle Oliver ran backwards too, and remembered how handsome
                        Phebe was as a girl; and they so expatiated to Aunt Phebe's
                     daughters on the former beauty of their mother, that Uncle Jacob felt it to be
                     his duty to ask that much-beflattered dame if she oughtn't to step into the
                     other room.
                  The babies waked up, and were carefully seated on the floor; and Uncle Jacob
                     was carefully watched, to prevent his twirling plates at them. Cousin Joe
                     tossed them an orange, which rolled under a table in the corner. Both babies
                     started for it, creeping as fast as they could.
                  "A race, a race!" shouted Tommy.
                  Hannah Jane's baby went on its hands and knees headforemost. Leonice's baby sat
                     up nearly straight, and hitched himself along sideways. They met under the
                     table; and, when they were close together, Leonice's baby put up his little
                     lips, and kissed Buddy.
                  
                  "Tableau, tableau!" cried the girls.
                  Then everybody clapped and laughed; and, when the babies heard the tumult, they
                     began to laugh and to crow, and to pat cakes, and bump their heads against the
                     wall.
                  After dinner I went with Cousin Joe and William Henry to Slade's Field to kick.
                     It is good to go to Slade's Field of a Thanksgiving Day, and see there all the
                     returned sons, prodigal and unprodigal, apprentices, clerks, collegians, and
                     all the stay-at-homes,—boys, youths, and married men,—unite in one grand game
                     of foot-ball (kicking case). William Henry said he remembered how proud he used
                     to think the big fellows were that came home to Thanksgiving all dressed up.
                     And now he's a big fellow dressed up himself. For my part, I am glad there's
                     one day in the year when even grown-up men can kick something. Such a lively,
                     exciting scramble! Such runs and tumbles! "Jacob and Oliver" pretended to sit
                     on the fence, but were off, and in the thickest of the fray, more than
                     once.
                  We came away at milking-time. Entering the house (grandmother's) by the
                     back-door, I found the company assembled around the fire in the "long room,"
                     talking family talk together.—the mothers discussing their children, telling
                     which ones required coaxing, which threatening; which ones outgrew their
                     clothes, and which wore them out; which ones were hard on shoes, and which the
                     contrary; how some were dull, and some were bright; some were slow-motioned,
                     others smart to work; also recalling their bright infantile speeches and
                     cunning ways. I think this family talk is intensely interesting, coming fresh
                     from the hearts of mothers.
                  Pretty soon all the men and boys came in with much commotion.
                  "Most time to draw rations!" said Uncle Jacob.
                  "I don't believe," said Aunt Emily in her gentle tones, "that we shall need any
                     supper after such a big dinner."
                  "Let's take a vote," said Aunt Myra. "All that do, say 'Ay.'"
                  The affirmative was so overpoweringly uproarious, that, though the other side
                     was not put, nobody doubted the vote. The reigning powers held a consultation;
                     and it was presently announced that supper would be handed round.
                     As a preliminary proceeding, we were requested to arrange ourselves in a double semicircle, and
                     did so; the inner one being composed of the small ones, on low seats. Billy
                     called himself a small one, and took a seat in the front row on a
                     boot-jack. It was about this time that the mysterious whisperings and stolen
                     glances which some of us had detected as going on between that young man and
                     his grandmother were brought up against them for explanation. I had noticed,
                     several times during the day, Billy showing symptoms of uneasiness; and also
                     that he made two trips into town for no apparent cause, after each of which he
                     shook his head tragically at his grandmother. And now all these signs and
                     wonders culminated in the bold announcement of the culprits, that they
                        had a secret.
                  
                  After the wrath of the assembly had been discharged upon the two conspirators
                     for presuming to have a secret, the "questioning" began in an unprecedentedly
                     furious manner; yet in no shiftless, random way; for the ferreting out of
                     "secrets" has here, by long practice, been reduced to a system.
                  "When shall we know it?"
                  "To-night," responds William Henry.
                  "How big is it?"
                  "'Tis—'tis quite big in some places."
                  "Tall, or short?"
                  "Both."
                  "Alive?"
                  "No; nor dead either. 'Tis unalive."
                  "What color is it?"
                  "A kind of a blue color."
                  "Sky-blue, or indigo-blue, or Prussian-blue, or ultramarine?"
                  "Oh! something between—between sky-blue and the Prussian-marine."
                  A shout here, and a refrain from the accordion.
                  "What shape is it?"
                  "What shape? Oh! high and low and squarish, with round corners."
                  "Perfectly ridiculous!"
                  "How high?" "Useful, or ornamental?" "Animal, vegetable, or
                     mineral?" asked three or four together.
                  "All three. And I've got two secrets,—one little secret junior that grandmother
                     herself doesn't know."
                  Bursts of indignation then, in the midst of which Billy sprang up, and rushed
                     to the door. Noise outside of cart-wheels, which stopped suddenly. The double
                     semicircle broke itself into fragments, and flew to the door in that shattered
                     condition.
                  To the surprise of every one, even of Billy himself, a familiar voice was
                     heard; and who should jump from the express-wagon with a flying leap but
                        Dorry!
                  
                  "Oh! do let us come in a little while, or half a quarter of a little while!" he
                     cried midst the tumultuous greetings. "We'll just look at your blessed faces,
                     and then we'll"—
                  "We? What we? We who?"
                  "Maggie and I."
                  Then came greetings again, and kissings, amidst which Dorry tried to explain
                     that they were spending Thanksgiving at their grandmother's, at Shaw's Mills;
                     and that he and Maggie went with some of the folks to the station;
                     and all at once he remembered that the train stopped within a mile of here, and
                     made Maggie jump aboard, just for a lark; and how they found an
                        express-wagon coming direct to
                     Summer-Sweeting Place, and took passage therein.
                  "We ought to beg pardon for the intrusion," said Maggie. "It was Dorry's fault
                     entirely. He has been wanting to see you all so much!"
                  "You said 'twasn't a live one!" Matilda suddenly exclaimed.
                  "And so it isn't," said Billy. "They aren't my secret."
                  "What are those men taking off that great lumbering thing here for?" asked Aunt
                     Phebe, looking out of the window.
                  "Better mind," said Billy, "how you run that down. That's my secret."
                  With considerable twisting and turning, the "great lumbering thing" was shoved
                     through the doorway amid the suppressed excitement of the crowd; which
                     excitement became very much unsuppressed as the wrappers were taken off, and a
                     handsome "blue easy-chair"—the chair of his youth, as Billy called
                     it—stood revealed. Nobody knew what to say; but, in the excitement of the
                     moment, Lucy Maria seized the hands next her, and a circle was formed impromptu, which revolved tumultuously around the
                        secret. Then, a sudden thought striking Billy, he popped his
                     grandmother into the chair; and the circle went on revolving. Somebody struck
                     up,— 
                        
                           "Here sits a young lady sat down to sleep,
                           Sat down to sleep,
                           So early in the morning."
                        
                     
                  
                  "Go on!" cried Billy. 
                        "She wants a young gentleman."
                      And they went on:— 
                        
                           "She wants a young gentleman to keep her awake,
                           To keep her awake,
                           So early in the morning."
                        
                     
                  
                  "Choose, choose!" cried the children,—" choose the one you love best."
                  "How can she, when she loves so many best?" asked Georgiana.
                  Some one remarked, that, under the circumstances, 'twould be no more than
                     polite to choose Billy.
                  "Yes, choose me!" cried Billy.
                  Acting on this hint, she chose Billy, who seated himself beside her, throwing
                     both arms round her neck; while the circle went round, singing,— 
                        
                           "Green grow the rushes, O!
                           Never mind the blushes, O!
                           Give her a kiss, and let her go:
                           Green grow the rushes, O!"
                        
                     
                  
                  A remarkably pretty tune. Cousin Joe caught it on the spot, rushed for the
                     accordion, and played it brisk and lively.
                  "Now grandmother must stand up in the ring, and let Billy choose!" cried the
                     children.
                  So grandmother stood in the ring; and they sang,— 
                        "Here's a young gentleman sat down to sleep."
                     
                  
                  Billy chose one of Aunt Emily's little girls; and she chose Uncle Jacob (at his
                     own earnest request), who suggested, that, now he had such a good seat, it
                     would be a favorable time to pass round the supper: upon which he was
                     unceremoniously ousted, and led off to the ark of
                     
                     safety. Maggie took off her things: after which the double
                     semicircle was formed once more, in readiness for supper; the unalive
                        secret, with its rightful occupant, being in the centre of the
                     outside one.
                  And thus William Henry realized one at least of his youthful dreams; for he had
                     bought a "blue easy-chair," and his grandmother had sat
                        "down to rest."
                  "But where's the little one?" asked Lucy Maria. "Where's secret junior?"
                  "Oh, I forgot!" said Billy. And away he strode to the door again, and presently
                     came running back with a pasteboard box, which, upon being opened, displayed a
                     cap,—an old lady's dress-cap. He said, in excuse, that some caps in a
                     milliner's window made him think of one he brought home when he was a little
                     chap; and he thought he'd do it over again—just for fun; so went in and "told
                     the milliner her age, and she picked it out."
                  "Oh, I remember!" cried Dorry. "We two put that other one on together. Shall we
                     try it now?"
                  "Yes!" cried Billy, "try it on; try it on! I want to see how it looks on."
                  But grandmother held her cap-strings tight under her chin; while Cousin Joe
                     sang,— 
                        
                           "Be sure you're off with the old one
                           Before you are on with the new."
                        
                     
                  
                  The women-folks uniting their forces, "secret junior" was at last fairly placed
                     in position; and then Dorry and Billy stepped forward and smoothed the "strings
                     that hung down," in memory, Dorry said, of his first visit here in the innocent
                     days of his childhood. Somebody picked up a few bits of cranberry-vine the
                     children had been playing with, and twisted them into a circle, which, being
                     dropped down suddenly on grandmother's head, slipped over, and landed safely on
                     her shoulders.
                  "I'm dressed up too, and I ought to have a wreath!" cried Uncle-Jacob, hitching
                     the "ark" close up to grandmother, and spreading out the ends of his new
                     gingham neckerchief.
                  "Men don't wear wreathses," said one of the little boys.
                  "No: men wear featherses," said Lucy Maria, happening just then to
                     spy a couple of handsome turkey-wings which grandmother had put by to brush
                     round the stove with.
                  "Make an angel of him!" said Cousin Myra.
                  But, as the wings could not be made to "stay on" his shoulders, they were
                     fastened to the top of the ark, where they served as awnings. The
                     double semicircle was then arranged for the third time; the children being
                     grouped in the centre, in front of Uncle Jacob and grandmother. Lucy Maria and
                     Cousin Myra sat at a little side-table, and arranged the supper in trays for
                     the waiters to pass round. The waiters were William Henry and Dorry. William
                     Henry wore his enormous "buttonhole bouquet" of dahlias,—the one
                     Cousin Myra made; and Dorry, the very simple and appropriate badge of a
                        wish-bone. Lucy Maria told them they must flit,
                        glide, like zephyrs, as she was directed to do at the grand city
                     party (of which she gave us an account the evening before).
                  Dorry has run up tall; and his shoulders look higher and squarer than ever.
                     Lucy Maria used to say that his shoulders were "expressive;" and he does make
                        them express a great deal. His
                     face, though still a handsome one, has grown thin, causing its prominent
                     feature, about which he used to joke so much, to stand out in bold relief. It
                     is, however, a well-shaped nose of its kind,—aquiline,—and suits his face
                     admirably. He does not appear so very much older than William Henry now; though
                     I recollect, that, in their school-days, Billy used to look up to him as being
                     one of the "great boys." Maggie is a stylish, jauntily-rigged, genteel young
                     miss, not especially tall. She has her brother's roguish blue eyes and dark
                     hair. The aquiline nose, however, becomes, in her face, a shapely, delicate,
                     pretty feature. Indeed, the whole outline of her face and throat is fine, and
                     really noticeable against the background of dark hair. She has not half her
                     brother's fun; but is "easy to laugh," and, when she laughs, shows a dimple in
                     the left cheek.
                  In the midst of the flitting and the gliding, Dorry
                     stopped suddenly, and said, with an attempt at cheeriness, "We must go now."
                     Maggie had just whispered a few words in his ear, to the effect, probably, that
                     they should not longer intrude. "Go!" "Go!" "What for go?" cried several
                     voices.
                  "Fact is," said Dorry, "we ought to have been ashamed of ourselves, or
                        I ought to have been ashamed of myself, to come on such an
                     occasion. But it was stiff there; and I knew you would be having good times
                     here; and I had not seen Billy; and I hardly stopped a moment to consider;
                     and"—
                  "Oh! never mind any more ands," said Lucy Maria." Why, you half
                     belong to us. You were both taken into the family by the mosquito
                        ordeal up at 'Coot Pint.'"
                  "To be sure you do, old Dorrymas!" cried Billy. "Come, we're going
                     to make candy after supper."
                  "Don't offer any more temptations," Dorry answered.
                  "Where are you going when you do go?" asked Uncle Jacob from under his
                        awnings. "The last train has gone."
                  "We've engaged rooms at the hotel," said Dorry. "I sent mother word we might
                     not come back till morning."
                  "The 'Two Betseys' Hotel,' I guess!" cried Billy,—"where Mr. Fry
                     harnessed up and carried 'em that time."
                  "Fact is, we were bad children to come," said Dorry. "It wasn't proper."
                  "But now you've been so bad as to come," said Cousin Myra with one of her
                     prettiest blushes, "do be so good as to stay!"
                  "Can you resist that?" I whispered slyly.
                  "Stay through the candy, anyway," said Billy.
                  "Yes, stay through the candy," I added in a low aside. "There's
                     going to be a presentation, which cannot, from its very nature,
                     take place till after the candy."
                  "I want to confoundedly," he answered.
                  "You will have to break through," said Aunt Phebe; "for I've locked the door,
                     and put the key in my pocket."
                  This settled it; and they staid.
                  Candy-making, it seems, is an old-fashioned Thanksgiving custom. Grandmother
                     said it would hardly seem like Thanksgiving Day if that were omitted; for, in
                     her father's house, the candy-kettle always went on as soon as supper was
                     over.
                  
                  Our candy-kettle was an old-fashioned, three-legged iron pot; and, this same
                     being hung on the crane, the next question was, Who should
                     stir?
                  "Do the way we do at home," said Aunt Myra,—"all say the ninth
                        line of multiplication backwards, and the one that comes out last
                     stirs. Somebody count three; then all begin."
                  "One, two, three!" cried Billy.
                  You can imagine what Babel ensued. The children, being used to the business,
                     tripped it like lamplighters: and Uncle Jacob, having been declared to be the
                     last by acclamation, was conducted to his post by Cousin Myra and
                     Lucy Maria; and, as he had his good clothes on, they took one of Aunt Phebe's
                     aprons and tied it around his neck, he all the time protesting against being
                     tied to his wife's apron-strings, one of which was pieced out by the girls, and
                     made long enough to tether him to a nail under the mantle-piece, "so he needn't
                     run away." The multiplication clamor waked the babies, both of whom were
                     brought down amid the acclamations of young and old. How very bright a baby's
                     eyes look by lamp-light! Meanwhile William Henry experienced a slight attack of
                     his boyish rummaging fits, in the course of which he came upon a
                     box of old ambrotypes and daguerrotypes. Fun enough these made. There were
                     Hannah Jane and Lucy Maria taken together, their arms round each other's necks,
                     stiff as jointed dolls, short hair, mouths drawn down. Also Matilda, standing
                     square foot, hair in stubby braids, hands clasped in despair, slight blur on
                     the mouth where she moved her lips. William Henry and Georgiana, taken
                     together, were declared to represent the babes in the wood crying ing for their
                     uncle. Then came a ghostly and ghastly picture of Uncle Jacob and Aunt Phebe,
                     taken soon after their marriage; he sitting, she standing, with her rigid
                     fingers clutching his shoulder, while the faces of both showed a determination
                     to endure unto the bitter end. Uncle Jacob, holding Tommy by the hand, was said
                     to look like Abraham about to offer up Isaac. Then there was William Henry in a
                     frock, cap and feather, and wide frill, with a "thick head of short hair," and
                     "legs like those of a young piano." And among others came to light the double
                     picture, sent home from Crooked-Pond School, of Billy and Dorry sitting
                     together, and looking, so Uncle Jacob said at the time, as if they'd fight as
                     soon as it was over!
                  These and other likenesses convulsed the beholders; and as for William Henry, I
                     don't know how many times he rushed off with a squelch to bury his
                     head in the chair-cushion,—an old accustomed way of his of quenching a
                     laugh.
                  Meantime the candy had been tried unintermittingly; and at last
                     all were summoned from a play called "Simon says wig-wag," to
                        work; and here, you may believe, there was fun alive. For
                     hadn't we Dorry and Billy and Cousin Joe, not to mention the girls, Uncle
                     Jacob, and Uncle Oliver, and the accordion? Cousin Joe tried to
                     make them "pull to music," but with imperfect success.
                  And there was a private game going on besides. Cousin Joe being a rare and
                     distinguished visitor, Lucy Maria and Billy, in view of the candy-making,
                     conspired to present him with a cane, which cane should be composed of
                        candy. They held private conferences, and between them both
                     concocted a few verses, which Aunt
                     Emily's Roland had learned, and was prepared to recite. L. M. and Billy pulled
                     candy together, and managed to slip out of sight a few moments, and, by their
                     united efforts, produced an elegant yellow twisted cane, perfect
                     as to shape and proportions.
                  When the time arrived, notice to attend was given: and Lucy Maria
                     remarked to Cousin Joe, in a suppressed voice, that he must try to overcome his
                     emotion while his admiring friends tendered him a testimonial; and
                     would it be asking too much to ask him to stand on a cricket, where all could
                     see?
                  He said, that, on the contrary, it wasn't asking half enough; and accordingly
                     mounted a chair, begging that his feelings might not be "too harrowed," as he
                     had only one pocket-handkerchief. Whereupon Lucy Maria took an immense clean
                     white one from her father's drawer, shook out the folds, tucked it by one
                     corner into his breast-pocket, then waved her hand mysteriously in the
                     direction of the bedroom-door, whence issued little Roland, dressed as a
                     sailor-boy, holding in one hand a miniature flag, and in the other the light
                     yellow testimonial. Staring Cousin Joe in the face, he repeated
                     the following lines:— 
                        
                           
                              Time-honored and illustrious brave!
                              Thou'st bounced about on many a wave:
                              Thy natal day returns once more,
                              And finds thee on thy natal shore.
                           
                        
                        L. M. C.
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Didst not, when on the towering mast,
                              With gratitude recall the past,
                              Which taught thee how to mount so high,
                              Searching for hidden cake and pie?*
                                 
                              
                           
                           
                              
                              *Alluding to Joe's youthful performances on the
                                 buttery-shelves.
                           
                        
                        L. M. C.
                     
                     
                        
                           Now other heights thou dost essay,
                           Where stars and comets pave the way.*
                              
                           
                           . . . . . . .
                           . . . . . . .†
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           *Alluding to his scientific studies at sea.
                        
                        
                           
                           †These two lines forgotten.—S. Y. FRY.
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Climb on, brave youth! thou shalt not fail:
                              Climb up; hang on with tooth and nail
                              To Learning's shelves; for hidden there
                              Are rich preserves and sweetmeats rare.
                           
                        
                        W. H. C.
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              O brave young tar! O tarry brave!
                              Thou'st bounced about on many a wave.
                              Blest he the one which proudly bore
                              Thee onward to thy native shore.
                           
                        
                        W. H. C. and L. M. C.
                     
                  
                  Cousin Joe's reply consisted mainly of assertions, reiterated in the calmest of
                     tones, that emotion forbade his utterance.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XVII.—LOVE IN THE POORHOUSE.
               FROM LUCY MARIA AT HOME.
               DEAR MYRA,—How I wish you could have staid just a day or two! for, when so many go
                  at once, oh, what a vacuum is left behind! which nature abhors, particularly human
                  nature.
               Dorry and Maggie left in the three, P.M., train. We all called at the poorhouse on
                  the way to the station. Dorry wanted to see Mother Delight and old Gus. Gus looked
                  remarkably well,—better, Dorry thought, than when he worked for us four years ago,
                  in the time of the great affliction, as Dorry calls the
                     mosquito ordeal, which so tried us at Coot Pint. To be sure, the
                  old man has not grown straight: but his clothes were clean, his gray locks long
                  and wavy, his complexion fresh for a man of seventy; and he always did have a
                  pleasant eye, you know.
               Mother Delight was sitting in her spoked-back rocking-chair (an old one of
                  grandmother's), smiling and cheerful as ever, braiding rags with "one hand and a
                  half;" one hand being partly paralyzed. She still keeps her four short
                  black-and-gray curls,—two on each side. Gus brought some wood in while we were
                  there. His rheumatism has greatly improved under her Bur-
                  gundy-pitch plasters. They say at the poorhouse that he is
                     waiting upon her. Matilda suspects me of trying to make a match between
                  them; though that was made, I believe, in the days of their youth. They were
                  engaged at one time, but were parted by some misunderstanding. When Gus worked for
                  us, he told father all the troubles of his life.
               Dear old Mother Delight, stout and rosy though she be, has had her troubles too,
                  which have been borne with a cheerful temper. You know her real name, don't
                  you?—Keziah. She took care of mother once when Tommy was a little fellow just
                  beginning to talk. He wanted mother to do something for him; and she told him to
                  ask his other mother,—his Mother Keziah. "Muzzer Delike" was as near
                  as he could speak it; and we girls changed that to Mother Delight, because the
                  name suited her exactly. She is the same contented, happy-minded, dear old lady,
                  shut up there in the poorhouse, as when she trotted from house to house braiding
                  the family rags. I believe her face can never lose that beaming expression: the
                  marks of so many years of cheerfulness would be hard to rub out.
               Matilda says the paupers call Gus Mother Delight's beau, on account
                  of his doing her errands, and reading to her. Isn't it romantic, their being
                  brought together now under one roof?—and such a roof!—and almost weirdly romantic,
                  their having, not smiling youths and maidens to joke them, but paupers like
                     Quorm and Pete Bruel and Lyddy.
               
               O Myra! wasn't it as good as a play seeing Maggie and William Henry Thanksgiving
                  evening?—he, poor fellow! trying to steer between being as cool as some circumstances required and being as
                  cordial as other circumstances demanded. Did you notice how, in urging them to
                  stay, he turned from Maggie, and looked straight at Dorry? How cold their manners
                  were, those two! and how warm their faces! She, being unaware of her mother's
                  interference, evidently feels a little touched by his not going out
                  there, and by his reserve, and puts on all her coolness to meet his. Wasn't it
                  interesting when they were brought hand to hand in the circle? Their cheeks rose
                  four degrees. And they hardly know how to talk to each other under the new
                  dispensation. Dorry must see that there is something amiss. Why, they used to trot
                  off walking together, lively and innocent as two little birds; but now they are
                  just as shy as—as—as gazelles.
               
               Since coming home, I have talked with 'Tilda about Maggie; and, by her account,
                  she (Maggie) is a different girl from what I had supposed. They two have told each
                  other things, 'Tilda says; and she thinks Maggie is very ambitious. I asked
                  Matilda in what way: and she said, ambitious to be something;
                  meaning, probably, somebody. Perhaps I shall soon know more about
                  her; for, before leaving, she called me aside, and asked if she might write me a
                  letter. I wonder what it will be about.
               I shall stay at home this winter and help mother, and let Matilda make a long
                  visit at Hannah's. In March I go to Mrs. Calloon's again on the same conditions as
                  before. Enclosed you will find a list of the books Mary Snow and I are planning to
                  read together; also of the magazines and papers taken by our book-club. By taking
                  them in this way, half a dozen of us get the reading ing of half a dozen weeklies
                  and monthlies; and the assessment is comparatively trifling. Of course I do not
                  attempt to read every article in every one, but only what suits my case. Four of
                  us girls are studying biography together. We meet once a week. Each,
                  in turn, takes a prominent character, living or dead, and writes out all that she
                  can learn concerning him or concerning her. The papers are exceedingly
                  interesting; though, to be sure, they demand some study in the preparation. Study
                  and housework go admirably together. You have no idea. It is like
                     see-saw. Brain up, muscles down; muscles up, brain down. Who knows
                  but this see-sawing is the right way? You cannot begin to imagine how
                  beautiful home seems after absence. Every chair and table in the house looks good
                  to me,—even those which have seen their best days and some of their worst. Indeed,
                  I think one has a tenderer feeling toward the worn-out and decrepit. Pity mingles
                  with our love. Poor things! they can't help it....
            
            
               
               LETTER XVIII.—A POOR-RICH GIRL'S TROUBLES.
               MAGGIE'S LETTER TO LUCY MARIA.
               MY DEAR FRIEND,—I have wished, for some time, to write you a letter; but, as you
                  never wrote to me, I felt reluctant to commence, particularly as you are so much
                  older, and know so much more. I hope you will not be offended if I tell you how
                  much I like you; and I know that you have so much strength of mind, that you will
                  not be flattered. You seem to think more than any girl I know, and always seem to
                  think what is reasonable.
               I want to write to somebody that will sympathize with me. I have no sister; and I
                  don't know of one of my girls that would. And as for my mother, she would be
                  exactly the other way; for she never did sympathize with me: but, from things I've
                  heard you say, I know you will.
               I don't feel satisfied with myself. I want to be more independent; and I should
                  like to distinguish myself. Matilda says she wants to go about doing good; but I
                  don't believe I should be contented with that. That is the right feeling to have,
                  I know: but, when we look inside of our minds, we have to see what is
                  there, not what ought to be there; and, when I look in, I see that it wouldn't
                  satisfy me to do good unless people knew it; and this is the real truth. And I
                  want to be acquainted with great minds, to meet distinguished people.
                  Would like to be great. If I were a man, I should want to stand at
                  the top of my profession; and I should like to do something of that kind now,—like
                  my cousin Margaret, who teaches in a large university, and gives lectures to the
                  students. Mother says females must be modest and retiring; but I feel a longing to
                  accomplish something worth living for. Should like to be a doctor, or a writer, or
                  a professor in some university. If I were a poor girl, this would be much easier
                  to do; for then I should have more time to study: but now I seem to be whirled
                  round and round, without power of stopping myself.
               Just see a moment how it is. Last night, party. Began to dress at seven: no,
                  before that; because the hair-dresser came, and couldn't wait. She took an hour.
                  Staid at the party till past twelve. Got up about nine this morning, put away my
                  party things, and altered the trimming on a dress for to-morrow night. Lunched at
                  one. Had callers and made calls from two to five; then dressed for dinner. Company
                  came to dinner, and have just gone. And from one week to another it is just the
                  same. I won't deny that I have good times, and that I like to see myself dressed
                  handsomely; and also that it pleases me when the girls say I look pretty at
                  parties. I don't care so much about what the young men say; for they say any
                  thing, whether they mean it or not. Oh, some of them are so sickening flattering!
                  It seems as if they thought girls were fools.
               
               Do you think we ought to despise dress? I don't believe I can; for it is a real
                  pleasure for me to see beautiful shades, and to have every thing exactly match.
                  But when you have to keep altering and planning and retrimming, and planning out
                  trimmings, and talking small-talk, and making yourself look pretty, and so on, and
                  so on, all the year round, and then another year round, and every year round, you
                  begin to wonder if it is always to be so; and you look at the elderly ladies, and
                  you see that it is always to be so, unless you want to be odd. And mother says she
                  does hate those odd, strange-acting girls that set themselves up to stay away from
                  parties, and go poring over books. If I were a poor girl, and not in society, I
                  could do as I pleased, and nobody would mind: but now, if I try to make a business
                  of studying or of reading up on any subject, mother scolds; and sometimes she
                  throws out that young girls will never have a chance to settle in life unless they
                  go into company, where young men are looking for their wives. Then I get angry,
                  and say I will not be a ninny for the sake of getting a husband. I am always sorry
                  when I show temper: and I ought not to to my mother; for she is not well, and
                  loves me with her whole heart, though she does not show it in the best way. And
                  all this silly advice she thinks is for my good; but, when she does talk so silly,
                  I get angry, and I very often wish she was more like your mother. Your mother
                  sympathizes with your thoughts and feelings, and always used to talk to you; but
                  mine never did. She does not understand me; and it is really trying, when I know
                  my ideas are better and higher, to have her insist on hers. I think, if my father
                  were in a better condition of mind, he would agree with me; but he is in a very
                  weak state both of body and mind, and the doctor thinks he will never recover.
                  Sometimes he sits in his chair hours without speaking, or taking much notice.
               I was going to ask you how you learned to be so independent. I think it would be
                  splendid not to care any thing about what people say! But how can such a state of
                  mind be attained? Now, Sunday before last, my head ached; and my hat felt so
                  uncomfortable, I wanted to take it off in church, but had not independence enough.
                  Last Sunday I said to myself, "I'll be independent, and take it off; "and did so.
                  But, if you will believe it, I found myself thinking that people would be admiring
                  my independence: so you see it was not real independence, after all. Now, you seem
                  to go right along, and not think about people's opinions; but I cannot help
                  thinking about them.
               And now concerning doing something in the world,—fitting myself for some calling
                  or profession. I long to; but how can I, when I have to live where all that goes
                  on does not amount to any thing? I have just thought backward to see what has been
                  talked about in this house, the past week, by me and my callers. It has been, who
                  looked pretty at parties, how dresses would be worn this winter, what young
                  gentlemen we met on the street, what partners we should dance with at the next
                  German, and telling over the silly speeches made to us by former partners. Very
                  little besides this. And mother and her callers never have much more profitable
                  subjects.
               Now, how shall I get out of this round and round? I've a great mind to leave home
                  and study for something thing in
                  particular. How I long to do what Cousin Margaret is doing! Oh! wouldn't that be a
                  life worth living?—to be able to teach so many minds, and to make one's self
                  famous! For I told you at the beginning, that, if I looked within myself, I had to
                  see myself just as I was. But, if I did this, my mother would make a dreadful ado
                  about it. Oh, I do wish she could sympathize with me! I don't know exactly how
                  Dorry would feel about these things: I think he would make fun. You see, if I were
                  a poor girl, there would be the excuse of fitting myself to earn my living; but I
                  suppose—yes, I know—we are very well off.
               I should like very much to have you write to me. Won't you come and see me when
                  you go back to the city?
               Please give much love to Matilda, and remember me kindly to all at your pleasant
                  home; and please let me call myself
               
                  Very sincerely your friend,
                  MAGGIE BAKER.
               
            
            
               LETTER XIX.—LUCY MARIA'S ANSWER TO MAGGIE.
               LUCY MARIA TO MAGGIE.
               MY DEAR FRIEND MAGGIE,—We are deep in ever greens,—making Christmas wreaths and
                  crosses to send away; but I can't help stopping to answer such a letter as yours
                  (though I don't know how to). I am very glad indeed that you like me. I always did
                  like to be liked. As to flattery, it can't harm us so long as we know ourselves
                     just what we are. If anybody should tell me I had beautiful hands
                  and feet, and golden tresses, surely I could look at them and see whether 'twere
                  so. And, if you or anybody else says good things about me, surely I can look at
                  myself and see if they are true. You have nearly this same idea in your own
                  letter. Unmerited praise should run off of us, mother says.
               Really, dear friend Maggie, I feel incapable of advising a girl like you. There
                  are so many things to be considered!
               It hardly seems right for you to leave your mother. She is an invalid; and no one
                  can do for a mother like her own child. That must be a very clear case of duty, I
                  think, which leads a daughter to desert her mother if her mother needs her. And
                  your father, too, whatever his mental
                  condition may be, should have the tender care which only a daughter can give. I
                  believe in women studying, and in their going just as deep or as high into
                  learning as they have a mind to. Emphasis on mind.
                  Let every human being follow out his or her genius, is a good rule, I
                  think; for certainly, if genius is bestowed, it is bestowed for a purpose. Let
                  those who have a gift for writing, or for teaching, or for speaking, or for
                  healing the sick, or for any thing good, spare no pains to cultivate that gift.
                  But many do spare pains, as I have found out, to my cost, when I have sat and
                  listened to a woman who was speaking from the platform, not because she had any
                  thing to say, but because she believed in women's speaking. I have
                  thought it all over, and have come to the conclusion that no man nor woman can
                  excel in any profession without doing a great amount of real hard work,—hard
                     head-work; which I really believe is the hardest kind there is,
                  unless we except, perhaps, character-work; that is, working upon
                  ourselves to make ourselves pure in heart.
               I have made the acquaintance of a charming and very intellectual lady in the city,
                  who allows me to call myself her friend. She says that true education begins at
                  the centre, and works outward (same as you crochet a tidy, I suppose); and also
                  that true education is that which fits us for the nearest duty. Now, you say you
                  are hasty and impatient: perhaps, then, temper discipline would be
                  your nearest duty. In fixing our eyes on something great we are likely to skip
                  things which the something great ought to begin with, which ought to come first. I
                  suppose the heart is as well worth educating as the head; and so, perhaps, a sweet
                  temper should come first, and also unselfishness, humility, forbearance,
                  loving-kindness, purity of motive. Especially should making the most of
                     whatever means we have at hand come first. Probably, in thinking of
                  reading upon some subject, you have in mind months and months of unbroken time.
                  Perhaps reading with an aim may partly make up for the want of this.
                  How would it do to let novels alone, and, when you do read, read with an
                     aim?
               
               For instance, take Shakspeare for a subject, and make yourself acquainted with his
                  plays, and the best that has been written concerning them. You say you want to
                  come in contact with superior minds. One good way of doing this is to read what
                  men of genius say about men of genius. Mrs. Everson, the charming friend I spoke
                  of, thinks we can come nearer to great writers by reading their books than by
                  meeting them personally. Or suppose you take astronomy, or geology (they say this
                  last is fearfully and wonderfully exciting to its students), or natural history
                  (in which you are so much interested), or biography, or botany. Couldn't you make
                  a compromise with your mother? Perhaps you take too determined a stand on the
                  opposition,—are not conciliatory enough. In reading up on any one of these
                  subjects, you would find plenty of things with which to entertain your mother when
                  she is ailing or nervous; and your taking pains to do this might cause her to look
                  friendlily on books, and put her in a happier frame of mind.
               All this—namely, conciliating your mother, and working away hard at
                     character-work, and making the most of the means at hand—would be
                  doing what my dear friend calls the "nearest duties," or beginning at the centre,
                  and working outward, tidy-fashion. You know, we never begin at the border. That pretty edging
                  seems to come on naturally enough when we reach there; but then it grows out of
                  all that crocheting. Oh! there has to be an immense deal of patient crocheting
                  done on one's self before a perfect pattern can be wrought out; and then it
                  can't.
               Yes: work is the word. Dickens said, that, if he had done any thing
                  worth doing, it was by hard work. Some other famous writer—I saw this
                  quoted recently—says, "Genius is only a transcendent painstaking." I
                  have heard of a great orator, who, though he did not write his addresses, built
                  them up, sentence by sentence, in his mind, from a whole mindful of
                  information collected with hard labor. That is what one might call
                     thinking in orations. Probably all real orators think in
                     orations, and poets think in poems, and painters think in pictures. So,
                  if you want to be an astronomer, you must think in stars; or a geologist, think in
                  rocks; a botanist, think in flowers. And I must think in little
                     children; for they are my profession.
               As to being independent, it seems to me that the only way to be independent is to
                  have some aim in life, which will so fill up our minds that we shall not think
                  whether we are independent or not. I wish people were less bound by custom in
                  small matters,—like taking off hats, observing certain forms, and following
                  certain fashions. It is ridiculous that the whole tribe must all do alike, or
                  perish! Simon says up; Simon says down; Simon says
                     wigwag; all wigwag! But not without Simon says
                     so, or there'll be a forfeit. It is very well to play a play once in a
                  while; but as for making life one everlasting game of wigwag, I don't
                  believe in it.
               Suppose a woman practises sixty years on making a good appearance: when her body
                  drops off, she'll have to go on living; but of what use will all that sixty years
                  of practice be to her? People ought to look ahead a little, and not live from
                  "hand to mouth."
               I don't blame you at all for not wishing to be dressed up prettily, and set in the
                  market-place; though, to be sure, this is a fine old Oriental custom. Just think
                  of a girl living for nothing but to dress in the fashion, and get a beau! No
                  wonder partners talk silly talk. They do it, probably, thinking to
                  adapt themselves to their hearers.
               Your mother is right in one thing. Men—at least some men—do prefer for wives women
                  of not very much character or very much learning. The
                  head clerk at the store where my cousin William Henry works is an admirer of Mrs.
                  Calloon's daughter Bessie. Bessie could not converse intelligently on any subject
                  outside of society bounds. Name half a dozen different authors, and
                  she would be unable to say whether they were English or American, or living or
                  dead, or what they had written. As for opinions, probably both she and her mother
                  would think it a disgrace to have any. This clerk said one day, in William Henry's
                  hearing, that, for his part, he didn't want a woman to be always
                  saying what she thought, and what she believed, and
                  setting up her opinion, and contradicting, and having her head
                  forever in a book, and having ideas. He wanted a wife that would sew
                  on his buttons, and work his slippers, and let him do the thinking, so as to have
                  peace in the house.
               Mrs. Calloon is a wife of this kind; and see how she brings up her children! All
                  for outside show. Now, I think that mothers need to have ideas, if wives do
                  not. Our mother very often "had her head in a book;" but she never neglected her
                  family: on the contrary, books helped her bring up her family. She owns every one
                  of Horace Mann's works. When I brought home a lesson to learn, she could usually
                  give me some hints about it. I never remember the time when I did not reverence
                  and respect my mother. I wonder, wonder, wonder, why people think the highest
                  culture is thrown away on women just because they do not intend to earn their
                  living by it. Uncle Carver says, the old "plantation law," that children
                     follow the condition of the mother, still holds good; and therefore her
                  "condition" should be ennobled. It should neither be that of a drudge nor that of
                  a butterfly. I am sure, if anybody needs wisdom and knowledge, it is a woman with
                  a family of children to bring up. And as for "peace in the house," my father and
                  mother talk over a subject; and, if they don't agree in opinion, they agree not
                  to. Sensible human beings ought to be able to live peaceably together, even when
                  differing in opinion; and the more sensible folks are, the less fuss they make
                  about agreeing or not agreeing.
               No, I do not think it is wrong to like to look pretty. The idea of
                  beauty is carried out in Nature: why not pattern by her? Trees take pains to look
                  pretty, and the fields to embroider their dresses. Still an apple-tree does not
                  spend all its time on blossoms, nor a field on embroidery. I have reflected and
                  read a great deal on this question of dress, and begin to think that it is not
                  like a question in arithmetic,—having only one answer; but that each woman must
                  answer it for herself, according to her tastes, her means, and her aims in life. I
                  do not believe that those who are living for a high and noble purpose feel at a
                  loss to know how much time to spend on dress. A purpose serves as a balance-wheel
                  or regulator. There is my dear friend Mrs. Everson: she is so
                     heartily interested, so interested personally, in
                  those women whom the community calls "fallen," that the subject of dress is
                  crowded out. Don't your emember your philosophy lesson?—"Where one thing is,
                  another cannot be." Of course, every person, man or woman, should observe, in
                  dressing, the rules of good taste.
               It is curious; but Matilda thinks she could do more if she were rich, and you
                  think you could do more if you were poor,—more, I mean, towards
                  accomplishing your individual purposes. I rather think that a strong will to
                     do, a motive-power always in force, are of the principal importance.
               If I were you, I would not leave my mother. I'm sure nothing would tempt me to
                  leave mine, were she feeble and ailing; and you wouldn't—I know you wouldn't—when
                  it came to the point.
               After all, there is so much work to be done on ourselves, that, wherever we are,
                  some parts of it may be going on; for character-work has to be done
                  as well as brain-work. Don't you believe it just as important to
                  learn to be humble-minded, self-sacrificing, and forgiving, as to learn logarithms
                  and equinoxes? I do.
               I had a great deal more in my mind to say, especially on dress, but
                  skipped over, being short of time,—not all my own thoughts, only as I made them
                  mine by reading. Some of these very things I've being saying to you I got from
                  books, or from Mrs. Everson. If you like, I can give you a list of books where you
                  may find—oh! quantities tities of
                  thoughts. And, when one becomes interested in a subject, it is wonderful to find
                  how much has been written about it. Why, I see something for me in
                  almost every paper I take up.
               Do write to me again, and whenever you want to; though I hardly believe I have
                  helped you much. We'll talk all these things over some time.
               
                  Very cordially your friend,
                  LUCY M. CARVER.
               
            
            
               LETTER XX.—WILLIAM HENRY LOSES
               HIS PLACE.
               
                  LUCY MARIA TO MYRA.
                  DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—How beautiful the country is in the winter! Summer visitors
                     from the city, flitting in the fall, pity us poor country-dwellers, left, so I
                     have heard them say, to the mercy of the howling blasts. Little they know of
                     our many delights! Why, even the scenery, in their imagination so dreary, has
                     its especial wintry charms; even this death-like stillness brooding over the
                     face of the earth has its fascination, particularly when, as now, a fresh snow
                     covers the ground. I went out upon the knoll last evening a little while after
                     sunset. Such depth of quiet! Literally not a sound. The line where the dark
                     woods met the sky in the west was of the most intense brightness; while just
                     opposite hung the big moon in deep lead-color, and between—but I
                     never describe. I don't know how. The right words will not come. Still I must
                     declare that this unbroken whiteness of field and hill upon which I look out
                     from my window is a beautiful sight. The poor city-dweller should behold these
                     same snowy hill-tops in the early morning; two in particular quite near the
                     house. They catch the rays of the sun some moments before he shows himself,
                        and then their whiteness turns to
                     a luminous rose-color. It seems like the work of magic so long as the sun keeps
                     out of sight.
                  I suppose I felt in an unusually pensive mood last evening, thinking of William
                     Henry. He has lost his place at Mr. Banvard's, and feels quite down-hearted.
                     This sword has been hanging over him for some time, but did not drop until the
                     present week. If his discharge had been occasioned by any lack of integrity,
                     any blot upon his honor,—why, we should all of us sink under this blow. But it
                     is owing to a combination of circumstances. I had a talk with Mr. Banvard
                     before leaving the city. He said the young man was reliable, and
                     therefore valuable to them. There is, it seems, an influential partner whose
                     nephew is clerk there; and this clerk, for some reason or other, has taken a
                     dislike to Billy. Billy won't tell us all we want to know about this
                        reason; but, from what we can find out, we think there was some
                     trouble between the nephew-clerk and Billy and the mate of a ship. I am pretty
                     sure of having heard Cousin Joe say once that a ship's mate has to keep an
                     account of the cargo; and if, when delivered, it falls short as compared
                     with—with—now, what is the name of that mercantile document?—an
                        invoice, I think: anyway, we'll call it that,—if the cargo
                     falls short of the invoice, the mate is held responsible. I remember Cousin
                     Joe's saying there was a chance for bribery somewhere, and think
                     it was with the clerks of the firm to which the vessel was consigned, or which
                     owned the goods; for the clerks, or a clerk, must be present when
                     the cargo is taken out, note down the amount of each kind, and see if it
                     tallies with the invoice. (If my statements are not correct, ask
                     Cousin Joe to make them so.) Now, suppose a dishonest mate wishes to hold back
                     a bag of coffee, or a box or two of fruit,—why, of course, it would be
                     perfectly easy for a dishonest clerk to accept a bribe, and make
                     his note-book tally with the invoice. I have my suspicions that a bribe
                        might have been, in some such way, offered to Billy, and
                     perhaps to the nephew-clerk, and—but I am almost a wicked girl to try to
                     explain where I have no certain knowledge. Imagine, though, anybody offering a
                     bribe to William Henry! Remember, that, after a trial of four
                        years, Mr. Banvard spoke in the highest possible terms of his
                     faithfulness, his reliability. Remember, too, what his very first teacher said
                     of him,—that when there was a dispute among the children, and every one told
                     the story in a different way, she would ask William Henry, and could tell then
                     just how it happened. Also what the principal of the Crooked-Pond School wrote
                     to Uncle Carver when William Henry left there. To be sure, he did not call him
                     a remarkably brilliant scholar; but he wrote this (for I have the very letter
                     in my hands):—
                  "Allow me, sir, in concluding, to congratulate you on the many good qualities
                     of your son. He is one of the boys that I feel sure of. I shall watch his
                     course with deep interest. A boy of his manly bearing, kind disposition, and
                        high moral principle, will surely win his way to all hearts, as
                     he has done to ours."
                  Among the boys, he used constantly to be appealed to as umpire in their games;
                     because he had the reputation of always playing fair, and of being
                     honest in his judgments. Such a reputation, and such opinions of him, cannot
                     have been founded on nothing.
                  
                  I say all this to show you that our confidence in him does not proceed from the
                     partiality of relationship.
                  One of the circumstances I alluded to a few lines ago is, that business being
                     duller than usual, and the firm having met with losses, it has become necessary
                     to discharge a clerk; and, owing to the influence of the nephew's
                        uncle,—why, Billy became the victim. The uncle found this fault with
                     Billy,—that he was too abrupt in his speech and in his manners. Of
                     course, Billy resented this (in his letter telling us about it); and we
                     naturally sympathized with him. But Uncle Carver—he is the strangest man!
                     though his arguments, always plentiful, hardly ever fail of
                     bringing us round to his side. Now, Uncle Carver argues, that, when any thing
                     is said against us, the right way is not to get angry, but to take
                     particular notice of ourselves, just as we take notice of other people, and
                     find out whether the offensive criticism has any truth in it. For example:
                     Suppose A says B thinks too much of himself. Now, the probabilities are, that,
                     if A says so, he has seen something in B to make him think so. B's manner may
                     show more conceit than he (B) is conscious of possessing, or, at any rate, more
                     than he means to show. He should, therefore, examine himself critically, to
                     learn, if possible, upon what A bases his opinion; for, as there are quite a
                     number of bad qualities besides conceit, it is hardly reasonable to suppose
                     that A, even if an enemy, would have hit upon just that particular bad quality,
                     unless there were more or less display of it in B's behavior.
                  To come to our own case. Uncle Carver says it is not at all improbable that
                     Billy, in his scorn of sham and superficial polish, may err on the other side,
                     and show, at times, abruptness, perhaps even rudeness, in his behavior. To be
                     sure, this may be so; and I think it would be just like Billy, if he were
                     brought with people, who, as he imagined, were deceitful, and all for outside
                     show,—just like him to put on an extra coat of roughness, in order, as he would
                     say, to be sure of not showing false colors. Now, I can see very well that a
                     person can be true, and still be gentle-mannered. Another thing I can see is,
                     that the superficiality, shallowness, silliness, even wickedness, of a person,
                     can never excuse rudeness on our part.
                  I wish we could feel perfectly easy in regard to Billy's health. He seemed
                     better in the fall: but his cough has come on again this winter; and, as I told
                     you before, we dread a cough for him, fearing he may inherit from his mother a
                     tendency to lung-disease; though, to be sure, he has not a consumptive
                     form.
                  This is a sober letter. I trust the next will be brighter. We have not told
                     grandmother. Billy may get another situation; and no use worrying her, dear
                     heart!
                  
                     Ever your cousin,
                     L. MARIA.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—Be sure and tell Cousin Joe what you said you would,—to inquire for
                        Albert Daniel in every port. Wouldn't it be well to give Cousin
                     Joe a written description of him? I intend writing to "Bobby Short," out West,
                     on this same errand. We girls and boys went coasting
                     night before last. The Snow girls began it. James Slade inquired anxiously for
                     you. His anxiety, however, did not prevent him from paying particular
                        attention tention to Susie Snow.
                     We took our two great ox-sleds to coast in. Had to unload the sleds of their
                     wood first. Father and Uncle Carver are taking advantage of this good sledding
                     to draw wood from places which can be more easily reached on runners than on
                     wheels.
               
            
            
               LETTER XXI.—WILLIAM HENRY FINDS EMPLOYMENT.
               
                  LUCY MARIA TO COUSIN MYRA.
                  DEAR MYRA,—I write this hasty note to say that William Henry went back to the
                     city to-day, after a three-weeks' visit home. You will be surprised to learn
                     that he is now in the employ of Mr. Calloon as book keeper. He heard of the
                     situation through the head clerk at Mr. Banvard's (a young man who has been for
                     some time an admirer of Miss Bessie Calloon). The surprising part to you will
                     be, that his father should consent to his going there. This was the surprising
                     part to us, at first; and I am not wholly convinced now, though Uncle Carver
                     does argue quite plausibly. Mr. Calloon has the reputation of not being
                     strictly honorable in his dealings, either as regards business or politics; and
                     I know that several of the clerks there are young men of low
                        degree.
                  
                  Uncle Carver says, that though he would prefer a different situation for
                     William Henry, still, so long as he is required to do nothing wrong, coming in
                     contact with men of doubtful principles need not necessarily
                     injure his character. We cannot establish it as a rule, he says, that the good
                     shall not serve the bad, nor take
                     their money; for where could the line be drawn, since none are wholly good nor
                     wholly bad?
                  With regard to Billy's being corrupted by evil surroundings, Uncle Carver
                     argues, that if a young man, or any man, can be corrupted, he is
                     partly so already; as, when a person takes a malignant disease easily, it shows
                     that the condition of his body was such as to attract the disease to it. A man
                     of sound principles, he says, not only need not, but can not, be contaminated.
                     The thing is impossible,—a contradiction in terms. "For instance," said Uncle
                     Carver,—and he was right enough here,—" a lump of gold cannot tarnish, though
                     buried in filth: so if your young man, or any man, tarnish, it proves he is not
                     gold." Still I am not wholly convinced. No: I have never shown Billy Maggie's
                     letter. I should have done so, certainly, had I been sure that her feelings as
                     therein expressed were deeply rooted, and likely to be lasting, not merely the
                     result of her being satiated with society life.
                  I have had a few lines from the Two Betseys. The "black alpaca dresses" are
                     bought at last, after a year's deliberation; and the Two are, I
                     find, expecting me to stop there, and stay a few days to cut and baste them
                     (the dresses). I shall make a visit at Hannah's before leaving home for good.
                     Matilda says Buddy is the brightest child of his age she ever saw.
                     I will write you from Hannah's with regard to the sack-pattern. I think she has
                     it.
                  
                     Your cousin with love,
                     LUCY MARIA.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—As to working for Mr. Calloon, I am in the same boat with Billy. The Two
                     Betseys think there is a chance of my getting a school, the coming summer, at a
                     small district quite near them, called Parting Ways. Sentimental
                     name, isn't it? Mrs. Everson has sent me another package of books, and some for
                     Uncle Carver.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XXII.—A CALL AT THE TWO
               BETSEYS' SHOP.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA IN THE CITY.
                  DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—I have not been here long enough to advise intelligently as
                     to the making of that brilliantine. But as in whist, when
                     doubtful, play a trump; so in dress, when doubtful, play a ruffle; though, as
                     Mr. Fry says (he came in the cars with me), the ruffles are not as
                        puckery as they were. Understand, please, that it is early yet;
                     and we grope darkly in the dim twilight, waiting and longing for the
                        grand spring openings. Then shall the glorious sun of fashion
                     rise resplendent, in the light of which every little rule and statute shall
                     appear so plain, that wayfaring women, though fools, cannot err therein.
                  Such a pity, (wasn't it?) having to lose the grand spring opening in the
                     country! I did so long to stay and give the right hand of welcome to the first
                     green things that might sprout, and the dear little shivering flowers! I went
                     into the swamps one mild day before leaving home, and smelled the fragrance of
                     their returning footsteps, to speak poetically; and held my ear
                     close to the ground and to the tree-trunks to try to hear something. It seemed
                     as if there must be some note of preparation for the wonderful show so soon to
                     burst upon us. But not a sound!
                  When you stand alone in the bare brown woods, and think of the universal
                     waking-up that is close at hand, such utter stillness does seem almost awful.
                     It is not so much the stillness as the thought of the life that
                     lies spell-bound beneath it. Coming in the cars, we rode through miles and
                     miles of such enchanted country! Those stiff trees which could not even wave,
                     those bushes dry and brown,—why, leaves and flowers seemed for them
                     impossibilities; but, when the breath of May touches them, then how they will
                     burst into life!
                  Mr. Fry made the remark,—a true one, I thought,—that it was somewhat so with us
                        human bushes. I remember very well when I was a dry
                        bush (I mean a dryer one than I am now), and what breath of May it
                     was that waked me,—an address that some gentleman gave in our Sunday school
                     when I was in my thirteenth year; and I wish I could see him again. I don't
                     recollect his words, but only his making me feel that I ought to be a better
                     girl. He must have known how; for I remember of crying that night
                     all alone by myself, thinking of my badness.
                  And, a few years after that, something else waked me up, and gave
                     me—oh, such a longing to live an earnest, useful life! The idea of having some
                     good purpose in living seemed to stand out plain before me.
                  Mr. Fry says there are two kinds of human dry bushes,—the plodding kind, and
                     the kind that live for pleasure. Both kinds are intended to bloom; and very
                     likely (he believes almost surely) some breath of May will touch the most of
                     them. He told of a close, crabbed
                     bed old man, the tenor of whose life was changed suddenly by hearing an
                     eloquent sermon. The breath of May came in the shape of a powerful conviction;
                     and he blossomed out in deeds of loving-kindness.
                  Sometimes a spell of bad weather helps along this work of blooming. I have
                     often noticed that persons who have met with trouble are even more likely to be
                     helpful, cheerful, and sympathetic, than the happy ones. There are the Two
                        Betseys,—'Lisabeth and Betty, the neighbors call
                     them,—dear old souls! Precious little sunshine they ever got! Still their faces
                     show warmth and light; and as for sympathy—why, I'm sure they have a loving
                     word and a pat or a stroke for every little
                     cent-spender that toddles in.
                  
                     'Lisabeth's spell of bad weather came to her in her nineteenth
                     year. She was at that time helping to do the work in a farmer's family at
                     Parting Ways. The eldest son of the family was her engaged lover. Did you ever
                     know how she became lame? It was by jumping from a window with a child in her
                     arms. The house took fire one night; and, but for her, that child would have
                     been burned or smothered. She hurt her knee in falling, and never recovered
                     from the injury. The cruellest hurt, however, was caused by the gallant lover,
                     who, on account of her lameness, "broke off." This is the way
                        Betty expressed it: "Broke off, and went with another girl, for
                     all that little child was his own sister!" During the few days I staid there,
                     they each told me things privately about the other. They are a curious pair,
                     and so interesting to watch! 'Lisabeth is a quiet, gentle little
                     body, with considerable refinement of manner. Betty is tall,
                     spare, and spry. You should see her step about those two small rooms, doing up
                     the work, waiting on the customers, and performing little kind offices for
                        'Lisabeth. But their way of talking—both at a time—is the
                     funniest part of the entertainment. Whenever one begins to tell a story, the
                     other one begins too; and, as they go on, you see them continually glancing at
                     each other over their spectacles, as if to get the cue. Sometimes one ranges
                     ahead, and has to wait; but they always come out together at the end, "like an
                     old fugue-tune," as Mr. Fry said once during that famous visit of theirs at
                     Summer-Sweeting Place.
                  I slept in a little unfinished loft overhead,—the same William Henry had when
                     he staid there over night on his peddling-tour. Of course, with
                        recollections of the past about me, I insisted on
                        flapjacks for breakfast; and royal ones they were.
                        'Lisabeth was graciously permitted to turn them on the griddle.
                        Betty treats her as tenderly as if she were a poor, wee baby,
                     and while deferring to her in all matters relating to ideas, spoken or printed,
                     never allows the smallest interference in regard to household matters. It was
                        'Lisabeth who used to be interested in poetry and novels, and
                     who coaxed Albert Daniel to read Walter Scott's stories and other stories,
                     occasionally, of an evening. She, it seems, was christened Elizabeth; and
                        Betty was christened Betsey. They were named for and to please
                     both their grandmothers. In William Henry's school-boy letters they were always
                     called "The Two Betseys," or, if taken singly, "Lame Betsey" and "The Other
                     Betsey." They were, so they told me, "noisy, harum-scarum little gals in their
                     day, forever a-racing out-doors, and climbing stone walls." The neighbors used
                        to speak of them as "The
                     Cobbler's Two Betseys." They were left orphans while mere children. Their
                     father was a cobbler. His picture, (I wish you could see it!) in a red
                     pine-wood frame, adorns the room back of the shop. It was done by a travelling
                     artist of the school of sixty odd years ago, and was paid for, partly,
                        professionally; i.e., in cobbling.
                  The Two, I find, have not much hope of seeing their Albert again.
                     They account for his disappearance in three ways,—he is dead, or in prison, or
                     in an insane asylum. Trouble might have driven him to insanity; or trouble
                     might have driven him to drunkenness, and, while in liquor, he might have
                     committed crime. His father was fond of drink.
                  Some changes have taken place in this family since last fall. The two younger
                     girls are away at school. Miss Bessie is preparing (that is, preparing her
                     clothes) to be married. Cousin Colby, having pretty nearly recovered his
                     health, gives more attention to business; so that we see less of him in-doors.
                     It is perhaps on this account that we see more of Miss Emmeline; though she
                     would naturally come often, just now, to enjoy, and to help in forwarding the
                     preparations.
                  Do you know that the Two Betseys did not have their dresses cut, after all?
                     They thought alpaca would hardly be warm enough for the whole year round, and
                     concluded to exchange it for Thibet cloth. Alpaca, they said, was cold and
                     slippery, and would not let the warmth sink into it.
                  Just before Sarah Long was married, four or five years ago, her mother told
                     that Sarah was "going to marry a man who had said she might furnish her house
                     without minding the cost." We girls were quite amused at Mrs. Long's vanity,
                     especially after it was found out that the munificent betrothed was only a
                     clerk in a grocery-store.
                  Miss Bessie Calloon, it seems, has received a similar permission. She is to
                     marry, not her old admirer, but a millionnaire, who, as Mrs. Calloon tells me,
                     allows her to furnish "regardless of expense." This is all I know about him.
                     Now, Mrs. Long's ideas of elegant furnishing were humbleness itself compared
                     with those of Mrs. Calloon. The chief point of resemblance between these two
                     cases of boasting is this: in each case the man himself was ignored, and your
                     attention entirely directed to what he could afford.
                  I hardly dare make a simple statement concerning this family, so earnestly have
                     mother and Uncle Carver cautioned me with regard to judging, and
                     with regard to cherishing narrow prejudices against the wealthy
                        because of their wealth. Still, when you have lived with people
                     months at a time, and have heard for yourself that their average conversation
                     takes no higher range than dress, fashion, money, and the current gossip or
                     scandal of the day,—why, it is not "judging" to say that such people are
                     frivolous: it is stating a fact,—just as saying that Emmeline Gooding is
                     beautiful is stating a fact, or as saying that my dear friend Mrs. Everson does
                     a great deal of good with her money is stating a fact. I fear that Miss Gooding
                     is an inanimate beauty, but dare not state this as a fact quite yet. Meanwhile
                     I am studying her closely. Little enough she thinks it!
                  I failed, after all, when at Crooked Pond, of going to Parting Ways to see the "committee-man" about
                     the school. Meant to go the last day of my visit; but the weather prevented.
                     The Two Betseys thought the present teacher would continue till
                     summer. She is to be married, it seems; and is earning her wedding-clothes.
                     Parting Ways is only three-quarters of a mile from the Two Betseys' shop. I
                     shall go out some Saturday.
                  
                     Affectionately,
                     L. MARIA C.
                  
               
               
                  
                     'Lisabeth did not say any thing about Emmeline Gooding; but
                        Betty took me aside, and asked me if I saw her often while at
                     Mrs. Calloon's.
                  N. B.—They showed me the "pocket-book." I shall tell you more when
                     I have more time.
               
            
            
               LETTER XXIII.—OF VARIOUS MATTERS.
               FROM LUCY MARIA IN THE CITY.
               DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—Some time when you feel utterly miserable (say, for instance, if
                  your new hat prove unbecoming, or water spot your best dress, or your beau goes
                  home with another girl), then will I write you an entertaining letter recounting
                  the back side or Bridget side of life among the lofty. I could fill
                  ten sheets, I could almost fill a book, with what has passed under my own
                  observation. Our present cook came, or claims to have come, from Nova Scotia, deep
                  laden with knowledge of every branch of the culinary art; could make every thing,
                  from the most delicate pastries to turtle-soup and bœuf à
                     la mode. Her first exploit was to cut up several pounds of corned
                  beef into small bits, and so to boil it. When Mrs. Calloon uttered a mild
                  criticism (mistresses are trained by servants to be exceedingly mild in their
                  criticisms), Madame Cook replied, that that was the way they did in Nova Scotia.
                  One day she made mince-pies with no upper-crusts. When remonstrated with,—why,
                  that was the way they did in Nova Scotia. Next she sent in
                  squash-pies with upper-crusts. Oh! before that, she began to make
                  squash-pies by using the inside, and throwing away the good. For every blunder she has one and the same
                  excuse,—"That's the way they do in Nova Scotia." Send her off? Yes; and her
                  successor may be equally incompetent,—may steal, may get drunk, may be a fine
                  lady, may have a horrid temper, may—in fact, the possibilities are too numerous to
                  mention. Last fall, Mrs. Calloon had a sentimental second-girl, who might be found
                  at almost any hour of the day, broom or mop by her side, reading poems from Mrs.
                  Calloon's own books. Another spent a large portion of her time, and some of Mrs.
                  Calloon's sheets, in making under-clothes for a sister's children. Another, on
                  festive occasions, borrowed Miss Bessie's ruffled skirts. Another swore like a
                  pirate when angry; also hid the chamber-girl's mop, rags, and brushes; and once
                  threw a boot-jack at her head. Then the waste and destruction! Many a rare vase,
                  many a costly dish, have I seen in ruins.
               I mention these interesting little items not merely as entertainment, but as
                  further proof of what I wrote you once before,—that this "gay and happy" life of
                  the favored classes, so called, is not so entirely gay and happy, nor nearly so
                  free from care, as it seems; but that, to bring in Uncle Carver's idea once more,
                  worry is about equally divided among all classes. Worry, indeed! Why, neither your
                  mother nor my mother, hard as they both have to work, would stand what Mrs.
                  Calloon stands from her servants a single day. Another thing: It is impossible to
                  have lived so long in the house without learning, in one way or another, that Mr.
                  Calloon is an exacting man. He furnishes the money, and therefore
                  expects his dinners, and his shirts, and the domestic arrangements, to be
                  faultless. Mr. Calloon is not a rough man, nor a tyrannical man; but he often
                  indulges in sneering, cutting remarks, bearing hard on his wife, whenever said
                  dinners, shirts, or domestic arrangements, come short of perfection. Small
                  allowance he makes for friction in the kitchen. These remarks of his Mrs. Calloon
                  dreads to hear. Thus the poor lady, in her efforts to escape censure above-stairs,
                  and to prevent all disturbances and shortcomings below-stairs, is, as you may say,
                  ground beneath the upper and nether millstones.
               Now, I believe that if the head-centre—which is to say, the lady at
                  the head—be possessed of the right qualities, she can so regulate her household,
                  and so manage and train her servants, as to avoid this constant jar and worry and
                  changing. But what then? How many possess these requisite qualities? How many
                  ladies can even manage their own children?—can even manage themselves? I should
                  say that any person, male or female, who has tact, judgment, dignity, sympathy,
                  energy, and executive ability, sufficient to train, and to make to dwell in
                  harmony, cook, parlor-girl, chamber-girl, and child's nurse, and at the same time
                  keep the wheels of a large household in running-order, and meet the demands of
                     society life, such person is fit to be—alderman, if not mayor!
               Not that the human beings we call servants are worse than or different from other
                  human beings. Sometimes those who are not servants insist on their
                  rights, take advantage when they can, look out for number one, cheat, steal,
                  indulge in drink, and let their angry passions rise.
               Oh, no! I am not judging these Irish, German, and Nova-Scotia helpers as they come and
                  go; but I do like to study them, and often find myself comparing the
                     helpers with the helped, and observing how the same
                  types of character, differently developed of course, exist in both. Mrs. Calloon
                  as kitchen-girl would, I think, stand up for her rights; would be shrewd in her
                  bargains; would never, to oblige, work out of season; would resent interference.
                  Miss Emmeline Gooding might make just such a mild, pleasant, inefficient
                  parlor-girl as the one who left last week.
               I have excellent opportunities of watching this charming beauty, now that we see
                  so much of her. She does not answer at all to my idea of a city belle, and
                  certainly not to the idea I had formed of this one in particular. I do not detect
                  the least vanity. She seems to take her beauty as a matter of course. If there be
                  such a quality as the simplicity of vanity, she possesses it. Standing at the
                  glass, she will try on a hat or scarf, admiring the effect, and calling upon
                  others to do so, with not the slightest appearance of consciousness. She seems, as
                  one might say, impersonal,—to regard herself as a lay-figure. Perhaps, from having
                  been flattered so much, she has grown callous to praise. Perhaps her goodness
                  keeps her from being vain. It may be wicked to wish a person less good; but I
                  should be willing for her to part with a modicum of her goodness, and take the
                  amount in strength. I am so afraid she does not love Cousin Colby
                     strong enough!—poor Cousin Colby, with his not very firm health,
                  and his thin face! He seems satisfied, however. Satisfied!—what a word to apply to
                  him! He is in the highest heaven of bliss: he is gone "clean daft"
                  with love. You should see him in the room with her! How he watches every motion,
                  catches her slightest word! He follows her from place to place like a charmed
                  bird; likes always to be toying with her glove or hat-strings or scarf-ends. It
                  almost makes me feel guilty to do so; but, oh! it is just what I like,—to note the
                  gleam of his sunken, coal-black eyes, and to watch the glow as it comes and goes
                  in his sallow cheeks.
               When Emmeline is present, Cousin Colby does not interest himself much in the
                  discussions which come up now and then in the sewing-room. He used, as he stopped
                  at the door or passed through, to say a word or two on whatever subject was under
                  consideration, whether dress, beaux, or matters of taste. Recently the
                  woman-question has been touched upon; and our discussions have, at times, been
                  really entertaining. I say, our; for the family, and the
                  acquaintances who drop in, treat me in a free-and-easy sort of way now in the
                  sewing-room, as if we were all on a level there. Or rather, finding
                  there is no danger of my putting myself forward, they stoop to my level; and some
                  of the drop-pers-in seem really to enjoy a laugh and joke with me. Of course, it
                  is understood on both sides that this condescension is not to be presumed upon in
                  other places and on other occasions; just as, when you amuse yourself with Rover,
                  it is understood on both sides that the familiarity is only for a time and
                  season.
               The lady-callers often try to draw me into discussions on this woman-question;
                  which I rather avoid, for the reason that my mind is not fully made up on every
                  single point relating to it. Some of the ladies get quite excited in discussing
                  this matter. There is one in particular, a Miss Joanna Raven,—a lively,
                  keen-witted little body, four or five
                  years older than I am, I should think,—who stands firm on the affirmative.
               Emmeline rarely takes part in the debates; but sometimes, when only we two have
                  been in the sewing-room, she has asked me if I thought that certain things which
                  Miss Raven had said were true. She often questions me concerning myself and my
                  friends at home.
               You ask if Billy visits Maggie now. I think he does go out occasionally to
                     see Dorry; but I hardly believe there is any better understanding
                  between him and Maggie yet. Billy does not feel settled in business, nor "well in
                  health," as the Irish girls say, just now. (Scratch out this last if you send the
                  letter to our folks.) Maggie has written a note inviting me to come and see her. I
                  should like to go very much, but fear my presence might not be agreeable to
                     Madame, as her name was not mentioned.
            
            
               LETTER XXIV.—A PLEASURE IN PROSPECT.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA IN THE CITY.
                  DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—Such a delightful thing has happened to me! Just think what
                     an event! My dear Mrs. Everson called to see me to-day, and asked me to come
                     and take tea at her house to-morrow evening. She asked me to come because the
                     people who are to be there are particularly interested in the subjects which
                     interest me; and she thought I would like to hear their conversation. One of
                     the guests, a professor, has just returned from Europe, and will have much to
                     say about the schools in Germany, especially the little children's schools.
                     Rev. Mr. C. will be there, and the famous Mrs. M., and—oh! I do feel almost too
                     bashful to go. Some say that bashfulness is only another name for a high state
                     of self-consciousness. I am afraid I believe in dress, after all; for I do wish
                     my best dress was a better one. I believe in it, and I don't believe in it; and
                     it is so distracting to believe in opposite directions! Nothing that I own will
                     be in keeping with that grand house and all that grand company. "Mind the
                        main chance," Uncle Carver would say. "Go and get what good and what
                        pleasure you can." I suppose
                     there are occasions where dress is the main chance.
                  
                  The Calloons are utterly confounded at the idea of Mrs. Everson calling to see
                     me, and asking me to tea; though I have told them how our acquaintance began,
                     and that I have been several times to her house (on various errands connected
                     with the evening school), and that we are interested in the same subjects, and
                     that we corresponded occasionally during the winter. Those only who have the
                     same number of dollars—this is the implied principle—may meet for social
                     intercourse. Now, without regard to the case in hand, but reasoning in "the
                     abstract" like that old minister of your mother's, do not ideas
                     seem a more fitting basis for social intercourse than dollars?
                  
                  I explained to the Calloons that Mrs. Everson asked me out of kindness, of
                     charity,—just as she clothes the naked, and feeds the hungry. Knowing that I
                     hunger for mental nourishment, she bids me to her intellectual feast. I think
                     the proceeding is less puzzling to them looked upon in the light of
                     charity.
                  I am especially glad of this opportunity of listening to the knowing ones: for,
                     in one of our sewing-room discussions the other day, I was asked a puzzling
                     question; and there may be a chance now of getting an answer to it. The subject
                     under debate was education for the lower classes. A cousin of the
                     Calloons, visiting there at the time, expressed regret, that, in her town, it
                     was impossible to sustain a decent private school, because the public schools
                     were so good. This she considered a grievance. I said nothing: my opinion had
                     not been asked. They talked the matter mournfully over; spoke of
                        "farmers' girls," who once, they said, would hire out in
                     families, but who now set up to teach, and study medicine, and write for the
                     papers, when American girls made such excellent help: it was a shame! Then they
                     brought up the good old doctrine, that women should depend on their husbands
                     for what knowledge they need. Miss Joanna Raven talked against them in her
                     bantering way,—half earnest, half fun,—and at last turned to me, and said,—
                  "Miss Carver, what do you think? and why?—for I have noticed that you can
                     generally give a reason."
                  "Miss Raven," I said, "since you ask me, I will say that I agree with my uncle,
                     who thinks—and I have heard him say it often—that the time will come when all
                     the knowledge of the earth will be free to all the children of the earth."
                  "He doesn't mean college-learning and all!" cried one lady, aghast.
                  I said that I thought he did mean so. You know, Myra, I have heard Uncle Carver
                     talk this matter over time and time again with our minister.
                  Well, after a pause, a stunned pause, conversation set in brisk; each one
                     telling just where she thought the boundary-lines in knowledge
                     should be fixed for the common people. One placed them just inside
                     of grammar. Another thought that a little natural philosophy might be allowed,
                     and perhaps chemistry. A third suggested botany for the girls, and book-keeping
                     for the boys. Three or four agreed in opinion that reading, writing, and enough
                     ciphering to reckon up their accounts, would be sufficient. The cousin thought
                     that the most perfect state of society was that in which the common mon people were not taught at all;
                     as, in such cases, labor was sure to be cheap. At last Miss Joanna Raven
                     remarked suddenly, "Miss Carver hasn't given her why yet. She gave
                     her opinion, but not her why."
                  I smiled a bit, and said, "Miss Raven, these ladies are my why, or
                     rather their conversation is; for, since opinions differ so, who shall fix the
                     boundary-lines? There is no more reason for setting them in one place than in
                     another. My uncle predicts the future from the past. He says it is no longer a
                     stride from free high schools to free colleges than from no free schools at all
                     to our free high schools."
                  "He would, perhaps, add instruction in the fine arts, as painting, sculpture,
                     or a musical education," remarked the cousin sarcastically.
                  "Yes, ma'am," I answered, evidently to her surprise. "He thinks opportunities
                     for culture of every kind should be open to all, and free to all,
                     because talent of every kind is distributed among all."
                  "And who's going to do the labor," asked Miss Raven, "if everybody takes to
                     books and the fine arts?"
                  That question rather puzzled me. Of course, if a man once gets the taste of
                     better things, he will not be satisfied to dig or hammer or whitewash all day.
                     The same of woman and her work. Yet work must go on.
                  "Miss Raven," I said at last, "I am not prepared to say at this moment who
                     would do the work. The question needs to be considered. I am sure, though, of
                     my principle, or of my uncle's principle,—that all knowledge should be free to
                     all."
                  "But not in the present state of things," said the cousin. "Why, it would break
                     up society altogether!"
                  "And therefore it is no use talking about it," added Mrs. Calloon. It being
                     taken for granted, you know, that society must stand, though the
                     heavens fall.
                  "But, Mrs. Calloon," said I, "Christianity is talked about every Sunday; and
                     certainly the carrying-out the principles of Christianity would break up
                        society."
                  "The Golden Rule would smash it into flinters!" cried Miss Joanna Raven.
                  "It is well, however," remarked one of the ladies, "to keep those principles
                     before the minds of the people."
                  "Until society is ready for them," added another.
                  "Perhaps," said I, "the principles of Christianity, carried out, would result
                     in the 'privileged classes,' as they are called, sharing their privileges—such
                     as college-learning and the other things we have been speaking of—with the
                     less-favored ones. But, as you say, society is not ready for those principles
                     yet."
                  "And doesn't pretend to be," said the cousin.
                  "Pretends to believe in them, though," said Miss Raven. "But come, Miss Carver:
                     you must tell us who is going to do the work."
                  I said I would consider the matter, and let her know; thinking to myself that I
                     would talk it over with Mrs. Everson some time, and get her opinion. And, now,
                     to-morrow night will be just the chance. I shall speak to her; and perhaps she
                     will start the question among those wise ones.
                  
                  You may depend on a very particular account of my precious entertainment.
                  
                     Affectionately,
                     LUCY MARIA.
                  
               
               
                  
                  The cousin remarked, that to struggle for an education was good for a young
                     man, because it would tend to bring out all his faculties. Miss Raven thought
                     it wasn't fair that this blessing should not be shared in by all
                     young men.
               
            
            
               LETTER XXV.—AN EVENING WITH THE WISE ONES.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA IN THE CITY.
                  DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—Oh, yes! I am getting to see considerable of Miss Emmeline.
                     It is no unusual occurrence now for her to come up here to ask my advice in
                     certain emergencies incidental to dressmaking. Occasionally she sits a while to
                     enjoy the view from my window, and perhaps draws me into talking of
                     Summer-Sweeting Place,—on account of the name probably, as that rather seems to
                     amuse her.
                  How does she appear, on the whole? Well, on the whole, Miss Emmeline Gooding
                     appears, I think, like a person who is just waking up,—just beginning to take
                     an interest in ideas; to "sense'em," as some old folk would say. She often
                     questions me concerning sentiments I have advanced down below in trying to
                     express some of Mrs. Everson's ideas or Uncle Carver's; and I notice sometimes,
                     when Miss Joanna Raven is in the sewing-room, and the conflict of opinions is
                     raging there, that she looks from one speaker to another, listening, so it
                     seems to me, with a kind of pleased wonder somewhat similar to that of a child
                     who is experiencing sensations altogether new and delightful.
                  
                  And, for that matter, she asks her questions with almost the trusting
                     confidence of a child. You know children always think there is somebody
                     somewhere who can answer their questions; and so Miss Emmeline seems to think I
                     must have read or heard things somewhere which will answer hers. She asked me
                     the other day if I thought bad people would begin to be good, and unhappy
                     people to be happy, as soon as they got to the other world; also how much bad
                     people were to blame for being bad, when their parents were bad in the same
                     way, and they "took it from them." Questions we all would like to know the
                     answers to.
                  I remember, Myra, of writing you once that I was not quite sure of its being a
                     desirable thing for Albert, supposing him still a worthy person, to marry a
                     girl like Emmeline, even if he still wished to do so, and she made no
                     objections, but that I would consider the matter, and let them
                        know. (Now, don't say I never wrote this, as you say I never wrote
                     about the pocket-book.) My opinion of her has changed considerably
                     since then. I am willing now to ascribe her youthful behavior to youthful
                     thoughtlessness, to folly, to a love of showing her power, or—well, perhaps to
                     a certain kind of coquetry not at all uncommon; and probably—if Albert still
                     remains a worthy person, and comes home, and would like to marry Emmeline, and
                     she would like that he should, and Cousin Colby can in some way be made way
                     with—I shall not forbid the banns.
                  I wish I dared mention what is in my mind. Dear Myra, do you think
                     it is being too "romantic" to suggest—only to suggest—that there may be such a
                     thing as true love which lasts forever? Is it being too "fanciful"
                     to suppose—only to suppose—that the Strawberry Girl of Beulah might have loved
                     Albert, and that she loves him still?
                  It has at times occurred to me, when we two have been sitting here alone, to
                     say something about Crooked Pond and the Two Betseys (I wonder how much he told
                     her about his home and them); perhaps even mention his name, and note the
                     effect. Such a tempting thing to do! But how could I keep my own countenance
                     while watching hers? The consciousness of dissembling would raise a guilty
                     blush there: I know it would.
                  I can think of a trap which might be set for her, and that, too,
                     without my saying a word. No, I shall not tell now what this trap is, but shall
                     leave it unexplained, as a punishment for laughing at me; which you and 'Tilda,
                     and Leonice too, will be sure to do when this comes duly to hand.
                  As to the pocket-book, I remember very plainly of writing all
                     about it to somebody quite a while ago,—in one of my home-letters maybe, which
                     Matilda forgot to forward; for I have a distinct recollection of writing
                        "Gooding" ever so many times, and of making different turns to
                     the G's every time. Lame Betsey found it on the floor after he left them so
                     abruptly that day. It was a kind of pocket-diary, in which were briefly jotted
                     down his daily doings and spendings at Beulah. Her name appeared there
                     variously written,—"Miss Gooding," "Miss E. Gooding," "Miss E. G.," "E. G," "E.
                     Gooding," "Emmeline Gooding," "Emmeline." I certainly did write all those
                        Goodings; or else I played with them on a piece of paper.
                  I have, however, something more important even than lovers to speak of now. But O Myra, Myra!
                     how shall I be able to give you an idea of the almost perfect enjoyment of that
                     evening at dear Mrs. Everson's? I cannot describe: you have heard me say that
                     often enough. Sometimes I think there is no use in one person's trying to
                     introduce an idea into another person's mind. We cannot, with all the words in
                     the dictionary (unabridged), make other people feel the delight of our
                     happiness, or the woe of our wretchedness; cannot, by any description, make
                     them feel the ache of our tooth aches or of any of our aches, or see a
                     beautiful face or a beautiful landscape. I may talk of Emmeline's delicate
                     features, her exquisite complexion, her sweetness of expression; but you will
                     have little idea of her appearance, or of the enjoyment her beauty affords me.
                     Still words are the best things we have for such purposes; and I suppose we
                     ought to be thankful for them.
                  There was no regular sitting down at table that evening. Tea and other
                     refreshments were passed around, and the people crystallized in little groups.
                     I took care to sit next the Prussia man's group. He has a fine,
                     benignant face. His talk was so interesting, that one and another turned to ask
                     questions or to listen; and, by this means, conversation became general.
                  I watched faces to my heart's content. Yes, I was
                        content, heart and soul, that night. Faces, human faces, are my
                     chief delight always; and to have the privilege of studying a whole roomful of
                     such faces as those! And then the conversation, so easy and natural, and yet of
                     such high order! Fun and pleasantry had their turn too, and rippled along all
                     so light and easy! Everybody told stories. They all seemed to be in
                     "that-makes-me-think-of" mood.
                  There was one man present—oh, I never saw such a man! His head was full of
                     ideas, and his heart was all aglow. Sometimes he would be so in earnest, that
                     he would rise right up on his feet,—he was pretty tall,—and make gestures with
                     his right arm.
                  "Just see the folly of it!" said he, "the folly of it!—leaving little children
                     to the care of teachers who will work cheap, and then paying
                     ministers dear to undo and do over!"
                  I exchanged looks with Mrs. Everson. That is her doctrine too. Mrs. Everson's
                     daughters were just as kind as they could be; tried to make me have a good
                     time, which was needless trouble. Why, I should have had a good time, even if
                     my ears had been sealed up, just gazing at those faces, all so full of thought,
                     so full of soul, of heart too.
                  Some say there are influences emanating from everybody which affect every other
                     body near. It must be so; for I felt myself to be taking in at every
                     pore,—speaking spiritually. Yes, it was elevating just to sit in the same room
                     with all those high-toned men and women. No wonder Mrs. Everson and her
                     daughters are refined, living in such an atmosphere. And then the
                     paintings!—portraits of the greatest and best, way, way back, oh! I don't know
                     how far. And plenty of reading too. Why, I peeped through a door ajar, and saw
                     a spacious room lined with books! Just think, lined! completely
                        lined! I do believe, that even if I were to sit down there
                     alone, with my eyes shut, some inspiration or subtle essence from those books
                     would steal over me or into me.
                     Think of the genius, think of the brain-work, that
                     goes to the lining of those walls! Sit down! I doubt my being able to sit down
                     calmly in such a place, so exhilarated should I be by that mysterious something
                     in the air. I thought of Uncle Carver: how he would like to prowl about in that
                     library! And wouldn't mother feast herself! Well, well, well! some time or
                     other, when Uncle Carver's millennium comes,
                     then all knowledge will be as free to all as a common-school education is
                     now.
                  And who'll do the work then? Bless your heart! that whole question was
                     discussed, root and branch. The simplest answer in the world,—when the working
                     ones know more, the knowing ones will work more. The thinkers now suffer for
                     exercise, just as much as the workers suffer for knowledge. Take that pale
                     scholar out of his study, and set him to farming: he needs the smell of the
                     earth. Take that pale lady out of her parlor, and put her in the garden: let
                     her raise flowers, seeds, berries. The idleness and industry of the community
                     should be shaken up together. To work is not genteel; but when dignity labors,
                     then labor will be dignified. "To elevate the working-classes is to raise the
                     price of labor," say Mrs. Calloon and her friends. To be sure! that is just
                     what is wanted. Labor, by commanding a high salary, will push its way up into
                     genteel society, and, by commanding a high salary, make itself
                     genteel. No man would be ashamed to dig, if digging brought him in money enough
                     to build a palatial residence, and support his family in luxury, and go to
                     Europe with them if he wanted to. (If the spread of knowledge is to elevate
                     labor, meaning physical labor, why don't all the laboring-people people go to
                     town-meeting, and vote to double the school-fund?)
                  This last is a bright thought of my own; but I wish, if possible, to give you
                     the thoughts I heard there. They all agreed that the narrow views which prevail
                     in regard to a general liberal education are the result of its being taken for
                     granted that society must be preserved in just its present form,
                     stratum above stratum. A mechanic's son should not be educated above his
                        class. But why not leave the "class" idea to the
                     Orientals, and see to it, in this republican country, that education and brains
                     are brought together, wherever the brains may be? And they are just as likely
                     to be found below as above. The illustration of the isothermal
                        line was introduced. Don't you know that line which runs up and down
                     on maps, showing the climate of different places? They said, that if a similar
                     line were run through the community, showing where mind existed,
                     such line would dip down pretty often. What a gain when all these mines of
                     mental wealth, now hid from view, shall be worked! It is much more important,
                     they thought, that the world have the benefit of all its brains, than that rich
                     people get their work done cheaply. Everybody's sons would rush to college? Not
                     at all. Everybody's sons haven't a taste for college. Everybody's sons, in too
                     many cases, are in such a hurry to be earning, and become so
                     disgusted with study; that their parents have some difficulty even in making
                     them go through a high-school course. The poor have not necessarily a taste for
                     knowledge merely because they are poor. There will be no rush for college. But
                     this will happen: When college-learning ceases to be a privilege exclusively
                     for the rich, there will not be so
                     much college-learning wasted; for then many of the ninnies who go because it
                        is a privilege exclusively for the rich will stay away. And as
                     for the fine arts,—I am trying to give you their ideas, Myra, not
                     in their language, and not in regular order, but just the bare ideas,—as for
                     the fine arts,—why, were other lines run, showing where genius for
                     music, drawing, or sculpture, exists, those lines would dip down
                     pretty often too. And genius, wherever found, should have opportunity for
                     development. And it will have; not right off now, of course, but—well, say in
                     Uncle Carver's millennium. By that time, perhaps,—oh, no! it must be before any
                     millennium comes,—college-learning may mean something besides intellectual
                     training. Perhaps the moral nature will not always be ignored in our systems of
                     instruction, as it is now, from the primary school all the way up.
                  I wish you could have heard that enthusiastic gentleman talk about "this
                     Christian community's" dealings with its children! Wish you could have seen his
                     face! It was literally illuminated. Actually it seemed as if his very soul
                     would burst through. "This Christian community," said he, "is inconsistent. It
                     declares that the moral nature ranks above the intellectual; and all the while
                     it is directing its educational efforts wholly to the intellect. It knows that
                     an honest man is hard to find: it mourns over its rascals, though it cheerfully
                     provides jails for them at great expense. But why does not this Christian
                     community begin at the right place, and from its members rightly from the
                     beginning?
                  "The committee-man says to the teacher, 'Here are your pupils: if you can't put
                     into their heads so much spelling, so much reading, so much arithmetic,
                     &c., in a given time, some one must take your place who can.' To do this
                     requires the teacher's whole time and endeavors. The committee-man comes in at
                     the appointed time, examines the scholars in the branches named, and passes
                     them on. Not a word said about the character; not a word about right and wrong
                     principles of action. But when these children, grown to be men and women, prove
                     false to their trusts, not even the committee-man will excuse them on the
                     ground that they are quick at figures. So, then, this Christian community gives
                     the children a kind of currency which it will not always take back again; palms
                     off upon its little travellers tickets which are not good for all the way
                     through."
                  Some one put in a word here for Sunday schools. The gentleman said, no doubt
                     they were doing something, but that they were not public institutions, and
                     that, after all, one lesson they taught seemed to be, that the moral nature was
                     about one-thirtieth as important as the intellectual; that is, calculating from
                     the number of hours given to each.
                  "And what is to be done?" some one asked.
                  "Have normal schools for the heart," said he. "We have plenty for
                     the head; and now we ought to have a new kind, and its graduates
                     should receive diplomas which certify their ability to instruct pupils in
                     integrity, in noble life-purposes, in the moral branches which
                     will one day be required of them."
                  It was suggested that the existing normal schools might have these branches
                     introduced; and that the new kind, if established, should teach teachers how to
                     teach little children. The earnest gentleman accepted this amendment with enthusiasm.
                     "Suppose," said he, after talking a while,—"suppose they were even now firmly
                     established; suppose that every year there went out from them teachers trained
                     in character-forming, full of love for little children, and
                     believing in the sacredness of their calling: think what it would be to have
                     every primary school in the land under the influence of such teachers!"
                  "Those teachers," remarked Mrs. Everson, "would need to be culled from the
                     purest, the loveliest; for they will make impressions at the
                        forming period."
                  "And ought to have as much more pay than ministers," said the enthusiastic man,
                     "as right-forming is more important than
                     re-forming."
                  But my pen is running away with me. I must stop, though half has not been told
                     you. Perhaps my highest idea of a good time is when own folks, long separated,
                     meet together. Next to that, give me a gathering of earnest,
                     witty, delightful people, like that at Mrs. Everson's. Next, the reading of
                     books which may be described by the same three adjectives. And where, then,
                     will come in music, dancing, picture-seeing, &c.? Well, scatter them all
                     along; and, dear me! one needs to be a baker's dozen of Lucy Marias to enjoy
                     all that is to be enjoyed in this blessed, overflowing world; and a hundred
                     dozen to help do the work the world wants done; and two or three hundred dozen
                     in view of the many kinds of knowledge it would be so delightful to acquire!
                     For instance, when I read about rats and spiders, I long to study animals. When
                     I hear a lecture on astronomy, I long to study the stars. When I go to a
                     concert, I long to understand the science of music. When I hear a quotation
                     from Shakspeare, I long to have every one of his plays at my tongue's end. When
                     I read one item concerning one author's life, I long to know every thing about
                     every author's life. And when I gaze upon a beautiful painting—well, well, call
                     it five hundred dozen Lucy Marias; for I haven't mentioned one single ology yet.
                  The question with me just at this moment is, whether or not, if my lot had been
                     cast in the days of the martyrs, I should have had the courage to die for the
                     truth's sake. Pain causes this question,—the pain of a
                        toothache, which is growing harder every moment. How awful
                     painful must be burning alive! I tremble for my own soul as the thought arises,
                     that I might have sought some roundabout way of avoiding it.
                  
                     Painfully your cousin,
                     LUCY MARIA.
                  
               
               
                  Those faces, Myra,—those earnest, thoughtful faces, so full of
                     feeling, so all aglow with enthusiasm,—haunt me yet. Are there in heaven more
                     beautiful souls than look through some beautiful eyes here on earth?
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XXVI.—PLOTS AND PLANS.
               FROM LUCY MARIA IN THE CITY.
               DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—Prepare yourself to hear a delightfully entertaining confession
                  of deception and duplicity.
               It is known to you, O guileless maid, innocent of plots and plans! that I have
                  long been trying to devise some way by which I might mention Albert's name to Miss
                  Emmeline Gooding, and tell a few items of his experience, without
                  letting her suspect me of knowing any more than I seemed to.
               In the first place, I wanted to speak his name suddenly, just to see, for my own
                  satisfaction, how she would be affected thereby. In the second place, I wanted to
                  make her sensible of the misery she had caused. It would be delightful, I thought,
                  to tell her her own story, and perhaps express my opinion of her as a character in
                  that story; she all the time not knowing that I knew.
               
               The question was, how to carry out so brazen a scheme without my face betraying
                  me. And another difficulty arose. Upon learning who the Two Betseys were, and of
                  my intimate acquaintance with them, she would naturally suppose that I might have
                  heard them speak of her. I could not begin by saying—what is quite true— that
                  Albert did not mention her name; and that, after perceiving his condition, they
                  asked no questions, but tried in every way to soothe and quiet him.
               
                  Mother Delight used to say, "Let things alone, and they'll work
                  clear." A way may open when you least expect it, and let you through. The way that
                  opened for me led through pain,—the same kind of pain which ended my last letter
                  to you. Do you remember how hard my tooth ached then?
               On Tuesday evening of this week that same unmerciful tooth began again, and
                  troubled me cruelly during the whole night and following day; so that, in the
                  afternoon, I was obliged to leave off work, and go to my room.
               Now, it happened that Miss Bessie was to attend a party that evening, given by a
                  relative of the man who uttered the permission, "Furnish regardless;" and Emmeline
                  came to help in the last stages of the adornments. Mr. and Mrs. Calloon went too;
                  so that Emmeline was left alone to wait for Cousin Colby to take her home. He had
                  gone to some board-meeting or committee-meeting.
               As I lay on my bed, groaning, quivering (the pain was dreadful, Myra, almost as
                  bad as one long tooth-pulling), there came a tap at my door. I knew in a moment it
                  was Emmeline's tap; for she had been up to my room times enough for me to learn
                  the sound of it.
               I may misjudge her; but Emmeline seems to me to be a person, who, while feeling
                  terribly afraid of committing sin, has no fixed standard within herself of right
                  and wrong, and therefore depends on other people's standards. Though she is only a
                  year younger than I am, this depending way makes her seem, at times,
                  almost childlike. In regard to the fear
                  of sinning, I cannot say whether it is a fear of sinning, or a fear
                  caused by certain religious teachings of its punishment.
               To go back to the tap. It was Emmeline's; and, when I answered "Come"
                  as well as I could, she entered, and walked directly to the bed, and took my hand
                  in a way that showed the tenderest pity.
               "Oh, you are suffering dreadfully!" she said. "Do let me do something for you!
                  Have you tried cloves? Have you tried salt? Have you tried holding water in your
                  mouth?" She asked me to let her make me a mustard-poultice. I begged her not to
                  take the trouble; but she would do it. She went down into the kitchen and made a
                  mustard-poultice. It was well made too. Mother Delight herself could
                  not have done it better, nor have bound it on more skilfully, than did my
                     beauty with her rose-tipped fingers. The burning smart felt
                  positively delicious; and, oh, I was so grateful!
               But, even in the warmth of my gratitude, I prepared for her a cruel snare;
                  deliberately set a trap. My trap was simple, consisting merely of—But you will see
                  presently.
               Emmeline stood by me a while, and then, finding that I lay more quiet, went and
                  sat down by the table, leaning her arm on it, and carelessly took up a book.
                  Instantly the thought flashed through my mind, "Now is the time."
                  Time for what, do you ask? Why, time to try her heart.
               Suppose, Myra, that, after all, my being romantic should result in some practical
                  good. Being romantic, I am not satisfied with the state of things
                  between this engaged pair. Being romantic, I ask, "Why has this young
                  woman been betrothed three times, when true love is eternal?" Being
                     romantic, I answer, that this unstableness is caused by a hidden love,—a
                  love which was kindled years ago among the fragrant groves of Beulah. And then
                     romanticness is not my only attribute. I possess in addition,
                  though my friends are unaware of the fact, common sense; and this
                  enables me to perceive that a handsome young man of strong character, such as the
                  Two Betseys described Albert, must have produced a deep impression on a young girl
                  of Emmeline's temperament.
               How is the practical good to result? Listen. I shall (now laugh) endeavor to
                  separate the mismatched, and bring the true lovers together. To be sure, I have no
                  idea where Albert Daniel is: I shall, however, call him the unknown
                     quantity, and proceed as in algebra.
               But he must be found,—must! Shall I bear for nought the reputation of being a
                  plotter, a planner, a schemer? You will see, my dear, this reputation sustained by
                  plots, plans, schemes, which shall extend their ramifications o'er land and o'er
                  sea; and should they fail, then I, even I, will shoulder my staff,—no, will
                     seize my staff,—and set forth on a pilgrimage to find the lost
                  heir,—yes, lost heir. Isn't he heir to a heart? Well, no, perhaps
                  not, legally speaking. The accomplishment of my mission—that of uniting the
                  divided—will be a "practical good:" will it not? If Billy goes West, I shall
                  instruct him to search the prairies, and to start inquiries in all the principal
                  towns.
               But let me tell you now how I applied the test to my kind-hearted
                  beauty as she reclined herself there by my table.
            
            
               
               LETTER XXVII.—SPRINGING THE TRAP.
               FROM LUCY MARIA IN THE CITY.
               DEARLY BELOVED,—It was necessity which closed my last letter so abruptly. Far be
                  it from my truthful disposition to feign sorrow for such closing: on the contrary,
                  I rather enjoy tantalizing a saucy reviler like Cousin My for a whole twenty-four
                  hours. Perhaps you dreamed what my test was. And could Myra dream of
                  lovers? To be sure not. We all know what a prosaic, phlegmatic, humdrum damsel
                  Cousin Myra is.
               My narrative shall open exactly where it closed,—reclined herself there by
                     my table.
               
               When I saw her carelessly take up a volume, as before mentioned, I arose from the
                  bed,—though the pain was not gone,—and, though I dreaded to move (so strong is
                  woman's will; I would say, human will), walked to my trunk, took out
                  several books, placed them on the table, then lay down again.
               Now, here's the point, the plan, the plot, the scheme, the snare.
               Among those volumes was an old-fashioned one I had borrowed from the Two Betseys,
                  entitled "Meditations in a Flower-Garden,"—a small, thin blue book,
                  bound in "boards." The "blue" had worn off near the edges, leaving the "boards"
                  jagged and bare. The Two Betseys "set a good deal of store," they said, by this
                  little book; for it was once the property of their father, and had afterward
                  belonged to Albert, he having received it from them, when a boy, for his
                  New-Year's present. His name was written in schoolboy-hand, on the coarse
                  fly-leaf; which same was adorned not only with pen-flourishes, but with the graces
                  of poesy, as follows:— 
                     
                        "Albert Daniel Rodman is my name;
                        America's my station;
                        Crooked Pond is my dwelling-place;
                        The Lord is my salvation."
                     
                   And on another leaf:— 
                     
                        "Steal not this book for fear of shame,
                        For here you find the owner's name;
                        Lest on that day the Lord shall say,
                        'Where is that book you stole away from
                        ALBERT DANIEL RODMAN?'"
                     
                  
               
               Having set this trap, I watched carefully its springing. In silence, in anguish, I
                  lay, my face muffled, so that only one eye remained visible; but that one eye was
                  fixed upon my unconscious victim.
               As I had expected, the little blue book, from its quaint appearance, drew her
                  attention at once. She opened it—at the fly-leaf.
               The next moment I was off the bed. Her sudden paleness alarmed me. She took no
                  notice of my movement, but sat there, lost in surprise. That was just
                     it,—lost in surprise. She seemed not to know where she was.
               
               I moved a step or two forward; then all the blood rushed back to her face. Yes,
                  indeed: more came back than had left it. You know, Myra, I have ofttimes taken
                  cruel delight in causing the blush to rise on conscious cheeks of lovers; but
                  this—oh, this was too painful!
               I put some cologne on my handkerchief with the sweet guilelessness of innocence,
                  and walked back to the bed.
               But the toothache was no more. Either the hot appliances, or the excitement, had
                  driven it away. I lay there quiet, with both eyes closed, but with both eyes
                  peeping through their lashes, as you will readily believe.
               What did she say or do? Nothing. She sat perfectly still; appeared to be thinking.
                  Her first act was to open the book again at the name; her second, to
                  examine the fly-leaves of all the other books; her third, to glance once more at
                     the name.
               
               At last I spoke, expressing my heartfelt thanks, and assuring her that the pain
                  was all gone.
               "All gone?" she repeated in an absent tone.
               "Yes," said I. "And in what a heavenly state pain leaves one when it goes!"
               "Very," she answered.
               I felt less like talking than usual: besides, it had not been my intention to do
                  more that evening than just to note the effect of the fly-leaf.
                  Reflecting, however, that another so good an opportunity might not soon offer, I
                  advanced further; unskilfully enough, it is true, having no time for preparation,
                  and asked carelessly,—base deceiver that I was!—revile me now, if you
                  will,—asked,—
               "Do you find any books there that you care for?"
               "No—none in particular" (with some embarrassment).
               "That's a curious one," said I,—"that little blue one." (Imagine me, Myra!)
               "Very," she answered.
               "And so are the owners of it curious," said I. "There are two owners,—two old
                  ladies, maiden ladies, both named Betsey. They keep a little shop.
                  Some call them the Two Betseys. They live at a place called
                     Crooked Pond."
               "Friends of yours?" (This after a pause.)
               "Yes, indeed!" said I. "I should think they were; and dear friends too,"—all the
                  while running over in my mind how much it would be best to tell that night I think
                  she had heard of Crooked Pond before, but not of the Two Betseys as
                  the Two Betseys, if at all.
               Well, Myra, I went on and on and on, waxing bolder and bolder to the end. I began
                  by describing the shop, and telling how my Cousin Billy used to write
                  home about it and its owners from Crooked-Pond School; spoke of their visit to us,
                  and of mine to them; then gave an account of their lives, their housekeeping,
                  their tailoring, of their adopting "Luella's child;" told, in fact,
                  the whole story, up to the time of Albert's disappearance. Almost at the very
                  beginning, she moved from the light, and turned her face away. This last was well
                  for me, as I could not otherwise have gone on so innocently and so indignantly in
                  the latter part, where I told how Albert went somewhere to work, far away from
                  home, and there fell deeply in love with a beautiful girl, and how the girl
                  encouraged him, and afterward rejected him, and why she rejected him. In
                     enlarging upon her conduct, and upon the
                  suffering it caused, I seemed to be thinking of Emmeline only as that coquettish,
                  cruel maiden of long ago (for she certainly was a cruel coquette then, and
                     may be now in her quiet way); and I spoke my mind out plainly. Of
                  course I was careful to state, the very first chance there was to do so, that the
                  Two Betseys knew scarcely any thing about the girl, and especially that Albert
                  never even mentioned her name. I fancied—though it might have been
                  mere imagination—that this statement relieved her. Possibly she had a suspicion,
                  previous to that, of my not being quite so ignorant as I appeared.
               "Not even her name?" she asked faintly.
               "No," said I. "It was not like him to make any girl the subject of a letter to
                  them,—particularly a girl he was not sure of. And in that last visit home—why,
                  when they found he was in such an excited frame of mind, instead of asking
                  questions, they tried their best to keep him quiet."
               Suppose, Myra, Emmeline resume the subject at some time. What should I do? or,
                  rather, what would my face do? I must acquire a habit of pinching my cheeks, and
                  begin to pinch them the minute she begins to talk. But ears show
                  blushes. It is not likely I shall be so fortunately situated again as
                  I was that evening.
               "Then he never came back?" This was her next question, asked after one of the long
                  pauses which had occurred at intervals all the way through; for you must
                  understand that I did not give my narrative in one undivided whole, but waited now
                  and then in silence,—a masterly silence, I may say, as it had the effect of
                  causing her to ask questions.
               
               
                  
                     "THEN HE NEVER CAME BACK?"
                  
               
               
               Thus she made one or two inquiries concerning the girl to whom Albert paid
                  attention before leaving home. I could only tell her, that, if I remembered
                  rightly, the girl was considerably older than himself; and that he paid her those
                  attentions merely because it was convenient to do so, and because it was the
                  custom for young men to go home with young women. By the way, I must inquire about
                  this girl next time I see the Two Betseys; that is, if they are in a mood for
                  conversing on the subject.
               You may be certain I did not mention Beulah; for, though she has no
                  reason to suppose that I know of her ever having lived in another place than the
                  city, still it was just as well not to mention it. I may some time—should she ever
                  seem desirous of continuing the subject—speak more plainly, and let her
                     know that I know.
               
               "And they have never heard from him?" she asked at last, after we had both
                  remained a long time without speaking.
               "No," said I,—"never;" then added, that I would give any thing to know what his
                  life had been since.
               She said nothing; and I made no further remark, feeling, that, even for my own
                  sake, the conversation should not be prolonged that night, as I was considerably
                  excited,—pulse bounding, and the tooth beginning to throb
                  ominously.
               She noticed my silence at last, and started up, exclaiming in a tone of
                  self-reproach, "I should not have kept you talking so long! I have been
                  thoughtless. You need sleep and rest."
               "That poultice did me so much good!" I answered. "How kind you were to make it for
                  me!"
               
               And thus ended the eventful evening, and thus must end my letter. The machine is
                  calling me; countless yards of ruffling are calling me; gores and bias-bands are
                  calling me; the air and sunshine are calling me too: but their call, alas! I may
                  not heed.
               
                  With endless affection,
                  LUCY MARIA.
               
            
            
               LETTER XXVIII.—DORRY CALLS.
               FROM LUCY MARIA IN THE CITY.
               DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—Excuse my long silence. No; there is no immediate prospect of
                  William Henry's going West, though he is anxious to do so; and, on some accounts,
                  it would be an excellent move for him. His health is far from satisfactory; and
                  altogether I think the change would do him good. Moreover, he says he can't stand
                  it much longer at Mr. Calloon's,—can't stand the meanness. Mr. Calloon, among
                  other kinds of business not the most reputable, carries on the manufacture of
                  liquors. Billy says, that, after all, staying there may do him some good: it may
                  keep him from being a drunkard, knowing what horrid things are put into liquors. I
                  rather think he sees a great deal which grates and grinds, and which works him up
                  generally.
               I suppose you have received my home-letters, and know, therefore, of the trouble
                  which has come upon Maggie and Dorry. Dorry was in to see me yesterday, looking so
                  sorrowful, so weighed down! He feels the care of Maggie, and feels anxious about
                  her too. He seemed to have changed into a man forty years old since last
                  Thanksgiving. "If Maggie only had sisters, as you have!" he said. I read him part
                  of a letter she wrote me concerning her
                  mother's death; and he was very much affected by it. He declared to me most
                  earnestly, that though Maggie might be hasty and thoughtless, still it was never
                  her way to try to screen or to excuse herself; and that he remembered her having
                  times of repentance when she was a little girl, and crying as if her heart would
                  break. Spoke of one time in particular, when she was about twelve years old. It
                  was her teacher's last day at school. She thought every thing of this teacher,
                  but, for all that, had been a dreadful trial to his patience by "hectoring," and
                  making fun. The other girls crowded around him on this last day, shaking hands,
                  and, many of them, weeping. Maggie never even said good-by, but put on her things,
                  ran home, went to her room, and there had a long crying-spell. She told her mother
                  that she dared not shake hands with him after plaguing him so. The other girls
                  thought her cold and unfeeling at the time; and no doubt the teacher thought the
                  same.
               Dorry says there is one thing in particular which weighs on her mind now. You know
                  that her mother, though an invalid for so long, died suddenly. The morning before
                  her death, she asked Maggie, who was just then setting out on a walk, to call at
                  the greenhouse, and buy her a few flowers. This was an almost daily errand; but
                  Maggie happened that morning to forget to call, and her mother expressed a little
                  disappointment. Maggie now dwells upon this constantly, and all the more that it
                  was her mother's last request. Dorry wishes me to come out and spend Sunday. He
                  said I might do her some good. I shall certainly go; for, even if I can think of
                  nothing comforting, my presence may divert her mind.
               Dorry expressed the wish that William Henry would come with me, and, immediately
                  after saying this, moved away from the door (which was open), and nearer to me,
                  and said,—speaking lower even than before, and with some embarrassment,—that he
                  hardly knew how to make his meaning clear to me, but that there was something
                  which puzzled him in connection with William Henry and Maggie. He said, that,
                  since his return from Europe, Billy had hardly seemed like the same fellow; that
                  once he used to come out to see him quite often, but now he came. seldom, and then
                  never appeared to enjoy himself. Also he had observed that Maggie acted stiff
                  toward Billy, and Billy stiff to Maggie; and once, when he joked Maggie about it,
                  she looked confused, and the next time she was stiffer than ever before: and he
                  felt delicate about mentioning the subject to Billy, not knowing the state of his
                  mind. And what should he do? and could I tell him what the matter was?
               I felt exceedingly doubtful whether, in answering, to speak of his mother's visit
                  to me, or not. On some accounts it seemed well to do so. I always make wretched
                  work trying to conceal. He suspected that I was keeping something back, and
                  insisted on my speaking out. So I told him the whole, making it entirely clear
                  that his mother meant to do what was best for both parties.
               He said he had feared something of the kind (not supposing, however, the
                  interference to have been quite so decided), but had been unable to find out any
                  thing by his mother; for she knew he would never hear a word against Billy; and of
                  course he couldn't question Billy, not being sure but that his boyish liking for
                  Maggie might have died out.
               
               I answered, that, in my opinion, it had not died out, but, on the
                  contrary, had lived in; that Billy, however, had too much pride to
                  intrude where he felt his presence to be not wholly agreeable; that he could, of
                  course, have no certain knowledge as to the nature of Maggie's sentiments. "And
                  you know," said I, "it might seem to him that he ought to—to—to leave Maggie free
                  to (especially after what her mother said)—free to—to make a different choice."
                  Here came a long pause; after which Dorry said slowly and thoughtfully,
                  "Yes—yes—yes." That was all; but I understood by it that he saw how things might
                  look from Billy's standpoint. Then, thinking it was my turn to put a question, I
                  said quietly,—
               "How is it on the other side?"
               "Maggie?"
               "Yes."
               Said he, "I believe solemnly that my sister's liking for William Henry began with
                  the reading of that first letter I wrote home about him from Crooked-Pond
                  School,—when I was a big boy, and he was a small boy; and that it has continued
                  and increased up to this day."
               Said I, "I am very glad; that is, I suppose I am very glad."
               "And why suppose?" he asked.
               I said, "Why, you know we think too much of our Billy—he is such a dear good Billy
                  to us—to have him become an unwelcome member of any family."
               "Unwelcome?" he exclaimed. "Maggie and I"—here his voice suddenly changed to a
                  lower key—"are the only ones necessary to be consulted now. And, Miss Carver, this
                  is the very thing I have wished might happen. I have thought of it so long,
                  that—you do not believe, do you?—that—why, if any thing should happen to prevent
                  it, I"—
               Here he broke off, and began to speak of Billy,—how he had for a long time seemed
                  to him like a brother, and all Billy's folks like relations, "ever since," he
                  said, "that first visit at Summer-Sweeting Place." It did me good to hear him talk
                  about Billy; for, though I knew he only said what was true, I liked to have him
                  say it.
               "William Henry?" said he: "I've known William Henry ever since he was a boy. Known
                  him?—yes. He's so plain-hearted, you can't help knowing him. He's good all the way
                  through; solid." Said Billy made him think of a sermon he heard once, in which the
                  preacher spoke of the "beauty of integrity." "That's it," said he; "that's just
                  it,—the ' beauty of integrity.' And any girl that Billy will give his good, honest
                  heart to, may take it, and be thankful."
               Then, after thinking a while, he asked abruptly if I thought Maggie
                     knew; meaning, of his mother's interference.
               I said, that though her non-approval must have shown itself in a general way, yet
                  I was certain Maggie never had known of that very decisive step.
               "Then it is all plain enough," said he. "Billy would naturally appear stiff and
                  constrained afterward; and that, of course, would alter her manner toward him.
                  Don't you see?"
               "Yes," said I, though not with his enthusiasm.
               "But you must see plainly," said he,—"you must see that Billy first came into her
                  thoughts as a hero, and that she has
                  heard his praises sounded by me ever since; and that she thinks that you, and Aunt
                  Phebe, and all of Billy's folks, are perfection. I've heard her say she could sit
                  all day and hear Uncle Jacob and Aunt Phebe talk, and that she thought
                  Summer-Sweeting Place almost a paradise; and I'm sure I quite agree with her."
               "So do I," I said, smiling.
               These people were as much mystified by Dorry's coming to see me as they were by
                  Mrs. Everson's invitation to tea. They knew he was acquainted with Billy, but
                  never thought of his calling on me direct, and here. Miss Bessie happened to pass
                  through the hall as he came in, and, supposing he had called to see her (they have
                  met at parties), invited him into the parlor, and began to "entertain."
                  "Entertaining," so Cousin Colby says, means pouring out a steady stream of
                  small-talk over the entertainee. It must be one continuous pour, so
                  he says; any pause or letting-up being considered a breach of manners: quality not
                  so important as unremittingness. The same things can be said if you alter the
                  proper names, just as the same dresses can be worn if the trimmings are changed.
                  Dorry seems to have loved his mother tenderly. I think there can be no doubt but
                  that she was devotedly fond of her two children. I recall, very plainly, the
                  affectionate and admiring way in which she spoke of Maggie during
                  that little scene of ours.
               I have just received your letter treating of "bundles," and shall not fail to give
                  that weighty subject the consideration it deserves.
               
                  Ever affectionately your cousin,
                  LUCY MARIA.
               
            
            
               LETTER XXIX.—SORROW.
               MAGGIE TO LUCY MARIA.
               MY DEAR FRIEND,—Thank you for writing. It seems as if I could not ever write again
                  so that anybody could understand me; but I feel as if I must write to you, you are
                  so sympathizing. But, oh! you can't know any thing about it. You can't, you can't,
                  and you never can; because, even if your mother should die, you would not have
                  this worst part to bear, as I have,—this looking back with such feelings. It seems
                  as if I could bear the pain of being motherless; but, oh, this looking back and
                  remembering! Oh! this is the sharpness of the pain. She loved me, and I knew that
                  she did; and I ought to have thought more about her not being well. If I only had
                  known! But I never thought she would die; and it came so suddenly! Dorry says we
                  must be brave for each other; and I could be, only that this looking back cuts me
                  to the heart. Yes, that is the word: it cuts like a knife.
               I wake up in the night, and there it is, as if it had staid in my mind, thinking,
                  thinking. She used to care for me all the time; yes, all the time. I never knew
                  what it was not to have her care. You don't know how she used to attend to all my
                  little comforts, and see that I was
                  well wrapped up evenings in the carriage, even when I despised her advice. And I
                  never expressed a wish that she did not try to gratify it, even if it was only
                  about something for dinner; and it was cruel my ever getting out of patience. Oh!
                  I can never be happy. The thought of losing her never once came into my mind. How
                  can I ever be happy when I can never forget? Is it true, do you think, that, after
                  death, they know how we feel? I hope it is true; for that would be my only
                  comfort. It comes to me so plain, now, how much I depended on her love and on her
                  care! And now I have no one to depend on in that way. My aunts care for me; but
                  they have their own children to care for most. There is nobody now to care for me
                     most,—in the way that mothers do. She must have suffered so much!
                  and I could almost kill myself when I think of the chances I had to give her
                  comfort. She always seemed so pleased whenever I did any kind little things for
                  her. Oh! she had sorrow enough, with my father being in the way he is, without
                  having sorrow come from one of her children. They say father used to make a pet of
                  her. My father does not seem to notice her death much. We think he has almost lost
                  his mind. Your little note was very good, and I thank you for writing to me: but
                  nobody can know, can ever know, what such sorrow as this is; for it has something
                  in it which other people's sorrows do not have. I felt as if I could
                  not take up a pen to write: but you are so sympathizing, and it is some relief;
                  for it seemed as if I could not keep it all to myself. When people call, I sit
                  still and hear them as long as I can without breaking down; then come up here; for
                  I do not wish them to see my feelings. They say true things: but yet it does not
                  seem as if they were talking to me; it seems like people talking away
                  off somewhere else. I cannot think what I shall ever do; for I do not feel like
                  going into company again, and cannot bear the idea of studying, because that was
                  against her wishes: and, oh! how can I sit here feeling so always? But perhaps I
                  ought to for a punishment; and I don't believe I feel like being happy, even if I
                  could be. I shall try, now, to do all things just as she would have liked me
                  to.
               Excuse my writing you such an unhappy letter. Perhaps I ought not to trouble
                  others with my trouble: but you are so kind-hearted and strong and good! though,
                  for those very reasons, you cannot know how to pity me. But, if anybody can think
                  of any thing even a little comforting, you can.
               
                  MAGGIE.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XXX.—COMFORT.
               
                  LUCY MARIA'S ANSWER TO MAGGIE.
                  MY DEAR FRIEND MAGGIE,—I do not feel worthy to receive such a letter; but, oh,
                     I am so glad you felt like writing just in the way you wrote! It pleases me
                     that you thought so kindly of me as to do it. If I were only at my own home,
                     and you could come there, I am sure you could not help being comforted; for my
                     mother would take you right to her heart. She knows what it is to be in
                     trouble, and so does grandmother; and I know you would feel yourself borne up
                     and sustained by such an atmosphere of love and sympathy as would be all around
                     you. You will say that I cannot sympathize with you because I have never passed
                     through any deep sorrow such as yours. I know it, dear; and that is one reason
                     why I felt unworthy to be written to as you wrote. Those who have been touched
                     by sorrow always seem to me to be made holier by it: there is a sacredness
                     about them. My life has been such a happy one, that I feel very common-place:
                     and I thank you again for writing so; for it pleases me to know that you feel
                     drawn toward me.
                  And now I want to tell you something about Mrs. Everson, a dear friend of mine
                     of whom I have already spoken to you, and whom I sometimes call my "Peaceful
                     Lady." You will understand, presently, why I wish to speak of her. This dear
                     lady lets me call her friend: though, on my part, there is more of
                     reverence than belongs to the common idea of friendship; for she is twice my
                     age, and is far above and beyond me in every respect. Oh! you don't know what a
                     lovely countenance she has. There is a magnetism about her, which, with a
                     certain sweetness of manner, works like a charm,—literally like a charm. Her
                     countenance shows that she has known grief. Still you would not use the word
                     "sad" in describing her, unless you added very quickly "pleasant" or "smiling"
                     or "joyous," or some such term. "Peaceful" was the best word I
                     could think of, as "at peace" implies a previous disturbance. The reason of our
                     being friends is, that we are interested in the same subjects; though she has
                     thought much more deeply than I have, and is a person of real culture.
                  I want to say just a word to you, dear, about my having been under conviction.
                     I was convicted of the sin of living a frivolous, shallow kind of life; and,
                     while in that state of mind, I happened one day to take up a book mother was
                     reading, and opened at a place where the writer spoke of "little children," and
                     of the good results which would follow, were they placed, at the very
                     beginning, under the best of influences. Every word seemed as true as true
                     could be, and some of it directed to me. So I said to myself, "I am only one
                     girl, and nothing extra at that; but here, now, is work right to my hand. For I
                     might try; and if I influenced for good say six, or say only
                     one,—why, that would be worth doing."
                  But no sooner did I begin to try than a sense of unworthiness worthiness overwhelmed me. I neither
                     knew enough nor was good enough to tamper with the soul of even one little
                     child. I talked with the minister and other wise people, but could not get much
                     light; and my chief reason for coming here was to put myself where I could get
                     light.
                  And it was in an alcove of the Public Library, searching for books, that I
                     first met and fell in love with my dear friend Mrs. Everson I will
                     tell you how it happened that we came to speak to each other.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Omitted, because already given in a letter to Myra.
                  
                  You will soon understand why I have spoken of her just at this present time.
                     The postman handed me your letter just as I was leaving the house to go to the
                     library. I put it in my pocket, went directly there, and took a seat in a
                     far-off corner to read it. O Maggie! it was a very sad letter; and I cannot,
                     really I cannot, say to you, "Be cheerful, be resigned." It would not be
                     sincere in me to give you such advice, because I know, that, if it were my
                     case, I should never, never feel so.
                  I could not help crying when I read that letter, and sat a long time with it in
                     my hand, wishing I could think of just a few words of comfort. And, happening
                     to look up, I saw my dear lady looking at me quite earnestly. Soon she came
                     that way, and asked me, oh! in such a tender, sympathizing tone, if I had
                     received bad news from home. I could hardly avoid, dear Maggie, telling her
                     something about the letter; and she showed as much interest as if its writer
                     had been her personal friend. After talking a little while, she went to another
                     table, and I saw her writing. Presently she brought me what she had written
                     (which I here enclose), saying in her gentle way, "My dear, you will scarcely
                     know how to answer a letter like that of your friend. She is travelling through
                     a country of which you do not understand the language. I am so familiar with
                     its ways as to be certain she will not take these friendly words amiss."
                  Oh, she is so full of sympathy, and so kind! Maggie, father told me, that when
                     mother lost a dear little child once, and grieved so that she could hardly go
                     on with her daily work, and the other children seemed to her scarcely worth
                     taking care of, the only way she at last calmed herself was by looking at those
                     other children, and thinking how dreadful it would be, if, while she was
                     refusing to let them be a comfort to her, they also should be taken.
                  I speak of this to remind you of your brother and father. You have a noble
                     brother. While he is left, you cannot be sensible how much you depend on him.
                     But if any thing happen to—Dear Maggie, I don't wish to make you anxious, but
                     only that you should appreciate fully the blessing of having such a brother.
                     And, though that dear father is in so sad a condition, there must be a
                     satisfaction in doing little things for his comfort; and is it not possible
                     that he may recognize kindness, even though the power of acknowledging it be
                     wanting?
                  This is a poor unworthy answer to your letter. I know very well that I am not a
                     good comforter; but, dear, if I cannot comfort, I can love you, and hold you in
                     my heart.
                  
                     Ever affectionately your friend,
                     LUCY MARIA.
                  
               
               
                  
                  P. S.—I would say, "Write to me again," only that I mean to come out and see
                     you very soon. Dear Maggie, I can sympathize with you in your
                     sorrow for losing love, at least; for I have felt that sorrow
                     myself at the death of very dear friends. No promise of meeting in another life
                     can make up to us the loss of that love which we need so much in
                     this.
               
            
            
               LETTER. XXXI.—WHAT THE LADY WROTE TO MAGGIE.
               MY DEAR SISTER,—Yes, you are my sister, although we have never met, and your name
                  even is unknown to me. Do not, I pray you, take it amiss that I thus reach out my
                  hand and give you mournful greeting; for I feel acquainted with all who are in
                  trouble. Yes, my child, I know, I know. I have passed through it,—the parting, the
                  desolation, the yearning for the bodily presence, and, what is worse than all, the
                     looking back. Yes, this is the worst,—this looking back to
                  wish—oh, how vainly!—that we had spoken more pleasant words, done more kind acts,
                  been more forbearing.
               Our happy friends don't understand, do they?—those, I mean, who have
                  never known the anguish of bereavement. They sit close by us; they look tenderly
                  upon us, touch us with their hands, speak to us with their lips; but they cannot
                  come very near us. They do not understand the password to the order of grief.
               When I was a young girl, I lost my only sister. She was a dear, precious sister to
                  me. Oh, how I have wanted her all my life! I remember, that, while I wept over her
                  coffin in the very despair of grief, a young seamstress then employed by our
                  family stood by me, and whispered, "I know all about it: I lost my only
                     sister."
               
               That person always seemed akin to me. We two were as two set apart. We knew.
               So, now, I stand by you, and whisper, "I know all about it;" for, in
                  after-life, deeper trouble came. My father first, then my mother, died; and when
                  my precious, noble-hearted husband lay dead before me—But I will not speak of a
                  grief in which we are not sisters. Every one must suffer the ordeal
                  before understanding the passwords of the new order.
               Seeing that I am so old, my dear friend and sister, and that my experience has
                  been so varied, you will naturally look to me for comfort, especially when I tell
                  you that I am not wretched, that I smile, and that I take an interest in life and
                  in people.
               But what should you think were I to say that there is no comfort to be given? If
                  you pray for strength to endure, it will be given: you may depend on this; it
                  surely will be given. But nothing that anybody can say or do will take away the
                  pain. It is there; and it has to be borne, just as bodily pain has to be borne. We
                  have to accept suffering. People too often assume that happiness is
                  their right, and, when sorrow comes, cry out, "Take away this pain!—my heart will
                  break!" But hearts are made strong: they can suffer the most cruel anguish, and
                  still not break.
               A book I have been reading lately speaks of the duty of concealing
                  our troubles. Every one should present a cheerful aspect, thereby helping to make
                  earth bright. The author says, "Dig a grave in your heart deep down; bury your
                  sorrow there; and then cover the grave with flowers." It is an interesting, and,
                  in some parts, a tenderly-written book; and I will send it to you as soon as you
                  feel as if you could read. One idea it contains is, that, when a person is very
                  unhappy, that person should immediately go to work to "restore the
                     balance" by bringing as much happiness to others as he has lost himself.
                  The author, as you will find, expresses the idea in far more graceful
                  language.
               And now, my child, after saying that there is no cure for you, I am going to
                  declare that there is. And this cure is spelt in three letters, a,
                  c, t,—act. Act. Do something for somebody, and continue to do something for
                  somebody; for, when you cease, the cure ceases. People differ in opinion as to
                  what is best worth doing; but I think we can scarcely work amiss in helping those
                  who cannot help themselves. Probably all our efforts in this direction go toward
                  restoring the lost balance.
               
               Pardon me if I have spoken too freely: I could not help speaking. Believe that I
                  mean well. Accept my sympathy,—won't you?—and let me sign myself
               
                  YOUR LOVING FRIEND.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XXXII.—BILLY'S PROSPECTS.
               FROM LUCY MARIA IN THE CITY.
               DEAR MYRA,—I should say that it depends on the idea in every
                  case,—the "sewing," and "carrying bundles, and doing other things out of the
                  common course." Thus several days spent in making flounces for myself I
                     should call "a waste of time;" but if a dear friend who loved
                  flounces were going away, and the flounces she must have done, and my help were
                  needed, I would sew most cheerily out of friendship, and not call the sewing, in
                  that case, a waste of time; for there would be an idea to it. Always
                  mind the main chance.
               
               The same as to "carrying bundles," &c. I would not do any thing for the sake
                  of being conspicuous or of showing my independence; but in cases of sickness, or
                  any real need, or to oblige a friend, or for convenience,—don't you see?—there
                  would be an idea to it. Mrs. Everson says that people are often
                  accused of being eccentric, of going out of the common course, when they are
                  simply taking the most direct course to carry out their ideas, and, very possibly,
                  good or noble ideas.
               The idea which I wish to convey to you just at this moment is, that William Henry
                  is going West; and the best of it is, that he goes for his old employer, Mr.
                  Banvard. I have had a short talk with Mr. Banvard to-day in regard to climate,
                  dangers, Billy's health, and other matters. He says the business demands a
                  reliable person; and that, on that account, he prefers Billy to any
                  young man he can think of. Oh! won't the tears come to grandmother's eyes when she
                  hears this compliment? If Mr. Banvard wants to be treated like an emperor, let him
                  go to grandmother's. I should like to see her supper-table at such a time, and to
                  take a seat at it.
               I cannot tell you how rejoiced I am, for his health's sake, that he has this
                  opportunity. He is looking thin; and I am so afraid his lungs are affected! The
                  other day, an Irish-woman, who came into the store to sell something, hearing him
                  cough, looked him well in the face, and then told him he had better go home
                     to his mother.
               
               Billy laughed when he told me; but it wasn't the good old William Henry laugh.
                  Sometimes I think we may never hear that laugh again. The poor child has been
                  troubled in every way.
               He could not stand the meannesses at Mr. Calloon's, and had the
                  feeling all the time that he was in no settled business. Then I suspect the state
                  of his health has caused him some anxiety. And, as if these were not enough to
                  worry any young man, there's Maggie. That Sunday we were out there, you don't know
                  how she behaved. She hardly took any notice of him.
               Dorry was in here a few days ago. He thought my visit did her good; but I think it
                  was the cry that did her good. You know, people have told her that
                  she must not give way to her feelings. O Myra! I never heard anybody cry so! I
                  held her in my arms (this was when I
                  first went up to her room: the servant had been ordered to show me up there). I
                  came rather suddenly upon her. Did you ever hear a grieved child sob and cry, and
                  try to stop, then burst out again and again? That was the way Maggie did. She
                  would lift her head from my shoulder, and wipe her eyes (but her eyes would be
                  filling all the while); and next moment the convulsed sobbing would come on
                  again.
               She talked afterward quite freely, but said there were some things she could not
                  bear even to mention. Possibly one of them was what Dorry spoke of in his first
                  call here. When I was walking in the grounds about the house, a young man who was
                  at work there, and with whom I had some conversation, told me that Maggie had sent
                  him to the greenhouse for flowers many times, and that she always carried them to
                  her mother's grave. She is very anxious to know whether those who have gone
                     know our feelings and what we are doing. As if that were not the
                  question to which we are all beseeching an answer.
               Perhaps her cool, or rather cold, treatment of William Henry may come from a
                  feeling that she must not allow herself one pleasant thing; must keep her grief
                  undiminished. But Time, my dear Mrs. Everson says, will not permit this; for he
                  steals a part of the most securely locked and guarded grief. Dorry thinks she may
                  imagine it to be her duty to show coolness to Billy in order to carry out her
                  mother's wishes.
               Billy was very sober in coming from there that Sunday; and has been so, in fact,
                  whenever I have seen him since. He asked me several questions the other day about
                  his mother. I know he worries about his cough. I am so glad he is going into a
                  different climate!
               But it will be sad, after all, to have him go. You know, Billy is just the same to
                  us as a brother. Indeed, I think mother and all of us have a tenderer feeling
                  toward the dear child than if he were one of our very family, on account of his
                  having to grow up without real mother-love. Oh! does Aunt Harriet love her boy
                  now? Does she? I believe that Billy has thoughts of this kind, though he never
                  mentions them to any one. Young men are not always willing to speak of their
                  thoughts and feelings. They like to keep out of sight the gentlest, tenderest part
                  of themselves, if they can. But they cannot always, because faces speak. I have
                  noticed Billy's face sometimes when he was looking at his mother's picture. He did
                  tell me once, that he felt as if he almost knew his mother from what people had
                  said of her. Her old friends, when they meet Billy, often speak to him of her many
                  noble traits; so that, in a certain way, she really does live, and has a blessed
                  influence over him. Still none the less do all of us feel that we must throw our
                  arms about her boy, and shield him from every possible evil. He is so good! Some
                  people rather sneer at simple goodness; but, for my part, I can't help loving a
                  person who is thoroughly good and patient. Do you know that Billy has very nearly
                  taught himself to be patient? If he had been born so, I should not think so much
                  of it. I suppose nobody will ever know half he has had to put up with. I could
                  tell you some desperate mean things if I only had the time (and the
                     patience.) And then there's Maggie. Now, I can't make Billy talk
                  about Maggie. If he only would talk, same as a girl would, I know he could not
                  help feeling all the better for it. The fact is, a young man can't talk freely of his troubles until
                  he has a wife; and then his troubles are over.
               No, Billy's no talker: but he has, and always did have, a quiet way of doing the
                  right thing without any fuss; and, at the time Maggie's mother interfered, I think
                  he made up his mind that he would not stand in the way of Maggie's
                  prospects,—"prospects" meaning a rich man,—and neither would he go off in a
                     huff. He wished her, I think, to make a free, unbiassed choice. I
                  am not sure that this course has my entire approval. I suppose, though, it is all
                  along of my being romantic that I rather like the idea of a gushing, pleading,
                  kneeling, vociferous, tempestuous lover, who takes a girl by storm, whether she
                  will or not. Anyway, I pitied Billy that Sunday we were out there. He didn't know
                  what to do. He felt so sorry for Maggie, longed to be friendly, and more than
                  friendly,—a great deal more; but she was as cold and hard as ice to him.
               And altogether I don't blame Billy, sick and disheartened as he is, for wanting to
                  try a new kind of life: do you? He will have to leave in the course of a week.
                  Couldn't you go to Summer-Sweeting Place, and stay a while? Do, if you can.
               In order to make grandmother regard as a blessing what would otherwise seem a
                  dreadful affliction, I let her know my anxiety about Billy, and then told her of
                  this chance to go West, as if I were telling a wonderful piece of good news,
                  explaining that it would enable him not only to regain his health, but to make
                  money at the same time, instead of spending it, as many invalids were obliged to
                  do.
               Dear Myra, do, if you can, make our folks a visit: grandmother and all of them
                  would be so pleased!—just at this trying time, you know. Take your work along.
                  Aunt Myra, do let her go, and, by so doing, comfort
               
                  Your affectionate niece,
                  LUCY MARIA.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XXXIII.—CONCERNING SEVERAL THINGS.
               LUCY MARIA FROM THE CITY.
               DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—Tell Aunt Myra that I will "sit under Mr. M.'s
                  preaching" a few Sundays at least, just to gratify her, if for no other reason.
                  Since coming to the city, and particularly this last time, I have been hearing all
                  sides and every side almost. I have tried—truly I have—to catch some sparks of
                  heavenly fire, at whatever altar lighted; and not only so, but it has been my aim
                  to inform myself as to the basis of belief of each class of believers. I go to
                  hear the Baptists for the sake of finding out why they refuse to sit
                  at the communion-table with those who have not been plunged in water wholly. There
                  must be some satisfactory reason, since so many do so persistently refuse. And,
                  wherever there is a revival, I go to learn, if possible, what that
                  mysterious influence is which causes such rapturous emotions, and to try whether
                  it will not extend to myself. One Saturday I went to a synagogue, hoping to hear
                  the Jewish tenets expounded; but the preacher was ill that day, so there was no
                  sermon or exposition. Catholic churches I have visited often, and heard there
                  glorious music. It requires, doubtless, time and study to comprehend hend the
                  spiritual significations of the ceremonies. Nothing is more puzzling to me than
                  the fact that thoughtful, conscientious people consider such ceremonies essential,
                  and do honestly believe in the authority of the Church. How delightful and restful
                  it must be (Myra, I say this seriously) to be a sincere Catholic! You have no
                  responsibility as to belief. Every thing is believed for you. But how to get to be
                  one? That is the question.
               Then there are the Spiritualists, who claim to have answered those questions asked
                  with longings unutterable by every bereaved heart. Though the answers they give
                  are not satisfactory to me, I would, nevertheless, learn upon what grounds they
                  are satisfactory to them.
               In fact, I am almost ready to say that any system of faith which is zealously
                  defended has a claim upon our consideration. Hindoo faith? Japan faith? To be
                  sure, if one could get time. Yes: I think I will take my stand here, that whatever
                  belief is believed in by earnest, honest, thoughtful souls, is worthy of earnest,
                  honest, thoughtful attention.
               The Swedenborgian minister was omitted in my hasty mention. I have heard him
                  several times, and liked what he said exceedingly; but must, however, decline the
                  investigation of that belief, not because I think it contains no truths, (far
                  enough from that!) but because my brain-power is inadequate. And, for a similar
                  reason, I have given up going to hear the Transcendentalists, as your mother calls
                  them. It is so seldom that I can understand one of those speakers! The words they
                  use seem to have a large amount of meaning in them; and they appear to know
                  themselves—the speakers do—just what they do mean (I mean what they do mean themselves); and that is what makes it
                  so tantalizing. I think it is dreadful to have to sit and hear sentence after
                  sentence, sure that you do not get from them the good that is in them; sure that,
                  the more you don't understand, the better it is. How am I made thus sure? From the
                  approving remarks of other listeners.
               I had no idea of giving such a lengthy answer to Aunt Myra's request. Really, it
                  is astonishing how much there is to be said on every subject! I suppose a book
                  could be written on the smallest insect that lives, or on the smallest word in the
                  dictionary that covers an idea.
               I was very sorry you could not go to Summer-Sweeting Place before Billy went away,
                  but just as glad to know that your making a long visit there in the course of the
                  summer is within the bounds of probability.
               You ask why I do not speak oftener of Emmeline. Perhaps one reason is, that I
                  stand in a little bit of fear of you and Matilda; especially of Matilda, she is so
                  matter-of-fact. You both know very well that I. have planned for Albert Daniel to
                  come home, laden with gold, to marry Emmeline. One important step in the
                  bringing-about of this consummation is for her to break off once more
                  with Cousin Colby; and, as a means of bringing about this, I have
                  taken every opportunity of expressing my opinion in regard to the wickedness of a
                  marriage where there is not true love on both sides. (I am not going to lay bare
                  my romantic heart for the sake of your seeing why I feel sure, that,
                  in this case, there is not true love on both sides.) There are plenty
                  of such opportunities, as engagements and weddings are natural topics of
                  discussion in the sewing-room room; and my sentiments are frequently called for.
                  Indeed, I fancy this subject may be uppermost in Emmeline's mind, as she has
                  turned the conversation in that direction herself sometimes. One day she came up
                  to my room (she frequently does this) to consult me in regard to a "Bertha"
                  pattern, and staid a while, and introduced the subject by reading me a page from a
                  magazine-story; and we had quite an earnest talk. Emmeline is away just now on a
                  visit to her relatives in Beulah. She has never yet referred to our
                  conversation.
               Now that I am fairly started upon this interesting topic, I will inform you of a
                  little fact which it was my intention to keep to myself at present. Don't know how
                  it may strike you; but I think it helps my cause along.
               The Two Betseys have had some money sent them,—a hundred dollars. I received a few
                  lines from them yesterday, asking me to come out to Crooked Pond next Saturday and
                  cut the dresses. They wish me to be sure and come, as the teacher of that school
                  (the one I wrote you about) is soon to resign, and it is advisable for me to see
                  the committee immediately.
               A postscript at the bottom says, "We had a hundred dollars sent to us the next
                  week after you went away from here. We don't know who sent it." Three words of
                  another sentence were written, and scratched out,—"Johnny Staples
                     says." It is two months since my visit there. Think of my not knowing of
                  such an occurrence, when I might have been building upon it all this time! I will
                  not give any opinion as to who sent that money. I furnish the raw material; and
                  then—why, every one her own opinion-maker. It is plain enough to me who sent it. I should like to know what
                     "Johnny Staples says." Perhaps he said more than the paper would
                  hold: it was not a large piece. I am so glad of a chance to go out into the
                  country and see violets and apple-blossoms, and step on grass, and hear the
                  robins! It is about an hour from the city by cars.
               Love to every one of the family, and to you, my dearest cousin, in a special
                  manner, from
               
                  LUCY MARIA.
               
            
            
               LETTER XXXIV.—CONFESSION.
               FROM LUCY MARIA IN THE CITY.
               DEAR MYRA,—You will be the most ungrateful wretch alive not to appreciate the kind
                  consideration with which I, having my things on to go to Crooked Pond, but finding
                  myself plus fifteen minutes, sit down, wholly out of regard for your pleasure and
                  curiosity, to tell you of an interesting talk I had last night with Emmeline. I
                  can only give you the main points, and those hastily.
               She began it. We were left alone pretty much as on that evening when my tooth
                  ached so cruelly. She came up to my room, and asked permission to talk a little
                  with me. "Oh, yes! and welcome," I answered, speaking sprightlily, but feeling
                  somewhat confused all the while, not knowing, you know, what might be coming.
               "You seem to have thought on a great many subjects," she began.
               "We can't help thinking," I answered, "when subjects come into our minds."
               "There is one subject," she said, "which you speak of not at all as my friends
                  do." She then went on to say that her nearest friends agreed in opinion on that subject, and were all trying to
                  influence her to do as they desired; and that she wished to get the advice of some
                  person, especially of some woman, who did not believe as they did; adding, that,
                  only for being in such a wretched state of mind, she would not trouble me.
               Her first question was—Oh! before saying any thing at all, she took a seat away
                  from the light.
               "Miss Carver, do you think," this was her first question,—and, in putting it, she
                  spoke more earnestly than I had ever known her speak before,—"do you think that
                  one person can love enough for two?"
               My heart began to beat more quickly. It always makes me tremulous and a little
                  shame-faced to listen to a deep experience. I thought she might be going to
                  confide in me, and tell me every thing: that was what made me tremulous. I
                  answered firmly, however.
               "No, Miss Emmeline," I said: "that is impossible."
               "For instance," she continued, "can a wife love enough for her husband, or a
                  husband for his wife? I mean, if one love very, very strongly, will it do for the
                  other to love only a little?"
               "Oh, no, no, no!" I answered with emphasis.
               "But suppose," she asked, "a man who loves very strongly indeed knows that the
                  person he loves does not really and truly love him, but still wishes to marry her,
                  and says that his great love is enough for both; says that he is satisfied?"
               "But she could not be satisfied," I remarked.
               "Suppose something else," she said: "suppose him to be good, highly educated,
                  wealthy, and remarkably kind-hearted?"
               "Still, if the person do not love him," I insisted.
               "But suppose again," she went on, "that the man will otherwise be utterly
                  miserable; that his life will be a wreck; and that the one he loves pities him,
                  and is willing to spend her life with him for the sake of his being happy?"
               "I should pity the woman," said I,—"pity, from the bottom of my heart, the woman
                  who consents under those circumstances. Marriage without love!—why, marriage
                  without love is crime,—one of the worst of crimes. And it is lying too; for how
                  could you promise?"
               In my haste I betrayed myself, having all along, you perceive, fitted the
                  conversation to her own case, according to the idea I had formed of it.
               "Then you know by my way of talking," she said, speaking quite low, "that this is
                  my own situation. But do not feel sorry," she added after a little pause, "for
                  having let me see that you know. I should have told you." Then she went on to say
                  that she had been to the country town where they used to live, almost on purpose
                  to talk with an old minister there, who had always been a friend of the family,
                  and especially her friend and her adviser.
               "He has never thought as the others do," she said. "My relatives talk in this way:
                  They say that Cousin Colby—he is a very distant cousin of ours—is an excellent
                  man, a highly superior man; that he will give me a beautiful home, and devote
                  himself to my happiness. I broke off the engagement once, because—because I had
                  reasons for feeling that it would be wicked to go on with it. Oh! I don't want to
                  do any thing wicked," she said, her voice trembling. "But—but—Miss Carver, he did
                  suffer dreadfully. I pitied him so! and I am not—am not very strong. And my friends—they
                  reproached me by their looks: they said I was foolish, and did not know my own
                  good. And I could not bear it. I consented to be engaged again."
               "It is not, it cannot be, right," I said, after sitting a moment in silence. "And
                  why must Cousin Colby be happy? Why should he be humored like a spoilt child?
                  Other people have to take up the cross. Has he not strength enough to bear his?
                  And, even if he have not, why must a woman sin on his account? There is not a
                  being in the universe for whose sake false vows should be spoken."
               "The old minister," she replied, "talked in this same way. He said that he had
                  performed the marriage-ceremony many times with a shudder,—this is
                  just exactly what he said,—with a shudder,—knowing that the parties
                  were telling a solemn lie."
               Our conversation was interrupted just at the most interesting point by Etta,
                  Bessie's younger sister, who came up to say that Cousin Colby sent word he had
                  returned, and awaited her pleasure; meaning that he was ready to accompany her
                  home.
               She started up with some confusion of manner. After reaching the door she came
                  back, and said hurriedly, and in a low voice, "Nothing is decided; remember,
                  nothing is decided. You will not mention"—
               "No, no, no, indeed!" I answered.
               I wonder what she will do. Do you think it would be well to let the Two
                  Betseys—Dear me! what am I thinking of? My time is up, and more too. I shall have
                  to run after the horse-car drops me.
               
                  L. M. C.
               
            
            
               LETTER XXXV.—JOHNNY STAPLES.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA AT PARTING WAYS.
                  DEAR MYRA,—Is it not pitiable that we not only lack power to do,
                     but power to enjoy; that is, to enjoy satisfactorily? In hearing
                     music, in looking at flowers or a fine view, especially if it be a sea-view
                     (also especially if it be a land-view), the delight is often too exquisite, too
                     overpowering. Even a single tree of perfect shape, in perfect bloom, fills us
                     with emotions we only half comprehend, causing us to sigh with a kind of
                     pleasurable pain. Standing here among the apple-blossoms, the violets, and the
                     flowery fields, I ask, "Why is more beauty created for us than we can bear? Was
                     it created for us alone, I wonder? or are there invisible beings whose natures
                     more fully correspond to it?"
                  These questions, and many more, gave me "food for thought" last evening, during
                     my walk to the sad-sounding village of Parting Ways.
                  Besides my own errand to the committee-man, I had one of the Two Betseys' to
                     Mrs. Rebecca Staples, who lives in the same house with him. 'Lisabeth
                     complained, while her dress was being tried on, that she always had a cold spot
                     between her shoulder-blades: and Betty said that was just the way with her, and
                     that they ought to have capes to their
                     dresses, lined with dark-colored cotton-flannel; then added, that "Rebecca" had
                     a beautiful cape-pattern. Finding "Rebecca" to be Johnny Staples's
                     wife, I was quick with my offer to go and borrow the pattern; being not
                     unwilling to avail myself of a chance of seeing Johnny Staples himself; who, by
                     the way, is a venerable miller. I set out just after tea. They showed me the
                     most direct way; but, thinking it would be pleasant to explore the country, I
                     followed enticing paths, perfectly bewitching paths, which led across fields,
                     over hills, through woods, and through swamps. One of them took me to two
                     little brooks, each of which had to be crossed by stepping-stones. I picked
                     flowers by the way, and all manner of those little green and brown and reddish
                     upspringing things which start out of the ground this time of year, smelling so
                     strong of the earth. My anxious eyes peered into every sheltered nook, hoping
                     to discover a stalk or two of the meadow-bell, which the Two
                     Betseys had in their tumbler on that eventful evening: do you remember? But it
                     is not the season for it.
                  If I do come here to keep school, oh! won't these paths and I have good times
                     together? Houses, and nests of houses, more or less widely scattered, and all
                     connected by paths. There are paths leading, some to the
                     meeting-house, some to the mill, some to the school house, some to the store,
                     and others nowhere in particular. These last are the best. What can be more
                     fascinating than to follow a wood-path, as I did last night, not knowing where
                     it will end?
                  I was obliged at last, however, on account of the dew and the chill
                     evening-air, to humble myself to a common
                     
                        "THEY SHOWED ME THE MOST DIRECT WAY."
                     
                      sandy road, which led to the pond, or
                     stream rather; for it is only a stream, dammed up to accommodate Mr. Staples's
                     mill.
                  The daylight hadn't politeness enough to wait for me; but the darkness was more
                     civil, quite friendly even, attending my steps unto the very door of the
                     house.
                  I rapped gently, rapped loudly. No answer. Observing, then, that the
                     front-rooms were not lighted, I stepped round to the back-door. Plenty of light
                     there; and, the window-curtains being rolled up, I couldn't help looking in.
                     And such a pretty picture! Oh! why don't I go about the country peeping in at
                     back-windows? How many "pretty pictures" I lose by not doing it! If I longed to
                     be five hundred dozen Lucy Marias in order to study all branches of knowledge,
                     how much more do I long to be a thousand dozen Lucy Marias to behold the
                     picturesque, delightful people in city, town, and hamlet far remote, who now
                     will live and die, and never, never be known to me!
                  Have patience, Myra: I will expatiate no more. Straightforwardness and
                        brevity be my motto.
                  When I looked in at that window last night, the first object which attracted my
                     attention was an open "fire-frame" like grandmother's, in which were a few
                     coals, a fore-stick, and a flicker,—just fire enough for the time of year.
                     Three or four candlesticks, each with its lighted candle, stood in a row on the
                     high narrow mantle-piece.
                  At the right of the fireplace sat an old man,—a short, white-haired old
                        man,—tending a bass-viol. Tuning it, I suppose; though the
                     careful way in which he held it brought the word "tending" to my mind. I stood
                     a moment to watch him as he screwed the keys. A round face, pale complexion, blue eyes, and
                     such lovely wavy white hair, and such a finely-cut nose and chin! Quite
                        cameo-like.
                  
                  This old man I took, of course, to be Johnny Staples; and the slender old lady
                     reclining in an arm-chair on the opposite side, Mrs. Staples. Her features were
                     less regular than his, and her hair—the little of it that showed—was gray
                     rather than white. She sat with folded hands; and had the appearance, I
                     thought, of being an invalid. Her dress was common-looking enough; though there
                     were folds of something nice and white around the neck. Her cap had no border
                     save a wide hem. The strings had wide hems too.
                  There was one other person in the room,—quite a substantial person; not fat,
                     but having a solid look, especially about the shoulders,—their daughter, as I
                     afterwards found, though no one would have guessed it. She had dark hair
                     braided in a small braid, which was put round a small comb at the back of her
                     head; quite a well-shaped nose, brown eyes, full cheeks, a bulging forehead
                     (somewhat like Aunt Myra's, only larger), a remarkably round chin, and a mouth,
                     which, though it made itself rather conspicuous by means of its large lips, was
                     still a pleasing mouth, and not in the least an ugly one. I set her down as one
                     of those women, between thirty and forty, who are called—that is—well, who have
                     never been prevented, by the distracting cares of husbands and children, from
                     keeping themselves and every thing about them in perfect order.
                  This pleasant and sensible-looking woman—her name is Ann—was winding yarn on
                     some yarn-winders just exactly like those up in grandmother's garret, which
                     have never been brought down since my remembrance; and I was amused to see,
                     that, when the old man began to play, her winding kept time to the music.
                  It seemed too bad to knock, and disturb so pretty a picture. I did knock,
                     however, at last; and, upon stating my errand, was most cordially welcomed.
                  Some people object to being questioned. Now, if the questioning be done in a
                     friendly, sympathizing spirit, I rather like it; like to have people interested
                     in me. I sat down there and told my name, and how I happened to be at the Two
                     Betseys', and where I lived, and what my father did, and why I came away; and
                     then—finding Johnny Staples an interesting person, and a remarkably good
                     story-teller too—I drew him on to talk, and also to play me a tune.
                  Occasionally, indescribable tumultuous sounds reached us from "the other part;"
                     and now and then something was said about "Ephrum's childern."
                     "Have Ephrum's childern seen to the cow?" "Did Ephrum's
                        childern go to the store?" "Which one of Ephrum's
                        childern is't that's hoarsed up so?" Once there came a
                     terrible crash and pell-mell, followed by a yell; and I half
                     sprang to my feet. Johnny Staples remarked quietly, "Ephrum's
                        childern;" and Ann added, as if to account for the yell, that she
                     guessed Pelly was "tending to 'em."
                  "Ephrum" was the committee-man whom I came to see. They told me—judging, I
                     thought, by a change in the kinds of noises—that the children were nearly
                     through their Saturday-night wash; and that, as Mr. Ingalls ("Ephrum") would be
                     getting ready for his Saturday-night family-prayers, all matters of business
                     would be out of place.
                  
                  I was rather glad of this, as it gave me an excuse for a longer talk with
                     Johnny Staples. By skilful questioning, and by letting him see that I had long
                     been familiar with the circumstances of the Two Betseys, I led him to speak
                     quite freely of them and their troubles, especially of their troubles as
                     connected with Albert Daniel.
                  Mr. Staples does not believe that Albert sent the money: indeed, the Two
                     Betseys had told me as much already. I think he has some idea who did; and hope
                     to find out, before leaving the place, what his idea is. I might, perhaps, have
                     done so last night, only for getting myself into an awkward predicament by
                     asking a question, which, under the circumstances, was a specially unlucky
                     one.
                  It was toward the close of the evening. He had been giving me specimens of
                     old-fashioned minor tunes; playing the bass; and humming or whistling, now and
                     then, a few bars of the treble.
                  "Mr. Staples," said I in one of the pauses of the music, "when the Two Betseys
                     told me their story, and what was known to them of Albert's story, they spoke
                     of a very nice girl with whom he was quite intimate before leaving home. Now,
                     who was that girl?"
                  Mr. Staples, giving no heed to my question, thoughtfully drew his bow across
                     the strings, and wandered off into another of those quaint old melodies. When
                     the tune was ended, I began to repeat my question. He quickly resumed his
                     playing, knitting his brows, and clearing his throat with an energy that amazed
                     me. At the same time, Mrs. Staples coughed slightly, and fidgeted in her chair.
                     Ann laid down her ball, and walked out of the room. It flashed upon me that Ann
                     herself was the girl of whom the Two Betseys had spoken. And to think that I
                     might just as well have found this out from them! There had been no chance for
                     a talk that afternoon; but, in the cosey hour before going to bed, they talked
                     freely, and seemed to enjoy it. I have told them that Miss Emmeline comes
                     oftener now to Mrs. Calloon's; nothing further. I speak of her merely as an
                     attractive girl who has many admirers.
                  Johnny Staples, it seems, has always befriended the Two Betseys. He helped them
                     to begin housekeeping; and took their part, when, contrary to the advice of the
                     neighbors, they decided to keep Albert. And I rather think that whatever they
                     wanted in his line of business was freely given.
                  I shall go back Tuesday morning. In my embarrassment last evening, I forgot to
                     ask Mrs. Staples if she could board me in case of my coming here to teach.
                     There is hardly any doubt of this, however, as the school ma'ams
                     usually do board there.
                  Dorry was out here to see the Two Betseys a few days ago, and read them a
                     letter he had received from William Henry. He bought a pound of their
                     lemon-drops; for which he paid a five dollar-bill, and would take no change.
                     Said it was "the interest on the panes of glass" he broke for them when at
                     school here.—No, dear: I have not forgotten that you are to have Billy's
                     letters. Wait patiently. Time and the post will bring them. They go to Hannah,
                     and sometimes to Aunt Emily, before coming to
                  
                     Your affectionate cousin,
                     LUCY M. CARVER.
                  
               
               
                  
                  P. S.—The money came by the hands of a stranger,—a "slender,
                     sandy-haired man," who "appeared to be in haste," and who carried a "tall,
                     oblong-shaped, three story travelling-basket." Mr. Fry once brought from
                     California a travelling-basket of this kind.
               
            
            
               LETTER XXXVI.—LIFE IN A CAVE.
               
                  FROM WILLIAM HENRY OUT WEST.
                  MY DEAR GRANDMOTHER,—Don't think me dead and buried if I tell you that I am
                     writing this underground. I have come to see Bobby Short, and we have a whole
                     house to ourselves. It is a great hole dug in the earth, and stoned up a few
                     feet above ground, and roofed with trunks of trees, moss, and mud. His uncle,
                     Mr. Weld, lived in it when he first came out here.
                  
                     Bobby Short is Bobby Tall now. They call him
                        Robbie. But his face looks just about the same, especially his
                     mouth and teeth, and his cheeks, and his bright black eyes. And he laughs in
                     the same old way. His cousin Sylvanus's wife says she doesn't know what they
                     should do out here in the wilderness without Robbie's laugh: it keeps them all
                     in good spirits. The family consists of six,—Robbie, his mother, his uncle,
                     Sylvanus and his pretty wife Mary, and the hired man. Mary looks no older than
                     a school-girl, and is far too delicate for prairie-life. Mr. Weld calls her the
                        Prairie Flower. Their next neighbor lives half a mile off. Mr.
                     Weld's new house has three rooms, making it quite a spacious residence for
                     these parts. There are bunks put up in the kitchen; and sometimes the men lodge
                        there, and sometimes in this
                     half-underground house where Robbie and I have been sleeping, and where we
                     enjoy ourselves talking over our old school-days, and throwing pillows in
                     memory of Crooked Pond; which pillows are bags filled with hay. The people here
                     are very kind; and I am glad I came. It was only thirty miles out of my way.
                     Don't worry about me. My cough is better. Prairie-air does not agree with it;
                     but it agrees with me, and agrees with my appetite too; and so do
                     prairie-chickens and wild turkeys, and shooting the same. You would laugh to
                     see Robbie's clothes. I found him dressed in a canvas bag, with a hole in the
                     bottom for his head to go through, and two holes for his arms. His cousin Mary
                     says he has been a-courting to an Injun girl, and she has given
                     him the sack. He says he should like to go a-courting to the pesky
                        Injuns, and get some locks of their hairs. They
                     have been carrying off cattle and other plunder to an alarming extent, and not
                     so very many miles away from this place. Don't worry about me, grandmother. I
                     am just as safe here as I should be there. Didn't you teach me yourself that
                     the same care is over us, wherever we may go? Now, grandmother, you must
                     comfort yourself with your own doctrine, mustn't you? I think it is a very good
                     doctrine, and a true one.
                  I know I was running down in that pent-up place in the city,—running down like
                     a watch,—and that coming out here is just the thing.
                  With love to you and father and Georgiana and Aunt Phebe's folks,
                  
                     Your affectionate grandson,
                     WILLIAM HENRY.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—Robbie sends his love. He would not like it if I left out his pony. Tell
                     Georgic that Robbie has a handsome brown pony, very gentle and very knowing. It
                     comes to the door every morning, and keeps up a pleasant little whinnying sound
                     till Robbie goes out; then rubs his nose against Robbie's sleeve, and says
                     "Good morning" plain as a pony can. They two are very intimate. W. H. C.
                  Tell Lucy Maria that I have not found a sample of the kind called "unknown
                     lovers" yet, but will be on the lookout for one.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XXXVII.—A ROW ON THE POND.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA IN THE CITY.
                  DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—Yes, I enjoyed every moment of my trip to Crooked Pond,—the
                     going, the coming, and the staying (except, of course, that unlucky moment at
                     Johnny Staples's). In the staying, I had the abounding delights of the country
                     spread out before me; and in the coming and going, even in delays at the
                     stations, there were people. People, people,—I do like to be in the midst of
                     them, to watch their faces, to hear them talk. William Henry used to laugh at
                     me, and say I took an interest in everybody I saw. Well, I do, almost. Why, it
                     comes so natural, how can anybody help it? I look at their faces, and, first
                     thing I know, am imagining their thoughts and feelings, and ways at home, in
                     their families. Those wretched women sitting in the doorways of wretched
                     streets, hugging up wretched little babies,—I "strip off the outside," and come
                     to real mother-love underneath. Haughty dames in grand array, with
                     little babies clad in the purest, richest white,—I "strip off the outside," and
                     come to real mother-love underneath.
                  William Henry's absence is tendered as an excuse, if one be needed, for my
                     letters to you taking place at longer intervals. Billy must be written to for
                     all anybody else; and he is, and three times a week. It seems such a long time
                     since he went away! His health is improving. He writes in pretty good spirits,
                     and reasonably often. I enclose three letters of his. We are so glad he went to
                     see Bobby Short! I should almost be willing to travel to Missouri myself for
                     the sake of seeing Bobby "go off" in one of his laughs. Wonder if he tumbles
                     down and rolls over in them still. Plenty of room on the prairies!
                  Billy writes that he hasn't seen any unknown lovers. I gave him a
                     card with Albert's full name and personal description written on it, requesting
                     him to make inquiries at every settlement. Am glad I did now: for Albert is
                     somewhere in the Western country, and probably within, say, three
                     hundred miles of Billy; though there is no certainty of this. It
                     may not, however, be necessary for Billy to make very great exertions, as there
                     is some one else searching for Albert. I hardly believe you can guess who,
                     although the person has been mentioned in some of my letters, and in connection
                     with the Two Betseys.
                  Do you remember my telling you what Mr. Fry said once, coming in the cars,
                     about people waking up after living selfish or wicked lives, and
                     feeling anxious then to be good and do good? Also do you remember, that, in her
                     girlhood, 'Lisabeth's faithless lover deserted her, and why? Now, put these
                     remembrances together, and put the money sent to the Two Betseys with them, and
                     you have a clew to my riddle.
                  I have been wanting to tell you this ever since I came from Crooked Pond; but
                     that trip put me back in my work.
                     And we have been more than usually busy; for the wedding-clothes can't wait.
                     (Miss Bessie's betrothed one's uncle has sent her such a superb box of gloves
                     from Paris! No woman could behold them unmoved. Light hues, of course, to match
                     the heart of a bride.) And I have written in the last two weeks, let me see,
                     thirteen—as many as thirteen—letters, such as they were.
                  That faithless lover just mentioned, by name Jason Ellis, is own cousin to
                     Johnny Staples's wife. He went to Missouri and settled forty-seven years ago,
                     (shame sent him, let us hope!) since which time they have heard from him
                     directly only at long intervals. He has had the reputation of being a hard,
                     close man, well to do, but not particularly well doing.
                  Johnny Staples received information two years ago which caused him to feel
                     almost sure that Albert Daniel was somewhere in the State of Missouri; but he
                     has never spoken of this to the Two Betseys, fearing to raise hopes which may
                     not be fulfilled. This spring, not very long ago, his wife got a letter from
                     her cousin Jason Ellis,—such a pathetic letter! There had been, it seems, a
                     revival in his township,—an enthusiastic, overpowering revival, which swept
                     every thing before it. How I should like to come under an influence of that
                     kind!—the kind, I mean, which makes you feel your badness, and weep for it, and
                     try to do right, and to be good and unselfish and merciful.
                  This old man attends the meetings, is aroused, is penetrated, is shaken to the
                     depths of his being. His very soul cries out: he is "under conviction."
                        Under conviction!—what a terribly expressive phrase that is!
                     After his conversion he writes a letter, beseeching his cousin Rebecca, who is
                     a church-member and a pious woman, to tell him how he may atone, if ever so
                     slightly, for the wrong he did in his youth. Expresses an intention of writing
                     to Elizabeth, and begging her forgiveness; but afterwards speaks of it—the
                     forgiveness—as too great a boon to ask.
                  It was he who sent the money. Johnny Staples had not told the Two Betseys of
                     this, nor of the "conversion." He would, he said, rather be excused from
                     talking about Jason Ellis to 'Lisabeth; but, when there came a good chance, he
                     could speak to Betty alone, and let her tell her sister. Mr. Staples suggested
                     that it would perhaps be better for them not to know, as, if they did know,
                     they might refuse (of course they would) to use the money; and he thought the
                     time might soon come when they would need it. I said, that, if it were my case,
                     I should rather be told. This "Old Man of the West" wishes to continue his
                     gifts. He would have the Two Betseys live comfortably, and without labor. Mr.
                     Staples wrote him that the best reparation he could make would be to send home
                     tidings of the child of their adoption. Mr. Ellis is exerting himself to do
                     this, and has already traced Albert to the vicinity of St. Louis.
                  Johnny Staples told me all this the last day of my stay at Crooked Pond
                     (Monday). About the middle of the forenoon, the sun shone out so warm and
                     pleasant, I said to the Two Betseys that I would take a walk over to Parting
                     Ways, and see Mr. Ephraim Ingalls in his blacksmith's shop, and make sure of
                     him.
                  The blacksmith's shop was not far from the house. In going along the path which
                     led from the mill to that, I almost met Johnny Staples; but he turned off by
                        another other path leading to the
                     edge of the pond,—such an enticing path, that my feet would walk therein, and
                     follow him. There was a skiff on the shore, and the old man was taking some
                     tools out of it. He greeted me pleasantly. I said, "Oh, what a dear little
                     boat! and if I only might get in and just feel the motion, even without untying
                     her!" He looked somewhat amazed at my rapturous style of delivery; told me to
                     get in if I wanted to, and sit down in the middle,—right exactly in the
                     middle,—and not stir, and he would give me a row. I asked if he could spare
                     time. He said, "Oh, yes! it is not 'grinding day;'" though it would hardly do
                     to stay long, because his folks would be wanting the chips. I remembered then,
                     that, just before turning towards the pond, he set down a basket.
                  Such a beautiful pond, or stream rather! though it has the calmness and
                     smoothness of a pond there just above the dam. It is not far across at the
                     widest part. Both banks are overhung with trees, or clumps of bushes. And to
                     think, Myra, that I shall be there in pond-lily time! And I mean to learn to
                     row. And the pond bends in and out, in and out! And, when I have learned to
                     row, how delightful to launch forth, fearing no danger! What a proud day for
                     me, when, unassisted and alone, I shall have traced that lovely stream to its
                     source!
                  I sat very still, as directed; and Johnny Staples rowed me a little way,
                     keeping so near the shore, that one could easily catch hold of the bushes and
                     the overhanging branches. Oh, it was charming, charming! You could look down
                     through the water and see the little creatures darting. How can such tiny
                     things dart so like flashes? They must be strong of their size.
                  As we floated under a tree which leaned far over the water, my oarsman rested
                     on his oars. The house was all in sight through an open space in the bushes. He
                     asked me to look and see if I could see a blue mug, a tall blue mug, in the
                     corner window. "No, sir," I said; "no blue mug; nothing but a cat." He
                     remarked, that then there was no hurry, as, when Ann wanted him right away, she
                     set the mug in the window. From his manner, and from his keeping pretty well
                     under the tree, I was inclined to think that he would just as soon not have Ann
                     know that he had gone off rowing when she had sent him for chips.
                  It was easy, her name having been mentioned, to apologize for my unlucky
                     question of the Saturday evening previous; and, having done that, to draw him
                     on to speak further of Albert Daniel. There was a lovely view from the point
                     where we sat; and, thinking he would be more likely to talk when resting than
                     when rowing, I proposed that we should remain a while and enjoy it. The motion
                     of the boat was just a little bit on this side of perfect quiet, as was the
                     ripple on this side of perfect silence. "Delicious" is the word I should use,
                     were I going to describe; but that, you know, I never do. And what need?
                     Anybody can imagine the still beauty of such a scene in such a day in May. But
                     pray, in your imaginings, do not leave out the apple-orchards in blossom on the
                     opposite side from us, and give due prominence to my gentle oarsman with his
                     flowing locks and his cameo face. His nose and chin do really have
                     a chiselled look. I wanted to take off the old felt hat he wore, and crown him
                     with my wreath. While he talked, I broke off some alder-twigs and other twigs,
                        and twisted them into a wreath
                     with the buttercups and cherry-blossoms I had picked on my way from the Two
                     Betseys'. Not much in the way of a wreath: I only did it in an absent sort of
                     way, just to keep my fingers in motion, thinking he would be more contented to
                     sit and talk if he saw me employed.
                  It was then and there that Mr. Staples told me the interesting particulars
                     above mentioned. He said, among other things, that never, to his knowledge, was
                     there any "bargain made" between Albert Daniel and
                        Ann, but only a "kind of understanding." Said that, if she "had
                     feelings" at the time of the Beulah affair, she kept them private; for that
                     neither he nor his wife knew certainly whether she had or not, or
                        "how it was."
                  Positively this pen of mine must give way to the scissors. And yet I have not
                     even begun to tell of my charming visit at the Two Betseys', of the droll
                     things they said, and of the interesting talks we had,—sad talks, some of them.
                     You don't know, Myra, how tenderly they speak of Albert. They speak of him as
                     of a poor little child strayed away into the wilderness, with nobody to take
                     care of it. It seemed to me, in some of their most earnest moments, that they
                     actually extended their arms as if yearning to embrace him. No doubt Matilda
                     will be quick enough to say this is all imagination. Well, she may say what she
                     likes: free speech is indigenous to the country. (Oh, no! it was brought
                     over.)
                  
                     Yours in the bonds of cousinly affection,
                     L. MARIA.
                  
               
               
                  I open my letter to say that Dorry has just been here. I was so glad of a
                     chance to talk about my Crooked-Pond visit! Dorry is quite anxious for his
                     sister to go and board at Summer-Sweeting Place a few weeks. He thinks it will
                     do her good. I want she should wait until you go. Can you tell, my dear, when
                     that will be? But, Myra, what is worse than all, Dorry fears Maggie may
                     persuade herself that she ought to try to like the man whom her mother favored.
                     L. M.
                  P. S.—I have told dear Mrs. Everson all about the Two Betseys and Albert
                     Daniel, and the people at Parting Ways. She says she must see the Two
                     Betseys.
                  My school begins next week. I shall board at Johnny Staples's.
                  P. P. S.—I have just received a note from the school-ma'am at
                        Parting Ways. She wishes to retain the school two weeks longer,
                     in order to earn money to buy some additional articles for the bridal outfit.
                     This delay will take me far into July, and possibly lose me the
                     pond-lilies.
                  P. P. P. S.—After leaving the boat that day, Johnny Staples took me to a hill
                     close by, and showed me the old house in which the Two Betseys lived at the
                     time they adopted Albert Daniel. He also pointed out another interesting
                     spot,—no other than the piece of ground which had been selected by 'Lisabeth's
                     faithless lover as the sight of their house! With what peculiar
                     feelings must an old, poor, never-married woman look upon the bare piece of
                     ground whereon was to have been built a dwelling in which she
                        was to have known the joys of family-life! I say, "joys,"
                     having observed that people are pretty likely to look on the bright side of
                        "it
                     
                     might have been." In this case the "it might hare
                        been" appears in stronger relief from the fact that the lot
                     mentioned, after passing through various hands, has recently been bought by the
                     town, together with several adjacent lots, for a public burying-ground. These
                     all belonged at one time to Mr. Ellis.
               
            
            
               LETTER XXXVIII.—LEONICE'S QUESTION ANSWERED.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA IN THE CITY.
                  DEAR MYRA,—Your letter just received. No! tell Leonice, No: I
                        don't want to vote. I would much rather study music than
                     politics; and, were I the mother of a family, I should prefer to make home
                     pleasant, and have good times with my children, instead of puzzling my brain as
                     to which of two or three individuals were fitted for a responsible office. But,
                     as a gentleman remarked the other evening at Mrs. Everson's, what we want is
                     not the question. He says we should argue from principles, not
                     from probable results, or from what is agreeable. His "principle," in this
                     case, is, that all human beings, with equal restrictions, may judge for
                     themselves what is duty. Woman being created equally intelligent with man,
                     there is no reason why man should define or limit woman's course of action. If
                     believing as that gentleman believes be "strong-minded," tell Leonice, then she
                     may call me "strong-minded;" for, although at present I may not wish to share
                     in the responsibilities of voting, I can see, that, if I did wish to, no person
                     has any rightful power to prevent me from doing so. I can also see that
                     conditions might arise under which a
                     woman would be really anxious to vote; as, for instance, in some neighborhood
                     affair, though no case in point occurs to me just at this moment; perhaps the
                     location of a schoolhouse. And, now I think of it, I do remember hearing a
                     woman say she would have liked the chance of putting in her vote on the
                     question of introducing music into their public schools. But, of course, she
                     couldn't have done so, tell Leonice; because there would have been nobody to
                     take care of the baby. All those persons who took care of it when its mother
                     went to meeting, or visiting, or shopping, would have been sick abed, or broken
                     their arms, or had paralytic-shocks, or been swallowed by an earthquake, or
                     carried off by a tidal wave. Tell Leonice, if she's going to argue, to send
                     arguments. There are better ones on her own side than those she sent. A vote is
                     merely the expression of an opinion, of a preference: so why all this clamor
                     about it? What I dread is the labor of preparing myself to vote intelligently.
                     Still the men, most of them, take this quite easy, especially those who can't
                     read.
                  I am so glad you are going to Summer-Sweeting Place! almost as glad as if I
                     were going myself; and perhaps it is no less commendable to love our
                     fellow-creatures—cousins included—almost as ourselves in reality
                     than to love them as ourselves "in the abstract."
                  For grandmother's sake I am specially thankful. She cannot fail to be enlivened
                     by the sparkle of your presence. Let your conversations dwell perpetually on
                     William Henry; for you may be sure she has him constantly in mind, imagining
                     him lost on the prairies, chased by savages, devoured by wild beasts. Blessed
                     little grandmother! I can see her pale blue eyes keeping their tears way, way
                     back behind them.
                  Also it pleases me beyond measure to have you there at the same time with
                     Maggie. Remember that your duty as regards her is to sound the praises of
                     William Henry (judiciously), and to be lively. Liveliness may not accord with
                     her mood; but the very jar of the discord will serve to arouse her, and thus be
                     of greater benefit than the most perfect chord in a minor key. Only one week
                     more, I hope, of bricks and mortar; and then hey for the winding paths, the
                     meadows green, the skies serene, and the rippling waves of Parting Ways! Mr.
                     Ingalls will write, telling me on what day my services will be required. Mrs.
                     Everson has loaned me quite a little library of books to take along. Oh, how I
                     shall miss the companionship of this dear friend! I love her almost as well as
                     I do one of my own folks.
                  
                     Yours perishing in heat and dust,
                     L. M. CARVER.
                  
               
               
                  I shall write again before leaving the city.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XXXIX.—AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA IN THE CITY.
                  DEAR MYRA,—It is a fine breezy day. I hope we shall have a season of pleasant
                     weather now. A great many people have left the city. How the vanes glitter in
                     the sunlight! It is pleasant to watch the great white clouds drift across the
                     sky. They do not really drift, I suppose, but are impelled by some unseen
                     force. Is the orchard doing well this summer?
                  Myra, I am saying these commonplace sentences in order to tone myself down—and
                     to tone you down—before beginning to speak of an exciting event.
                  It is often remarked, that company never come when you are prepared for them,
                     and that things never happen as you have planned. Albert Daniel came this
                     morning. To think of all the plans I have laid for his discovery! and that he
                     should break in upon us so suddenly, and in such a strange manner! I will
                     acknowledge being under some excitement even at this moment; but you shall see
                     how calmly my little incident will be told. Such an incident needs no
                     exclamation-points. The bare facts are enough. I wish I could stop thinking of
                     them. It is mainly to relieve my mind, thereby putting myself in a condition to
                     sleep, that I write this letter; though you will, of course, want to hear.
                  Between nine and ten o'clock this morning, I went down into the reception-room
                     for the purpose of arranging the flowers there. This duty has devolved upon me
                     lately. As I was passing through the lower hall, the door-bell rang I opened
                     the door, and let in Miss Emmeline. It was a wet, drizzly morning; and she had
                     run in with just her water-proof; no hat nor sack. I began helping her unbutton
                     her water-proof, but, seeing that the door was not quite shut, stepped forward
                     to latch it. Instead of latching, however, the door opened against me, and a
                     man walked in,—a rough-looking, dark-complexioned man, poorly dressed. "In
                     liquor," I thought at first; but a look at his face made me think he might be
                     crazed rather than drunken. I never saw such an expression before, and hope
                     never to see one like it again. Intense, exultant, gleaming, scornful, bitter,
                     unconscious,—these are the words that came to me. I mean that he seemed
                     unconscious of all around him save the presence of one person.
                  The suddenness of this apparition paralyzed me. I thought of lunatics with
                     razors, of robbers with daggers, but especially of lunatics, on account of the
                     unnatural look in the man's eyes.
                  He walked quietly toward Emmeline, called her by name, looked her steadily in
                     the face, and thus addressed her:—
                  "Miss Emmeline Gooding, I have come to make my speech,—the speech I have
                     studied for so long. The Lady Princess said to the Knight Lover, 'Leap
                        that chasm, and I will give my love.' He leaped that chasm, then with scorn bade that Lady Princess
                     good-by forever. You showed me a chasm. I leaped across it. I am rich. Good-by!
                     I said I would get rich, then say good-by with scorn. Good-by! Ha, ha! I like
                     to say it. Good-by! good-by forever!"
                  He spoke low at first, and with effort; but, as he went on, his voice came
                     forth full and strong, like the deep tones of a church-organ. Toward the last
                     it grew tremulous, and had a husky sound. The man, too, grew tremulous: every
                     limb and muscle quivered.
                  The general import of his address, and his evident knowledge of Emmeline, with
                     one other circumstance, led me to suspect who the man might be. The other
                     circumstance was, that, although Emmeline appeared frightened, her fright did
                     not seem like the kind of fright one would feel at being pursued and addressed
                     by a crazy man.
                  I can look back and analyze my feelings now, and tell calmly what were my
                     thoughts; but, at the time, my thoughts came like flashes. They did not come at
                     all: they were there. The whole scene passed like a flash; and it has been
                     flashing through my mind all day. I have lived it over and over again; am
                     living it now. I see Emmeline standing there, her water-proof hanging open, its
                     hood drawn partly on; she pale and drooping (a lily bell indeed: I
                     did not think of it at the time, though); see the man, dark, heavy-browed,
                     weather stained; the servants peering out from the kitchen; Etta Calloon
                     looking down over the railing; Cousin Colby rushing out at the man; the man,
                     without turning to look, seizing him by the arm with a strong grip in an absent
                     way, as if unconscious of seizing any thing at all;
                     
                        "PALE AND DROOPING. A LILY-BELL INDEED."
                     
                      Emmeline sinking down at last upon the
                     stair; the man rushing out; Cousin Colby pursuing. Shall I never stop thinking
                     of this? Shall I dream of that poor frenzied creature? Will his eyes haunt me
                     to-night? Where is he now, I wonder? Where did he go? "Down street," Cousin
                     Colby said. Why didn't he follow on? Didn't he know?—though, of course, he does
                     not. He knows nothing about the Two Betseys. I would like a few tranquil
                     moments in which to consider what shall be done, supposing the poor man goes
                     home in this condition, and, in order to calm myself, call up before my mind
                     all manner of soothing scenes. But the more I think of quiet skies, and
                     peaceful lakes, and gently-gliding streams, the plainer I can hear my heart
                     beat. I have heard it beat all day, I think. For we had a talk, Emmeline and I.
                     That hall-scene was over in a few moments; but, after that, there followed a
                     talk. When Emmeline sank down upon the stairs, I whispered to her, "Come
                        up into my room." The man had just left, if I remember rightly. I
                     think I had suspected who he was. Oh, yes! I must have by that time. But it all
                     passed so rapidly! It must have been just as Cousin Colby rushed out that I
                     whispered, "Come up into my room." At any rate, I whispered it, and she came
                     up; then—But I can give you no connected account. It was all emotion and sobs
                     and sighs and tears and broken sentences. She confessed, and I confessed. We
                     sat on the bedside, she leaning against me, my arm thrown around her. She
                     confessed herself to be the young girl whose conduct I had spoken of so
                     harshly; and I confessed the deceit I had practised in letting her suppose me
                     to be ignorant of this. This of mine was a heartfelt confession, and it
                     relieved me. I don't think one can
                     respect one's self when practising any kind of deccit.
                  Cousin Colby came up again and again to rap and inquire; but Emmeline could not
                     compose herself, nor leave off talking. He must have wondered why she came up
                     here instead of going to Mrs. Calloon. (Mrs. Calloon was dressing to go out at
                     the time.) Emmeline told me every thing; went all the way back, and began at
                     the beginning. If I only might see you, Myra, for one half hour! I want to say
                     so many things, that I can't say any thing. As soon as I get to Parting Ways, I
                     shall go over to the Two Betseys', and ask—No, it will not do to ask them; for
                     then, if he has not been there—don't you see? No use disturbing them
                     needlessly. They will tell me soon enough if any thing has happened. But if
                     they are serene, and Johnny Staples is serene, what then? Then I will tell
                     Johnny Staples, and ask his advice. I think Emmeline wants to be good: she is
                     terribly afraid of being wicked. Still, as I have said before, other people can
                     easily persuade her into doing what they think to be her duty. She hasn't
                     resolution enough to lay out her own course, and then to follow it. The old
                     minister at Beulah exercises a good influence over her. She has been, for some
                     weeks, fully determined to break off the engagement with Cousin Colby, but
                     could not get the courage to do it. She will do it now very soon; perhaps this
                     evening. I am truly thankful that I shall not have to live long under the same
                     roof with him after that event. What do you think Emmeline told me? That she
                     cannot endure his following her about the room, looking up in her face, playing
                     with her hat-strings and gloves, and his other little familiar ways. I wonder
                     if Albert Daniel iel is wealthy, or only imagines himself so. If I only knew
                     where he went from here! Certainly, dear child, I shall tell you more of what
                     Emmeline told me, but not now. I do hope to-morrow's mail will bring me a
                     letter from home: I long to hear from a quiet place. I want a letter with no
                     experience in it,—a letter, I had almost said, without an event or an emotion.
                     Just tell me, dear, how green the grass is, how white the daisies are, how
                     sweet the clover smells, and I shall be satisfied. Ah, if you only could!
                  
                     LUCY MARIA.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—Send your letter here; and, if I shall have left, it will follow me. I am
                     expecting every day to hear from Mr. Ingalls.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XL.—WITH NOTHING IN IT.
               
                  FROM MYRA AT SUMMER-SWEETING PLACE.
                  DEAR COUSIN LUCY MARIA, SWEETEST AND DEAREST,—We have waited long for your
                     promised final letter, and think you must have gone to Parting Ways without
                     writing it. Delightful spot! Would I were there! Perhaps you will need an
                     assistant (to do the scolding); and therefore—this therefore
                     refers back a line or two—we, Matilda and I, in council assembled, have
                     decided, after due deliberation, to despatch an epistle without stopping to put
                     much inside, and mail it sufficiently expeditiously for its arrival there to
                     occur perhaps almost simultaneously with your own; hoping, by this commendable
                     promptness, to get for our entertainment immediately one of your
                     charming letters from that most charming spot. Put into it, please,
                        Johnny Staples and his bass-viol, and his
                        wife Rebecca, and Ann, and "Ephrum's
                        childern." Pray, who's the father of "Ephrum's
                        childern"? You haven't told us any thing about him, except that he is
                     a committee-man. You spoke of going to his blacksmith's shop; but
                     wentest thou there, infatuated young person? I fear me not. That streamward
                     path beguiled your feet; and the "cameo" face and white waving
                     locks of Johnny Staples beguiled your heart, O most romantic Lucy
                     Maria! and there you sat, undulating the skiff,—rocking was too prosaic for
                        you,—forgetting the busy world and its cares, and—Say now,
                     honestly and truly, did you look for that blue mug in the window? and would not
                     all mugs have looked blue to you after gazing in the blue eyes of your
                     venerable captivator?
                  N. B.—This is only a part of the "nothing" which was to be put into your
                     letter. We are both in love with Johnny Staples ourselves.
                  I'm making an old-fashioned visit here. Your mother's cookies taste just as
                     natural as life. Oh! come home, come home, me darlint, and let's play supper
                     out on the rock, and make "cinnamon-powder," and have "currant-water" in a
                     vial! How many years ago was that? Never mind the answer.
                  I stay most of the time at grandmother's. Isn't she a darling? Helped Matilda
                     clean the buttery yesterday. Took every thing off the shelves, way up to that
                     tiptop one where Joe used to climb after Mother Delight's tarts. How could
                     Mother Delight ever have made any thing so sour as a tart? We found such
                     quantities of dried orange-peel! Some of the spring cleaning was put by,
                     Matilda says, on account of their having to fit out William Henry. Your mother
                     doesn't know, for her part, what becomes of all the time. She says, when you
                     see the months ahead that you are going to have, they look whole, and as if
                     they'd hold lots of work; but they break all to pieces in going by, and
                     scarcely hold any thing.
                  Dorry has made a flying visit here to see Maggie. How much he thinks of Maggie!
                     Of course he would do that; but I
                     mean that he speaks of her so tenderly, so feelingly!—as tenderly as a sister
                     would of a brother: you can't say it stronger than that.
                  Maggie went with Matilda night before last to watch with a sick woman. She
                     would go. Matilda, and the Snow girls, and a few others, seem to belong to a
                     sort of—not a "society," and not an "association," and not a "league," and not
                     a "bureau:" call it an understanding,—belong to an
                        understanding, that, when help is needed,—watching, say, or any
                     kind of kindness,—some of them shall step forward to watch or visit, or carry
                     flowers and relishing niceties.
                  And, speaking of flowers, the little girls about here have all embraced the
                     flower-garden business. Some of the gardens are of a sufficient smallness to be
                     "embraced;" and they are all diversly and diversely divided off by broken
                     dishes, sticks, stones, corn-cobs, old clothespins, clam-shells flat, and
                     clam-shells standing. One little girl made a rattan bower for her dolly; and
                     morning-glories are running over it. Georgiana and Matilda have spaded, have
                     hoed, have raked, and are now waiting the increase, if waiting consists in
                     running out every hour or two to see what has bloomed. Uncle Jacob says the
                     buds don't have a chance to open, being watched so; for, of course, they can't
                     when anybody's looking. Maggie seems not to want to be pleased, nor to take
                     enjoyment; but she can't help it sometimes. It seems just like this,—as if she
                     does not want to let her grief go, because that is all she has left of her
                     mother. Do. you understand what I mean? She does enjoy, though, in spite of
                     herself,—flowers, for instance, or moonlight on the water, or touching music.
                     Aunt Phebe says we have to take enjoyment from all these things,
                     whether we will or not, because they match something in our natures.
                  I enclose William Henry's last letter. There are too many Indians in it to suit
                     me. I don't know but grandmother would sell her "gold beads," as she has
                     offered to do so many times, and start for the West, if William Henry should go
                     chasing the Indians with Bobby Short. She's so afraid something will happen to
                     the "box"! By the way, we want what you are going to put into it
                     immediately. Uncle Jacob tells her, that, if she won't worry about its getting
                     there, he'll write, "This side up with care" all over it.
                  Now, L. M., do please send us a nice, long, entertaining, and every way
                     charming letter, for Maggie's sake, if not for ours; and I will begin to pick
                     up news this very day, and put every little bit into a bag, and, when the bag
                     is full, shake 'em out upon a sheet of paper (bag is metaphorical
                     in this case, and means a purely mental one), so that you shall not be asked
                     again to give something for nothing.
                  
                     From COUSIN MYRA, with the love of us all.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—Your letter (the one about Albert Daniel) has just come. We don't know
                     what to think. We shall be doubly in haste to hear now. Even Maggie takes an
                     interest. She and Matilda and I—"the three M's," Uncle Jacob calls
                     us; capital M's, too, he says we are—have written our predictions
                     on slips of paper, and shut them in a sealed envelope,—predictions as to
                     whether you will or will not find Albert at the Two Betseys'; and, when your
                     letter comes, this envelope will be opened. My own opinion is, that his
                     excitement was only for the moment; that you will find him quietly sojourning with the Two
                     Betseys; and that, by some means now unknown, every thing will turn out exactly
                     right. He knew, it seems, that Emmeline was still unmarried, and had wit enough
                     to find her. Pray tell immediately to us patient waiters all that
                     she has told you, even if lack of leisure necessitates your condensing it,
                     like—attar of roses. There: yourself could not have found a more fitting
                     symbol. We don't wonder that you were agitated that day. But we cannot pity you
                     extremely, because, you know, you have brought it all upon yourself. Plotters
                     and planners must not expect easy times. Matilda has immense faith in your
                     power of bringing things about. I am delighted to be in all this, but glad I
                     don't have to row the managing oar. Well, no doubt there are born
                        planners, as well as born poets, and born
                        surprisers too, Matilda says. We amuse ourselves, and take up
                     grandmother's mind, by talking over the surprising contrivances of
                     your more youthful days, and your tendency to get acquainted with every "old
                     straggler" that came along. Pray have the condescension of letting us know your
                     plans in the present emergency as far as they are known to yourself.
                  I little thought, when beginning to write a letter with nothing in it, that you
                     would ask for just such a letter! Here it is from a quiet place, with scarcely
                     an event, or an emotion, or an idea, in it. As to the grass and the daisies and
                     the clover, trust to your imagination, and never fear its going too far,—even
                     if it be your extensive imagination. I will send, as aids to it, these few
                     blossoms. They came from "Long Pasture;" and perhaps "Starry Banner" herself
                     has stepped—Pshaw! you wouldn't express it with that prosiness. "Haply
                        Starry Banner's hoof may have pressed it." How does that suit your
                     poetical ladyship?
                  Seriously, we are all three dying to hear more concerning Albert; and shall all
                     be crying for the Two Betseys if he has not gone home to them. And poor dear
                     Lucy Maria, way off there without any of us!—we do pity you. But I
                     think I have heard you say that you were willing to be made fun of, if it would
                     conduce to the amusement of others, and bring more laughter into this crying
                     world.
                  This letter is so long, there isn't any more room,—even for any more
                        nothing.
                  
                  
                     MYRA.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—Put something funny into yours for the sake of Maggie and grandmother.
                     When your plans in regard to Mother Delight and Gus
                     are sufficiently matured, pray let them know, and us.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XLI.—EMMELINE'S STORY, AND OTHER MATTERS.
               FROM LUCY MARIA. AT PARTING WAYS.
               DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—Your letter "with nothing in it" came the day after my own
                  arrival; and would have been answered sooner, only that I have so much to say (odd
                  reason), or, rather, so much to feel and to think about. The responsibility I have
                  taken as a teacher weighs upon my mind, and makes my heart beat with the
                  excitement of hopes and fears and doubts. "Try!" That is all I can
                  do; and I shall do that hard in every direction, asking aid from
                  higher than earthly influences.
               One time, little Nettie Snow, after sitting a moment with closed eyes, clasped
                  hands, and lips softly moving, informed her mother that she had been praying for a
                  parasol. "Mamma," said she, "I thought some angel might be flying over, and might
                  hear me." So, in my case, some angel may be flying over, and may hear
                  me and help me.
               The blossoms you sent (poor withered things!) are precious in my sight because
                  they grew in dear old Summer-Sweeting Place. They will not be needed as aids to my
                  imagination here, where field-flowers abound. Coming directly from the city, I am
                  more than ever impressed with the profusion, the variety, the
                     abounding-ness, of vegetation. Everywhere—in the woods, the
                  meadows, by the wayside, by the brookside, on the land, and under the
                  water—something is growing. If every weed, even, serves a purpose, as some people
                  say, think of the innumerable purposes of Nature!
               Some people say, too, that every sorrow of every soul serves a purpose; but, oh,
                  mystery, mystery! The very ones who seem good enough without any trials are the
                  very ones to whom trials come. Now, there is Ann Staples. She was, no doubt,
                     tried by Albert's falling in love with that young girl of Beulah,
                  and by his strange disappearance. Yet Ann, according to the Two Betseys, was
                  always a pleasant, true, good-hearted girl; and I am sure she takes excellent care
                  of her mother, and, besides doing the work, keeps her looking as neat as a pink.
                  Mrs. Staples's caps and cap-strings are beautifully done up,—beautifully!
               Then, speaking of good people, there are our dear Two Betseys, just as good as
                  they can be; and how few are their joys!
               You will wonder at my not saying whether Albert is here. Dear child! if he had
                  been, I should have put that fact in an envelope, and mailed it before taking off
                  my things; for I know you. You are an impatient soul, and as romantic as I am
                  internally, for all your fun-making. Matilda I don't accuse. She is a good, steady
                  girl, and calculated to get on in life.
               In speaking of Emmeline, I will avail myself of your gracious permission, and
                  state the bare facts.
               At sixteen she was a poor man's daughter, and, as the village belle, had many
                  admirers. Albert was the first and only
                  one whose good opinion she valued. In describing him, she mentioned the following
                  traits,—strong-willed, determined, kind-hearted, gentle, self-reliant,
                  tender-hearted, right-minded. He was a person of few words; but those few were the
                  words for which she oftenest listened. His character had an influence over her of
                  which he himself was unconscious. Neither was she aware of this fully until his
                  sudden disappearance made her aware of it, and "of the pleasure his company gave"
                  her. "He never exerted himself much to please me," she said, "and never praised
                  me; so that I had no idea of the strength of his feelings until the day came when
                  he spoke in that earnest way.
               "If my coquetry made a wreck of a noble man, as you once said" (this was in
                  allusion to our previous conversation), "my only excuse is, that I did not know
                  that his love was so strong."
               In two years from the time of his disappearance, she was engaged to the son of the
                  old minister of Beulah, of whom I have spoken before. The emotions caused by even
                  the casual mention of Albert's name led her to ask herself if it would not be a
                  sin for her to marry another. A long and earnest conversation with the old
                  minister (whom, by the way, I should like to see) resulted in the breaking of that
                  engagement. Both the engagements with Cousin Colby took place after her coming to
                  the city. How those were brought about, I think I have already informed you.
               These are the bare, outside facts. The filling-up, which is most
                  intensely interesting, is saved for our next meeting. There is something so
                  "romantic" to tell about that old minister's son!
               The day on which I left Mrs. Calloon's, Emmeline wrote a letter to Cousin Colby,
                  giving him the same account I have given you, only more in detail, and begging to
                  be released a second time.
               Cousin Colby is not quite the man I at first supposed him to be. I am not alluding
                  now to his love for Emmeline. He is in earnest there,—almost as "terribly" in
                  earnest as Albert was. I know; for I have seen them together. He worships her. He
                  loves her well enough, I had almost said, to be her slave. But what I meant was,
                  that he had not the dignity of character which his appearance denotes, and which
                  he will need to bear up under this or any great sorrow.
               Nor is he so far in advance of the present artificial, superficial "society" life
                  as some of his remarks and criticisms would lead one to suppose. For instance, he
                  sneers at the silliness of women, but, at the same time, is unwilling to give them
                  the chance to be wise. Cousin Colby ridicules us if we are weak-minded, and
                  ridicules us if we are strong-minded; and although he speaks with contempt of the
                  "fashions," and "following the fashions," would never marry a woman who was
                  dressed out of the fashion. He is forever harping on the mental inferiority of
                  women to men, and strongly opposed to their having equal opportunities with men. I
                  call him, therefore, a fault-finder, and not a fault-remover.
               
               But were Cousin Colby the veriest wretch in existence, Myra, I should pity him,
                  suffering as I am certain he is suffering now.
               P. S.—This letter goes unfinished. I have told Johnny Staples, but not the Two
                  Betseys (I mean about Albert Daniel).
               
                  LUCY MARIA.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XLII.—PEOPLE AT PARTING WAYS.
               FROM LUCY MARIA AT PARTING WAYS.
               DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—I am fairly established by the pleasant waters of Parting Ways,
                  and have fallen in love. Don't be frightened. It is only with Johnny Staples; and
                  he will probably never return my affection. I would like you to see him. In years
                  he is aged; but in all his ways he seems like a charming, innocent boy. Everybody
                  calls him Johnny Staples,—children and all. He is an inveterate story-teller. Ann
                  sends him after chips, and, half an hour afterward, looks out the window, and
                  there he'll be, seated upon a log, one hand on the basket, talking to three or
                  four children, usually little girls.
               Yes, I own up to being infatuated with Johnny Staples. He overflows with stories
                  of long ago; and he plays the bass-viol; and his wavy white locks are beautiful to
                  see. He and Ann and the nice old lady received me so cordially, that it seemed
                  almost like coming among own folks. I have been here now nearly a week, and am
                  constantly asking myself what good thing I have done that my lot should fall in so
                  pleasant a place. My fathers must have eaten very sweet grapes.
               The house is capacious, and is situated on the bank of a lovely stream, which, as
                  I have mentioned before, widens out just below the house, and above the dam, to
                  the semblance of a pond.
               If our family be small, that in the other part is large enough, and noisy enough.
                  The "father of Ephrum's childern" is Mr. Ephraim Ingalls. I see him every day,—a
                  tall, lean man of forty-five, or thereabouts, whose greatest personal peculiarity
                  is his neck. It is long, and—owing, probably, to the set of his
                  stand-up dicky and wide black cravat—has the appearance of widening out,
                  tunnel-like, towards the ear. His eyes are small, and twinkling with good nature.
                  His hair is scanty, and of a sandy color; his nose, an acute isosceles triangle.
                  His favorite attitude, when standing, is with his 'hands placed one over the
                  other, at about, say, the third vest-button, counting upward. He is kindly in
                  manner, brisk in his movements, a famous singer; and, altogether, I expect to get
                  much entertainment from him and his "childern." Of all noisy, tearing,
                  obstreperous urchins! One of them (they call him "Little Eph") howls; actually
                  goes out nights, and howls around this house and other houses for
                  mere pleasure. And they have every convenience for noise-making, such as whistles,
                  drums, rattles, clappers, harmonicons, bird-calls, sleigh-bells, and several
                  hideous contrivances with no especial names. Disturb me? Not in the least. You
                  know I always like to have something going on. Two of them are in my school,—good
                  boys enough. School-teaching comes hard, Myra,—very hard. I wish my scholars were
                  younger. Not that it is any easier to teach little children, but that I feel more
                  drawn toward them, and feel that more effective work can be done with them.
                  Perhaps I am not worthy to teach the little ones; or to teach any, for that
                  matter.
               
               There go a few of "Ephrum's childern" up garret, "to see what they can see, I
                  suppose." Pelly, as Mrs. Ephraim Ingalls is familiarly called,
                  sometimes hides her goodies in that locality when other hiding-places
                  fail. Oh, no! It is to climb out on the roof this time, and perhaps to drop stones
                  down chimney, or let them down by strings, to hit the windows. I do wish you could
                  see these little white-haired, sharp-featured, twinkle-eyed rogues! The lightness
                  (light-colored-ness) of father's hair and of mother's hair both seems concentrated
                  in theirs.
               By the way, Pelly (that neat, worn, ever-toiling woman) ought to go into this
                  letter along with her husband. I place neat first, because domestic
                  cleanliness is one of her two great aims. I will tell you how her carpet is
                  protected,—braided mats, or rugs, before the table, stand, bureau, fire-place, and
                  at each of the four doors; then two long strips of carpet crossing each other, and
                  connecting the four doors; then newspapers pinned down under every window where
                  your feet come. The other aim (or main chance) is to keep on hand an
                  abundant store of "light victuals." These two main chances are, from
                  their very natures, unattainable. To-day brings them almost within reach:
                  to-morrow finds them as far away as ever.
               Pelly is a tall, slender, fair-complexioned, meek-looking woman. Her hair, which
                  is as pale a shade of yellow as you ever saw (straw-color), grows far back,
                  leaving the forehead ample room. Part of this space is covered by the hair being
                  brought down upon her temples before it disappears behind her ears and under the
                  covering. For some inscrutable reason, she wears, when about her work (which is
                  always), a piece of gauze—blue or green; probably an old veil—over her head, tied
                  in a loose knot behind. She has a square chin, thin lips (rather long), and a
                  straight, well-shaped nose. What gives her the meek look is a habit she has of
                  dropping her head on one side, drawing down the corners of her mouth, and looking
                  at you a little obliquely.
               Emmeline is at this time, probably, visiting a dear friend of hers who has been
                  living in Europe,—one Mrs. Gillette. They are about the same age, and used to be
                  as intimate as two sisters. I am thankful this friend has come back now, when
                  Emmeline needs her so much. I may write often, and I may not. You may depend on my
                  wanting to do so.
               
                  Affectionately,
                  L. M. C.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XLIII.—NEWS FROM THE WESTERN COUNTRY.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA AT PARTING WAYS.
                  DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—I write to tell you that Johnny Staples has had a letter from
                     Jason Ellis,—the "Old Man of the West," I call him. It came last evening. He
                     speaks of finding Albert; of losing him; of tracing him eastward; and, lastly,
                     of his intention of following up the traces. I hardly suppose he will come into
                     this vicinity.
                  There were several of the neighbors in when the letter came,—mostly elderly
                     women; and though it was not opened then, yet the unusual occurrence of
                        Johnny Staples receiving a letter, brought, in some mysterious
                     way, Albert Daniel to their minds. His long absence became the subject of
                     conversation; and I found that its cause was well known.
                  Then, leaving Albert's case, they brought up others similar to it, and told
                     story after story of this one and that one who had been crossed in love, and of
                     the dreadful results. One man "built a hut on the edge of a pond away in the
                     woods, and lived there all his days." Another man "hated the sight and sound of
                     a woman ever after." Another "smiled at and made talk with every girl he met,
                     known or unbeknown." The young girls who were "disappointed" mostly "pined away
                     and died." Indeed, Myra, some of these accounts were very sad, and all of them
                     interesting. One young man was "turned off" in the most heroic manner by "his
                     girl" for "being wanting in principle." A young girl was "left" by her "beau"
                     because he discovered that "he did not love her well enough."
                  The only ludicrous case, if it can be called a ludicrous case, was that of a
                     man in Yorkshire, England,—known to the mother of the narrator,—who, upon being
                     jilted by his betrothed, "took to his bed, and never got up and dressed himself
                     afterward."
                  There was one cruel story told of an awkward, ungainly young man—between twenty
                     five and thirty—who fell in love with a "fashionable little beauty." He gave
                     her presents, took her out riding, and thought himself a favored lover. She was
                     doing it all for fun. Cruel fun it was to him when the end came,—deathly fun.
                     He shot himself.
                  I told of two instances I had heard of in the city. In one, the man broke the
                     engagement; in the other, the woman. The man's reason was, that the woman was
                     too silly; the woman's, that the man "lied to her."
                  "But still," I suggested when a suitable pause came,—"still, in all these
                     cases, the suffering might have been greater had the parties been actually
                     married. It must be dreadful to discover after marriage that one's
                     partner for life is too silly, or is wanting in principle or in love." Some one
                     spoke of Mr. Jason Ellis, and of the suffering his heartless conduct brought
                     upon 'Lisabeth. Cousin Laura thought (and just so it seemed to me) that
                        'Lisabeth beth would have
                     suffered still more from marrying such a heartless man. Then I told of some
                     cases in point which came to my knowledge while in the city. I did hear
                     shocking things told there of discords, quarrels, and crime among married
                     people,—shocking!
                  Myra, how many, many subjects there are to be considered, if one only has time
                     enough and mind enough to consider! Mrs. Everson has thought a great deal upon
                     this last subject,—that of unhappy marriages. Most of the engaged couples, she
                     says, have but a slight acquaintance—that is, real acquaintance—at
                     the time of their engagement. Thus mistakes are made. Sometimes one of the
                     parties discovers the mistake, but persists in the engagement out of
                     consideration for the other party, and enters into a false marriage.
                  I heard this subject discussed at her house one evening in connection with
                     another, which they called co-education. Not being particularly
                     interested in either subject at the time, I paid no great heed to the
                     conversation, but remember that one idea was expressed with peculiar emphasis
                     by the enthusiastic gentleman whom I met there the first evening I went.
                  "Co-education, madam, will help to remedy all this." (They had been speaking of
                     unhappy marriages.) "Young people, when educated together, will meet on a basis
                     of common sense, and can take each other's measure. As it is now,
                     they meet on a basis of nonsense,—to dance, to flirt, to flatter and to be
                     flattered. Society acquaintance is only an outside
                     acquaintance."
                  Enclosed please find (and forward) a note to Mother Delight. Read it if you
                     want to,—nothing private. You ask how it is that I always am "getting right
                     into the middle of people's stories." Now, why am I to blame? How can I help
                     it? If people talk, shall I not listen? If people question, shall I not answer?
                     Mother Delight and Gus have both consulted me as to their plan. I did not
                        speer at them. The Two Betseys told me all about themselves and
                     Albert Daniel, and seemed glad to do so. Emmeline Gooding asked my advice.
                     Maggie wrote to me of her wishes and her aspirations. Mrs. Everson spoke first:
                     I never should have dared to make advances to her.
                  I wish you were sitting with me at this window, looking out upon the pond. The
                     water is as smooth as glass, and as clear. It reflects the bushes, rocks, and
                     apple-trees on the opposite bank, and even the far-off hills. Not a breath of
                     wind: I don't see even one little leaf moving. It is grinding-day.
                     But the drowsy hum of the mill jars not at all with this beautiful stillness:
                     it seems a part of it.
                  There is a picture, in the upper part of my looking-glass, of a little red
                     house, with a road leading up to it. The road looks like a stream of water
                     running out the front-door.
                  
                     Happily yours,
                     L. M. CARVER.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—Don't tell grandmother of this. I have just received a letter from
                     William Henry, written at Robbie's. In the beginning, he gives a pretty fair
                        health report, and sets the time for coming home only three
                     weeks distant. Before a chance occurred of sending the letter to mail, he
                     changed his plans altogether.
                  The Indians in that vicinity, it seems, have been exceedingly troublesome in the way of
                     cattle-stealing; and not only so, but have murdered some of the settlers, and
                     carried off women and children. All this very near to Robbie's.
                  One day, Sylvanus went out to find the cows, and came galloping back, almost
                     frightened to death, his hat off, and his horse white with foam. He had seen
                     two armed Indians, and was afraid that they or others might come to the house.
                     The following day, news arrived that the whole body, five hundred or more, were
                     within fifty miles, and that Col. Atkins had called for volunteers to help the
                     soldiers drive them off. Numbers of the settlers have enlisted, Robbie among
                     them; and Billy says he is going to take care of Robbie. Robbie
                     will go on his brown pony; and Billy will have Sylvanus's best horse. Billy
                     does not say so: but I imagine, from some things in the letter, that his
                     volunteering was partly to take Sylvanus's place, and let him stay at home to
                     protect that pretty young wife, that fragile Mary, the Prairie
                        Flower; for he says he came across Sylvanus walking backward and
                     forward in a little grove of cotton-wood, and that he (Sylvanus) could hardly
                     speak from agitation. When he did speak, it was to say something about
                     Mary.
                  Billy says we needn't feel anxious; for the Indians are cowards, and will run
                     at the first sight of a company of sharpshooters. "But still," he adds, "it
                     will be just as well not to tell grandmother." This expedition will only detain
                     him a week or ten days.
                  The Two Betseys make many inquiries about "William Hennery."
               
            
            
               LETTER XLIV.—THE "OLD MAN OF THE WEST."
               FROM LUCY MARIA AT PARTING WAYS.
               DEAR MYRA,—I must tell you something before going to bed. The "Old Man of the
                  West," Mr. Jason Ellis, arrived here about two hours ago. Half the time we do not
                  light up these warm evenings, but sit talking by moonlight or starlight till
                  bed-time, which comes pretty early here. This evening, however, Ann had
                  volunteered to finish off a pair of trousers for "Little Eph," and have them ready
                  for him to go to school to-morrow, which he could not do to-day, having torn two
                  pairs, and the third being in the wash. (He has been dancing about all the
                  afternoon in a small pair of his small brother's.) The boy himself sat waiting for
                  them, employing himself meanwhile in the making of one of those hideous
                     noise-machines just now in vogue. A hole is bored in the bottom of
                  a small tin can, and a "rozzomed"*
                   string drawn through it. Accustomed fingers get a noise out of that
                     "rozzomed" string in all respects equal to those prolonged,
                  agonizing squeaks violinists can make when they try. "Little Eph" even does this
                  with his toes (the boys all go barefoot here).
                     
                     *Rosined.
                   Johnny Staples had drawn his chair close up to
                  where his wife was sitting. He always does this between daylight and dark; and
                  then they two have their confidential talk. Nothing private. I said,
                     confidential, because it goes on in low, quiet tones,—just a
                  rippling little talk of common matters. He tells her, perhaps, of the events of
                  the day,—who has been to mill, how much grain will be raised on such a field, what
                  Ephrum got for his hay, which cow is falling off in her milk,—all in a sober,
                  earnest way; she responding, questioning, advising, as circumstances require. They
                  do look so cosey and loving, sitting there side by side! and the murmur of their
                  conversation falls so pleasantly upon the ear! Should you laugh at me if I said,
                  falls like music? Their voices are not, perhaps, remarkably sweet-toned; but,
                  while hearing the talk, you feel the perfect harmony there is between the talkers,
                  and thus do get a certain kind of music.
               My own employment, just at that time, was picking over huckleberries for
                  to-morrow's pudding. Johnny Staples, coming to a pause in the confidential talk,
                  turned to me, and related an anecdote of "Cap'n Rufus's Melinthy," who, when she
                  was a little girl, eating huckleberries and milk, cried because she had swallowed
                  a "huckleberry handle." Before beginning, he asked Ann if he had told
                  it to me. Ann is expected to know always whether such and such stories have been
                  told to such and such persons. Sometimes he refers, for incidents, dates, &c.,
                  to his log-book, as he calls it; which is nothing more than a very
                  old and very thick account-book, having notes all along the margins of its leaves.
                  It seems that this "Cap'n Rufus," who figures so largely in his olden-time
                  stories, adopted Johnny when he was a friendless, desolate child; and, moreover,
                  gave him his bass-viol (his own bass-viol), and taught him to play. It is because
                  of his having been an adopted boy himself, he says, that he always took an
                  interest in Albert.
               You know now just how we were sitting when the rap came. I like to mention these
                  little unnecessary details, so as to put you as nearly as possible in sympathy
                  with me as I was then.
               When the rap came, "Little Eph" dropped his tools, and went capering to the door.
                  A stranger entered. Now I must describe his looks,—the "Old Man of the West,"—if
                  time and space do forbid: Quite tall, with a stoop at the shoulders; shoulders
                  broad, and pretty high; large frame; large features; head nearly bald; white
                  beard, scanty at the sides, but growing longer under the chin. A powerful man he
                  must have been in his day.
               The stranger stood for a moment, leaning wearily on his cane. No one recognized
                  him until he spoke.
               "Rebecca," he said, speaking slowly (I thought his tones almost pathetic: they
                  were certainly tremulous),—"Rebecca, Cousin Jason would never trouble you for a
                  night's lodging if he had his ordinary health. I have been on the bed of
                  sickness."
               I hardly know what happened next; only that "Rebecca" cried; and Ann took the old
                  man's bag; and that Johnny Staples was greatly agitated, and kept saying over and
                  over again, "We are glad to see you, Cousin Jason!—we are glad to see you, Cousin
                  Jason!"
               He declined supper, but said he would be glad of a little herb-drink. Ann brought
                  some herbs, which her mother broke up into an old earthen teapot, and then sent "Little Eph" to ask his mother to
                  set it on her stove. Pelly always keeps late fires.
               When the first excitement was over, and the old man had told how long he had been
                  on the way, and where he was taken sick, and the nature of his sickness, I hoped
                  they would begin at once to talk of Albert, and rather think Ann hoped so too;
                  though I know no more now what her feelings are or were toward him than at first.
                  Cousin Jason's letters have been discussed in her presence; and she has joined in
                  the discussion unmoved.
               The conversation, however, turned upon religious subjects. The old man told his
                  religious experience in a simple, touching way, and with a voice
                  tremulous with emotion; Rebecca, meanwhile, weeping tears of joy. Though a
                  hard-looking man, he seemed so subdued, so childlike, that I was constantly
                  reminded of "Except ye become like one of these." It is certain that
                  the very depths of his being have been stirred. Before going to bed, he knelt, and
                  offered up a prayer such as could have come only from a broken, contrite heart.
                  The words gushed forth. He could not control them. Such earnestness, such
                  pleading, such contrition! He made every one of us cry; and I, for one, did not
                  try to help it.
               Mr. Staples went to his room with him, and made just a few inquiries about Albert.
                  He was too tired to talk long to-night; but will give us further particulars
                  tomorrow, when he feels rested. I can tell you, in a few words, all we know at
                  present.
               Albert has realized a considerable sum of money with in a few years from a rise in
                  the value of lands consequent quent upon the building of a railroad in their
                  immediate vicinity; which money is invested in St. Louis.
               Previous to the sale of these lands, he had deposited money at different times in
                  banks there and at other places.
               He had lived for upwards of three years in a "stoned-up" dwelling, partly
                  underground (similar, probably, to that described by William Henry in one of his
                  letters from the West), distant a mile, or thereabouts, from a village called
                     Coville, in the vicinity of St. Louis.
               The people of Coville spoke of him variously as "not quite so bright," "the crazy
                  Yankee," "a man who hadn't all of his buttons," "cracked," "lovesick." They also
                  spoke of his having come there from a point still farther west.
               For the first two years he lived like a hermit, avoiding all human intercourse;
                  and was considered perfectly harmless.
               He afterward became quite troublesome in the way of dropping in upon families at
                  all hours of the day or evening, "talking silly, weak talk."
               The women of these families, their husbands and fathers being often absent from
                  home, said they were afraid to have a crazy man around in such a way; and
                  therefore it was thought advisable to place him under some restraint: and, while
                  the proper authorities were deciding what to do, he was decoyed into the
                  poorhouse, and there detained, and from there escaped.
               When you write home, please say to Leonice that I have received her letter
                     of inquiries, and will answer it when calmer times prevail. I am so
                  impatient to know whether he (Mr. Ellis) will go to see the Two Betseys, and, if
                  so, how he will meet 'Lisabeth!
               
               
               Leonice appears to be deeply exercised on divers matters; as the dress-question,
                  universal-education question, woman-question. My dear friend Mrs. Everson says
                  that we must not look too near the surface for answers to our questions. She
                  thinks there is one deep principle underlying all these doubtful matters; namely,
                     that all should be equally free to develop their own individual
                     natures. We are not our brothers' keepers, nor are our brothers our
                  keepers. As to the woman-question, why not let it be a woman-question? Why make a
                  man-question of it? Woman are competent to decide on their own course of action. A
                  woman can tell right from wrong. A woman is as likely to know what is womanly as a
                  man is. Why does man step in to decide for her? That's what puzzles me. I am not
                  at all particular about voting; but what I am particular about is to know why I do
                  not know as well as a man whether or not it is right for me to vote, or to "speak
                  in meetin'," or to doctor, or to lecture. Don't suppose, now, that I wish to do
                  any of these things. You see where it hinges, don't you? It is having
                  an outsider stepping in between me and my conscience to transact our private
                  business for us. I might as well have written a letter to Leonice as to have run
                  on in this way. As my scholars say sometimes, "I didn't mean ter."
               
                  Ever your cousin,
                  LUCY MARIA.
               
            
            
               LETTER XLV.—GOING HOME.
               LUCY MARIA FROM SUMMER-SWEETING PLACE.
               DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—This last week has been the most eventful week I ever
                  passed.
               The "Old Man of the West" has gone home,—not to his home amid the
                  prairies, but to his heavenly home.
               You know he promised to tell us further particulars in the morning, when he felt
                  rested. He never felt rested. He grew weary, weary, weary, and never, from that
                  first night, left his bed. The next day, and for several days, he lay, most of the
                  time, in a dull, lethargic state. His eyes had then an unnatural, a peculiarly
                  dull look, as if a film were drawn over them.
               Tuesday afternoon, I think it was, Ann came to the schoolhouse with the horse and
                  wagon, just before time for school to close, and called me out, and said that Mr.
                  Ellis had revived, and had expressed a wish to see 'Lisabeth. She could not leave
                  home; and wouldn't I let out school right off, and take the horse and go to the
                  Two Betseys' shop, and let 'Lisabeth know of this wish, and beg her, if she would
                  come, to come as quickly as possible?
               "Yes, yes, yes!" I exclaimed; "and am so glad to do it!"
               
               Oh! but my mind was busy during that ride. First I would think of Jason Ellis as
                  he lay there, aged, helpless; then think of him as a young Hercules of twenty,
                  rejoicing in his strength. I tried to imagine 'Lisabeth's delicate face in its
                  youthful bloom before that trouble came, which, as the neighbors say,
                  "she barely lived through." I wondered if they ever rode together along the road
                  where I was riding, or walked together through any of those pleasant lanes and
                  byways. Oh! I cannot begin to tell you the thoughts and imaginations which crowded
                  into my mind. I worked myself up into such a state of agitation, that, when I
                  arrived at the Two Betseys' shop, I could scarcely tell my errand.
               Now, all they knew was, that Mr. Ellis had come, and was sick at our house. They
                  knew nothing about his remorse, his desire to be of service to them, or of his
                  efforts to discover Albert. Mr. Staples, as I was passing the house, came out and
                  stopped me, and advised me to tell them all: it would make a difference in
                  'Lisabeth's feelings, he said; and besides, after being told the state of Mr.
                  Ellis's mind, she would know better just how to meet him.
               I found The Two in the garden, under the apple-tree, engaged in
                  picking over sage and caraway-seeds for drying. It being a warm day, they were
                  just in what they call "short gowns" and petticoats,—black petticoats, calico
                  "short gowns."
               I could not stop to prepare them, but told what there was to tell hurriedly, and
                  in the fewest possible words; enlarging most upon Mr. Ellis's anxiety, and his
                  endeavors to find Albert for their sakes.
               'Lisabeth was very much overcome: said first that shecould not go;
                  then considered, and said she would try to. They were both greatly agitated. I
                  staid outside to watch my horse; and Betty went in to help 'Lisabeth get
                  ready.
               They were gone, I thought, a long time. At length, Betty appeared. She was
                  exceedingly pale. Her hands shook as she held on by the picket, and her lips
                  quivered as she told me that it was "no use." 'Lisabeth could not go: she fumbled,
                  and talked wild, and trembled like a leaf.
               "But won't she send a message?" I asked.
               "No: she can't possibly compose her mind enough, I don't believe." Poor Betty!
                  she, too, "trembled like a leaf."
               Oh, I felt so badly to go back alone!
               They say that his eyes, until the very last, turned wistfully toward the door.
               One satisfaction, one blessed comfort, the poor old man received before he died. I
                  will tell you how this happened.
               Just after sunset, as I was sitting alone in the porch-door, watching the changing
                  colors of the sky, expecting every moment to be told that the dying man had
                  breathed his last earthly breath, wondering vainly what would be the immediate
                  condition of his spirit, or his spiritual body as Paul speaks of
                  it,—asking, in fact, all those unanswerable questions which come thronging at such
                  supreme moments,—I heard the sound of a footfall upon the pebbles, and, looking up
                  quickly, saw Betty coming toward me, evidently with something of importance to
                  communicate.
               "What is it?" I asked, rising in alarm. My first thought was, that 'Lisabeth had "gone before," and
                  that the meeting so earnestly longed for would take place in the world of spirits.
                  My second thought was, that, if 'Lisabeth were not living, Betty would have staid
                  at home. She drew me along to the corner of the house where the rain-water cask
                  stood, leaned against that, and began to talk in a whisper, but was obliged to
                  stop more than once to recover breath. At last, however, she succeeded in making a
                  revelation, which, in ordinary times, would have astonished me beyond measure. She
                  told me that Albert had been with them above a week; said 'Lisabeth thought that
                  knowing this might be some comfort to Mr. Ellis; and that, at any rate, it would
                  be some comfort to 'Lisabeth to have him know it.
               Betty would not stay to rest, being needed at home, she said.
               I ran into the house, and, in going through the porch, met Ann.
               "Is he living?" I asked quickly.
               "Yes," she answered. "He may live an hour or two."
               "Pray give him this message, then," I said, "just as soon as possible. Say it is
                  from 'Lisabeth. Say that Albert has come home to 'Lisabeth."
               I forgot, for the moment, that this message might affect her. In the dimness of
                  the twilight I could hardly tell with certainty, but was pretty sure that she
                  turned pale, and also that her leaning against the kitchen-door was not wholly
                  from fatigue.
               Mr. Staples told me afterward that Ann herself whispered the message to the dying
                  man, and that hearing it caused his face to brighten for a moment. I have asked
                  myself since, Why have hasted to tell him a fact which he must, so we hope and
                  trust, know for himself in such a little while? Yet, for all I say
                  this, I am so thankful he was told!
               'Lisabeth was able to attend the funeral. She got a chance to ride, and came
                  early, before the people gathered,—came in her black bonnet and black crape shawl,
                  looking so peaceful and calm! Dear little 'Lisabeth! She sank down in the nearest
                  chair. None of the family being present, I asked her presently if she would like
                  to go in. She said yes, if no one was in there. With the
                  help of my arm and of her cane, she reached the door. I drew back then, and let
                  her enter alone.
               Oh, what a world of suffering this world is!—the deepest, saddest experiences
                  going on in every little village. It is singular that Mr. Ellis's grave should
                  have been the very first one made in the new cemetery, and that his body should
                  have been laid away to its final rest in ground that he once owned. He requested
                  to be buried there, and named the place,—a sheltered nook down in a valley not far
                  from the spot where, as I think I wrote you in one of my letters, he was to have
                  built a dwelling-house.
               Mr. Ellis's son arrived too late for the funeral-services. The telegram failed to
                  reach him.
            
            
               
               LETTER XLVI.—NIGHT-THOUGHTS.
               FROM LUCY MARIA AT PARTING WAYS.
               DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—I write thus soon, feeling that you will be wanting to hear from
                  me in regard to Albert. None of us went to the Two Betseys' during Mr. Ellis's
                  sickness, or for some days previous. We might have done so, however, without being
                  made aware of Albert's presence, as he keeps himself mostly in that little room
                  overhead. He came in upon the Two Betseys as they were sitting alone one
                  evening,—came in quietly, stepping softly, showing no more emotion than if his
                  absence had been only for a day. I am wrong. He did show the emotion of fear. He
                  is evidently afraid of being pursued, and again decoyed into some place of
                  confinement. Betty said to me the other day, shaking her head sadly, "O Miss
                  Carver! he isn't Albert. His resolution is all gone; and his strength
                  is nothing but weakness." She says he sits still with a smile on his face, and
                  looks up at you as pitiful as a little child. I hardly see how they are to get on;
                  for 'Lisabeth is sick in bed, the varied excitement of the last two weeks having
                  been too much for her feeble frame. Betty has to take care of the house, and mind
                  the shop, and attend to Albert. It is only with great effort that she can climb
                  into that loft, not to mention the danger of falling. He rarely comes down. I have
                  not seen him yet. Mr. Staples says it is enough to make a well man sick to stay in
                  such a hot, stifled place. Mr. Staples has seen Albert several times, and has
                  tried to talk with him. He says it makes him feel dreadfully to look at Albert's
                  face; says the life has all gone out of it.
               Albert is not inclined to converse; sometimes takes no notice of questions. His
                  main idea seems that of keeping out of sight. Twice, Betty tells us, he has talked
                  for half an hour or so. On both occasions he was considerably excited; and what he
                  said "had no connection."
               I can't help feeling a great deal of anxiety. Whether or not to let Emmeline know
                  of his arrival is a question I have yet to decide. Mr. Staples thinks some steps
                  should be taken in regard to his property out West. I have written to William
                  Henry to come back by the way of St. Louis, and to stop there and make all
                  possible inquiries.
               Hannah Jane used to say that Lucy Maria was never satisfied unless she had more on
                  her mind than she could get along with comfortably. According to Hannah, Lucy
                  Maria must be now in the very heyday of satisfaction, particularly at night when
                  trying to go to sleep. Then questions and doubts come thronging,—concerning, for
                  instance, William Henry's prosperity in business and in love; what shall be done
                  with Albert; how the Two Betseys can possibly manage; whether Emmeline's presence
                  would do harm or good; how Ann stands affected; Cousin Colby's probable state of
                  mind; whether or not to dissuade Maggie from engaging herself to that
                     man;
                   whether such dissuading, if done,
                  would be done for her good wholly; whether, after all, if "Gus"
                     has learned to work on "hoop-poles," and "Mother Delight"
                     can do considerable with one hand and a half, it will be well, on
                  the whole, for them to "set up a cook-stove on their own account,"—which, as I
                  gather from mother's letter, is Gus's poetical way of suggesting the state
                  matrimonial; and lastly, whether, all things considered, it would not be well for
                  me to give up attempting in ever so small a way to shape the course of human
                  events, and attend strictly to my own duties.
               When I get as far as this, I say, "Now I will turn over and go to sleep."
               Then come trooping through my brain school-children,—children with bright faces,
                  fretful faces, gentle faces, wicked faces, and each with a message for
                     me. Duties, indeed! As if reflecting on those would send one to
                  sleep. Broken resolutions, shortcomings, utter failures, hasty words,
                  opportunities wasted,—all these rise up before me, "clothed with the terrors of
                  the night," or, rather, with the impossibilities. I suppose that one
                  reason why every sort of trouble seems worse in the night is, that then we cannot
                  get up and do, but have to lie there, poor helpless creatures,
                  entirely at the mercy of our thoughts.
               Now, what suppose you my thoughts do at such times, cruel things?
                  They take, say, little Jamie Wells, and make a man of him,—a man who commits some
                  dishonorable, detestable action. Then they say, "Lucy Maria, your influence,
                  rightly used, might have prevented this." They take little Minnie Wells, and make
                  a woman of her,—frivolous, selfish, aimless. Then they say, "Lucy Maria, under
                  different teachings, Minnie might have grown up into a noble woman." "You
                     are weighed in the balance, and found wanting," is another terrible
                  thing which my thoughts, taking advantage of the dark hours of the night, and of
                  my helplessness, say to me.
               Alas, and alack-a-day! Do people never do any thing as well as they
                  wish to and long to? I fear, never. In drawing, you cannot put on paper a face
                  just as you imagine it. Neither by speech nor by writing can you give your idea
                  exactly. And your loaf of bread is not the loaf you had in mind. We see, then,
                  that one cannot express one's self satisfactorily in drawing, in writing, in
                  talking, or even in a loaf of bread. Some say that music is the most perfect form
                  of expression. But think of those who feel the tune, but cannot sing it out! Don't
                  you remember William Henry, how he used to long to sing the "John Brown"
                     chorus? (and how he did sing it!) Don't you remember what Dorry said
                  once, in the old Crooked-Pond days, about Billy's singing?
               Time and strength do fail me so!—it is speaking of teaching I am now, dear,—and
                  patience too, sometimes. Mother says, that, when we were children, she used to
                  pile up a pile of patience every morning to stand on through the day. Mrs. Everson
                  once made the remark, that if every teacher in every
                  school, in every city, town, and village, would make one good moral
                  impression every day, their efforts would soon tell on the morals of
                  the country. Nothing like dropping in gold now and then, when
                  characters are being moulded, and letting it cool in. "First warm them
                     up," she said (warm the scholars up), "by some striking or pathetic
                  story, or perhaps by a discussion." She approves very highly of the plan of
                     introducing cing discussions into
                  school-exercises, as tending to make the children think, and giving the teacher an
                  opportunity of laying down sound principles. I perfectly long to do this; but
                  where is the time for doing it? The committee haven't allowed me any. Of course,
                     I think that it is more important for a child to learn to hate all
                  manner of untruthfulness than to learn the number of square miles in Madagascar.
                  But of what avail are my thoughts against the committee's thoughts?
               Mary Bemis, one of my city acquaintances, has written me some very entertaining
                  accounts of her school, her committee, and her "parents." She says she gets not
                  much credit with these last. If a boy is backward, it is because the teacher
                  "doesn't know how:" if a boy is forward, it is because the boy is bright.
            
            
               LETTER XLVII.—FOREBODINGS.
               
                  FROM MATILDA AT SUMMER-SWEETING PLACE.
                  DEAR SISTER,—Oh! have you seen that list in yesterday's paper? Perhaps you
                     don't see the daily papers there. There is a name among the wounded; and we
                     don't know, but we're afraid it may be meant for William Henry's. It is not
                     spelled right; but little mistakes are made in telegraphing sometimes. We can't
                     keep the idea out of our minds. I dread, every step I hear outside, to see the
                     boy with a despatch. It happened over a week ago; and why the news was so long
                     in reaching us, we can't tell. Perhaps it happened a good way off of a
                     telegraph-office. We haven't let grandmother know.
                  
                     In haste,
                     MATILDA.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—Will send you the news when it comes, as soon as possible. There may be
                     nothing in it, after all.
                  Maggie and Cousin Myra are reading poetry. Maggie is not very dull, and not
                     very lively. That man writes letters to her, and she answers them.
                  
                     M. C.
                  
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XLVIII.—BAD NEWS FROM WILLIAM HENRY.
               FROM MATILDA AT SUMMER-SWEETING PLACE.
               DEAR SISTER,—The telegram came; but, as it spoke of a letter then being written by
                  some one at the fort, we thought we would wait and send both at the same time, and
                  so save you some of the anxiety that we are bearing; for, if you did not get the
                  telegram, you might still hope there was no need of being alarmed.
               One of the men at the fort sent the message. William Henry is wounded in the
                  shoulder badly, is very weak from that and "other causes," but will "probably"
                  recover.
               Oh, it is so dreadful to be in suspense! I see him before me,—see him lying on one
                  of their rough beds, pale and suffering. Oh! I can't write, my eyes are so blinded
                  with tears.
               We wonder why Robbie didn't telegraph, instead of letting a stranger: perhaps he
                  is hurt too, and Billy has not a friend to take care of him. Can't you come home a
                  few days? Myra and Maggie are here; but we want you. If we could only know
                  something certain! The letter was going to be sent that same day. Do come if
                  possible. Myra and Maggie are a great deal of company. Myra cries, and then laughs
                  away her own tears trying to be cheerful. Maggie stays up-stairs in her own room a
                  great deal: she looks quite pale. When it is mail-time, she brings out our things
                  without speaking of it, and we go to the office together. Myra and I harness the
                  horse. Father and Uncle Carver are teaming for the Ellerton Factory. We go twice a
                  day, and some one goes every evening.
               We try to make light of it to grandmother: but she knows we do; so that does no
                  good. Her face is so pale, that it looks almost transparent. She seems quite calm;
                  but, when nobody is around, I know she gives way. Oh, it is dreadful to see an old
                  person cry! I wouldn't have seen her for any thing, if I had known; but I did see
                  her one day. She was kneeling down in her bedroom, by the side of the bed. I heard
                  her very plain. If you can't leave to come, do write to Georgianna; for the poor
                  child is almost sick: she cried nearly all night that night the telegram came. And
                  do write something cheerful to grandmother. I am afraid the person who telegraphed
                  would not have mentioned the "other causes" unless they had been very serious:
                  perhaps he knew the danger was great, and so—But I can't speak of it.
               Uncle Carver bears it with great fortitude. I would keep this back one more day,
                  hoping the letter might come; but father and mother think you ought to know.
                  Mother bears it quite well, but not very well, but better than father: father
                  always is the first one to break down. When the despatch was read, he walked right
                  out of the room.
               Can't you telegraph if you mean to come, so we may know whether to send you the
                  letter or not?
               
                  Your affectionate sister,
                  MATILDA.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER XLIX.—OF THE PEOPLE AT PARTING WAYS.
               FROM LUCY MARIA.
               DEAR GRANDMOTHER,—Let us keep ourselves just as quiet and serene as we can, and
                  hope for the best. Think how many men have received far worse injuries, and
                  recovered from them! Besides, if he had not been growing better, you would have
                  had another telegram by this time. I, for one, hope strongly. William Henry,
                  Heaven bless him! is coming home to bless us all by his dear presence: and you
                  must keep yourself strong and well, grandmother; for it is possible that he may
                  want some of your good nursing. Think of the Two Betseys living so many years
                  without hearing from Albert! To be sure, he was not really their child; but he was
                  all they had to love, and they have very tender natures. Weren't you glad for them
                  when he came back? Glad and sorry too, were you not?—glad they could have him to
                  take care of, sorry that he needed the care. Poor 'Lisabeth has been quite sick:
                  we hope she will recover, now that the weather is growing cooler and that Albert
                  has gone away.
               Mr. Staples has brought Albert here to stay a while. I had thought of this plan
                  before, but was afraid, con-
                  sidering all the circumstances, it might not answer. You have, of
                  course, heard my letters read, and will know that I refer now to Ann. Before
                  Albert went away from home, say ten or twelve years ago, they two "went together,"
                  as people express it here.
               Ann, however, takes it all very calmly: indeed, she favored the plan as soon as it
                  was proposed. It seemed the only thing to be done; for that was no place for him
                  where he was. He sleeps in the front-room,—the same one in which Mr. Ellis died. A
                  great "put out," some people would think; but Ann and her mother don't seem to
                  believe in being "put out." Ann says that whoever needs the room most ought to
                  have it. Her ideas—as expressed in actions, not in words—remind me of Uncle
                  Carver's main-chance doctrine. Expressed in actions, they run
                  something like this: Take any trouble (and do not consider it a trouble) for
                     the sake of rendering a service. She aims at the benefit done: that is
                  her main chance. People, usually, are afraid of taking trouble, of
                  being "put out." A person might set down a hundred dollars on a
                  subscription-paper, and still not be willing to ride a mile or two holding a bowl
                  of broth in her hand to keep it from spilling. Ann carried broth to 'Lisabeth in
                  this way yesterday: she left in a hurry (her father's hurry), and could not find
                  the pails. N. B.—"Ephrum's childern" had gone graping with them. Grapes are not
                  ripe yet; but little they care for that!
               Dear grandmother, what would you do if you lived in the house with such a noisy
                  brood? Oh, but they are a source of endless entertainment! Good-natured little
                  rogues too, and always willing to stop making any kind of a noise that you wish
                  them to, or to untwist themselves from
                  any twist of posture. They not only make all kinds of noises, and take all kinds
                  of shapes, but can get over the ground in any kind of way except by simple
                  feet-walking. They spring, race, walk on their hands, leap, hop on one foot, hop
                  square-foot, go heels-over-head, on all-fours, and sometimes whirl hand-over-hand
                  sideways. Now they are spinning tops. I see them from my window. One, by lying
                  down, holds the top on the bottom of his foot; another stands face up, with one
                  going on his chin. "Little Eph" is on his hands and knees, with a top spinning
                  upon his back. They may not have set these tops going each for
                  himself; but then they may. Ann says, "One part of 'em is as handy to
                  'em as another." They do not, she says, even lie down nights, but
                  sleep on all-fours. Pelly (their mother) has had to make them wear night-caps, on
                  account of their having taken a liking for hair-oil, or some kind of oil. Such
                  boys would, of course, be likely to use more than was necessary. I see them
                  sometimes of mornings, and can't help laughing every time: those little,
                  sharp-featured faces, with their twinkling eyes, do look so comical, framed in
                  tight with white or red flannel! They sleep—the three boys—up garret, and often go
                  trooping past my door in the morning after the first performance is over. A circus
                  performance usually takes place aloft about sunrise: a circus-manager, now, would
                  appreciate their talents. As for The Howler, I feel that he is being
                  wasted every moment that he is, not a city newsboy crying the papers. His voice
                  has a yell-power which ought to be "turned on" somewhere, and made useful to
                  humanity.
               I'll say one good thing for these children,—they do keep more quiet since Albert
                  came: they seem to have some pity for "the poor sick man." Mrs. Staples says she
                  always thought that "Ephrum's childern" had some stillness in them; only it never
                  came out.
               I think you would like to know Mrs. Staples. She is an invalid, but does a great
                  deal of good in her way. One way is by having patience. She rarely complains of
                  the children's noise, and is always willing to tie up their sore fingers if Pelly
                  can't get time (or rags). I don't remember whether I have written yet of Pelly's
                  rags and finger-stalls. She keeps an assorted lot of these articles in a handy
                  place: in another handy place she keeps about half a dozen needles threaded
                  variously with black and white, coarse and fine, in readiness for any sudden rip
                  or tear, or giving way of buttons.
               Another way that Mrs. Staples does good, and Mr. Staples too, is by sympathy. All
                  the relatives—the nephews, nieces, cousins, grand-nieces, grand-nephews, as well
                  as children and grand-children—come here to talk over their business, their
                  religion, their troubles, and their joys.
               The Two Betseys are constantly inquiring after your health, and wishing you could
                  come and see them. They take great interest in "William Hennery."
                  Johnny Staples and his wife take interest in every one of you there at home. They
                  know, so they say, just how the two houses look, and the barns, corn-cribs, even
                  the hen-houses; and can see you all moving about just as plain as day, and feel
                  acquainted. Not, of course, because I speak of my home often. Oh, no! Lucy Maria wouldn't think of mentioning
                  Summer-Sweeting Place!
               Dear grandmother, do be careful of yourself. You don't know how precious you are
                  to us all. You will (now won't you?) take care of your health, if only for the
                  sake of
               
                  Your loving grandchild,
                  LUCY MARIA.
               
            
            
               LETTER L.—A DULL LETTER.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA AT PARTING WAYS.
                  DEAR MYRA,—I was so sorry you were obliged to leave Summer-Sweeting Place!
                     though, to be sure, no mother could be expected to spare her Myra more than
                     four weeks.
                  "Ephrum-In galls!" "Bartholo-mew!"
                        "Au-gus-tus!" Pelly, when provoked by her "childern's" antics
                     to extraordinary indignation, emphasizes their names in this manner, giving
                     each the falling inflection strong. The three boys have just been thus
                     vehemently reprimanded. They are always more lively on Mondays; for the pent-up
                     noise of Sunday then finds vent, and often with the most startling effects.
                  These young irrepressibles are not, as I feared they might be, a source of
                     annoyance to Albert: on the contrary, they serve to divert his mind. Within a
                     few days, he has, on several occasions, lent them his jack-knife, and has even
                     used it himself in their service.
                  Albert gives very little trouble, and, since it has been explained to him that
                     no one has power to take him away, is not so much afraid of being seen. He is
                     quiet; seldom speaking, unless spoken to. His face usually wears a pleased
                     expression, like that of a person just going to smile. This quiet and this
                        half-smile, lasting all the time, are really dreadful.
                  We think it best not to question him with regard to the past: so no one knows
                     yet whereabouts he wandered, from the morning I saw him at Mrs. Calloon's till
                     he came here. My opinion is, that being put under confinement in
                     that place out West increased his malady, and perhaps goaded him on to a state
                     of frenzied excitement.
                  I shall write to Emmeline soon, informing her that he is with us. She may, by
                     going to Beulah, ascertain whether or not he was seen there.
                  I hope every thing from the serene influences of this secluded spot. I am
                     trying, also, other influences. This "I am trying" makes me think
                     again of Hannah Jane's assertion, that Lucy Maria was never satisfied unless
                     she had too many things on her mind, or was contriving some plot, plan, or
                     surprise. But how can anybody help being interested in such a person as Albert,
                     or help "contriving" ways of curing him?
                  Music is one of the influences on which I depend. Ephrum and Pelly are good
                     singers: Ann, too, has a pleasing voice. Quite often, in the evening, I beg
                     them to sing—for my benefit—a few of the gentle, soothing tunes of which they
                     know so many. Mr. Staples sometimes gives us a light touch of the bass on his
                     bass-viol, and likes to be asked to do it. They never use notes. The green
                     boughs have been taken from the "fire-frame;" and we have fires cool days, or
                     of evenings. The influences of Nature I am trying to try for him.
                     He will usually walk out with me, if I ask it as a favor that he carry my
                     basket, or help bring my flowers home. There are half a dozen little girls, my
                     scholars, who are always coming for me to go to walk with them. I particularly
                     like to have him go when they go: theirs is another influence I wish to bring
                     to bear upon him. They are innocent, sprightly little darlings. They make
                     wreaths in the woods, and they sing songs. He shows more interest in their
                     singing than he has shown in any thing. I sometimes invite them to the house,
                     and ask them, on his account, to sing to Mrs. Staples.
                  Occasionally I take a whole class into the woods, wishing, if possible, to
                     interest my scholars in flowers, trees, insects,—in all natural objects. We
                     carry our suppers; we run races; we play plays. "After all," as Johnny Staples
                     says when Ann comments on his stopping to talk with children,—"after all, old
                     folks don't know such a great sight more than children,
                        considering." I suppose the "considering" means considering how
                     much there is to be learned. And perhaps, too, "considering" the infinite
                     eternity, seventy or eighty of these earth-years are not such a very great
                     start even in age. So we needn't look down on little children: they are not far
                     behind us, "after all." None of us here like to question Albert; but I wish we
                     were better informed as to the extent of his property If Mr. Ellis had not
                     died, he would have told us much that we long to know. I think the old man's
                     death was owing, partly, to the unaccustomed excitement of—living.
                     He had formerly not lived, but merely existed.
                  I thought to have had William Henry make inquiries; but his doing so now, or
                     for a long time, is out of the question. Mrs. Everson was out here a few days
                        ago: she has relatives in and
                     near St. Louis, and has offered their assistance. Matilda writes me, and I
                     suppose has written you, that they continue to have favorable reports from
                     William Henry. No doubt he would improve faster but for his trouble. Matilda,
                     of course, wrote you about Robbie. The soldier's letter is coming to me when
                     Hannah Jane has had it, and from me will go to you.
                  This letter is but a dull affair. There is plenty to tell, and that that is
                     funny, had I the heart to tell it. Mrs. Everson was delighted with the Two
                     Betseys, and they with her. She has a nephew in the Crooked-Pond School, just
                     about as old as William Henry was when he first went there. I took Mrs. Everson
                     rowing up the pond: she was charmed with every thing and every body. Think of
                     her buying tin trumpets at the Two Betseys' shop for "Ephrum's childern"!
                     Ephrum and Pelly are just now considerably exercised in their minds with regard
                     to an expected visitor of the young lady order, Augusta by name, a resident of
                     the city, and a distant relative of both these families.
                  
                     Ever affectionately your cousin,
                     LUCY MARIA.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—When Albert was staying with the Two Betseys, he found up in that little
                     room overhead, between two beams, a small wooden box containing several
                     silver-pieces,—quarters, dimes, and half-dimes. The box was marked "For
                     Daniel." The probability is, that his mother ("Luella"), foreseeing her own
                     death, had begun to save up a little store for him. His original name was
                     Daniel. The Two Betseys prefixed "Albert," the name of their father, and of an
                     only brother who died young. Do you think it would be well to suggest this
                     probability to Albert?
                  How full of blessed meaning is the word "alive"! I never really felt this,
                     until, after a season of terrible suspense, I learned for a certainty that
                     William Henry was "alive."
               
               
                  SOME EXTRACTS FROM THE SOLDIER'S LETTER.
                  MR. WALLACE CARVER. Dear Sir,—I write at your son's request to
                     say that he is in no immediate danger, and that his wound is doing well; and
                     that his recovery is probably only delayed by other troubles, the consequences
                     of privations and sufferings which he had to endure.
                  Having observed that their*
                      signal-fires were becoming every evening more numerous, we had set a
                     double watch, and secured our horses by extra picket-pins. Just at
                     daybreak,—the hour they commonly select for making an attack,—we heard a cry of
                        "Indians, Indians!" and sprang quickly to our feet. It was only
                     a small party; and they sheered off when they saw that we were ready for them.
                     We then kindled our fires, and set our coffee boiling. Before breakfast was got
                     ready, a man who had been out picking up firewood burst through the bushes,
                     crying out that a whole army of naked devils in paint and feathers was just
                     upon us.
                  
                     
                     *The Indians'.
                  
                  We sprang upon our horses, and galloped to the dry bed of a river, and half
                     across it to some rising ground in the-middle, about a hundred yards from the
                        bank,— a sandy island. A few
                     clumps of dwarf trees grew there, and also some bushes and a coarse kind of
                     grass. Had the Indians not stood in mortal fear of sharpshooters, they might
                     have killed every man of us in ten minutes; for we were only forty-eight to
                     their four or five hundred. A party of them would rush toward us, yelling like
                     fiends; and, every time they did this, we felt sure that a few moments would
                     end our lives. In vain their leaders urged them on; for, upon reaching the
                     island, they were sure to scatter, and circle round, and retreat. They
                     contented themselves with firing down upon us from the hills, some two hundred
                     yards distant.
                  Your son showed great presence of mind. It was he who first proposed that each
                     man should dig for himself a hole in the ground; and, if we had not done this,
                     I see not how a man of us could have escaped. We had to dig with our hands, and
                     we heaped the sand around. The holes were six or eight feet apart. Bullets and
                     arrows fell thickly among us: the latter were of sheetiron, and made most awful
                     wounds. Our horses and mules dropped one by one, often falling on a dead or a
                     dying man. Those holes in the sand were dug deeper when night came; and some of
                     them were joined together, making a kind of rifle-pit.
                  Your son received his wound on the second day, while trying to relieve his
                     friend, who was then wounded—fatally, as it proved—from the weight of a pony
                     which had fallen upon him. This friend suffered great agony before he died: it
                     lasted so long, and was so dreadful, that he begged of us to hasten his
                     death.
                  We lost seventeen in all. Our surgeon was among them. The Indians kept up their
                     firing for four days.
                  They came rushing down upon us many times, but always scattered at the foot of
                     the island in disorder. During these attacks, their squaws danced war-dances
                     upon the tops of the hills, shook their fists, and urged them on with fiendish
                     yells.
                  The first night, some of us crawled to the saddle-bags, and took out all the
                     crumbs and broken bits of bread left there: after that we lived on horse-flesh,
                     except that on the sixth day a man killed a prairie-wolf about the size of a
                     small dog. A few prickly-pears grew there; but those are not fit to eat. We
                     made the prairie-wolf into a soup.
                  On the fifth day the Indians left us. By that time the horseflesh had commenced
                     to putrefy, so that we had to spread gunpowder on it before we could take it
                     into our mouths. Men cannot live long on such food: we did not expect to; we
                     expected to die there. The fort was sixty or seventy miles away. We had no
                     horses; and, even if we had, not one of us was strong enough to mount a horse,
                     much less to travel that distance through a wild country on foot, without any
                     thing to eat, and liable at any moment to be attacked by Indians. We were very
                     fortunate in finding some water on that very first night when we were digging
                     down and making the rifle-pits.
                  We lived in this way eight days. On the ninth day, we perceived, toward noon,
                     several men on horseback, galloping along the top of a distant hill. One of our
                     men said they were whites; upon which the rest began to talk in a cutting way
                     to him for trying to raise false hopes. He crept—not one of us could stand up
                     by that time—to a place where an overcoat had been thrown down, and took out of the pocket a
                     field-glass, gave one look, and let fall the glass, making motions with his
                     lips, for he had not strength to speak, "Whites, whites!" He then
                     sank down, and rose no more. Joy killed him; though we knew it not at that
                     moment.
                  We caught the word "whites," and tried to shout, tried to leap up,
                     to swing our hats; but not a man of us could stand, and our shouts were like
                     shouts made in a nightmare-dream.
                  But we had been seen. Those men on horseback were looking for us: our scouts
                     were leading them on. We had sent out, on different nights, three parties of
                     scouts. One man of these reached the fort, and was bringing a large party to
                     our assistance. A few had galloped on ahead of the wagons, bringing coffee and
                     brandy and crackers, though they said they had but faint hopes of finding any
                     of us alive.
                  I cannot describe what followed next. None can understand, excepting those who
                     have passed through just such scenes, how grown-up men can cry and giggle, and
                     behave themselves like happy, foolish babies.
                  Our dead had already been decently buried; and, before leaving,
                     funeral-services were held over them.
                  Your son had requested that his friend be buried apart under one of the clumps
                     of trees; and, being unable to move,—this was on the second night after he was
                     wounded,—he pointed out a particular spot where the ground was covered with a
                     creeping plant. And there, just as day began to break, we buried him. Not
                     without tears, poor fellow! He was a merry lad, a favorite with us all. Before
                     we left the place, special services were held over his grave. The whole company
                     from the fort stood around with uncovered heads. Some of the number allowed
                     those of us who could stand by being supported to lean against them. Those who
                     could not stand, even in this way, knelt, holding on by some bush or stem.
                     Prayer was offered up, and a hymn sung. I never beheld a more solemn scene, nor
                     did I ever listen to more solemn music.
                  It was witnessing the sufferings and death of his friend, and grief at his
                     loss, which, together with hunger and unwholesome food, have reduced your son
                     to his present weak state. I mention this in order to make it clear to you that
                     this state of prostration is not caused wholly by the severity of his wound,
                     but also by other causes, which will not be likely to result fatally, as might
                     be the case with a bad wound.
               
               
                  THREE DAYS LATER.
                  No opportunity offers yet of sending this letter. My patient is improving. I
                     call him mine, because I have been, at my own request, appointed
                     his attendant. We rode side by side over the prairies; we stood side by side in
                     the rifle-pit. You cannot think that a stranger would wish to flatter, or talk
                     for the sake of talking: so let me say, that a manlier, more self-forgetting
                     fellow than he never breathed.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER LI.—PREPARING FOR COMPANY.
               FROM LUCY MARIA AT PARTING WAYS.
               DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—I know it, dear. Nearly three weeks when you wrote, and
                  certainly four by this time. But I have so many, many letters to write! and the
                  days do slip by so, like running waters! What's their hurry? They'll glide into
                  that great sea of the past soon enough.
               If Matilda has been an obedient child, and sent you all my home-letters, you have
                  not been left in ignorance of my doings and misdoings in this village of the
                  sorrowful name, but know all about Ephrum's "musical occasions," the "bonfires"
                  and "fence-burnings" of "Ephrum's childern," Emmeline's letter, the friendliness
                  of the Crooked-Pond school-teachers, and other items too numerous to repeat. Mr.
                  Tornero—William Henry's Mr. Tornero—will open soon an adult school (dancing). I
                  might be induced to join it, only for the recollection of those "kneeling-down
                  bows" of which William Henry used to write so despairingly.
               Ephrum and Pelly, as Mr. and Mrs. Ingalls are familiarly called here, are in
                  concern of mind just now on account of an expected visit of a day or two from a
                  young lady city cousin whom they have never seen.
               She invited herself, and will probably appear above our horizon to-morrow morning.
                  Her note is amusingly condescending. She speaks of liking rural people and rural
                  scenery, and hopes they will make no change in their way of living on her account.
                  Pelly is cooking "light victuals" sufficient for a small regiment, and "cooking
                  'em good too," Ann says; which means, you know, putting in extra shortening.
                  Housekeepers (have you never observed it?) instinctively add this article at the
                  approach of company.
               Ephrum and Pelly held a consultation this evening, when I was in there, as to what
                  should be done with and for their cousin, Miss Augusta Woodman, to-morrow evening.
                  The consultation, I opine, was not wholly in earnest; though it appeared to be.
                  Pelly declared she shouldn't know what to say to her no more'n the man in the
                  moon. Ephrum asked gravely if it would be any harder than talking to the minister.
                  Pelly thought it would. Ephrum has the oddest way of talking! His lips only open
                  just a little crack; and his voice moves along in a drawling monotone, neither
                  rising nor falling. He never laughs out; and even his smile comes no farther than
                  the corners of his eyes. I often find myself laughing at his sayings; though it is
                  not always easy to say why.
               Ephrum suggested, that, as they didn't know enough to talk to their visitor, it
                  might be well to invite some one who did. "Now—there's—Martin—Wingfield," he
                  continued with his usual drawl. "Martin's—had—advantages."
               Martin Wingfield is a young fellow of less than moderate means (and common sense),
                  who fancied that college lege learning
                  would enable him to make his mark in the world. A few people of wealth became, in
                  some way, impressed with the same belief to the extent of helping him through one
                  year of college. It was then found that his desire for knowledge meant a desire
                  for laziness and good clothes.
               Ephrum asked Pelly which she thought "the company" would rather have to talk to
                  her, "a—young—man—or—a—young—woman."
               Pelly looked up from her chopping (this was all carried on to the music of
                  chopping), and said they might have both if Miss Carver would step in a while. I
                  begged they would not depend on me for entertaining a fashionable young miss.
                  Pelly thought that Marion Kent, who was getting her wedding-clothes ready, would
                  know about the fashions, at any rate. Marion Kent was my predecessor in the
                  school. She is to be married as soon as her betrothed returns. It would not be at
                  all surprising if those two were invited: and I hope Marion Kent will be; for I
                  never yet have had a good opportunity of talking school with her.
               There's an aunt of Pelly's staying with them now,—a tall, long-necked,
                  cross-grained old woman; and she was constantly putting in the oddest questions,
                  her chief aim being to find out which of Ad'niram Watkin's gals—"the old
                     Ad'niram of all"—was Augusta Woodman's grandmother.
               In my last letter to Matilda I spoke of the rather strange suggestion of Albert to
                  'Lisabeth, that she would tell me what had made him different from other men. I
                  account for it in this way,—he feels that I sympathize with him, and he depends
                  upon me in a certain manner. Perhaps the flowers, the children, the singing, the
                  walks, the quiet talks, have really done him good: I think they have. Perhaps he
                  feels my agency in bringing these influences to bear. Perhaps he is sensible of my
                  heartfelt desire to be of use to him,—for the reason that it is heartfelt,—and has
                  a vague idea that it would be well for me to know certain facts concerning him.
                  'Lisabeth eagerly approved his suggestion (just his making such a one showed
                  improvement), but thought it better to let him infer that it would be carried out,
                  rather than to tell him of my having already been informed of those facts. I can
                  see, that, since he has known that I know, his manner toward me has been more
                  confiding; as if he thought, "Now, then, the case is in her hands." I
                  am convinced that he has not the slightest recollection or knowledge of having
                  seen me, that morning, in Mrs. Calloon's lower hall.
               Dorry takes great interest in my patient. He comes out to see the Two Betseys
                  every now and then, and never fails of walking over here to have a talk with
                  Albert. You wouldn't think that Dorry could sober down, and talk so gently and
                  with such good judgment. He says Maggie is much improved by her stay at
                  Summer-Sweeting Place. I told him to ask her to come and spend a few days with me.
                  He thinks she will come. The leaves are changing beautifully now. The pond lies so
                  still between its splendid banks these quiet, hazy, delicious autumn-days! I long
                  to take Maggie rowing. Dorry says that never, even in Europe, did he behold a
                  lovelier stream, or one which gives you such sudden, frequent changes. It is
                  navigable by skiff nearly two miles; and is shut in for long distances by steep hills, which are wooded close
                  down to the water's edge. The stream makes short curves, so that you seem to be
                  constantly gliding into another and another round pond, and, when in there, to be
                  aiming straight for a green wall, or, as is the case now, for a variegated wall of
                  gorgeous hues.
               By rowing a quarter of a mile, and landing, and then walking through a lovely
                  wood-path another quarter of a mile, you come out at the spring in the valley
                  where Betty had that talk with Albert's father so many years ago.
               I must tell you that Mr. Ellis left 'Lisabeth three hundred dollars in his will.
                  She refuses to take this money. I shall persuade her to take it, and then to let
                  Mrs. Everson have it to use in her good way.
               Pelly has just stopped at my door on her way to bed to ask me if I can contrive
                  any way in which she can keep the "childern" still while she has company. I have
                  promised to devote the waking part of my sleeping hours to the subject. Their
                  performances to-day have been declaiming, and acting out dialogues, in imitation
                  of what they saw done at a school-exhibition. "Little Eph" is chief manager: he's
                  a comical fellow.
            
            
               LETTER LII.—OF MOTHERS.
               FROM LUCY MARIA AT PARTING WAYS.
               DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—Oh these mothers!
               If I have learned any thing by sojourning with different classes of people, it is
                  the alikeness of the unlike. In every class are some who live two
                  lives, and some who live one. Take, for instance, Mrs. Pauline Slade's family in
                  our neighborhood. They dress neatly, and keep their house in order, accomplishing
                  each stroke of work at its appointed time. This suffices. They don't know and
                  don't care any thing about ideas, progress, books, art, public men, or public
                  measures. Now, the Snow family, close by them, carry on the same routine of work,
                  but carry on something else at the same time. They live two lives,—one of
                  head-work, the other of handwork. Drop in at the Snows' almost any time, and, in
                  the course of half an hour's talk, you will hear of something new, good, or
                  entertaining, which they have heard or read; and in every charitable enterprise
                  the Snows are the very first to be consulted.
               Say those two families represent the laboring-classes (so called).
               Now, take the aristocracy (so called). Take the Calloons. They are rich; they
                  entertain company; have beautiful
                  things in the house; dress elegantly; but don't care for books, or for ideas in
                  any shape, or to help in any good work. Then look at Mrs. Everson and her
                  daughters. They are rich; they entertain company; have beautiful things in the
                  house; dress elegantly; but do care for books, and for ideas in any shape, and to
                  help in every good work. I suppose the proportion of Snows to
                     Slades in the one class is about the same as that of
                     Eversons to Calloons in the other.
               Then there is the moderately stylish, or intermediate class, among
                  whom the same proportion exists.
               Also all classes alike pay deference to wealth and station. You find an equal
                  number in each who are flattered by the attentions of those who revolve in the
                     next higher circles.
               So of other propensities or traits, as greediness, selfishness, conceit, and the
                  counterbalancing good qualities. In fact, one has only to keep one's eyes open to
                  be convinced that the average of character is about the same in all
                  the walks of life.
               I have found in this neighborhood two delightful families of the Snow
                  kind. One of these is "Aunt Rebecca's." She has an invalid daughter named Laura, a
                  lovely character. "Aunt Rebecca" is Ann's eldest sister.—But how far I am running
                  on from the starting-point of this letter! In saying that people were alike, I was
                  thinking particularly of mothers. There is no school, as far as I can
                  learn, in which some mother or other will not come and whisper to the teacher, in
                  the most confiding way, that it will not be necessary to urge her
                     child. An acquaintance of mine in the city told me some very funny items
                  in this line about some of the upper-class mothers whose children were under her
                  care.
               Another thing that mothers whisper is, that "my Richard, or Thomas, or
                     Nathaniel, will behave himself, if you'll only keep him away from that
                     Stevy, or Billy, or Benny." Then comes the mother of Stevy,
                     or Billy, or Benny, to whisper that "my Stephen, or William, or
                     Benjamin, will behave himself, if you'll only keep him away from that
                     Dicky, or Tommy, or Nattie."
               But I don't wonder that mothers think their darlings are so wonderful and so
                  beautiful. What is there more wonderful, more beautiful, or more solemn, than a
                  little child? I say, solemn, because to me it is a solemn thing to
                  draw near to the soul of a little child. This feeling came to me while reading
                  that book I told you about in one of my letters.
               What puzzles me is, why mothers do not think more of their
                  children,—more, I mean, about forming their characters. Ten to one, if you ask
                  them this question, they will say they haven't time, or that they don't know how
                  to bring up children. Why don't they take pains to learn, as they do when making
                  them clothes to wear? A mother will work patiently over her child's clothing,
                  devising ways of making that beautiful, who would not sit down quietly and ponder
                  for fifteen minutes on ways and means by which the child might be made to govern
                  its evil propensities. Why don't they try to get reading that will instruct them
                  in these ways and means, just as they try to get the fashion-papers that give
                  information on the making of frocks and jackets? I heard a lady say once, at Mrs. Calloon's, that, when she
                  looked at the fashion-plates, she sighed, and longed for a little girl to dress up
                  in those pretty things; and some of the ladies who had little girls
                     seemed to devote them entirely to that purpose.
            
            
               LETTER LIII.—THE SING AT "EPHRUM'S."
               FROM LUCY MARIA AT PARTING WAYS.
               DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—I will send you my "Napoleon" as soon as Mr.
                  Staples has finished it. His "Cap'n Rufus," it seems, saw him once
                  (saw Napoleon). We discuss this mighty hero, mighty murderer I call
                  him, almost every day. Johnny Staples, with all his childlikeness and his
                  story-tellings, is a man of remarkably good sense; somewhat of a reader too, I
                  find. Have I ever mentioned a pretty little way he has of bringing in to his wife
                  quite often, when he brings in the milk-pail at night, a sprig or twig of
                  something?—sweet-fern, perhaps, or tansy, or spearmint; sometimes a head or two of
                  clover. She likes to suck the little flower-tubes of these last.
               Grandmother sent word I must ask him to play me an old tune she couldn't remember
                  the name of, about flying like a roe away over the hills. It is "Invitation." He
                  has played me that, and several others. It does make me laugh so when he stops for
                  the other parts to come in, and tries to hum those high parts and
                  can't, because his voice is weak, besides being pure bass! But he nods the
                  measures out, keeping time with his foot; and then saws away again just as earnest
                  as if there were a whole choir a-singing.
               
               O Myra! we had such a comical, such a perfectly absurd time, that evening the city
                  cousin was here! If I had but ten hours, and ten sheets of foolscap-paper! As it
                  is, I can only give you a touch-and-go account, and leave you to imagine the
                  filling-in.
               Miss Woodman came, and proved to be of the kind you see in fashion-plates; the
                  kind that wear mountains of braids, and torrents of curls, and continents of
                  ruffles; the kind that toddle and lisp; that twist their words; that call "very"
                  "vurry;" that stand, or rather stoop, with their hands drooping languidly from
                  their wrists, the fingers hanging apart. The way she moved through these rooms,
                  holding her skirts from this and from that, and from him and from her; the way she
                     "doted" on flowers and every thing rural, and sweet little
                  children; the astonished glances at her from the cross-grained old aunt; the calm
                  seriousness (a little sly, I fancied) of Ephrum in talking with her; the pranks,
                  the awe, the staring, the stifled giggles, of the "childern;" the manœuvres of
                  Pelly to stop their mischief and stop their noise,—can't you imagine all
                  these?
               But the climax came in the evening, after Mr. Wingfield's arrival, when the
                  "childern"—But I must explain a little here.
               Martin Wingfield is of the kind that have a kind of soft or "fancy" look; that
                  curl their locks and part them behind, and put their hats on one side, and wear
                  eye-glasses without causes, and twirl canes, and bow and palaver, and use a great
                  deal of manners. If you want to imagine his looks, imagine a rather stout youth
                  with a high forehead, light hair slightly frizzled, light mustache and
                  whiskers,—the latter bunchy, and joined to the mustache; the youth short.
               Marion Kent came too,—a prim, slim little miss. Our school-talk,
                  however, was not satisfactory. She hardly seemed to know what I meant by doing or
                  saying this, that, and the other, in school, for the purpose of developing the
                  moral sense of the children, or of training them to think. Said she only kept
                  school for the sake of getting money to buy her wedding-fix.
               But I must tell you about "Little Eph" and the others, if it does take time. It
                  was all so perfectly absurd and comical withal!
               I have forgotten who mentioned Johnny Staples's bassviol; think it was Marion
                  Kent. It was mentioned, however; and no sooner did Miss Woodman hear that there
                  was such an instrument in the other part, likewise a man who played on it, than
                  she begged that both might be sent for. She had never enjoyed the pleasure of
                  listening to the music of a bass-viol, a bass-viol was so "love-lily
                     old-fashioned." Pelly informed her that it could only "carry the bass."
                  Miss Woodman declared that bass was "perfectly
                  lovely."
               Well, the end of it was, that Johnny Staples and his bass-viol came in. Oh, no!
                  not the end: that was only the beginning of the musical part.
               Johnny Staples said it would sound better if Ephrum and Pelly would sing. Then
                  Miss Woodman went straight into raptures. "Oh, if Cousin Ephrum and Cousin Pelly
                  only would!—if they only would! It would be 'perfectly lovely.'"
               Now, Ephrum and Pelly are always ready and glad to sing: so, after a few
                  protestations on Pelly's part, they stood up, because, they said, they could sing
                  better standing up. Then Pelly said she could sing better if Ann would join in, and carry the "second tribble;" and,
                  after a few protestations on Ann's part, Ann stood up. Next they wanted somebody
                  to carry the upper part; and then it came out that Martin Wingfield, if he had the
                  notes to look at, could sing the tenor. Pelly mounted a cricket, and pulled down
                  from the little cuddy-hole over the mantle-piece a whole armful of old
                  singing-books. The right one was selected, the tune found, and the book handed to
                  Mr. Wingfield; and Mr. Wingfield, putting on his eye-glasses, stood up with the
                  rest. Then Miss Woodman turned to Marion Kent and myself, and declared that she
                  was perfectly sure that we could assist in the music. We disclaimed any ability to
                  do so. Aunt Susie looked up from her knitting, and said we might as well take a
                  book, and "stan' up and foller on:" anybody could "foller on." By that time, I had
                  fairly got into the mood of doing something funny: so I took a book, and stood up.
                  Then Marion Kent took a book, and stood up. Then Ephrum told Miss Woodman she
                  might as well "jine the choir;" and Marion Kent and myself declared, that, if she
                  would not stand up with the rest, we would sit down: so she took a book, and stood
                  up. Then we told Aunt Susie she must stand up too. She said no: she guessed
                  'twould "take much as one to set an' hear."
               We stood in an arc of a large circle; Johnny Staples sitting in front, pretty well
                  up to the fire-place. The green boughs were still in the fire-place; that room
                  being, as yet, warmed by the fire in the next one. The lights were placed on the
                  mantle-piece. Marion Kent and I were at one end of the arc, Miss Woodman and Mr.
                  Wingfield at the other: she being rather the taller; no, he being rather the
                  shorter. We two looked over one book; and so did they. The right tune was not
                  often in more than two of the books. Mr. Wingfield stood erect, head thrown back,
                  thumb in the arm-hole of his vest. Miss Woodman stood in her customary attitude,
                  her simper somewhat intensified.
               While taking in the fun—fun is such capital fun!—and the music, I became sensible
                  of a commotion behind me; and by turning my head slightly, and looking out of the
                  extreme corner of my eye, I saw the three "childern" I have so often mentioned on
                  the floor just outside the doorway. They had been in bed an hour or more, but had
                  crept down in their night-clothes to see what was going on. And there they were in
                  the doorway, on all-fours, their nightcapped heads stretched up, looking like so
                  many turtles!
               A moment after, I glanced again. They were in motion. They disappeared behind me.
                  Turning my head slightly the other way, and looking out of the corner of the other
                  eye, I saw them, "Little Eph" ahead, moving on behind the singers, springing like
                  kangaroos.
               While I was wondering how far they would dare go, I happened to raise my eyes,
                  and, behold, there stood "Little Eph" in a chair behind Mr. Wingfield, imitating
                  Mr. Wingfield exactly,—position and all! He beckoned to the others, and they
                  mounted chairs,—one behind Ann, the other behind Miss Woodman. I was the only one
                  of the choir who saw them. "Little Eph," not being sufficiently cautious, hit Mr.
                  Wingfield, who took off his eye-glasses, and looked behind him. By that time the
                  three had dropped down, and were springing back to the door: so Mr. Wingfield
                  composed his hair, and resumed.
               A few moments after, the cat coming into the room with more speed than could be accounted for by
                  natural causes, Pelly's suspicions were aroused. She glided through the doorway. A
                  giggle, a "squelch," a scampering, and all was quiet.
               Albert came in toward the latter part of the evening, greatly to my surprise, as
                  he has never before put himself in the way of seeing people. I think this shows
                  improvement. If his face would only lose that half-smiling, half-pathetic look,
                  and take on its natural expression!
               I want to tell you something, Myra, and see what you think of it.
               'Lisabeth says that this Mr. Wingfield has a "power of touch" in his hands,—a
                  power of curing sick people; and that he has even been called to attend cases out
                  of town. He dislikes to use this power, and only does it when urged. 'Lisabeth has
                  heard of his curing two cases of insanity. She asked me what I thought of asking
                  him to try Albert. Betty feels doubtful; and I confess to sharing her doubt. Mr.
                  Staples and Mrs. Staples are debating the question. Mr. Staples thinks that he
                  (Mr. Wingfield) may have some "electrical power."
            
            
               LETTER LIV.—VISITORS AT PARTING WAYS.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA.
                  DEAR MYRA,—We have had a roomful of droppersin; but they have all dropped out
                     now, leaving me half an hour for writing. Among them was Aunt Rebecca, Ann's
                     eldest sister, with whose family I am quite intimate. They remind me of the
                     Snows, having, like them, a taste for literature, and being, like them,
                     wide-awake, benevolent, and fair-minded. Laura, the second daughter, is an
                     invalid. She longs to study; longs to be at work. I do pity her so! How sad it
                     must seem not to have the power even of trying to do!
                  Johnny Staples and mother have a large circle of relatives, who
                     depend upon them in certain ways. Mother, I observe, is called
                     upon for information, not only in the several departments of cookery, but on
                     the dyeing of dresses, making soap, brewing beer: she is also consulted in
                     regard to the treatment of diseases, burns, bruises, scalds, and so forth. Mr.
                     Staples's judgment is appealed to in the buying and selling of wood-lots,
                     meadow-lands, cattle, produce, and sometimes in the investment of money.
                     Family-affairs are constantly being talked over here. "Benny's" progress at
                        school, "Caleb's" obstinacy,
                     "Little Mary's" wonderful growth, "baby's" first tooth or first step, the
                     conduct of grownup sons and daughters, their sweethearts and beaux, and their
                     future prospects,—in all these matters Mr. Staples and mother take
                     a lively interest. Just so in regard to the deeper concerns of life. If any of
                     these people meet with a great trouble, or a great happiness, the first impulse
                     is to come here and tell it; and, in either case, they are sure of a heartfelt
                     sympathy.
                  Have you received three of my letters viâ
                     Summer-Sweeting Place, written since my last to you? If not, scold Matilda; for
                     I have sent her one every week.
                  Mr. Fry has been here, and given me such an amusing account of the manner in
                     which Gus broke the news to him! Only for my having so many things to write
                     about, I would tell you the whole conversation, word for word, just as Mr. Fry
                     told it to me. I really long to write one letter without being pinched for room
                     or for time; but if people will be so interesting, and scenery will be so
                     beautiful, and so much must be said on so many sides of so many subjects, what
                     can one poor feeble mortal do?
                  Mr. Fry said he went into the burying-ground after church, and was sitting
                     there by Jacky's grave,—Mr. Fry doesn't forget poor little Jacky,—when he saw
                     coming toward him, picking his way between the mounds, a rather chipper,
                     brisk-stepping old man, who, on a nearer approach, proved to be Gus. And
                     remarkably well he looked, Mr. Fry said, with his clean dicky and his Sunday
                     clothes, and his silky gray locks waving in the breeze, and a fresh color in
                     his cheeks. He opened the subject somewhat abruptly by divulging the fact that
                     he had "learned to work on hoop-poles." This, you know, was to
                     forestall any objections which might arise in Mr. Fry's mind to the main
                     proposition. He also stated that "two rooms wouldn't cost a fortune," and that
                     he could "carry on hoop-polin' without goin' out-doors much."
                     Farther along in the conversation he spoke of keeping house, "if folks don't go
                     to settin' themselves up agin it." Said he, "Mis' Pauliny Slade, she thinks we
                     ought to stay as we are; but there's Mr. Jacob's gal, Lucy Mari, she says
                        she thinks, that, if we two haven't so very far to
                     go, we might as well go the rest of the way together." Said he wasn't "so very
                     old,"—hadn't reached seventy (I think); and there was his father
                     "lived to be up'ards o' ninety, and kep' his mind."
                  Gus was right. When Mrs. Paulina ridiculed the idea of "such old ones," I did
                     take their part; reasoning in this way,—that, the older they were, the shorter
                     was their time in this world, and therefore it should be made the most of. Why,
                     if they only live five years, five years of happiness is worth having. Many
                     young couples get less. Mrs. Paulina says they will soon meet in the next
                     world, and might wait. But, even if that be a more blissful place,
                     we shall not have the same kind of bliss we have here: so why not get as much
                     as possible of this present kind? Wasn't it given us to enjoy?
                  Don't you think the comfort of old people is too often disregarded? That they
                     have but little time to stay is a curious reason for doing this. We do not
                     usually begin to slight our guests when they have but little time to stay, but,
                     on the contrary, increase our attentions. They must see this or that, or him or
                     her, before they go. And think how
                     much we crowd into the last day of a vacation!
                  Why should age sit in a corner, and be sober? Does it lose its sense of humor?
                     If you tickle it, will it not laugh; or, if you grieve it, will it not weep? I
                     do think it is so nice for old folks and young folks to keep company, and play
                     plays together!
                  Maggie has been passing the week here, and has just gone. I hoped she might
                     come earlier: still there are some lovely days even in November; and how we
                     prize them, fearing each will be our last! The trees have not yet lost their
                     beauty. Mrs. Everson has been here too, and spent a day. She wrote me she was
                     coming; and, on that account, I put off taking Maggie the long row
                     until yesterday afternoon. We were fortunate in having a lovely Indian-summer
                     day for gliding in and out the little round ponds, which, as I have before told
                     you, our stream makes in its short turnings. The water was like glass; and
                     those gorgeous woods were so perfectly reflected therein, that we seemed not
                     only to be looking around at the glory, but to be floating exactly in the
                     middle of glory.
                  We went ashore, and walked along that lovely wood-path to the spring in the
                     valley where Albert's father built his fire for washing, and where Betty first
                     saw Albert—a very little boy then—asleep under the bushes. The spring runs out
                     from between two large rocks over dark-green moss and pebbles. We sat down
                     close by it on a bed of leaves. And such a pleasant sitting as we enjoyed! and
                     such a pleasant talk! Mrs. Everson leaned against the rock. I sat lower down,
                     where I could look up into her face; and pulled bright leaves over me and over
                     Maggie, who sat between us. Mrs. Everson knows all about Maggie; and she talked
                     on various subjects in just the way I wanted Maggie should hear her talk. To be
                     sure, it required just a little bit of manœuvring to make them all come in
                     naturally. How easy it is to get at principles away off in a wood
                     far from the world and its combinations! It's no work at all to draw lines
                     between right and wrong there.
                  Among other things, we discussed fame. Maggie, you remember, used to long to
                     become famous. "Our business is with ourselves," Mrs. Everson
                     said: "and, if we cannot respect ourselves, what avails it that
                     neighbors, townspeople, or the whole country even, think well of us? since it
                     is our own opinion of ourselves that we must carry through all
                     eternity."
                  We also discussed marriages, true and false. I was extremely anxious that
                     Maggie should hear Mrs. Everson's opinions on this subject. Mrs. Everson
                     expresses herself so forcibly, yet so gently! Maggie is almost as much
                     fascinated by this dear lady as I am. You should have seen the way she watched
                     her face, taking in every word! I turned the conversation upon mission schools
                     and evening schools, and by degrees drew Mrs. Everson on to tell some of the
                     many interesting experiences she has had among the poor and degraded. I want so
                     much that Maggie should take an interest in this work! It is just what she
                     needs.
                  We talked about the Two Betseys, and of Mr. Jason Ellis "willing" them money.
                     This made it come quite natural to speak of another matter I had in mind;
                     namely, that of complying with the wishes, or what were the wishes, of a
                     deceased friend. I cannot bear to have Maggie doubting about the rightfulness of her giving much time to study: I
                     want she should take the comfort of it. And whether she ever marries William
                     Henry, or never marries William Henry, I want she should feel a horror of
                     uttering false vows. Mrs. Everson spoke out clear and strong in favor of
                        conscience. Conscience will not let us utter false vows if we
                     obey it. Could our friends who are gone speak to us, they would not, in many
                     cases, continue to give the same advice as formerly, because they would see
                     things in a different light.
                  But I seem to be giving you dry husks,—just dry husks, and nothing more; for
                     the charm of Mrs. Everson's personal presence, her sweet expression, the gentle
                     tones of her voice, alas! you cannot know. I have told Maggie that Mrs. Everson
                     was the "friend" who wrote her that note just after her mother's death.
                  Maggie, poor, dear child! has an affectionate nature; and, now that we are
                     getting better acquainted, she lets it appear. At parting, she threw her arms
                     around my neck, and whispered, "Thank you, thank you, for loving me!"
                  In answering the first letter she wrote me, I omitted saying what was in my
                     mind when I began to write,—that her mother's love alone was a
                     priceless treasure. After her mother died, I was glad that I did forget to say
                     this, as she felt it keenly enough then; and I am sure she feels it now.
                  Dorry is very tender of her. He came to take her home.
                  They will not go away this year at Thanksgiving. Maggie has been telling me
                     about her father. She says he seems different from what he used to be, not only
                     physically and intellectually, but in his disposition. Says he has grown
                     miserly; that he might let Dorry have money to invest in business just as well
                     as not.
                  I shall only have time for a flying visit home at Thanksgiving, as there will
                     be but a few days' vacation. I am rather glad it is your mother's turn to go to
                     her mother's, and my mother's turn to go to her mother's, this
                     year; for I think grandmother would miss William Henry more if all the rest of
                     us were gathered about her.
                  Yes, I am perfectly willing to stay through the winter term. These people are
                     delightful company, and make me feel entirely at home. And then I want to stay
                     on account of Albert. He is rather inclined to depend on me, I find; and so are
                     'Lisabeth and Betty. He has gone to stay with them a while. In my next I will
                     tell you why. Would tell you now, and something else concerning him, only that
                     I think it better to wait further developments.
                  
                     Affectionately,
                     COUSIN LUCY.
                  
               
               
                  My eyes are troubling me considerably, especially of evenings. Isn't it too
                     bad? They are the very things I need. Now that the evenings are longer, Johnny
                     Staples insists, occasionally, upon his row of candles. Ann says that he burns
                     these candles in memory of his early benefactor, "Cap'n Rufus."
               
            
            
               
               LETTER LV.—A NEIGHBORHOOD AFFAIR.
               FROM MATILDA AT SUMMER-SWEETING PLACE.
               DEAR SISTER,—Gus and Mother Delight have hired two rooms, and gone to
                  housekeeping, in Uncle Thad's old house. She had a good many things before; and
                  what was lacking,—why, one and another sent in. We girls met together and made up
                  some full, double curtains of large-figured, bright-colored stuff, because, you
                  know, she is so fond of a lively kind of goods. Mother and Mrs. Snow took that
                  large-figured "Tycoon Rep" of hers you helped make when she lived in that little
                  room over in Ellery, and put something else with it, and bought some new lining,
                  and made quite a nice comforter. It went further on account of not being cut
                  goring.
               We carried in provisions beforehand. It being only two weeks after Thanksgiving,
                  people had considerable left all cooked. A good many of us went together,
                  Wednesday afternoon, and had a jolly time trying to find places for every thing.
                  There was a keg of beef salted down; beans, turnips, cabbages, and other
                  vegetables; and saleratus and cream of tartar enough to mix up most a barrel of
                  flour; two bags of flour, besides meal and shortening, and what came ready cooked.
                  We have missed you through the whole of it very much. Mary Snow took your place,
                  and has done most of the planning; but that wasn't having you. Mary Snow told me
                  to tell you, that, if their lives lacked spice, it wouldn't be for the lack of
                  ground clove; and that, although they were going to be in the honeymoon, there
                  were loads of sugar, also sugar-molasses, and molasses, which was as much as to
                  say gingerbread. I guess about every family sent ground clove,—those papers, you
                  know, that come all done up, ready to be opened. Some of them were allspice: I
                  mean, some of the papers. Mrs. Paulina, for all she said they ought to wait, came
                  in handsomely with six large salt fish,—the biggest ones you ever saw, big as
                  doormats, picked out on purpose,—and pork enough to try out to go with them, and
                  potatoes enough, she said, to have two of potato to one of fish; for
                  that was her rule when she made hash-fish. We didn't know whether Mrs. Paulina
                  would give any thing or not. Mother says benevolence is natural to the human race.
                  She says it is for the best good of a neighborhood to have enough poor people in
                  it to draw out its benevolence.
               They would have been married at their rooms, only the paupers were so anxious to
                  see the ceremony. And Mother Delight said she was sure it didn't make one mite of
                  difference to her; and Gus said he was sure it didn't to him; and Mary Snow said
                  she knew, if you were here, you would say, "Do let us give the poor things a
                  pleasure when we can."
               We hung some evergreens over the looking-glass,—for Mary Snow said she knew, if
                  you were here, it wouldn't be in you to see such an affair go on without hanging
                  up some kind of running thing,—and we put a pitcher of alderberries on the mantle-piece. Her own geranium
                  stood on the bureau, in its sugar-bowl. Quorm told us where to find the berries.
                  We girls got up her cap,—black lace. She wouldn't have white, she was so used to
                  having her caps black lace: but we made it look quite jaunty by putting
                  cherry-colored in the border; and it just fitted her chubby, smiling face. Mr. Fry
                  superintended the cap. You know he has a liking, and always had, for caps. He says
                  he makes them his study. If he'd make the caps, Mary Snow told him,
                  he'd be a great deal more useful. He thinks Mother Delight must have been very
                  pretty once: and grandmother says she was; says she had a beautiful skin, and was
                  just as pretty as flesh and blood could be made. Her eyes are bright as ever; and
                  her red cheeks are not quite gone; and her two little curls show considerable
                  black in them. Gus is a good deal grayer than she is, and looks older than she:
                  but come to dress Gus up, and part his hair even, he isn't bad-looking; and a
                  better-dispositioned man never breathed. Mother says they don't seem half so old
                  to each other as they do to us young folks.
               There were only a few from outside besides the Snow girls and our folks. Every
                  thing went on decently and in order; and she said that was all she could expect.
                  We thought perhaps "Lyddy" might make trouble; but she didn't. There was one old
                  woman there, so bent and so wrinkled,—why, her mouth sank in almost out of sight!
                  And there was another old woman, who came there this winter. They call her "Little
                  Jinny," not bent, but so short and so slim, Mary Snow said it seemed as if she
                  might be a shrivelled-up doll for the rest to play with. She's ninety-four years
                  old. She is very pleasant, and pretty spry for such an aged person. Pete Bruel and
                  Quorm came into the room. This is old Pete's first season. Mary. Snow said she
                  supposed you would have liked Quorm to be dressed in the costume of his race, but
                  that you would have to be contented with a green baize jacket with white buttons.
                  He behaved with a great deal of dignity. Pete sat with his hat on; but we thought
                  we wouldn't say any thing. He was very serious and respectful; and so were all in
                  the room. Dave Miller's wife and two little children were there. The baby is just
                  as cunning as it can be: if you say "Argoo" to it, 'twill laugh right
                  out loud, and kick its feet, and quinkle its eyes, and make its arms fly like
                  every thing. The other one just begins to talk. Mother thinks she (Dave's wife)
                  isn't long for this world. Dave has gone off and left her: and folks say 'twas the
                  best thing he could do for her; for he abused her dreadfully when he got
                  drunk.
               Gus made a confidant of Mr. Fry beforehand, and told him his trouble and his
                  prospects, and asked his advice. Mr. Fry says, that, as if to be in keeping with
                  the wooing and the winning and the wedding, the lover had even to pour out his
                  joys and his sorrows into the cold, flinty heart of an old bachelor. Mary Snow
                  said she had a good mind to tell him that old bachelors' hearts, being hollow,
                  were just right for that: but I don't suppose they are every one of them hollow;
                  do you?
               We had wedding-cake; and it was worth the price of it to see it passed round. The
                  neighbors gave the materials, and the Snows made it at their house. Mrs. Paulina
                  found the citron. Nobody likes to leave themselves out at such a time.
               
               I went to make the wedding-call to-day. They looked comfortable and cosey. She was
                  on one side, braiding rags; and he on the other, scraping his hoop-poles. She has
                  twelve mats engaged. Gus looked very happy. He put more water in the pot when she
                  asked him to, fetched whatever she wanted, opened the cupboard-door to let us see,
                  tried the potatoes, and even brought up some monstrous big ones out of the cellar
                  to show us. Mary Snow and Susie picked out a peck of the very biggest ones in
                  three or four cellars to carry.
               When I got up to come away, she held on to my hand, and kissed it, and seemed to
                  feel so much, that she couldn't speak. I just stood still and stroked her head,
                  without saying any thing. "'Tis because folks are so good,
                     so good!" she said with her trembling voice. I told her, that, if
                  she didn't want folks to be so good, she mustn't be so good herself.
               We had a letter from William Henry last night. He is in pretty good health now.
                  Mr. Banvard wants him to go to Kentucky on the same business. Uncle Carver doesn't
                  feel sorry that William Henry is out of a steady business: he thinks it is good
                  for young men to be brought down to the ground; for then they have to
                  learn the use of their feet. Grandmother feels dreadfully, having him so far
                  away.
               I was going to write more, but haven't time to now.
               
                  Your affectionate sister,
                  MATILDA.
               
            
            
               LETTER LVI.—CONTAINING A PIECE OF GOOD NEWS.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA AT PARTING WAYS.
                  DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—I am ready to lay me down and cry, and be covered over with
                     leaves. 'Tis no use, no use! Let a teacher do what she may for her scholars,
                     and try her very best, her work will be undone at home. Alas these fathers and
                     these mothers! They deceive their children for the sake of getting along
                     easily, and teach deception. They make promises and threats, fail
                     to fulfil them, and teach lying. Parents tired, parents cross,
                     parents nervous, punish severely for misdoings, which, in serener moods, pass
                     unnoticed, and teach injustice. And as for vanity, pride, regard
                     for appearances, it does seem sometimes as if especial pains were taken to
                     instil these. Dear, dear! what will be done? what can be done? How can all the
                     little children of this country be trained up noble men and women, if neither
                     fathers nor mothers nor teachers will do it? (Pause.) After asking the above
                     question, I laid down my pen, stopped up my inkstand, and thought out a
                     possible reason why fathers and mothers do not take hold of this work more
                     earnestly; especially mothers. I am acquainted with a great many of these; and
                     I will tell you what I believe, I
                     believe each one of them takes it for granted that her little
                     darlings will never go far out of the way. This is not strange: the
                        little darlings are so sweet, so heavenly! Still, even when a
                     child is the picture of health, the mother thinks of the diseases to which it
                     may be exposed, or which it may have inherited, and, if she be a mother of good
                     sense, endeavors to bring it into as perfect a physical condition as possible.
                     At any rate, precautionary measures are taken. Why not, then, think of the
                     moral diseases which lie in wait for its soul, or which may have come down to
                     it from some far-off ancestor, and labor accordingly? But this is too big a
                     subject for me to handle. I'll drop it, and speak now of my own little
                     strivings.
                  Quite large boys and girls attend school this winter. We have debates once a
                     week. The scholars did not, at first, take much interest in these; but now they
                     willingly learn longer lessons all the other days in order to gain time for
                     them. My friend who teaches in the city has often begged me to try and do
                     something of this kind. She says her scholars are not permitted to leave off
                     spelling five-syllabled words long enough to learn how to become thoughtful and
                     conscientious citizens. She once asked a member of the committee if she might
                     omit a fragment of a column daily, and spend the time thus gained in conversing
                     with the scholars on general subjects, that they might be less like machines.
                     He told her it was her business to obey orders, not to make suggestions. My
                     committee are neither so rigid nor so ungentlemanly as hers. Still they did
                     need some persuasion.
                  Our subjects for debate are frequently suggested by the scholars. The following
                     are some which have been handed in: "Which Country is the Best One to live in?"
                     "Which Zone?" "Which Section of the United States?" "Which of the Trades is to
                     be preferred?" "Which of the Professions?" "Which has the Pleasanter life,—the
                     Squirrel, or the Bumble-Bee?" "Advantages and Disadvantages of a Seafaring
                     Life;" "Of a Merchant's;" "Of the President's;" "Of a School-Teacher's;" "Which
                     are Happier,—the Rich, or the Poor?" "The Learned, or the Ignorant?" "The
                     Handsome, or the Homely?" Historical characters are sometimes discussed. The
                     scholars take pains to inform themselves on the different subjects (there's a
                     library in Crooked-Pond Village); so that something of geography, history, and
                     natural history, is learned by the way. The comparative safety and enjoyments
                     of the lives of different animals help out our list of subjects greatly. At all
                     events, these discussions teach the scholars to think, and
                        to look on both sides. Sometimes I suppose
                     situations, or courses of action involving moral principles, and then draw out
                     opinions as to what should be done in such and such cases. Johnny Staples says
                     he wants to come to school and talk. His wife says he'd tell too many
                     stories.
                  How I wish you could look in upon us this moment, and see us just as we are! My
                     dear old couple sit the same side of the fire to-night. She must have had
                     beautiful, dark, dreamy eyes once: they are full of expression even now. Ann
                     does up her mother's plain muslin caps so nicely! Dry beans are in order this
                     evening. Mrs. Staples is trying to shell them. Her lover splits the pods of now
                     and then a tough one. I say, lover; and you would if you could see them together. Not that
                     he is at all demonstrative: 'tis a way he has of deferring to her, of depending
                     upon her, of missing her when he comes in and finds the arm-chair empty, and of
                     trotting here and there at such times till he finds her.
                  Ann sits at her light-stand, bending over her work. I find Ann a hard case to
                     make out. Either she has no feelings, or she carries on life outside of her
                     feelings. All the time Albert staid here, I was unable to detect, from word or
                     look of hers, that she took any special interest in him. To see her stitch,
                     stitch, stitching away there, you would hardly suppose she knew he was in the
                     room. Albert is making a "schooner-boat" for "The Howler." Said
                        Howler lies on the floor, his chin resting in his open
                     hand,—that being propped up by his elbow,—and watches the whittling, the
                     carving, and the scraping.
                  I have been longing for several weeks to tell you something, but have waited in
                     order to tell it with more confidence. We feel almost sure that Albert is
                     well.
                  You remember I wrote you, some time ago, of Martin Wingfield and his
                        power of touch; and of the Two Betseys' suggestion, that this
                        power be tried on Albert. The question was fully discussed
                     here. Ann and her father were willing; but the old lady demurred: she feared it
                     might be in some way interfering with Providence. As she evidently preferred
                     that the experiment should not be tried in her house, we arranged that Albert
                     should go home to the Two Betseys' for a few days, and that Mr. Wingfield
                     should visit him there. Ephrum was very much in favor of "giving the thing a
                     trial." According to his idea, "there's nothing so dreadful wonderful about
                     it,— nothing but Martin Wingfield's 'lectricity strikin' inter the brain, and
                     settin' part of the machinery a-goin' that's been stopped."
                  I am glad I was present to witness the performance with my own eyes; though, as
                     Ephrum said, it was "nothin' so dreadful wonderful." Mr. Wingfield just pressed
                     his finger-tips on Albert's head. The result was weeping. Never
                     before, since his return home, had Albert been known to shed a tear. At Mr.
                     Wingfield's touch, he wept. Mr. Wingfield visited him daily at first, afterward
                     twice a week, then once, and always with a similar result. I asked Ephrum how
                     he accounted for this.
                  "Wal," said he, "you see the young man didn't give vent to his feelin's
                        at the time, and they've been pent up there ever since. Martin
                     Wingfield's got a sight of 'lectricity about him; and he sends a streak of that
                     'lectricity a-dartin' through that young man's brains; and that breaks up the
                     state of things altogether, and starts up the tears." This is Ephrum's
                     explanation.
                  A singular case, in which recovery from insanity followed immediately after a
                     fit of weeping, was told here, a few nights ago, by some relatives of the
                     Stapleses.
                  It was that of a young woman who had been, for years, considered almost
                     hopelessly insane. One afternoon she wandered away a long distance to a grove
                     wherein a temperance society had held an Independence-day celebration, and
                     climbed up to a platform which had been erected for the "orator." Quite late in
                     the evening she was found there, sitting upon the edge, crying most bitterly
                     because she couldn't get off the platform. The steps lay on the ground. Whether
                     the girl pushed them down herself in
                     mischief (she was very mischievous), or whether they fell accidentally, her
                     friends never knew. They took her home: she went to bed, slept soundly all
                     night, awoke sane, and continued to be so.
                  The change in Albert has astonished us. I spoke of seeing with my own eyes; but
                     I can hardly believe my own eyes when I look at him. That pleased, unmoved,
                        expressionless expression has given place to a natural one,
                     which changes from time to time, and from natural causes. It seems now as if an
                     entirely different soul were looking out from behind those eyes of his. Betty
                     says that one sign of improvement is the regular, methodical way in which he
                     sets himself about the little jobs of work. This way, it seems, was his old
                     way. He chops wood, brings water, and helps in the shop, and sometimes looks
                     into a newspaper. Still I can see that he has a feeling of being not just like
                     other people. He continues to live with the Two Betseys, only coming here
                     occasionally. But I resolved, from the first, to keep up my intimate
                     acquaintance with him, and have kept it up. We walk together; we talk together;
                     and sometimes I read to him.
                  If you don't get letters from me often enough, surmise that it is because my
                     eyes trouble me, and you will surmise the truth.
                  
                     Yours in the bonds of cousinly affection,
                     L. M. CARVER.
                  
               
               
                  Can't you come to Summer-Sweeting Place in my vacation? Do!
                  
               
            
            
               LETTER LVII.—OF VARIOUS MATTERS, PRESENT AND FUTURE.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA AT PARTING WAYS.
                  DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—Middle of January! So the months go by: nor frosts nor biting
                     blasts can stop them.
                  Yes, I am glad to say that Albert does stay cured; "is himself," as 'Lisabeth
                     says, "only more sorrowful." Betty tells me that he begins to notice what needs
                     attention on other people's premises and in the public roads, and say what
                     ought to be done, just as he used to. He grows restless; talks of going West to
                     attend to important matters there. What is best for me to do? Tell him all I
                     know about Emmeline? I have kept her informed of his improvement: she is much
                     interested in the Two Betseys. I wish she might come out and spend the night
                     with me, and see them and him without being seen herself: there are so many
                     things to be told which could not be told in letters! But even I dare not plan
                     and carry out so bold a proceeding. Though only just for one night. Let me see:
                     she might arrive late; would—yes, she would have to be introduced. Well, the
                     Stapleses may never have heard her name mentioned; and, if they
                     have, they would not suppose
                        that Miss Gooding—she of Beulah—to be identical with my friend.
                     Begin again. She might arrive late, have her tea, and go up into my room. In
                     the evening we would walk over to the Two Betseys', and look in at them through
                     the shop-window. She could leave by the early morning-train. No: it will never
                     do. These people might afterward mention her name in his hearing, or he might
                     get a glimpse of her upon the road. How tempting it all is! Such an exciting
                     little affair! Just think!—Ann and Emmeline under one roof, unknown to each
                     other! Shouldn't I revel? But 'twill never do: the risks are too great. I wish
                     I had never thought of it.
                  But what if he should see her? Why not let them meet,
                     and let nature work? Yes; and perhaps nature would so work as to unsettle his
                     mind. She might be introduced by her middle name. Faugh! that would be
                     altogether too deceitful, even for Lucy Maria.
                  
                  Albert has never spoken to me of her, since his recovery, in plain words; yet I
                     feel sure, from things he has dropped in conversation, that thoughts of her are
                     in his mind. He knows, of course, that she is still unmarried, or was so at the
                     time of his return; but cannot know of her being engagement-free, still less
                        why she remains so. My next step must be to convey to him a
                     knowledge of this fact; and the next after, to tell him the reason
                     of her remaining unwed and unwon. When this last step has been taken,—when he
                     knows all that I know,—then my work, so far as they are concerned, will be
                     done.
                  But how shall this last step, one of such delicacy, be taken? His hopes must
                     not be too suddenly excited. Suppose I tell him his own story as I told her
                     hers,—tell it in a general way, mentioning no names. How would that do? Tell me
                     what you think about it. We two, Albert and I, are good friends still. We talk
                     and read and walk together. He appears at times cheerful, but at more times
                     downcast. His manner toward me leads me to think that he is sensible of my
                     having taken a deep interest in him from the first. 'Lisabeth says he is
                     strangely altered in one respect,—that of boasting. She says it never was in
                     him to be boastful or self-sufficient. He seems to be conscious himself of this
                     defect: for, after it has been manifested, he almost invariably becomes
                     reserved, as if ashamed of it; sometimes makes a slight apology. Betty says
                     that eyebrew of his works up and down just as it used to.
                  Dorry expresses the greatest astonishment at the change in Albert. He wants Mr.
                     Wingfield to try this remarkable power of touch upon his father;
                     and, if Mr. Wingfield consents, will bring the old gentleman out here to board
                     toward the latter part of spring.
                  Dorry says he cannot be grateful enough to Mrs. Everson for the influence she
                     is exerting over Maggie: says Maggie is a different being; that she takes hold
                     of the work in which Mrs. Everson is engaged, not exactly with enthusiasm, but
                     with an earnestness which is better. He thinks it was that talk we had by the
                        spring—Mrs. Everson, Maggie, and I, you remember—which first
                     made Maggie feel that she might possibly be doing right in breaking off her
                     connection, whatever it was, with that gentleman her mother was so bent upon
                     her marrying.
                  But, O Myra! why do I try to smother the natural feelings of my heart, when that heart, as you
                     well know, and I know that you know, is beating itself wild with hopes for the
                     union of my Unknown Lovers, and when my brain is all alive with
                     schemes for the same? I wish people would not persist in calling me romantic
                     and poetical. This it is which causes me to distrust my own judgment. This it
                     is which dampens my enthusiasm, crushes out my exuberance, represses my
                     spontaneity, and nips me in the bud. Dear friend and cousin, I pray your
                     sympathy. Come, now, and look ahead with me to the time when Albert, having
                     heard his own story and Emmeline's story, and having met with joy the love of
                     his youth—Now wait. Shall their meeting take place among the groves of Beulah?
                     No: they must meet before the leaf-buds burst in those woodlands wild; though
                        evergreens, perchance, are growing there; and those would befit
                     the circumstances far better than the deciduous kind with their fleeting
                     foliage. Yes, they shall meet in the never-fading evergreen groves of Beulah.
                     And, oh, what a meeting that will be! I hardly dare even imagine a scene so
                     sacred. Yet it must not be hastened.
                  But I have been looking still farther ahead,—even unto the
                        wedding. To arrange this requires thought. Shall they be wed in
                     church, or at Beulah? Perhaps at Beulah, in that "old minister's"
                     meeting-house. But the Two Betseys could not go so far as that. Why not at
                     their house? A wedding at the Two Betseys' shop! Luckily they have their new
                     dresses all ready. They will want new caps, though. I will send for the pattern
                     of Mother Delight's new one. We must have both rooms trimmed, and an arch for
                     them to stand beneath.
                  You will come to it of course, and Dorry and Maggie. We two are going to "stand
                     up," you know. Don't you remember? It is my turn to laugh now. Oh,
                     dear! what am I thinking of? All this has yet to be brought about. Are you
                     laughing at me? Ah! how can you feel to make sport of the hopes, the fears, the
                     doubts, the plans and counterplans, which oppress my poor innocent brain?—for
                     it is innocent. All these things just mentioned, with meditations on themes
                     unnumbered, come into it of their own accord: I can't have it to myself ever.
                     For my eyes' sake, I must stop here abruptly, when I have just got fairly into
                     the mood of writing, and of pouring out my feelings into somebody's
                     sympathizing ear. Isn't it too bad?
               
               
                  MORNING.
                  Please say to Leonice, that, if my eyes fail me so that I can make neither
                     sewing nor teaching my occupation, I shall go to the city, and be a
                     parlor-girl. Think what good times I should have dusting the elegant little
                     objects of art done in ivory, bronze, marble, silver, pearl, and
                     mother-of-pearl; dusting pictures of angels, heroes, madonnas, saints, cherubs,
                     philosophers, poets, and beauties; also watching and studying the elegant
                     company unbeknown! Is my mistress kind?—I shall enjoy her kindness. Is my
                     mistress tyrannical?—her tyranny will serve me for discipline. Is she ignorant
                     and silly?—I can take warning, and be amused. Is she learned?—I will gladly
                     pick up what crumbs of wisdom she may chance to drop.
                  Of course, I should have a "main chance" in view; namely, to use up my spare
                     time in hearing the best the city
                     afforded, and my purse afforded, in the shape of lectures, preaching, and
                     music. You know, even parlor-girls have, now and then, an afternoon or evening;
                     and of course I could read some, and the kind of reading that pays.
                  You know one of my darling hobbies is, that labor is not degrading; that what
                     we do with our hands cannot touch us,—the real us.
                     Sin degrades; for that does touch the real us.
                  
                  But, dear me! you can't make a young girl believe this doctrine. Now, there is
                     Ellen Kent, Marion Kent's (that was) sister, a young girl of sixteen. The
                     family are poor, and Ellen must earn money, or else give up the idea of ever
                     going to school again. I offered to get her a situation of the kind just
                     mentioned. She said she should like the work, and like the pay, and like to be
                     handy to books, "if 'twere not for the name of the thing."
                  I wonder when people will begin to dare to act out themselves.
                        "Individuality"—the more I think of it, the plainer it seems to
                     me that this is the key-word which will solve the riddles that
                     have vexed me so. A year or two ago, I used to be continually puzzling over the
                     question, How much attention is it right to give to dress? No general, final
                     answer can be given to that question. The fact is, you can't strike at the root
                     of this evil—the dress evil—from the outside. No use lopping off flounces, so
                     long as a flounce-disposition remains. Don't you see that here is where
                        education (early) is going to tell? We must go back of the
                     furbelows to character, and make that what it should be, and the main
                        chances what they should be; and then the furbelows will drop off of
                     themselves. People, in general, do what they want to do most; but, if the
                     majority of women want to make a good appearance more than they want to attain
                     to something higher, is that any reason why the minority, who want to attain to
                     something higher more than they want to make a good appearance, should be
                     ridiculed? Is that any reason why a woman who has fifteen minutes for catching
                     a breath of air must spend ten of them in putting on clothes for people to look
                     at? The trouble lies in setting up a fixed standard to which everybody (woman
                     body) must conform.
                  Now bring the idea of individuality to bear upon the subject, and
                     behold how plain and simple it all appears! Just let us all agree that nobody
                     is expected to conform. Let us all agree that every woman may dress to suit her
                     own convenience.
                  How free we shall be when this idea—individuality—is once
                     understood and accepted, not only in the matter of dress, but in other matters;
                     when principles shall govern; when character, not cash, shall determine rank;
                     when we shall not stand in fear of the speech of people, nor the eyes of
                     people, nor the ears of people; when all unequal restrictions
                        (unequal, mind) shall be taken off, leaving every human being
                     free to develop naturally, same as the flowers do! They don't have to conform.
                     Roses don't try to be pinks, nor dahlias to be sunflowers, nor violets to be
                     heliotrope. Culture?—oh, yes! flowers get that, I know, and 'its good for them;
                     but culture doesn't cramp and dwarf them into a set pattern. Each is left to
                     unfold and develop from the centre, according to its individual nature.
                  What splendid flowers of humanity will bloom in the great by-and by, when we shall have been
                     released from these same bonds of conformity! The outward life will represent
                     the inward then. I suppose that's the way it ought to be: don't you think so? I
                     mean that each should be worked from the centre like a watch. The hands point,
                     you know, according as the wheels move; and the mainspring is the main
                     thing.
                  This is the case now, in one sense. We can tell to some extent, by a person's
                     face, manner, and course of life, what kind of machinery is working behind.
                  
                     L. M. C.
                  
               
               
                  You can make Cousin Joe's shirts just as well at Summer-Sweeting Place. I'll
                     help you do the basting.
               
            
            
               LETTER LVIII.—LUCY MARIA "IN HER ELEMENT."
               FROM PARTING WAYS.
               DEAR MYRA,—I will tell you how it happened. If some of the circumstances could
                  have been changed, or there had been more of them, or more had been made of them
                  (as might have been); or if events had turned the way I pretended not to want them
                  to, and, on the whole, did not want them to,—I should, perhaps, have been better
                  pleased: still, considering every thing, it was a reasonably satisfying
                  occurrence; and very likely, if events had turned the other way, I might now be
                  ruing the day.
               Emmeline wrote that she was going to take home a little daughter of Mrs.
                  Gillette's who had been visiting in the city, and would have to wait at Riverside
                  (a station about two miles below, where passengers change cars) over half an hour;
                  and that she would like so much to have me meet her there! You may believe I was
                  quick enough to go, for all the weather was not very promising: though, come to
                  think of it, it was; for it promised rain.
               My school closes at four. I got a chance to ride, and was on the spot ten minutes
                  before the cars arrived. She looked
                  lovely in her dark-blue suit, and hat to match,—lovely! I am writing
                  with my eyes partly shut: so excuse illegibility, please. (Did you ever use
                  Thompson's Eye-Water? It is an excellent remedy.) I longed to propose their going
                  home with me to stay all night, but dared not mention it, though knowing full well
                  there was no spot on earth so interesting to her as our little village and its
                  vicinity.
               If you never used Thompson's Eye-Water, did you never in your life imagine some
                  unlikely event, and afterward find that event to take place? I have experienced
                  three such instances; and that was exactly what happened in this case.
               While we were talking, the little girl Gracie, a child some eight or ten years
                  old, stepped out and around the corner to watch some children skating. We had
                  entirely forgotten her in our earnestness. O Myra, what an earnest, solemn talk
                  that was! We had no idea the train was due until it came rushing in. We call the
                  child; we run this way and that; we find her. The cars begin to move. Emmeline
                  attempts to jump on: a man pulls her back; and—they are left!
               I felt glad a little, but more frightened than glad: for I thought,
                  "Oh, if any thing should happen!—if they two should by some accident
                  meet!"
               I suggested their going home with me. But oh, no, no, no!—not for the whole world
                  would she go there: and, in fact, I hardly dared take her there; though it would
                  have been a delightful, a perfectly delightful, complication,—Emmeline and Ann
                  under one roof! Oh! shouldn't I have enjoyed every moment of that
                  complication? though I should have felt a little afraid of Ann, lest by some
                  instinct, some intuition—But you understand: so let me save my eyes.
               There is a good hotel at Crooked-Pond Village. Emmeline said she was used to
                  travelling, and should not at all mind staying there, with Gracie for company, but
                  that they must leave in the earliest morning-train. I found the man who takes
                  passengers,—wish you could see him; a jolly fellow, with a long, one-sided
                  nose,—and made all the arrangements. Emmeline was much agitated at first; but I
                  assured her there was not the least cause, as Albert seldom went from home after
                  dark, and never except to our house, and then only for an hour or so.
               As soon as I had eaten my supper, I went back to the hotel, and, after Gracie was
                  safe in bed and asleep, did the very thing I had imagined myself doing when doing
                  it seemed impossible,—I took Emmeline to see the Two Betseys! Yes, I actually did.
                  Mind, now, I said to see them, not to be seen by them.
               When I first proposed this, she said, "Oh, no, no, indeed! nothing would induce
                  her; it would be running too great a risk: she should not stir from her room." But
                  I represented to her, with all my powers of persuasion, that she was entirely
                  unknown in the place; that the night was cloudy; and—well, never mind what else,
                  since she consented, at last, to do what she was longing to do. You may have
                  noticed, in the course of your experience, what an easy time of it feelings have
                  fighting against determination.
               The window at which I had imagined ourselves standing, and at which we did stand,
                  was a window of the shop; which same commands a view of the little back-room. Emmeline leaned against a tree (their
                  apple-tree) while I took the first look.
               Albert was there reading,—reading aloud apparently, judging from the appearance of
                     The Two. He had his dressing-gown on,—the one Ann and I made him.
                  'Lisabeth leaned back in the arm-chair, her eyes downcast, her face serene, her
                  whole aspect denoting tranquillity. I always do feel like taking dear little
                  'Lisabeth up in my arms, and holding her.
               Betty sat bolt upright,—bolt upright, that is, with a pitch forward,—her eyes
                  fixed on the reader with a rapt expression, caused, as I well knew, not by the
                  matter read, but by the tones of that beloved voice, and the sight of that beloved
                  face.
               Nobody can blame Betty. Albert has a voice both deep-toned and musical; and his
                  face is certainly a fine one, though bearing the marks, of course, which an
                  experience like his could not fail of leaving. Indeed, it is that sad,
                  thoughtful,—no, not exactly thoughtful,—pre-occupied expression which renders it
                  so interesting. There is about it a solid, weighty look, like that of a person of
                  judgment, as the Two Betseys once declared him to be. 'Lisabeth described it to me
                  then as a widish face, with full lips, a good set of teeth, dark-blue eyes, and
                  curly dark hair. It must have grown thin, as "widish" would not answer for it now,
                  except across the forehead. His hair is nearly black. It can't be called "curly;"
                  neither can it be called straight. I remember Betty telling me he had a "beautiful
                  forehead;" and he has still.
               Dear, dear! how people writing with their eyes shut will run on, leaving people
                  standing against a tree of a cloudy night!
               When I went to bring Emmeline, she hesitated.
               "Come, come!" I whispered. "There's no possible danger. He's in his
                  dressing-gown." I drew her along to the window; then went back to keep watch, in
                  case any one should approach. And oh! Myra, your twin cousin never was in a more
                  exquisite state of delightful agitation than during the ten minutes (longer, I
                  think) that she staid by the tree. As 'Tilda would and probably will say (so will
                  I say it for her), Lucy Maria was in her element. Some people think, you know,
                  that we each carry about with us our individual "sphere," by which those near us
                  are more or less affected; and, while standing there, I wondered if the influences
                  from her "sphere" might not reach Albert. I imagined him moving uneasily in his
                  chair, his eyes wandering from the book, the book slowly dropping from his
                  hand,—imagined an expression of delight slowly stealing over his face.
               At last I began to fear something was the matter (for the watcher at the window
                  had not once turned or spoken), and thought to myself, "Suppose she should faint
                  away, and have to be carried in there?" Oh! wouldn't that have been a scene? But
                  even if I could have made her faint away, or even fall down and stun herself, I
                  should not have dared to try such experiments; for the surprise would have come
                  too suddenly upon Albert, and have spoiled every thing. It will be best for me to
                  talk with him, and prepare him, before he meets her.
               I went to the window, and laid my hand upon her arm. She turned without speaking;
                  and we walked slowly away. I soon perceived that she was weeping: whether it was
                  on her own account, or from seeing the
                  change wrought by suffering in Albert's appearance, or from being touched at the
                  sight of the dear Two Betseys, I could not tell. We walked on in silence,—a
                  silence I did not like to break. At last she spoke,—very low, but earnestly: "He
                  will go away, and I shall never see him again!"
               Her tone and manner were like those of some little grieved child who longs for
                  something it cannot have.
               "You don't know that," I said, speaking as low and as earnestly as she. "Perhaps
                  we will keep him."
               "But what then?" she asked. "He despises me. We should never meet. You know what
                  he thinks of me."
               I suggested that his opinion of her might be changed.
               "You have not told him!" she exclaimed,—"have not told him—what I
                  told you?"
               "No," said I: "I have not mentioned your name. But suppose," I added, "that he
                  should go away, as you say, and never, never come back: wouldn't you like him,
                  even then, to have a more favorable opinion of your character?"
               I can't give you the whole conversation, Myra; but, when we parted for the night,
                  it was with the understanding, that if, by any miraculous means (she seems almost
                  to believe that I have such means at my disposal), his opinion of her could be
                  changed, without at the same time betraying the present state of her feelings
                  toward him, I was at liberty to so change it. During our talk, she spoke feelingly
                  of the Two Betseys. When, at one time, I alluded to the possibility that every
                  thing might come round right at last, she answered, "No: impossible. If he were a
                  poor man; but, as it is, do you not see, do you not perceive what he would
                  think?"
               Judging from what William Henry writes, Albert is far removed from a state of
                  poverty. His lands are rising in value every day. He is much pleased with the way
                  in which William Henry has managed some business of his out there.
               My school closes week after next, on Washington's birthday. I am so glad you can
                  make us a long visit! If you will believe it, I have actually told my youngest
                  scholars the cherry-tree story. To give it a deeper interest, I
                  imagined additional incidents and surroundings; in other words, gave the affair a
                  good setting-out. There's good in this little story. It helped keep me from being
                  a liar. I suppose its truth is certain. Far away be the day when that tree and
                  that hatchet shall follow Tell's apple, and the Pocahontas tableau, and the great
                  maëlstrom, into the weakening realms of doubt!
               
                  So prays
                  LUCY MARIA.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER LIX.—A DOUBTFUL STEP.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA AT SUMMER-SWEETING PLACE.
                  DEAR MYRA,—Back again, my dear, spending the last few days of winter's reign
                     amid the glittering snow-banks of good old Summer-Sweeting Place; and, when
                     these are sped,—the days and the snow-banks,—upon me here shall March winds
                     rudely blow, and April's gentle showers distil. In other words, school has left
                     off, and will stay left off till May.
                  Before leaving Parting Ways, as you may be glad to hear, I committed an act the
                     consequences of which will remain unknown to me for the present.
                  I had been for some time on the watch for a good opportunity of talking with
                     Albert; and at last, a few days before school closed, one occurred.
                  I took my dinner that morning, and at noon-time went to a large pond a little
                     way back from the schoolhouse, for the purpose of improving myself in the
                     uncertain art of skating. The pond is pretty well enclosed by hills, most of
                     them wooded. It was a mild, sunny day for the season. I skated, with sundry
                     interruptions, around to the southern side, where the ice was bordered by a
                     white sandy beach, and that by a high bank. Here, on the warm sand, I sat a
                     while to rest, leaning back against the trunk of a scraggy old tree. My hat
                     being tipped forward, and tied down over my ears by a thick scarf, prevented me
                     from seeing, at first, a man who was watching pickerel-traps a little distance
                     off.
                  This pickerel-slayer, whom I discovered presently, proved to be Albert. He soon
                     spied me out, and came along close to where I was sitting, and stood there,
                     holding by a low branch of the tree. He wore a seal-skin cap; his face was
                     flushed by exercise and with the cold; and he looked, to quote from the Two
                     Betseys, "handsome enough." His complexion has usually been rather pale since I
                     have known him. He talked a while of his fishing; then of the different kind of
                     trees growing around the pond; of woodchucks, rabbits, and other
                        such; also mentioned some of his youthful exploits performed there
                     abouts.
                  "You must be strongly attached to this neighborhood," I said.
                  I forget the precise words of his answer; but the idea, or part of the idea,
                     was, that he should not probably remain there long.
                  "Oh, you wouldn't go away, and leave poor 'Lisabeth and Betty!" I
                     exclaimed.
                  He stood for a moment without answering; then said, speaking quite
                     rapidly,—
                  "For their sakes I might give up my own inclinations, and stay here with them;
                     but I cannot," he added, giving me an expressive glance, and at
                     the same time pressing his hand upon his forehead. He then went on to say that
                     it was his earnest wish to establish them in a more suitable tenement, and to
                     provide them with every comfort. "Whenever I propose this," he said,
                        smiling, "they say that living an
                     idle life will kill them; and that they should miss the shop and the customers,
                     and having something to do. But I have placed money in the bank for them," he
                     continued, "and shall engage a boy to go there every day to do chores; and a
                     woman to take care of them, should they be sick. And I want, Miss Carver,—I
                     want to give you some money to do good with." I had told him, you know, all
                     about Mrs. Everson, and what she was doing.
                  I asked him, "Why not stay and do good with it yourself?" then spoke of the
                     need, in cities, of earnest workers.
                  "Miss Carver," he answered after a few moments' pause, "this stagnation is—I
                     must go away, and live a wild kind of life,—a life in which the scene changes
                     every hour of the day. I belong there. I could not stay here in the land of
                        homes, feeling that there never could be a home for me." The
                     last few words were almost inaudible. I hardly know what answer I made; only
                     that in it I intimated that his having a home was not an impossibility. He gave
                     me a look, half reproachful, half pathetic, and said, still speaking low, "I
                     thought you knew."
                  "Yes," said I, after waiting a moment to consider,—"yes, I do know. I know to
                     what you refer; but I know, also, that we are too ready, generally, to look on
                     the dark side, and that we are all liable to—make mistakes. I know that—that
                     misunderstandings have often prevented whole lifetimes of happiness; that
                     people sometimes judge wrongly. Of course, you need not apply these remarks to
                     yourself," I added hastily, being frightened at having ventured so far; "but
                     still—but still there can be no harm in considering."
                  And then, Myra, I nerved myself up, said a prayer inwardly, and
                     told him, with many misgivings you may be sure, the outlines, just the very
                     outside-most outlines, of his own story. I did this in the most cautious
                     manner, keeping back whatever might have led him to suspect that it was his own
                     story, but enlarging upon the extreme youth of the girl; upon her discovering
                     too late the nature of her feelings; of her subsequent engagements, and of the
                        reason of her breaking these engagements. It was all done in a
                     few sentences. My heart went pound, pound, pound, just as hard! I
                     felt so frightened, so tremulous! not being sure, you know, that Albert was in
                     a condition to be agitated as such kind of talk must agitate him. I never was
                     more glad to see my scholars than when they came, five or six of them, running
                     down the bank, shouting because they had found me. They gave an abrupt end to
                     my story, and prevented a conversation from following, which might have been a
                     trying one.
                  My mind was ill at ease all the afternoon; and, on the way home from school, I
                     called at Mr. Wingfield's, and asked him to step over to the Two Betseys' that
                     evening, and, if Albert showed the least excitement, to use his influence in
                     calming him. Mr. Wingfield went very willingly; but his kind offices were not
                     needed.
                  And now for the "act" mentioned at the beginning.
                  Finding that no evil consequences resulted from Albert's having been brought
                     under agitation, as one may say, I resolved to take a step, which, it appeared
                     to me, would be for the good of all concerned. So, the night before leaving, I
                     wrote a note,—wrote it just as cordially and tenderly and sympathizingly as if
                     I had been writing it to William
                     Henry,—stating, in the most fitting words I knew how to use, that the case
                     which I related to him the day we talked together at the pond was his own;
                     accounting for my knowledge of the circumstances by the fact of my having been
                     acquainted with a family to whom the young lady was related. It seemed
                     unnecessary to go into the particulars of my acquaintance with Emmeline: in
                     fact, I had no wish to do so. Neither did I make any excuse for not having
                     spoken sooner, well knowing that he would understand my motives.
                  This letter I left with Mr. Wingfield, and begged that he would make an errand
                     to the shop on the following day. I long to know what effect it had. I'm so
                     afraid I moved too soon! Perhaps he is at this very moment on his way to
                     Emmeline. Perhaps he went immediately: that would be his usual
                     straight-forward, matter-of-fact manner of doing things. I don't think there is
                     much sentimentality about Albert. I think his love for her was and is strong,
                     deep, and true, but not sentimental, if you can understand that. It will be a
                     self sacrificing love, an everlasting love, but not exactly what we should call
                     a sentimental love. If you don't understand, say so.
                  
                     Ever your loving cousin,
                     LUCY MARIA.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—I had a little talk with Mr. Wingfield, in the course of which he told me
                     some interesting particulars of the cures he has performed. This remarkable
                     influence which he possesses is as much a mystery to himself as to anybody.
                     Certainly it is a mystery to me.
                  It can't come from his manner; for he has no dignity whatever: indeed, his
                     appearance is the very opposite of imposing. He shows some reluctance in using
                     his power. During our talk, however, he told me it was his firm conviction that
                     he could do a great deal for the patients in the insane-asylums, but that he
                     doubted whether those in charge would consent to his trying.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER LX.—ANXIETY.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA AT SUMMER-SWEETING PLACE.
                  DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—I have just received a letter from 'Lisabeth, evidently
                     written in some anxiety of mind. Albert left home the day after I came away. He
                     was not "over-excited," she says; "but the look of his face was different from
                     any look we ever saw there,—different from what it has been lately, and from
                     what it was while he was not right in his mind, and from what it used to be. He
                     brought in a good deal of wood, and split kindling enough to last a good while,
                     saw to the hens, and dug a track to the shop-door, as rational as anybody." I
                     can imagine it all. I know the prompt, decisive way in which he would decide
                     what to do, and then do it.
                  My letter, then, brought him no immediate harm; but, short-sighted creature! I
                     didn't look far enough ahead. He has gone to Emmeline; of course he has gone to
                     Emmeline. Now, what will be the effect on him of that meeting? I declare, I am
                     so anxious, that, were there nothing special to prevent, I should hie me back
                     to Parting Ways quicker than I came, to be near the Two Betseys. Dear souls!
                     they really quite depended on my running in; and were so grateful for the
                     interest I took in him! as if 'twere any thing I could help! Though it was
                     somewhat embarrassing to have them rely on my judgment; for
                        judgment is a quality to which I make not the smallest
                     pretensions ('twould be no use to).
                  One day when I was sitting in the little back-room with Albert, the Two Betseys
                     having just stepped into the shop, he gathered up a bundle of pickerel-traps he
                     had been at work upon, came toward me, stood there waiting half a minute, and
                     then said in his plain-spoken way, "I am sensible of what you have
                     done for me." It seemed just right that he should say, in words,
                     exactly that, and nothing more, without thanks or compliments. His tone, his
                     manner, the expression of his face, did say more. I had often wondered whether
                     he were or were not conscious of my having taken an interest in him from the
                     first, and of the various ways in which I had shown it.
                  The special hinderance above mentioned is Maggie. Dorry brought
                     her here yesterday; and we insisted on her staying a day or two. They were
                     visiting their grandmother at Shaw's Mills, and came here to talk to me about
                     Mr. Wingfield, and the probability of his being able and willing to do any
                     thing for their father. They want to take him to Parting Ways as soon as the
                     weather begins to grow mild. Mr. Wingfield has not yet consented to try. He is
                     very shy of using his power, because, he says, he doesn't know where it comes
                     from. How foolish! Some people can soothe by singing. Do they know where that
                     power comes from? Do we know where any power comes from? We are not all
                     fashioned alike. Some can keep people awake; others can put people to sleep.
                     Nurses have, not unfrequently, the "power of touch," as many an invalid will
                     bear witness. 'Tilda has, in some
                     degree. She makes a capital nurse. The sick are always glad to get her to watch
                     with them. Mother Delight says, "'Tildy always knows where the wrinkle in the
                     under-sheet is, and just where the bolster needs a punch; and, if you have a
                     little shiver anywhere, she's sure to tuck the blanket right agin it."
                  'Tilda has an idea she would like to go into a hospital. Perhaps by another
                     year, if I get a school in this neighborhood, we shall let her go,—dear chubby
                     sister 'Tilda! You don't know what a good girl 'Tilda is! She is so tender of
                     mother! If mother has a hard job to do, she contrives to do it on the sly when
                     'Tilda is away. Maggie always helps wipe dishes when she is staying here, and
                     helps generally. I fancy she rather enjoys our quiet home-life, her own home is
                     so broken up, poor girl! I fancy, too, that she likes us because
                     we belong to William Henry. I fancy that she likes to do little
                     kind offices for his grandmother, and have his grandmother speak to her in an
                     affectionate manner. If these fancies are founded on fact, she must be ill at
                     ease. Their intercourse just before he left was of the most icy description. I
                     wonder whether I ought to tell her of that errand upon which her
                     mother came to me. No: Billy will soon be home: let matters take their course,
                     and let me have the entertainment of watching them take their course. My
                     fancies may be fancies, and nothing more. She spoke, after her mother's death,
                     of not wanting to be happy. Possibly this state of mind still continues; though
                     I do think she is heartily interested in working with Mrs. Everson, and enjoys
                     it. She told us, last evening, some most touching incidents which had come to
                     her knowledge; last night, rather. We three sat up talking till
                     past midnight. Grandmother went off to bed. Oh! I forgot to tell you. We took
                     tea in there; and, Georgiana being away on a visit to Hannah's, I said all
                     night. After grandmother and Uncle Carver had gone to bed, we three snuggled
                     round the fire,—that is to say, round a bed of coals, two brands, one burnt
                     stick, and a flicker,—and there we talked, talked, talked. Imagine, if you like
                     to, me sitting in grandmother's little old-fashioned, straight-backed
                     sewing-chair; 'Tilda at the left of me, close up, on a cricket; Maggie at the
                     right of me, close up, on the rug. Maggie's face has changed considerably since
                     you saw it,—the Thanksgiving before last. Not in beauty: oh, no! Did you ever
                     notice, that where there are blue eyes, and dark hair, eyebrows, and lashes,
                     there is usually a handsome face? The coloring that goes with these is so rich!
                     Maggie's face has more depth of expression, more tenderness, more
                        soul, than formerly. We frequently hear it remarked of a person
                     who has known trouble, and risen above it,—has, as you may say, conquered
                        a peace,—"How much soul there is in that person's face!" But now and
                     then, in one of these cases (owing, perhaps, to physical decay), there is an
                     eclipse: the eyes lose their light; the face becomes vacant of expression.
                     Where is that sweet, earnest soul then? This was one of the subjects which came
                     up last night after Maggie had been talking about her father, and of the sad
                     change in him.
                  And we had the boldness, we three girls, when it grew late enough to suppose
                     the great wise philosophers were all asleep in their beds, and out of hearing,
                     to bring up the most tremendous question for discussion you ever heard of;
                     namely, What should be the object of living? We pulled it all to pieces, and made it over
                     into little ones; but even the little ones had two sides to them, and some
                     three. Should we try to gain the good opinion of others? That was one of the
                     little ones. It is a pleasure to be liked. A pleasure worth striving for? I
                     think it is. If you'll write us a letter on this subject, we will read it in
                     council. It is a pleasure to be liked; but should it be, when we know we don't
                     deserve the liking? If we are honest-minded, will not the consciousness of
                     hidden faults destroy this pleasure? Suppose a person who has some physical
                     defect which can be kept hidden—as a hump, say, a tumor, a bad humor, a
                     withered limb—were praised for being elegant in figure, or robust in health:
                     would such a praise be a real satisfaction. to him? Wouldn't he
                        know just how it was with him? And suppose a person who is at heart
                     mean, or selfish, or envious, or untruthful, succeeds in hiding those qualities
                     beneath a pleasing exterior, and, as a consequence, wins golden opinions: would
                     those opinions be really satisfying to him? Wouldn't he know?
                  
                  We laid plans for the future,—splendid ones! 'Tilda is going to be a doctor.
                     This will take money. She is going to earn it by doing (literally) whatever her
                     hands find to do; and Maggie and I are going to help her in various ways.
                     Maggie said she saw work enough ahead among those poor creatures in the city to
                     last her her lifetime and twenty lifetimes; and she should devote herself to
                     that.
                  Dear, dear, how much there is to do in this world! No excuse for staying idle,
                     when there's so much to be done, and so much to be learned. We can always take
                     hold somewhere. And'twill be so as long as a human being is left to enjoy a
                     pleasure or to receive a benefit. And one comforting thought is, Myra, that
                     even though we may be lacking in brains, or leisure, or opportunity, we can
                     always find steady work on ourselves,—so many improvements to make, you know!
                     I've seen it stated somewhere, by some great writer, that a man (meaning a
                     woman too) needs his whole lifetime to make himself endurable to
                        himself. Rather discouraging, isn't it? Still it is something to be
                     always sure of a job.
                  I told the girls my object in life was to have a good time,—good time working;
                     good time studying; good time meeting with good kind of people; good time
                     helping along good works; good time making presents; good time singing,
                     dancing, and playing; good time enjoying all the beautiful things that God has
                     given us, and that human genius has given us; and especially good times at home
                     when our dear ones gather together.
                  Myra, you know well you are one of my dear ones. Why linger so long away? I
                     pine for the light of that sunshiny face. Do let it beam soon on
                  
                     LUCY MARIA.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—Cousin Colby is still in Europe. I wish he might meet some person
                     possessed of divine eloquence who would convince him that his life may be made
                     serviceable to others, even if it seem of no account to himself.
               
            
            
               
               LETTER LXI.—BUSINESS-PLANS.
               LUCY MARIA FROM SUMMER-SWEETING PLACE.
               DEAR MYRA,—The delightful weeks of your visit—how quickly they sped! I am living
                  them over again in remembrance, and enjoying them afresh; though, to be sure, this
                  kind of enjoyment has in it rather too much of sadness. I wish you could have
                  staid till the end of my vacation. But then Hannah would have been disappointed;
                  and it is certainly of the highest importance that you should see her girl-baby.
                  Tell her, please, that father says (she sent him word he might name it)
                     Phebe sounds about as well as any name to him.
               I shall be in Parting Ways week after next. Can't you stop there going home?—only
                  thirty or forty miles out of your way! I want you to see all the people there, and
                  take a row up the stream, and get acquainted with the Two Betseys and with Albert;
                  for do you know that Albert will probably live quite near us here at
                  Summer-Sweeting Place? This is the plan now: so Dorry writes. Don't you remember
                  that day Dorry came upon us so suddenly, in the first week of your visit I think
                  it was, when he and Mr Fry went over to Ellerton together on a mysterious errand?
                  It was to see about buying Vose and Son's hide and leather establishment.
               They two and Albert have arranged to buy it, tannery and all; and are going to
                  take possession the first of June, and will carry on the business in partnership.
                  Albert had considerable experience in the buying, selling, and tanning of hides
                  out West. Father and Uncle Carver will get all their teaming. Mr. Fry is to be the
                  travelling member; and William Henry has been offered the situation of bookkeeper,
                  with a pretty good salary. Mrs. Paulina says William Henry is lucky to get such a
                  situation. But I don't see any luck in the matter. I see a natural result of his
                  having earned the reputation of being trustworthy. 'Tis every thing to have a
                  person we are "sure of," says Mr. Fry. The very hour the bargain was
                  completed, Dorry telegraphed Billy to make no more engagements with Mr. Banvard,
                  and wrote him to come east with the first west wind that blew. Albert is entirely
                  satisfied with what Billy has done for him thus far, and will, I think, be pleased
                  with him, on the whole; though, in some respects, they are quite unlike. Albert is
                  a methodical, orderly, keep-things-in-their-place character; while poor Billy is
                  rather of the opposite persuasion. Still, when it comes to figures, to debit and
                  credit, nobody could be more exact than Billy. I remember how it was years ago in
                  his boyish transactions.
               Speaking of luck, don't you think there's less of it than is generally supposed?
                  Those who meet with success are often called "lucky;" but I rather think that
                  their luck is, for the most part, only the result of causes easy enough to be
                  traced. There's Mr. Calloon. His aim was to be a rich man; and, in the
                  accomplishment of that aim, he has left no stone unturned. (In fact, some stones have been turned which would
                  better have been left unturned.) It is by persistent effort, by concentrating his
                  energies upon this one object, by making money his main chance, that
                  Mr. Calloon has succeeded. Next the question arises, Is his life a true success?
                  He is rich: but he is not honorable; he is not just; he is not generous; his mind
                  is uncultivated; he was never known to interest himself in any benevolent
                  enterprise. Can that life be called a true success which shows as its highest,
                  noblest result an accumulation of money? The individual who achieves this kind of
                  success only will have to begin pretty poor on the other side.
               
               The life of Mrs. Everson's husband, judging from all I have heard of him, must
                  have been a true success. He was a gentleman of culture and refinement, cordial,
                  kind-hearted, interested in all good causes, and never refused help to the needy.
                  Why, I consider even Uncle Carver's life, poor as he is, much more of a success
                  than Mr. Calloon's. In one of grandmother's old letters to Billy at school, she
                  speaks of his father as being a man who is "pleasant in his family, good to the
                  poor, and who reads high kind of books." This letter was written on the occasion
                  of Billy's first visit to Dorry, and with a view, no doubt, of preventing him from
                  comparing his father unfavourably with the wealthy Mr. Baker. Dear, dear, to think
                  that those two boys are now taking their places among men! To think of Dorry being
                  partner in a large concern! though, to be sure, he is considerably older than
                  Billy. It is no use denying, Myra, that I look upon this grand business-scheme not
                  with an eye strictly to business. Billy must come home now, and he
                  and Maggie must meet. I have, in a kind of incidental dental way,
                  kept him pretty well informed of her movements and her occupations. Dorry and I
                  agreed, long ago, that it would be better not to joke Maggie about Billy, or Billy
                  about Maggie. He has never sent her a message, that I know of; though he has,
                  occasionally, sent her a bug or two picked from the prairies. Of course Billy's
                  pride was touched, and not only by Mrs. Baker's communication, but by Maggie's
                  manner. He ought to consider, though, that she knew nothing at all about the
                  message, and that the alteration in his own manner was reason enough for the
                  alteration in hers. Were Billy a trifle more conceited, or were not Maggie's
                  social standing considerably above his own, it would be easier for him to see
                  things in this light.
               You say I ought to rest satisfied, after helping to bring together my
                     Unknown Lovers, and let my Doubtful Lovers manage for
                  themselves. (By the way, be sure and don't leave 'Lisabeth's letters at Hannah
                  Jane's; for she could never stop looking at that wonderful girl-baby long enough
                  to send home anybody's letters to anybody. I trust they reached you safely. You
                  left them, with your veil and handkerchief, on the fire-frame, when you went to
                  bid grandmother good-by. As soon as Hannah has read them, do put them immediately
                  into your travelling-bag.) As to being "satisfied," I am not; no, not even with
                  the union of Albert and Emmeline. How can I be "satisfied," when, after laying
                  such perfectly blissful plans for their first meeting, I am compelled to think of
                  its having taken place in a street car? The news gave me a shock from which time
                  alone, and plenty of it, can recover me. The wheels of that car—I should like to
                  know its number—rolled over my
                  sensibilities, and crushed their tenderest chords; the jerks of its brake
                  scattered my poetic visions to the winds; and the stroke of its bell was the
                  death-knell of my sweetest fancies.
               Nor does it console me that Emmeline herself caused all my woe by following him
                  into that cruel car (of Juggernaut). To be sure, it is some satisfaction to know
                  that she did this from strong impulse, and a longing to be near him for a little,
                  little while. But, oh, if she only had restrained the impulse, the longing! She
                  might have known he would have known her in spite of that veil and
                  that turning-aside! What's a veil to a lover's eyes, or a turning-aside? Oh! why,
                  why, why did she not go on to Beulah? Then they might have met where first they
                  met!
               Dorry writes that his father and Maggie are comfortably established at Mr.
                  Wingfield's father's house; and that he finds going out by rail every night not so
                  dreadfully tiresome, after all. He and Maggie are in a hurry for my school to
                  begin; which is not strange, seeing they know scarcely anybody there. Maggie
                  writes that she is getting acquainted with the Two Betseys and Johnny Staples, and
                     with the pond. She is learning to row.
               A thousand kisses to the darling sweet, the precious one. I should think Hannah
                  might name her after me too. Phebe Lucy has a nipped sound, to be sure; but Phebe
                  Maria is quite euphonious.
               Love to Hannah and the baby's father, and kisses to Buddy, from
               
                  COUSIN L. M.
               
            
            
               LETTER LXII.
               
                  LUCY MARIA FROM PARTING WAYS.
                  DEAR COUSIN MYRA,—Once more at Parting Ways. Charming May (sweet spring maiden
                     that she is: may brightest blessings rest upon her head, as they do!) took the
                     trouble to come before me and spread down her green carpets, to paint the arch
                     overhead a very pretty shade of blue, to hang up floral decorations, even to
                     strew flowers in my pathway; and likewise arranged it so that musicians
                     concealed in the groves should welcome me with music.
                  Seriously, how delightful it is to come back to these hills and fields and
                     orchards, which I left, a few months ago, dead and buried, and
                     find them all alive again, and smiling with flowers!
                  Maggie met me at the station. It seems so strange to have her staying here! She
                     is full of hope for her father, and thinks his general health is aleady
                     beginning to improve under Mr. Wingfield's vigorous rubbings. (Mr. Wingfield's
                     manner of treatment varies, I find, according to circumstances.) She is even
                     disposed to give him the credit of her father's consenting to let Dorry have
                     money for going into business. But I consider this as mainly owing to Albert's
                     influence. Albert explained the
                     whole matter to Mr. Baker in a plain, authoritative way, which not only aroused
                     his attention, but kept it aroused long enough for him to be made to comprehend
                     that money thus and so invested would be money well invested. Albert does show
                     occasionally this decisive, authoritative manner: still he is so well-meaning,
                     that no one can take offence.
                  Mr. Baker is quiet, and, at times, depressed. Occasionally, however, he
                     brightens up, and will then join in the conversation. These bright intervals
                     are pretty likely to occur at evening, when a lively circle gathers round him.
                     Albert calls there almost every night (when he has not gone out of town to see
                     anybody). Sometimes I go; and as for Johnny Staples, he is more than
                     neighborly,—except, of course, on grinding-days. His story-telling
                     will have to be reckoned in as part of the curative process. He is going to
                     take his bass-viol over to-night. I hear him tuning it already.
                  It is much better for Mr. Baker to be in a place like this, where the neighbors
                     are often running in, and where green things are growing close about his doors
                     and windows. As the season advances, Maggie will coax her father out every
                     pleasant day into the woods and fields, and will try to make him take an
                     interest in gardening (the smell of the earth, you know); and I
                     have promised to lend her some of my smallest little scholars now and then to
                     sing, and play plays, where he can hear and see them. I have not the least
                     doubt but that Albert was helped by influences such as these.
                  Weren't you surprised to hear that William Henry had got home? He took us
                     completely by surprise. Grandmother sent a boy to the post-office for a letter,
                     and he brought home a Billy!
                  Now we shall see what we shall see. If Maggie does still retain her interest in
                     him, she knows how to conceal it; that is, she keeps the fountain of blushes
                     under pretty good control. Sometimes the thought crosses my mind, that Mrs.
                     Everson has succeeded too well in interesting Maggie in her kind of work; that
                     Maggie may, aside from the care of her father, insist on making it her
                     life-work. There is a strong appearance of this now.
                  The chiefest comfort I have in the matter—matter of Billy and Maggie—is her
                     expressing so little interest in the young man: its smallness seems unnatural.
                     If, after they shall have met, the coolness between them continues, either
                     Dorry or myself must let Maggie know of her mother's interference. I think I
                     should have done this already, had there been any thing in her manner, or
                     enough in her manner, to warrant my doing so.
                  You have no idea how old and wise and mature William Henry has grown. This one
                     year seems to have done the work of many. Its varied experience has, I think,
                     effected some change in his views of life. He has had to assume grave
                     responsibilities; has come in contact with many different classes of people;
                     and, with all the rest, has been brought face to face with death.
                     You remember those dreadful days in the wilderness, don't you? He says he had
                     given up all hope of living. And then—Myra, I can scarcely endure the thought
                     of this, and Billy cannot bear the slightest allusion to it—there was that
                     terrible scene of poor Robbie's sufferings and death. Oh, to have to lie there,
                     powerless to help! Dear Robbie, with his merry laugh and his pleasant ways; always so full of fun;
                     always, wherever he went, the life of the company! How he enjoyed every thing
                     that summer he spent with us! His poor mother is heart-broken. Billy went to
                     see her shortly before coming east. She turned away as he entered the door, and
                     went into another room.
                  William Henry has always enjoyed home-life and home-friends; but there is added
                     to this enjoyment now, it seems to me, a true appreciation of it, such as never
                     comes to us until some one very near and very dear has been taken away. He also
                     recognizes more fully, I think, his father's excellent qualities; and is so
                     tender of his grandmother, so affectionate to Georgie, so happy at being with
                     all of us once more!
                  I fancy, too, that our young man begins to understand himself better than in
                     times past; and that his views as to the main objects of life are, on the
                     whole, pretty satisfactory views. He may still—and I am willing that he
                     should—aim at the appliances and comforts of wealth (as expressed by the "grand
                     house," "silver dishes," and "gilt" picture-books of his boyish aspirations);
                     but I feel almost sure that he will likewise keep in mind other and nobler
                     aims. Who knows but that by the time Billy is, say, forty years old,—perhaps
                     sooner,—he will have worked his way out of the "dilemma" he complained of to me
                     a year or more ago, and find himself not only attending strictly to business,
                     but interesting himself in ideas, helping in good works, and taking sides on
                     the great questions of the day, whatever they may be then? And I wonder what
                     they will be.
                  Myra, even if things do not turn out as we are hoping they may, and, as a
                     consequence, our dear Billy has to suffer, still there will be this
                     consideration,—that the experience of suffering may tend to purify and elevate
                     his nature more than the experience of happiness. Perhaps we are not truly wise
                     in asking for our friends that sorrow may never come to them. Still I'm afraid
                     I do ask for this particular friend that this particular sorrow we have in mind
                     may never come to him.
                  I have had another beautiful letter from Emmeline. Her letters are not—are not
                     exhilarating, but, on the contrary, restful. She is at rest. Happiness abides
                     in her, and she in it. I think I shall have to call her my
                     Peaceful Lady now.
                  I hope great things from Emmeline. You may remember my saying once that she
                     seemed just waking up to a perception of ideas. Now, can't you
                     see, that, as she becomes more and more aroused, her conscientiousness is going
                     to make her take hold of the right side? I tell you that conscientiousness is a
                     pretty good basis to work upon. The Two Betseys have—
                  There, the horse is harnessed, and I hear Mr. Staples calling me. I will sign
                     my name, and will put an addendum in the
                     morning.
                  
                     LUCY MARIA.
                  
               
               
                  MORNING.
                  I was meaning to put into my addendum some
                     things the Two Betseys had said in speaking of Albert and Emmeline; also any
                     hasty prittle-prattle which my morning pen might scribble
                     concerning our evening with Mr. Baker. In place of these, however, I am going
                     to give you an account of a surprising little adventure which befell me, and
                     which you will like particularly to hear.
                  
                  It began with a walk; and the walk began at Mr. Wingfield's soon after our
                     arrival there. It was Maggie's idea. She proposed, that, while Mr. Staples was
                     entertaining her father, we three—she, Albert, and myself—should go to the
                     station and meet Dorry. The distance by the road is nearly three-quarters of a
                     mile: but we naturally took the shorter and pleasanter way; namely, a path
                     which led across the fields and through a wood, and wound around a hill,—a hill
                     that was, speaking without exaggeration, blue with violets. After leaving the
                     path, it was only by great care that we kept from treading upon them. We left
                     the path, having plenty of time, and climbed to the top in order to get a finer
                     view of the sunset. That hill-top, Myra, was the spot where, if what "might
                     have been" had been, Mr. Jason Ellis would have built a
                     dwelling-house for himself and 'Lisabeth. The fence enclosing the new cemetery
                     runs along, partly hidden by trees, on the side of the hill opposite the one we
                     climbed. Very few lots have been laid out; and the land remains in pretty
                     nearly its natural state of wildness, being, in some places, covered thickly
                     with woods. Albert and Maggie sat quietly down upon the hill-top, content with
                     watching the glory of the western sky. But I must needs pick violets, and watch
                     the glory too. And you know how it is when you are picking violets: there is
                     always a bunch a little farther off that looks bluer and fairer than any of the
                     near ones.
                  Those little farther-off bunches enticed me on and on, until I
                     found myself, at last, standing quite away from Maggie and Albert, with my
                     hands full of the bluest and fairest. Suddenly the idea occurred to me of
                     taking them into the cemetery, and strewing them over the old man's grave. The
                     spirit of true repentance which he showed at last was worthy, I thought, of
                     recognition, and deserved that little tribute of flowers.
                  I went back. a few steps, and called out to the others that I would only be
                     gone a few moments; then ran down, climbed over the fence into the cemetery,
                     found the grave, and strewed my violets there. It was in a secluded nook
                     overshadowed by grand old trees. I was surprised to see that the place was in
                     excellent order. The undergrowth had been cleared away, the grave newly sodded,
                     and a rose-bush planted at its head. I have since learned that Albert did this
                     good work by 'Lisabeth's request.
                  At the time I called out to the others, I noticed walking leisurely along upon
                     the hill-top, at a little distance from them, a gentlemanly-looking man,
                     wearing a tall hat, and carrying a slender cane. He had the appearance of a
                     stranger, being much better dressed than our Parting-Ways' men are on
                        week-days. I am going to tell, in a few moments, who this
                     stranger was; and have no doubt you will be very much surprised.
                  I left the cemetery by a lovely winding path, which brought me to the fence at
                     a place where the bars were let down. Here I came upon a party of men,
                     laborers, who had been at work on some of the new lots. I waited until they had
                     stepped over and gone along, and was just stepping over myself, when a man (the
                     same one I had seen on the hill) emerged suddenly from the trees on the other
                     side, and came toward me, evidently with the intention of passing on into the
                     cemetery. He was a slim, dark-looking man. I glanced at him as we met, and
                        recognized ognized in that glance
                     the thin face, sallow complexion, and small bright eyes, of Cousin
                        Colby,—Cousin Colby, whom I had supposed to be far away over the
                     waters!
                  We both spoke. I uttered a short and sudden "Why!" while he, in
                     calmer tones, though with emphasis, pronounced my name, "Miss
                        Carver?"
                  "Pardon me," said I, coming to myself "It is such a surprise meeting you
                     here!"—"The same to me, meeting you," he answered, speaking rapidly, and
                     clipping his words. "Is this your place of residence?"
                  There was not the faintest ray of a smile on his face; but those deep-set—I had
                     almost said uncanny—eyes shone with a more intense light even than
                     in his happiest days. He was certainly under strong excitement.
                  "Oh, no! this is not my home. I am teaching school here. It is a very pleasant
                     neighborhood," I replied with some embarrassment, caused by a consciousness of
                     knowing more about his affairs than he supposed me to know, and also of having
                     concerned myself with them.
                  "I only came this afternoon; had an errand here," he answered, speaking in the
                     same nervous, abrupt manner. "Came to see a man." The words, "came to see a
                     man," were added in an altered tone, and, it seemed to me, in a very peculiar
                     tone. While speaking them, he made a movement as if to go on toward the
                     bars.
                  "That is the cemetery," I said. "Excuse me; but I thought you might not care to
                     go that way."
                  He muttered something in an undertone, which sounded like (though I caught this
                     by the emphasis rather than by distinguishing the words) "Just the way I do
                     want to go."
                  "To be sure, it is a pleasant spot," I ventured; "and —and there are a great
                     many pleasant spots around here, and around all these little villages. Indeed,
                     I suppose there are everywhere. I suppose the world is full of pleasant spots.
                     One would have to live five hundred years to see the five hundredth part of
                     them."
                  Though all this was said mainly for the sake of saying something; and to cover
                     my embarrassment, yet I was conscious of an undefined feeling prompting me to
                     show up to him the cheerful side of things. "Yes," I added, as the
                     semi-unconscious wish suddenly grew into an earnest longing that his life
                     should be made bearable to himself, and useful to others,—"yes, five hundred
                     years. And how much good one might do in all that time, or in one hundred, or
                     in fifty!"
                  I was careful, you observe, to suggest action, rather than enjoyment; for
                     people—that is, wretched people—who would sicken at the very idea of enjoying
                     can sometimes be brought to relish doing.
                  
                  Not Cousin Colby, however. You should have heard the contemptuous tone in which
                     he snapped up my words.
                  "Doing good! What is doing good? I suppose you call providing
                     comforts for the poor doing good. What signifies a stove or carpet more or
                     less? The world's heroes have not depended on comforts. The condition of the
                     miserable wretches appears not half so unbearable to themselves as to the
                     lookers-on. And perhaps the lookers-on are as much dissatisfied with their own
                     condition, and have trials as hard to endure, as those whom they are pitying so
                     much. Instructing the ignorant you call 'doing good;' but since
                     almost nothing is known, even to the wisest, compared with the infinitude that is hidden, why trouble
                     ourselves to pass around that almost nothing? The wisdom of the wise is but a
                     short remove from the foolishness of the foolish. Besides, with large
                     opportunities come increased responsibility, and power to do evil.
                  "Making the bad better" (he went on rapidly; I, meanwhile, standing in mute
                     astonishment, feeling all the time that the others would be wondering at my
                     long absence),—"making the bad better might certainly be called 'doing good.'
                     But who are the bad? The doer of good picks up from the dirt two
                     little beggars who are quarrelling over a crust, and gives them advantages
                     which enable them, in time, to quarrel over a larger crust in the shape of
                     money, land, houses. The doer of good himself was quarrelling, very likely, and
                     perhaps with his own brother, for possessions. Members of your 'doing-good'
                     societies are just as arrogant, jealous of each other, narrow, domineering, as
                     the rest of mankind. People who can't keep their tempers at home, selfish
                     people, envious people, hiding their sins, go down, as they call it, among the
                     outcast, saying, 'Come up here, ye bad ones, and stand with us good ones!'
                     Perhaps, in the view of Him who sees the heart, they are already standing on
                     the same level. If, then"—
                  At this point of his tirade a little girl came running down the hill, calling
                     out, "Miss Carver, Miss Carver!, that woman and man over there want you to
                     come!"
                  Cousin Colby left abruptly with a bow, which was scarcely more than a nod, and
                     passed on into the cemetery, where I soon lost sight of him among the deepening
                     shadows.
                  Now, if you care to know my opinion, Myra, it is this: that the "man" he came
                     to see was no other man than Albert. I think he had a curiosity, a morbid
                     desire, to behold the individual whom Emmeline could prefer to himself. This is
                     my opinion; and you can accept it, or not accept it. I am certain that the tone
                     and expression with which he said "Came to see a man" were peculiar. How many
                     ways there are of bearing trouble!
                  Some writer has said, that, if we bear the cross cheerfully, it will, in time,
                     bear us. Laura thinks it by no means impossible that this may happen even to
                     Cousin Colby.
                  Laura—of whom, by the way, I have much to tell you—takes great interest in the
                     fortunes of William Henry and Maggie. She suggests, that, if what I am hoping
                     for takes place, it will be much better for them that their course of true love
                     did not run smooth a year or so ago. No doubt she is right in this. Certainly
                     Maggie will be likely now to value love at its true worth; for
                     don't you remember how, at her mother's death, she mourned that there was no
                     one to love her best?
                  I wish you could become acquainted with Laura. You would soon begin to love
                     her. She has one of the very sweetest, kindest natures, and, though an invalid,
                     makes her life a blessing to all about her. She grieves over her inability "to
                     do," not knowing that her character is ever "doing." In a little
                     talk we had the other day, she remarked to me quite sadly, that, by being an
                     invalid, she was losing three enjoyments: first, that of earning her own
                     living; second, that of helping in works of benevolence; third, the enjoyment
                     of perfecting herself, to the extent of her ability, in some particular calling
                     or accomplishment.
                  
                  This last is probably what people mean when they speak of the enjoyment of the
                     artist. I suppose the true artist finds his highest satisfaction, not in the
                     consciousness that he is earning money, and perhaps doing something for the
                     benefit of others, but in bringing his work just as near to the point of
                     perfection as he possibly can.
                  I don't know that I had ever considered before hew much women—that is, many
                     women—are giving up by depriving themselves of this last kind of
                     enjoyment,—such, for instance, as the painter gets in painting his pictures;
                     the sculptor, in chiselling his marbles; the poet, in writing his poem; the
                     composer, in composing his symphony; the inventor, in perfecting his invention;
                     the mechanic, even, in turning out a good piece of work.
                  Don't you believe that multitudes of women are losing this very highest kind—at
                     any rate, it is one of the very highest kinds—of enjoyment, who might just as
                     well have it as to do without it?—not meaning, now, overworked mothers of
                     families, but those who devote themselves chiefly to answering the demands of
                     "society," to making an appearance, and to working in Berlin worsteds.
                  What a long addendum this is! I really must
                     not write another word, except just to sign myself
                  
                     Your loving cousin,
                     L. M.
                  
               
            
            
               LETTER LXIII.—THE PROGRAMME.
               
                  FROM LUCY MARIA AT PARTING WAYS.
                  MY DEAR IMPATIENT COUSIN,—You shall know "the place where and the time when"
                     without further delay.
                  As to the first, there have been several plans. Emmeline's father and mother
                     would have liked to make a grand affair of it at their own house. Another plan
                     was, that they be married in church, and come directly here. Either of these
                     arrangements, however, would shut out the Two Betseys. And, besides, the
                     parties chiefly concerned both preferred a simple, quiet wedding. Albert
                     returned from his last visit with the news that Emmeline herself had proposed
                     that it should take place in the Two Betseys' own little house.
                  The "time when" has been changed to please Johnny Staples. He and
                        mother announced, a short time ago, that the fiftieth
                     anniversary of their own wedding occurred in the latter part of this month;
                     and, on consulting the "log-book," the exact date was found to be
                        May 28. Mr. Staples expressed a wish that Albert's wedding
                     should take place on their own anniversary; and, this being an easy way of
                     gratifying the old man, it has been so arranged.
                  
                  As to the rest, they are to be married in the morning; and then (this part,
                     Myra, is perfectly lovely!)—then they are to set forth on their
                     wedding-journey, not by rail, but in a chaise,—in a chaise, jogging along
                     through pleasant woods, by green fields, and orchards in bloom, to Beulah! Oh,
                     I forget one main point,—the old minister is coming here to marry
                     them! They are to leave the chaise at Beulah, go on to the mountains, stay
                     there a week or two, then return to Beulah, (who knows but
                        "strawberries" may be ripe by that time?) and then come back
                     here, where Emmeline will remain a few days, boarding with one Mr. Rogers in
                     Crooked-Pond Village, and getting acquainted with the Two Betseys, while Albert
                     goes to Ellerton to make arrangements. Mr. Rogers lives close by them. He is
                     the "good teacher," whom Billy, in his school-boy letters, used to call
                     "Wedding-Cake," in opposition to a "bad one," who was called, by him and the
                     boys generally, "Brown-Bread."
                  Albert says he should like to board at our house, and keep a horse, and ride to
                     Ellerton and back, as it is not far. I don't believe my mother would consent;
                     but think, Myra, of the possibility of Summer-Sweeting Place being in the very
                     shine of the honey-moon!
                  I have learned to-day, from Pelly, something which surprised me exceedingly.
                     Pelly says that the day I left here, last February, Albert asked Ann to marry
                     him. He first told her of his love for another; and then said, that, while
                     truth compelled him to confess this, honor demanded that he should
                     marry her. Of course, there was but one answer to give; and Ann
                     gave it. Pelly praised Albert for being willing to do the right
                        thing.
                  
                  But what strange ideas a man must have of the right thing who
                     would marry one woman while loving another! Honorable?—it seems to me that a
                     life which is true, perfectly true, in all its
                     relations, ranks higher than any.
                  "Ann has so much control," Pelly says, "and so much pride, that
                     Albert doesn't know nor never will know how much she feels." Ah, me! ah,
                     me!
                  They are just saying, Mr. Staples and mother, that the "twenty-eighth" comes on
                        grinding-day, and somebody must be got to "tend mill." Mr.
                     Staples says it was just so fifty years ago. He had to get somebody to "tend
                     mill" then; not this, but the "Shaligonackit" Mill. I shall have to get
                     somebody to tend mill too.
                  William Henry is coming here on his way to or from the city. I have written him
                     that it will be better to wait until the wedding is over. The Two Betseys will
                     then have less on their minds; and, besides, his being here will help to keep
                     them from feeling lonely.
                  I shouldn't be surprised if the Two Betseys broke up in the course of a year or
                     two, and went to live near Albert. If they do, "Gapper Sky-Blue" will have the
                     shop. "Gapper Sky-Blue" is the same old man who used to go about selling cakes
                     in William Henry's time, and whom that ever-hungry youth patronized more or
                     less extensively, according to his number of unspent cents.
                  You may depend on my telling you whatever there may be to, tell—very little,
                     probably—about the wedding.
                  
                     From your loving cousin,
                     LUCY MARIA.
                  
               
               
                  
                  P. S.—Pelly, it seems, was in a way to know considerable of Ann at the time
                     when Albert came and left so abruptly, after his stay at Beulah. She said to me
                     with strong emphasis, after recounting the circumstances, "Miss Carver, she
                     would never have borne up hadn't it been for her religion. Her religion kept
                     her alive."
                  I want to tell you all that Pelly told to me, and will at some not very future
                     time.
                  
                     L. M. C.
                  
               
            
            
               LETTER LXIV.—JOHNNY STAPLES'S ANNIVERSARY.
               FROM LUCY MARIA AT PARTING WAYS.
               DEAR MYRA,—Heart could not have wished for a lovelier day, or one better suited to
                  the occasion. Even the clouds were of a pearly, bridal white. There's a great
                  difference in days, you know, even in pleasant ones. Some are bright, some are
                  hazy, some are breezy, some sparkling, some serene, some—But never mind the
                  others: ours was bright and serene. There was just breeze enough—perhaps,
                  considering the circumstances, it should be called a zephyr—to
                  lightly stir the apple-blossoms, and to raise a gentle ripple on the pond.
               Emmeline, with her father and mother, and two cousins,—young girls,—and her friend
                  Mrs. Gillette, and Mrs. Gillette's husband, came to Crooked-Pond Village the night
                  previous, and took rooms at the hotel. The Gillettes sent word beforehand that
                  they should come in their light carriage, an elegant little "rock-away," and
                  should go on to the city in the cars, leaving both horse and carriage to be used
                  on the wedding journey.
               I slept late that morning, but was awakened at last from a delightful dream of
                  brides and bridegrooms, old and young,
                  by the noise of wheels under my window, and the sharp voices of Little Eph and the
                  Howler, who were harnessing the horse, amusing themselves meanwhile with their
                  customary antics; standing on their heads, as likely as not. I remembered then
                  that Ann was to drive quite early over to Lakeville for her brother John and his
                  wife, so as to be sure and have them here in the evening; for, thinking it a pity
                  to have the wedding-day leave off in the forenoon, I had proposed to the relations
                  and near friends of Mr. and Mrs. Staples that they take some notice of this
                  fiftieth anniversary, and surprise the old couple by a kind of quiet, spontaneous
                  gathering. They fell in with this idea at once. "Oh, yes, Miss Carver! we'll do
                  any thing you say, and be glad to: only tell us what." I said there would be
                  nothing to do except to come and bring the children, and have a little singing,
                  and plenty of talking, and perhaps a few simple games,—just a pleasant social time
                  to mark the day with a bright mark. If the little girls could be dressed in white,
                  and wear wreaths,—why, that would go a great way toward making it a pleasant
                  occasion. The mothers quickly consented to this part of the arrangement; indeed, I
                  never knew a mother yet who wasn't glad of a chance to crown her little girl—if
                  she had one—with a wreath of flowers: and I wish, for my part, that such chances
                  came oftener. I told them, that, if the children would meet together at about
                  eleven in the forenoon, I would go with them to pick the flowers, and help them
                  make their wreaths. We informed Johnny Staples and mother, the day
                  before, that John and his wife were coming over, but not a word of the plans for
                  the evening.
               The first thing after breakfast, I went to the Two Betseys', and found them glad
                  and thankful to see me. Albert, they said, had gone off walking in the woods all
                  alone by himself, and would not come back until he came with the
                     others. I carried apple-blossoms (Johnny Staples let me pick them off),
                  and arranged them in a couple of old china pitchers brought from over the sea,
                  they said, fifty odd years ago. I also hung bits of greenery here and there in
                  suitable places. They were much pleased at having their room brightened up in this
                  way.
               Next, by request, I inspected them critically, to make sure there was nothing out
                  of the way in their appearance. 'Lisabeth was the more composed of the two. After
                  I had seen that her cap was on even, and had tucked in the edges of the white
                  muslin about her neck, and picked a few threads off her dress, she remained
                  sitting in the arm-chair, holding her pocket-handkerchief, calmly awaiting the
                  event,—calmly, that is, with the exception of a slight hand-trembling.
               Not so Betty. She, dear woman! possessed with the fear that some speck or spot
                  might have escaped her eye, and also with the notion that some other color besides
                  black should be worn at a wedding, occupied herself alternately with her
                  dusting-cloth and a box of well-preserved ribbons. She wished to make up one of
                  those pieces of ribbon into a bow to wear at her throat. Observing that she
                  inclined strongly to one piece in particular,—gauze, with narrow satin stripes of
                  chocolate brown: brown was a modest color, she said,—I encouraged her wearing it,
                  and made up the bow for her, and pinned it on. She then went into the shop and put
                  a few peppermints in her pocket,—a sabbath-day proceeding, the effect of which was, rather than
                  else, quieting. The shop, by the way, had been swept and garnished, and the inner
                  door left open. Its outer door was closed and locked, and the window-curtain was
                  drawn.
               Mr. Staples met Mr. Hale (the minister from Beulah) at the station,
                  and drove him over,—a genial old man, short in stature, rather clumsily made, but
                  of a most benignant countenance. He arrived early. And, Myra, what do you think? I
                  had seen him before. I saw him when I was quite a small girl. Don't you remember
                  my speaking to you once of a Sunday-school address which moved me very much? This
                  was the very man who gave it! I thought there was something familiar in his
                  countenance; but did not recognize him at first, his hair had grown so very white.
                  When Mr. Staples told him where I came from, he said, "Why! I preached in that
                  town one Sunday, ten or twelve years ago." It flashed upon me then who he was; and
                  I told him I remembered his speaking at the Sunday school. He soon made himself
                  acquainted with 'Lisabeth and Betty; and they three and Johnny Staples conversed
                  together of old times and old customs as easily and pleasantly as if they had
                  known each other all their lives.
               The wedding-party arrived at half-past nine; and the ceremony was performed as
                  soon as they entered. Mr. Staples and myself, with two or three people who live
                  close by, were the only guests, excepting those who came from out of the place.
                  Emmeline looked pale, but, oh, so lovely! Albert looked pale too. Both spoke the
                     "I will" distinctly, and with sufficient emphasis; but I noticed
                  in Albert, afterward, a quiver of the under-lip, and perceived a slight
                  tremulousness in his voice. That blessed old man from Beulah conducted the
                  services in the most impressive manner. I was so thankful he consented to come!
                  for his presence was in every way fitting. While the congratulations were taking
                  place, I found an opportunity of thanking him privately for those words of his
                  spoken so long ago. Why shouldn't we acknowledge benefits of this kind, and return
                  our thanks for them? It seemed to rejoice his very heart to know that what he said
                  had influenced me for good.
               The wedded couple were to set forth on their journey immediately after the
                  ceremony; but those few neighbor guests had, it seems, made a
                  somewhat different arrangement. It was their opinion, expressed to me quite
                  emphatically, that those two ought to have something to eat, and something hot to
                  drink, before setting out on a long ride. So, during the congratulations, and
                  while Emmeline's people were talking with the Two Betseys, they quietly unlocked
                  the shop-door, and brought in from outside several well-filled baskets, covered
                  the counter with a white table-cloth, and set out such an array of nice
                  things!—bread and butter of the sweetest; cake of the lightest; cold meats in
                  delicate slices; tarts, custards, and also jellies and marmalades, in their most
                  enticing forms. Hot tea and coffee were produced from under the counter by some
                  sleight-of-hand process. And, in fact, it was really a remarkably nice lunch. All
                  this, of course, tended to make the occasion a more social one. I could not,
                  however, stay until the end, on account of my engagement with the children. And,
                  on the whole, I was quite as well pleased not to witness the departure; for at
                  such moments the interest becomes, I think, too intense.
               My little flower-gatherers were to meet at Aunt Rebecca's. She lives about half a mile from the Two
                  Betseys', in a large, never-painted farmhouse, set a little way up from the road,
                  in the midst of its cornfields, meadow-lands, and orchards.
               How children will work when they are interested! I had told them they need not
                  wait for me, but might be picking until I came,—field-flowers or any
                  kind,—supposing they would just make a beginning. I found at Aunt Rebecca's six
                  wash-tubs full of daisies, clover, apple-blossoms, dandelions, butter-cups,
                     browse, wild pear-blossoms, violets, and anemones. The tubs were
                  in an unfinished kitchen or porch. You go down two steps into it from the other
                  kitchen. It has an outside-door at each end; and they are both overhung with
                  jasmine.
               Three or four children were at the tubs, crowding in more flowers; and, looking
                  out, I saw others coming toward the house, panting under their loads; while
                  farther off, scattered over fields and hills, were still others, picking away as
                  if for dear life. "Aunt Rebecca," said I, "what shall we do? We shall be buried up
                  in flowers!"—"Oh, I told them I would blow the horn when you came," said she; "and
                  I'll blow it right away."
               At the first note, every child started and ran. In they came, flushed, eager,
                  panting; in they came, so prettily laden!—black-eyed sparklers, blue-eyed doves,
                  children with curly hair, children with plaited hair, short hair,
                     shingled hair, stubby hair, tumbled hair, all charming, all
                  chattering, all questioning what should they do with their flowers. I thought to
                  myself, looking down upon their upturned faces, that nothing prettier could be
                  done with the flowers than to have those children stand and hold them, just as
                  they were then, in their hands, their hats, and their baskets. You will see what a
                  bright thought came to Aunt Rebecca's Laura.
               Somebody outside shouted, "They are coming in sight!" "They" meant Emmeline and
                  Albert. Laura said to me quickly, "Why not let the children run down to the road
                  with their flowers?"
               "The very thing!" said I. "Run, children!—run down and give some flowers to the
                  bride!"
               They were eager enough to go. We gave them hasty directions; telling them to
                  stand, some on one side, some on the other, and, when the carriage came along, to
                  toss in each a handful.
               They were just in time. Watching from the window, we saw the carriage stop, and
                  the shower of flowers fall into it.
               Well, after this little episode was finished, the children dispersed to meet again
                  at the same place at two in the afternoon, to be taught how, and helped, to make
                  their wreaths. No need of picking any more flowers, I told them: indeed, I was
                  very glad that their zeal in the cause enabled me to go home so early, having
                  promised Ann to attend to a few little matters in her absence. Wasn't it fortunate
                  her having so plausible an excuse for leaving the place on that wedding-day
                  morning?
               But to think of her meeting them, after all! John's wife spoke of this at dinner,
                  giving us with vivacity and minuteness the particulars of the bride's dress, which
                  she described as light gray (it was a delicate shade of lavender). I was in
                  perfect misery at having her dwell so long upon the subject.
               And after that, Myra, I heard a few words spoken,—words which I was so sorry for
                  having heard! It happened in this way. I had promised the children to bring rattans for them to wind their
                  wreaths over. There were plenty up in the garret, which Pelly had told me were
                  good for nothing else. I went up for these rattans immediately after dinner, and
                  had just crept behind some old chairs and other rubbish to find them, when I heard
                  Ann coming up the stairs. There was an old-fashioned poke-bonnet tied to a spike
                  close by me; and the idea came into my mind of putting on that bonnet, and
                  surprising Ann by creeping out with it on. But, before I could untie the string, I
                  heard her sink heavily upon her knees by a bed not very far from me, and heard
                  this short prayer: "My God, oh, help me to live!"—then one or two
                  sighs, which, indeed, were rather groans than sighs. I held my breath, fearing
                  that, by some unconscious movement, I might betray myself. She remained there a
                  long time, or what seemed to me a long time, praying, I thought, from the few
                  indistinct murmurs which reached me. I was so afraid that two little girls who
                  were to call here on their way to Aunt Rebecca's might come, and that some one
                  might send them up there to find me!
               She went away at last. I waited until the sound of her voice below two flights
                  assured me there was no danger of our meeting; then crept down to my room. The two
                  little girls were waiting, and Pelly was just suggesting to them my being in the
                  garret. Maggie was waiting too, they said, out on the bridge. Maggie had promised
                  to help in the wreath-making. Ann stopped me as I was going away to say that
                  John's wife and herself both feared that the surprise of seeing so many would be
                  too much for her mother; and that; perhaps, it would be better to give her a hint
                  of it beforehand. I of course assented to this.
               She spoke with her usual calmness, and with the usual pleasant expression on her
                  countenance.
               Maggie and I found a merry little company at Aunt Rebecca's, all eager to begin.
                  We two worked fast, the children handing us the flowers, until every little girl
                  had a wreath. Then we began to wind long garlands with which to decorate our rooms
                  here in the evening. We might put them up, I thought, in a very few moments, just
                  before the company should begin to arrive. When the flowers were all gone, we went
                  out into the orchard, under a snow-white apple-tree, and kept on with our winding
                  there; the children scampering far and near, snatching a flower wherever they saw
                  one; snatching grass, too; for we wound in quantities of that, both blossoms and
                  leaves.
               And then and there, Myra, happened what was for me the great event of the day;
                  namely, the coming of William Henry. I want to tell you how I prepared Maggie to
                  meet him; for this great event was not entirely unexpected to me. Billy wrote me a
                  letter, which had been duly received, saying that he had come to the city on
                  business, and should be out to see me; and that he supposed the wedding would be
                  over by noon of that day. The idea of his thinking he could come the
                  moment it was over! (so anxious to see me, you know!) You will
                  understand, therefore, my mind being in a delightfully tumultuous state of
                  expectation, and enter with all your sympathy into my sudden little freak of
                  adorning Maggie to receive him. As the flowers were brought to us, I picked out
                  the prettiest, and, with a sportive air, put them in her hair, fastened them in
                  her belt, looped up her dress with them, made her shoulder-knots of them, made her bracelets of them, saying as I
                  did so, "You must be made beautiful, my dear, for the evening, you know;" adding
                     silently, "Little you imagine, my dear, for whose eyes you are being made
                     beautiful!"
               I can't tell how it was that he came upon us without our hearing him; though, to
                  be sure, the children were making considerable noise: but come upon us he did,
                  surprising me even. And then, Myra, was the momentous moment.
               I am satisfied now. I shall never ask for any more; never; no, never! But it is
                  not merely of the blush of those blushes that I am speaking, though
                  they excelled in that quality all ordinary phenomena of the kind, but of the
                     expression of them; the—the shyness; the holding back
                  what would not be held back; the—why don't I say the heart speaking through the
                  countenance, and have done with it? And to think of my beholding two such
                  countenances!—yes, to think of this falling to my lot!
               
               After our greetings were over, a period of stiffness ensued. The children,
                  however, coming and going, helped to alleviate this; and I helped also. I
                  questioned Billy about the folks at home. I spoke of the happy event just over,
                  and of the pleasant gathering in prospect; explaining, in connection with the
                  latter, our being where we were, and doing what we were. At last, a sudden working
                  of instinct prompted me to relieve their embarrassment by exchanging rest for
                  motion. "Dear me!" I exclaimed, "we haven't enough white flowers! Let us all, big
                  and small, go up on the hill, and find some anemones!" adding to William Henry, "I
                  don't believe you remember what pretty views there are around Parting Ways."
               We went up among the hills, and, for a time, kept pretty well together. But
                  afterward it happened, in some unaccountable manner, that those two, while I was
                  busy with the children, got strayed away by themselves; and the last I saw of
                  them, they were disappearing at a turning of one of my loveliest
                  winding-paths.
               The last, I mean, until evening. When Dorry came home, between five and six, he
                  met my wandering couple somewhere, and took Billy home to tea with him. I had
                  asked Maggie to come very early; and, immediately after tea, they all three came
                  over in a carryall, bringing Mr. Baker. Mr. Baker's coming was looked upon as
                  something quite wonderful. The occasion was one well suited to a person in his
                  condition. It was not noisy, not very exciting, but a pleasant, cheerful, cheering
                  little time, which just went on and took care of itself. Everybody talked to
                  everybody, and nobody felt obliged to do any thing in particular. Still I could
                  find plenty to say about it, only that my letter is so long already. The little
                  songs, however, you certainly must have.
               William Henry and Dorry, after dropping Maggie and her father, went for the Two
                  Betseys, and drove them over in fine style. They were the second arrivals, with
                  the exception of "Ephrum's children," who, of course, had found it impossible to
                  remain in their own part of the house after being made ready to appear. You should
                  have seen them, Myra, as they filed into the room, and seated themselves in high
                  chairs. Their quietness was the most impressive thing of its kind I ever
                  witnessed. It was due partly to the unusual occurrence of putting on their Sunday
                  clothes of a "week-day," partly to the stiffness of their collars, and partly to the cologne on
                  their pocket-handkerchiefs. Each had a handkerchief, folded square, with a spot of
                  some kind of cologne in the middle of each square. These went continually up and
                  down, up and down, like a flock of white birds, shedding abroad over the room a
                  fragrance indescribable.
               Soon after the Two Betseys came Gapper Sky-Blue and Rosy; then Aunt Rebecca and
                  Uncle Ben with their family; then other aunts, uncles, cousins, and friends; so
                  that, before the evening had fairly begun, the rooms were pretty well filled. The
                  little girls looked charming in their white dresses and wreaths; and as for the
                  boys, each one was presented with a button-hole bouquet. One of the children was a
                  darling girl-baby, the cunningest little thing you ever saw, just beginning to
                  walk; and it was very funny to see Ephrum and Uncle Ben each coaxing this child to
                  walk toward himself. They sat at opposite sides of the room, stooping over, their
                  hands wide spread, beckoning with their fingers. Ephrum's fingers were long and
                  bony, Uncle Ben's short and fat. The child stood still, looking from one to the
                  other, according as each whistled, clucked, or chirruped.
               Mr. Staples was much more overcome by the surprise than I had supposed he would
                  be. I never knew him so little inclined to talk. John's wife, who seemed rather to
                  take the lead, whispered to me that "father" would "come round all right if we
                  only set the people to singing." This was easy enough to do, where all were
                  willing and glad to sing. Mr. Staples did not quite fulfil John's wife's prophecy.
                  He took out his bass-viol, but, after a few attempts at coming in on the
                     bass, put it away again. Both Mr. Staples and mother were
                  much affected by the singing of some verses which Laura brought, and which were
                  sung to the tune of "Auld Lang Syne." Laura told me, in the afternoon, she was
                  trying to write some verses, and showed me the first one. Perhaps you would like
                  to see them; and very likely I can get a copy for you. Cousin Laura made the
                  occasion a rather more interesting one than I had at first thought of doing.
               Yes, I have just been down to ask Ann; and she has lent me hers to copy from. 
                     
                        Just fifty years ago to-day,
                        The orchards were in bloom;
                        And all the buds and flowers of May
                        Gave forth their rich perfume.
                        The birds, just mated, carolled forth
                        Their songs so light and gay;
                        And all the world seemed blooming out,
                        Just fifty years to-day:
                        Just fifty years to-day, my friends,
                        Just fifty years to-day;
                        And all the world, &c.
                     
                     
                        But not the trees alone put on
                        Their brightest and their best;
                        And not the birds alone went forth,
                        Each pair to build its nest:
                        For two young hearts were mated in
                        That bright young month of May;
                        Two loving hearts were in full bloom
                        Just fifty years to-day.
                        Chorus.
                     
                     
                        The flowers that bloomed so brightly then
                        Were only for a day;
                        The birds that sang so lightly then,
                        Long, long since flew away.
                        
                        But those two faithful, steadfast hearts
                        No blight nor changing know:
                        They bloom as freshly as they did
                        Just fifty years ago.
                        Chorus.
                     
                     
                        Yes, still they keep in bloom, my friends;
                        And we enjoy the flowers:
                        
                        Thus doth the fragrance of their lives
                        Shed sweetness over ours.
                        And, as we gather round them here,
                        May we not truly say,
                        "They're just as happy as they were
                        On that first wedding-day"?
                        Chorus.
                     
                  
               
               Between the singing of the last two verses, John's wife suggested to me, that,
                  when all were sung, we should let the children begin to play plays immediately, so
                  that her father and mother might have something to take up their minds. I fell in
                  with this idea; and we started "Whistle the Key" the moment the last chorus was
                  ended. After that we played "Wigwag" and "Numbers" and "Elements," and
                  "Good-morning, Genteel Lady!" Sometimes we had two games in progress at once;
                  though not, of course, in the same room. Mr. Staples seemed pleased to have
                  something lively going on. I noticed, however, that although his interest in our
                  games frequently took him into the different rooms, yet he was sure to find his
                  way back again very soon to mother's chair; and the prettiest
                  incident of the whole evening occurred when they two were sitting side by
                  side.
               Two little girls, at Cousin Laura's request, went softly up to them with one of
                  the long garlands Maggie and I made that afternoon, and began to wind it round and
                  round them, at the same time singing this little song, in which the other children
                  joined. Cousin Laura wrote it for them after she came to the house. 
                     
                        Our brightest flowers we'll bring for you,!
                        With blessings bright as they;
                        Our sweetest songs we'll sing for you
                        On this golden wedding-day.
                     
                     
                        Our hearts are full of love for you;
                        And even children may
                        Send holy prayers above for you
                        On this golden wedding-day.
                     
                     
                        Please take each other by the hand
                        Just as you did before,
                        And let us with a flowery band
                        Unite you now once more.
                     
                  
               
               Laura had told the children to sing over and over the first line of the last verse
                  until grandpa and grandma did what it requested them to do. But, somehow, neither
                  of them seemed capable of comprehending the meaning of words just then; and so a
                  bright little girl, of her own accord, whispered in grandpa's ear. Then his hand
                  crept softly over, and took the hand of his wife in as tender a clasp, I truly
                  believe, as that of fifty years ago. My thoughts flew back to "that first
                  wedding-day;" and, from the absent expression which for a moment dwelt on their
                  faces, I fancied their thoughts had flown back too.
               Seeing, presently, that mother appeared somewhat discomposed, I
                  quietly unwound the garland, and asked Dorry to put it up over the doorway, where
                  it properly belonged. It had been my intention to hang up a great many garlands as
                  soon as it should begin to grow dark (I didn't like to make a great show of
                  preparation beforehand forehand); but I was
                  so much occupied with laughing at "Ephrum's childern," and receiving the people,
                  and watching William Henry and Maggie, that I forgot all about my decorations.
                  Especially was I occupied with the watching of those two. I think, Myra, that,
                  from their beautiful behavior last evening, we may hope for the best. I say,
                  beautiful; for it was beautiful to see that they were on terms of familiarity once
                  more; not quite the same familiarity as that of their younger days, but a shyer
                  sort, far more satisfactory to me, inasmuch as it did not allow of their meeting
                  each other's glances without some confusion of manner. Their faces have lost
                  entirely that stony, frozen look which has troubled me so much in times past; have
                     thawed out, if one might use such an expression.
               Oh, I have so many, many things to say! But they must be left unsaid for the
                  present. I ought to have known that such a day as yesterday could not be crowded
                  into one letter,—such a day, indeed! Think, Myra, of your "twin-cousin," whose
                  life has flowed always so tranquilly on,—of her having to sympathize
                  with emotions so deep and so various!—yes, think of a whole dayful of
                  romance and sentiment! I declare to you that I felt like a prose statue situated
                  in the land of poetry.
               William Henry will stay two or three days. I shall write again very soon; but
                  writing is so unsatisfying compared with talking! When will you come to make that
                  visit? Next week? Do, if you can.
               
                  Affectionately your cousin,
                  LUCY MARIA.
               
            
         
      
   
