
    ----CITATION----
        Chesebro', Caroline, (1825-1873). Dream-land by Daylight .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6037 wright2-0511
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               
               
            
         
         
         
            
               DREAM-LAND BY DAYLIGHT,
               A PANORAMA OF ROMANCE.
            
            BY CAROLINE CHESEBRO'.
            
            
               REDFIELD,
               CLINTON HALL, NEW YORK. 1851.
            
         
         
         
            
               ENTERED, according to Act of Congress, in the year One Thousand Eight
                  Hundred and Fifty-one, by J. S. REDFIELD, in the Clerk's Office of the District
                  Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York.
            
         
         
            A Love Word—In Dedication.
            
               MOTHER OF CONSOLATION! soul-shed tears
               Fall on the thought as baptism—hast thou not
               Been the consoler of my "human years,"
               The one great blessing of my mortal lot?
               Thy faith it was that gave the faithless hope,
               Thy love it was that fill'd the weak with power,
               My weary hands would long and vainly grope,
               Were they outstretched for seeking in this hour
               One worthier of blessings! Light of Life,
               Heart-light wert thou when darkness gathered round;
               Only within thy love, from all this strife
               Of worldliness, have I a resting found:
               This is thy TITLE, there is not another,
               In any king's gift like it, BLESSED MOTHER!
            
            
               I call thee Consolation: when I slept
               Within thy arms, a little, thoughtless child,
               Saw'st thou prefigured, in those shades which crept
               With sleep above me, storms so dark and wild,
               As we have battled?—when I grew, with years
               Still more a dreamer, were thy tender eyes
               Quick to discern, thro' childhood's grieving tears,
               A soul whose birth-right was to agonize?
               I call thee Consolation! If thy heart
               Saw in such vision as the loving have,
               The drama wherein I must bear my part,
               Thou could'st have done no more to soothe and save
               Than thou hast done, Friend rich beyond all other
               In steadfastness, and trust, my blessed mother!
            
            
            
               I think upon thee as in years long past:
               Thou wert not half so beautiful as now,
               Though Time hath over thee a shadow cast,
               And sorrow's trace is left upon thy brow:
               Nor wert thou half so precious, when the child
               Bade, opening her trustful heart, "COME IN,"
               To all who looked upon her so they smiled,
               Nor feared, nor thought of falsehood, guile, and sin:
               Ah, Consolation! I have learned thy truth,
               The grandeur of thy power, and all thy worth,
               Since fled the sweet and happy dreams of youth,
               Since dead my trust in every god of earth;
               I am not poor, but rich, while I have thee,
               For thou art God's own gift of love to me!
            
            
               Thou knowest all my wealth; and that it lies
               In Thought alone, and not in lands, nor gold;
               Thou knowest in what mood these Tales were told,
               That I have never aimed to teach the wise.
               Thou knowest, (none so well,) who said, "Arise,
               And work, and dream no longer, dreaming child:"
               Thou knowest if my masters loved and smiled,
               And if my path spread clear before our eyes!
               To whom, then, should I bring such gift as this,
               Encourager thro' grief, and toil, and pain,
               Whose smile inspired as a lover's kiss
               Through strife for human needs, (oh, not for Fame!)
               To WHOM BUT UNTO THEE? and not with tears,
               But boundless hopes, I bring this work of morning years!
            
            
               CANANDAIGUA, 1851.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               
                  DEDICATION.
                  PAGE iii
               
               
                  Preface, by MRS. E. F. ELLET.
                  vii
               
               
                  Shades and Sunbeams.
                  1
               
               
                  Aurora Borealis.
                  31
               
               
                  The Phbe Bird.
                  55
               
               
                  The Clairvoyant.
                  77
               
               
                  The Human Verb.
                  84
               
               
                  Three Pictures.
                  98
               
               
                  The Coquette.
                  115
               
               
                  The Serpent and the Dove.
                  127
               
               
                  The Man in the Moon.
                  143
               
               
                  About a Genius.
                  160
               
               
                  Callore.
                  178
               
               
                  Thistle Down.
                  191
               
               
                  What Katy Did.
                  206
               
               
                  Eulalie.
                  220
               
               
                  Magnetic Influences.
                  230
               
               
                  The Dead Heart.
                  250
               
               
                  Little Alvah.
                  258
               
               
                  Head and Heart Worship.
                  273
               
               
               
                  The Withered Fig Tree.
                  PAGE 288
               
               
                  The Sexton of the Old Brick Church.
                  349
               
               
                  The Black Frost.
                  353
               
               
                  The Haunted.
                  357
               
               
                  Ground Birds and Eagles.
                  366
               
               
                  Hearts of Oak.
                  389
               
            
         
         
            PREFACE.
            SO GREAT is the number of books at the present day, that the public, somewhat in the
               condition of revellers after a repast, is disposed to show itself fastidious in the
               discussion of any dish newly presented, and to require unusual excellence of flavor
               and piquancy of seasoning, to obtain for it a place and appreciation. Fortunately for
               the chances of merit, the chagrin of the sated Abbe, who, on the appearance after
               dinner of a splendidly dressed hare, could only say to his host, with reproachful
               tears in his eyes, "From an old friend, I did not expect this!"—is not to be
               apprehended as an accident of the mental banquet; an abundance of good things rather
               enhancing the enjoyment of novelties which can offer peculiar claims to attention.
               The timid aspirant, therefore, who brings the first fruits of a soil rich by nature,
               and cultivated with the care necessary to develop the productions of genius in their
               highest perfection, need not fear that his offering will be neglected in the
               multitude of sweets, or condemned because of satiety; since in the usual proportion
               of indiscriminate devourers, over-nice epicures,  and cynics who would find fault with the choicest
               entertainment, there will always be found enough whose just taste can discern and
               estimate what is worthy of praise.
            The author of this volume does not appear wholly as a stranger. Some of the beautiful
               tales it contains have been circulated in magazines and journals, and many readers in
               distant parts of the Union have been charmed by her inventive and descriptive powers,
               and touched by the simple pathos of her narration. These will rejoice in the
               recognition of a loved companion and friend, come to occupy a permanent place in
               their dwelling; while many, unfamiliar as yet with the voice and feature of the new
               visitant, will find the acquisition a most agreeable one.
            MISS CHESEBRO' possesses a finely strung and sensitive nature, susceptible to all
               influences that expand and invigorate the poetic faculty, and imbued with a deep and
               intense love of the beautiful. Her early years have been passed in the midst of that
               fine scenery which has given the name of "the garden of the State" to that portion of
               Western New York, while she has devoted much time to the study of authors whose works
               display the most profound knowledge of the human heart. The lessoning received from
               each of these sources has its effect on what she has written, in which an exquisite
               perception of natural beauty is combined with a sense of its relation to the moral
               emotions, and a subjective character of mind remarkable in one so young. Withal, she
               possesses powers of imagination unsurpassed by any female writer of this country,
               enabling her to impart vivid interest to the scenes she depicts, with a freedom and
               grace of style acquired only by acquaintance with the best models.
            In this introduction of her volume to the public, there is a temptation to say
               something of the modest worth, the filial devotion, the generous warmth of heart, and
               the many amiable qualities of character, which have interested a large circle of
               friends in her success. But such ground is too sacred for intrusion. It only remains
               to launch upon the deep the bark she has freighted with a treasure of pure and lovely
               thoughts, trusting that favoring gales may spring up at once to speed its
               progress.
            
               E. F. ELLET.
            
         
      
      
         
            Dream-land by daylight
            
            DREAM-LAND BY DAYLIGHT.
            
               SHADES AND SUNBEAMS.
               A TRANSPARENT STORY.
               LET the curtain be drawn aside.
               No wonder you of the "dress circle" sit so silently and almost terror-smitten! It
                  is a cheerless scene indeed; that woman's moans are enough to frighten one
                  accustomed only to sounds of joy, and voices of gladness! How thin and scanty is
                  the covering gathered over her emaciated form—a miserable place in which to lie
                  down, sick even unto death! Not a particle of fire on the broken hearth, and how
                  dull, and black, and dusty the chimney-back looks, as though no fire had been
                  kindled there of late, yet it surely is a night when a cheerful blaze in the
                  fire-place would seem not amiss.
               How fast the freezing winter rain is falling: and hark! drop, drop, drop, there is
                  a place in the roof where shingle and rafter are missing, the rain comes in
                  unresisted there, and oh, how dismal its unwelcome presence makes the dismal
                  place!
               See in the chimney corner, crouching, a half-starved cat. She is quite stupid with
                  the cold—and how green and hungry her eyes look; you might count almost every bone
                  in her body—still she clings to that desolate place, cold and hungry as she is;
                  perhaps in grateful remembrance of better days she has known  there, and in the hope that they may return to her
                  again, poor deluded thing!
               The flaming candle light is a luxury that looks strangely out of place, does it
                  not? One would think, who had an eye to the "proprieties," that total natural
                  darkness would best befit a place so very, very wretched—it looks too much like a
                  remaining spark of comfort to see so den-like a home illuminated!
               The sick woman's moans are hushed. Is she dead then? No; her face is hid in the
                  bed-clothes, she breathes, but it is with difficulty—she is sleeping.
               Now from a dark corner, whose recesses you have tried in vain to penetrate, a
                  girl, twelve or thirteen years of age, emerges, and approaches the sick woman. She
                  moves rapidly, but how cautiously over the rough floor, remembering to avoid the
                  chasm which decay has made in one part, and the loose boards beyond there. If you
                  watch carefully you will catch a glimpse of the girl's countenance as she passes
                  where the light of the candle falls most strongly. There, you see, it would be
                  hard to detect much beauty in her face now. She has been indulging in a violent
                  fit of weeping. Noiselessly she is bending over the bed, assuring herself that the
                  sick woman is asleep, and with what a heavy sigh she turns away, and takes, from a
                  shelf near by, a faded thin shawl and a summer bonnet. She is going out. Ah, those
                  garments are a poor protection, dear audience, from the cold—but the child does
                  not think of that now. The fear of death—the dread of the apparently swift-coming
                  trial, of the time when she shall be left alone, haunts her, and her own personal
                  privations and distress are quite forgotten. She hears now the voice
                  of but one of those her dread, constant companions, Want and
                  Sorrow.
               Softly she opens the door, how silently, almost stealthily! but her carefulness
                  cannot keep out the bitter cold air which rushes past her, like a fiend, into the
                  room—and before she has quite closed the door it has extinguished the bit of
                  candle. She does not see this, however, and therefore hastens on.
               Going out in the cold, cheerless night, to beg for a dying woman! To crave, in the
                  name of charity, a morsel that shall, may be, lessen the horrible distress of her
                  only friend. Do you not pray, you who have never known a single privation, that
                  this may not prove a fruitless expedition?
               Roll up the curtain again. Ha—here is something that looks like living. You
                  breathe more freely now—you say, Heaven defend us from these pictures of want and
                  misery, with which we have nothing to do. Nothing to do? Beware, thou
                  who thus declarest faith in a creed so monstrous; for Heaven will demand of thee
                  wherefore, with such phases of life thou hast had nought to do!
               "Wilt thou love her, comfort her, honor, and keep her, in sickness and in health;
                  and, forsaking all others, keep thee only unto her, so long as ye both shall
                  live?"
               If the fervent response of the bridegroom can ensure the life-long happiness of
                  the fair young bride, there will be little need to cherish fear for her
                  future.
               The rain dashes fast against the shutters, and the cold wind raves in fury
                  without, but not a breath of discomfort can penetrate into this cheery place; yet,
                  if it is possible to read a heart by the countenance, I would not hesitate to
                  declare that the bride had rather this moment take the place of that child we have
                  seen go forth into the night's cold and darkness, than stand there, the centre of
                  loving and admiring eyes, to pronounce the marriage vows. Ay, if fancy leads me
                  not widely astray, it were more merciful to lay that young creature on the altar,
                  and at once destroy her, with the sacrificial knife, than doom her to a life that
                  is little better than a living death. It seems strange, though, to call her a
                     victim, for the youth by her side is a noble-looking fellow, and
                  his heart does not give the lie to the binding vows he speaks.
               All the particulars of this scene betoken that it is a mansion of the rich before
                  you. The "floods of light," deluging the grand apartments, rival the sunlight—and
                  there is a profuse, and still not a vulgar display in the costliness of the
                  adornments. Those mirrors of enormous size, the ornamental vases, are things you
                  will not often find in the mansions of the "vulgar herd." The downy carpet (very
                  unlike, by the way, that  unsafe board and
                  the decayed floor we have just looked upon,) the splendid pictures, but more than
                  all the appearance of the mistress of this mansion, prove that it is no scene of
                  common life you gaze upon.
               This lady is standing near the bride—the one dressed in plain, gray silk. See with
                  what deep, motherly affection she is contemplating the daughter of her heart, whom
                  she has "given away." She knows well how great a gift this night has been bestowed
                  upon the young husband, for since her childhood the maiden has been the
                  consolation of the widow's heart. But in giving the girl as she believes in all
                  sincerity to happiness, the lady does not dream that the shadow of a shade has
                  fallen on the heart of the bride.
               Let the curtain fall while she still believes and rejoices in the thought that
                  "all is well."
               Once more draw the obscuring veil aside.
               How fearfully the wind rushes through the casement, threatening every moment to be
                  the death of the untrimmed lamp burning on the floor of the garret. You shudder,
                  and think, though too gracious to tell me your thoughts, "Shall we never have done
                  with such dark scenes?" Ah, yes, I can answer, when the old world rusts on its
                  axis, and the present order of things is done away.
               There is something more awful and repelling in the deadly stillness of this room,
                  than in that which reigned where the dying woman lay.
               An old man is the tenant of this chamber. He is alone. How fearful seems the
                  silence and gloom, when we remember the bright and cheerful scene we have just
                  looked upon.
               This is the home of the aged, gray-haired man; a pleasant one, is it
                  not? You can see the bounteous supply he has gathered in for his winter's
                  consuming at a glance. It will not take you very long to cast your eye over that
                  heap of mouldy chaff in the corner, and on the broken jug which once was capable
                  of holding the "Adam's ale," with which the old man regales himself; and keeps his
                  thin old body warm—and on that handful of frozen bits of bread, which the mice
                  have shared with him since the day, long ago, when he bought the small loaf at the
                  baker's near by.
               But I see you are glancing at something besides the chaff, and the frozen bread—at
                  something which amazes you, and makes you start and wonder if you are not
                  dreaming. Yet I assure you there was never anything more real than
                  these heaps of yellow gold the old man has poured out on the floor, and through
                  which his long, bony fingers are playing. It seems like a countless hoard, does it
                  not? But he has gathered it coin by coin; he has added dollar to dollar, and cent
                  to cent, and saved all, and never spent, but begged, and stolen, and
                  toiled while others slept, or played—and these, these! are the
                  precious fruits!
               "The workman is worthy of his hire." And this pay, which the poor deluded creature
                  has received, is hardly too much (is it?) for the soul which he has given in
                  exchange into the hands of the devil! This pay, he is content enough with it. It
                  is dearer to him, unspeakably dearer than soul, or wife, or child—it is indeed
                     as "bone of his bone, and flesh of his flesh!" It is his
                  beautiful, beloved, glittering gold. His gold! Two dearer words he
                  never knew—two more comprehensive he never heard! For they are to him life, and
                  love, and heaven, and hell, and friends, and health, and meat, and drink, and
                  raiment; indeed you may well doubt if he ever had any clear and defined notion of
                  anything else on earth than his dear, blessed gold!
               The greed of gain—how indissolubly has it stamped its loathsome mark upon him! You
                  see it in the small, bright, grasping eye, in the ill-clothed limbs, in the sharp
                  features, in the motions, in the man; and in that heap of precious stuff
                  glittering amid such surrounding evidences of want. You see it all, how he has
                  thrown himself upon his face that he might veil from his eyes the heaven spreading
                  above him—which almost sent a thrill of awe even through his deluded
                  nature. You see how he has bent down, and suffered his whole moral and
                  intellectual nature to be crushed, and deadened, before that fearful Juggernaut,
                  the idol, Gold! He has not heaped up his treasure to secure himself from the dread
                  of want, that he might gather  in his home
                  all that could make life comfortable. He has starved himself, he has degraded
                  himself a hundred times below the brutishness of the animals that perish—he is
                  shivering with cold now—his mind through neglect, and by its sordid and
                  whole-souled worship, is in a state of idiocy; God and this miser alone knew for
                  what he has spent his whole life in gathering this dust together. I cannot solve
                  the mystery. I cannot guess how the worm first crawled into his breast, the
                  hideous, frightful worm, that has eaten away and destroyed every noble principle
                  and feeling, and hope in the man's soul, leaving its loathsome slime over every
                  seed that might have sprung up in his bosom, bringing forth the most
                  precious fruits. * * * *
               There is a continuation of that first scene we have looked upon to-night, on which
                  I would fain have you for a moment dwell.
               The pale light of the winter's sun is, you see, streaming through the room,
                  revealed now. There is no sign, or sound of life. Ah, yes! do you not hear that
                  smothered sob, do you not see that stiff, sharp outline of a form upon the bed? do
                  you not see a child standing beside it, uncovering often the face of the dead, and
                  weeping over it as though her heart would break?
               It is the only friend that girl has known for years, who is dead. She weeps such
                  tears as only such mourners can weep, as she stands beside the body of her only
                  counsellor, guide and support in the world. It makes no difference to her that the
                  departed was housed in a hovel, and fed on the coarsest and most meagre food—it is
                  a slight thing if the dear form was clad in rags—did it not enshrine the kind and
                  loving heart, that was always to the lonely and desolate little one, so
                  compassionately tender? Had not this woman been to her mother, guardian, friend?
                  all that her young, love-craving nature most required—and is that mother not dead,
                  and cold, and insensible for ever to her? is she not now young, and helpless, and
                  alone in the wide world? * * * * * * *
               One winter morning, many years previous to the time when these three scenes were
                  in the same hour represented, two children awakened in their comfortless home, to
                  find themselves deserted and alone.
               Their mother died when the younger of the twain was an infant, and from that time
                  they had lived alone with their father. A cheerless home it was, with two such
                  inefficient ones left to provide for their own wants chiefly, during long days,
                  when their parent was gone from them. He was a strange, silent man, with little or
                  no affection in his selfish heart for the lovely young children—no, not even so
                  much as the brutes have for their offspring; for their cries for food often fell
                  with an unmeaning sound upon his ear; and the thought of providing for, and
                  supporting them, until the time should come when they would be strong and able to
                  labor for themselves, was one he could not endure. It is a thought on which he has
                  pondered long; let us see the result of his cogitations. This winter morning he
                  had arisen long before daylight. He may have mistrusted the strength of his own
                  will, but I think not. Still he never once turned a glance at the crib in the
                  corner of the dismal room where the children slept, their arms twined lovingly
                  about each other; perhaps if he had looked, he might have faltered in
                  his purpose. Noiselessly as a cat, he crept around the room, gathering all that
                  was easily transferable, that was possessed of the least value, even to the little
                  painted tumbler, the prized property of the youngest girl—the gift of one of her
                  playmates—then carefully gazing around, lest he might be watched, and to assure
                  himself that the children were sleeping, he raised a board in the old decaying
                  floor, and groping with his hand far along in the chasm, he drew forth a coarse
                  cloth bag, and then quickly replaced the board again. There was a sound as of
                  coin, jingling together when he moved the bag, it made his eyes twinkle, and a
                  grim and greedy smile for a moment beamed in his ugly face; then taking a coal
                  from the fire-place on the rough table he wrote in large, rude letters: "Children,
                  I have gone, not to come back again. You are old enough to look out for
                  yourselves. Go to work—save your money, and you may get rich; money is worth more
                  than anything else in the world."
               Having left the sleeping innocents this precious bit of fatherly advice, the man
                  went from the house, having taken the precaution to conceal the precious bag
                  within his old cloak before he went.
               
               When the children awoke and found their father gone, they were not disturbed by
                  the thought of being left alone. It was his custom to go out early in the day,
                  leaving them to make shift for themselves as best they might, with the meagre
                  supply of comforts which he had provided.
               When they had arisen and put on their miserable garments, Margaret, the eldest,
                  tried to light a fire; but it was no easy task with barely one coal, which had
                  managed to keep alive during the night, and the one stick of wet, green wood was
                  not an astonishingly powerful auxiliary. Despite the poor children's united
                  exertions, the wood and the coal utterly refused to burn, and at last they gave up
                  the vain idea in despair.
               A little heap of burning coal, a few bits of pine, and an armful of dry wood! the
                  enumeration may seem a trifling affair, and call a smile to your lip, but these
                  had been a more acceptable, more valuable gift, would have called up happier
                  thoughts and more earnest thanks, than the splendid remembrancers my favored
                  reader is rejoicing in just now. Yet they had it not, humble as the gift would
                  seem. Ah, the feasting, mirthful rich! they forget that Lazarus still is lying at
                  their gate!
               Then they turned away from the remorseless no-fire, to the shelf whereon the
                  scanty store of undelectable provisions were kept. But there again the little ones
                  were doomed to disappointment; for Margaret, who had stood on the old bench to
                  examine into the state of their larder, stepped gently down again, and said, with
                  a heavy sigh:
               "He has took all the bread with him, Ellen!"
               "And we hadn't no supper last night! oh, I'm so hungry; ain't you, Mag?"
               "Yes," was the abrupt and sad answer of the elder. As she turned away from the
                  pale face of her little sister, for her own eyes were fast filling with tears, she
                  caught sight of the rough black marks on the table. With a heavy step she drew
                  near without speaking, and bent over it.
               A girl who had once been neighbor to these children had taught Margaret something
                  about reading and spelling, for the child had never been to school a day in her
                  life, and yet was ambitious and desirous to learn. It was therefore with difficult
                  culty that she made these cold words out; but, as their meaning burst at last
                  fully upon her, the tears she had striven so hard to keep back, fell fast, her
                  head bent lower and lower upon her bosom—she sobbed aloud.
               "What is it, Maggy?" asked Ellen, slowly, for she felt that something awful had
                  happened.
               "He's gone, Nelly!"
               "Yes, but he goes every day."
               "He's gone for good now—he says he'll never come back. We must starve, or go to
                  work, Nelly, and we don't know how to work, and who'll teach us? Oh I wish we was
                  both dead."
               "But then we should be colder than we are now, Maggy, and we should never have any
                  bread to eat at all."
               "We shouldn't need any, Nell. I read it all in a book. If we could only go to
                  heaven now, we shouldn't want for anything ever again."
               "Do books tell the truth always? What if it snows in heaven, Mag?"
               "No, it can't; for God is there, and people who go to heaven never know anything
                  about cold and hunger; they're happy."
               "Let's die, then. I'm so tired of living; we never knew anything but misery here,
                  Mag."
               "Yes, once, but that was a great while ago; I can only just remember—it seems a
                  long time."
               "What made us so happy then?"
               "We had a mother, and father loved us, and took care of us all—we had plenty to
                  eat, and warm fires too."
               "Oh, I'm so hungry now, and almost frozen—if he had only left us a little
                  bread—just a little bit."
               There was no moaning on the part of the children, because their father had
                     deserted them. It was not his love and affectionate care they
                  missed, whose loss they mourned, when they found he was gone from them forever,
                  for he was always associated with dreary thoughts in their minds.
               Their chief reflection, when they found themselves alone, was that they should
                  inevitably die of hunger, and death was far from being an idea full of terror to
                  them—indeed, as we may gather from their own words, a pleasant and
                  to-be-wished-for  event was it, being
                  associated with thoughts and hopes of plenty THERE.
               The father and his children were new comers and strangers in the portion of the
                  city where they lived at the time of his shameless desertion; the people by whom
                  they were surrounded, were apparently poor as themselves; there was therefore
                  little prospect of the children's receiving aid or assistance from those in whose
                  neighborhood they lived.
               The morning passed; it was afternoon, and still no fire; and, alas! there was not
                  even a poor raven to bring them food, though the place they inhabited was far
                  worse than a wilderness; and the pangs of hunger might hardly have visited Elijah,
                  as they did these tender children. It was impossible that they should long endure
                  such bitter cold and hunger, and the want of a protector during the night hours
                  was a horrible thought to Margaret. She resolved to go into the streets to
                  beg—perhaps some kind heart might take pity on them, and give them a more safe and
                  comfortable place of shelter.
               With some difficulty she persuaded Ellen to lie down in the bed, and thus keep
                  herself warm until she should return—for Margaret knew that it would be impossible
                  for her poor little, half-frozen sister, to walk the distance which spread between
                  them and the quarters of the city where the rich people lived.
               The snow was falling fast when Margaret went out alone into the streets, so
                  miserably clad, and, ah me, on such a chilling, comfortless mission! It was a new
                  thing for her to beg, and it was a hard thing, child though she was and suffering,
                  for her to ask a stranger for bread. Many a stately mansion did she pass by before
                  she had gained courage to stop; and with this increasing dread she would have gone
                  on and on, had not the lateness of the hour reminded her of Ellen, hungry, and
                  cold, and alone.
               Oh, doubt it not, it was Providence who directed her feet to the door where her
                  trembling, stiffened hands, at last sought admittance. It was a happy thing for
                  Margaret, that a Christian woman, who feared God, and loved her neighbor, lived
                  there—that a human heart beat in that plenteous home!
               The child was not repulsed from the door by careless, tired servants—for the
                  mistress of the mansion made it a point always to hear and judge for herself of
                  the merits of those who applied to her for assistance, and it was not to a cold
                  and suspicious soul that Margaret told the story of destitution and sorrow.
               It was not a long story and was soon made known; but it interested the lady more
                  deeply than any tale of want she had ever listened to before. When the child had
                  partaken of a comfortable meal, and was provided with warmer garments, Mrs. Bruce
                  accompanied her to her poor home.
               It really seemed to the poor forlorn child as though she had suddenly found access
                  to that heaven, to which in the morning she had so desired to go. And equally was
                  Mrs. Bruce delighted with the quiet, honest-hearted girl by her side, and when she
                  looked on the bright, youthful face, which so well reflected the thoughts suddenly
                  lightened of the hard weight pressing but now upon them, she thought she had never
                  seen so beautiful a child before; and the good woman's heart warmed towards the
                     orphan with genuine motherly kindness.
               Swiftly were they borne over the frozen snow through the streets as Margaret
                  directed, and at last, and the way to the eager child seemed interminable, they
                  entered a narrow lane, and the proud steeds were drawn up before the wretched
                  house, which she pointed out as her home.
               Before the sleigh was quite stopped the happy girl had leaped out, and was
                  bounding over the narrow sidewalk, and up the broken door-step. But the smile of
                  joy had given way to fear, for the door of the hovel stood open wide, the snow had
                  drifted into the apartment, and indeed a more comfortless, dreary-looking place,
                  one could not easily imagine.
               In an instant the frightened girl had searched quite through the house, but no
                  answer was returned to her loud cry of "Nelly! Nelly!" save the moaning of the
                  wind without, which seemed sharing her distress. Quick as thought, when she saw
                  that search there longer was fruitless, Margaret rushed from the house, and sped
                  away to the neighbors, hoping and believing that Ellen had gone to one of them for
                  food. She had forgotten Mrs. Bruce, and all the joy and thankfulness  which had for a moment made her light of heart.
                  Ellen was gone, her little sister, her all on earth—gone, even at the moment when
                  she had come back with such "glad tidings of great joy."
               Alas, equally vain was the search she made among the people of that neighborhood.
                  To the most of them the children were altogether unknown. One woman, in reply to
                  Margaret's almost frantic demand, thought she had seen a child of
                  about five years of age, going down the street with a woman, half an hour
                  before.
               "Who was the woman?" was the next eager question.
               "I don't know," was the reply; "I never see her afore."
               "Was she an old woman?"
               "No, about middle age."
               "Did she look like a lady?"
               "No, fur enough 'tother side. She looked poor, but didn't seem a beggar. Only a
                  poor, hard-working creetur."
               And that was all Margaret could find out. With a heavy heart she returned to the
                  sleigh, where Mrs. Bruce was awaiting her. Every particle of hope, and gladness,
                  which had made so bright a sunshine in her heart, was gone; almost beside herself
                  with fear and grief, it was with difficulty she made known to that lady this fresh
                  and terrible sorrow.
               "Nelly is lost! what shall I do? where shall I go?" she cried, "she is lost; I
                  shall never see her again! do but bring her back, lady; do only bring her back to
                  me!" she sobbed, raising her eyes imploringly to her good friend. The lady was
                  weeping, too,—her heart must have been of stone indeed, not to have been pierced
                  by the keen anguish of the child.
               "No," she said, calming her own emotion, that she might soothe and give confidence
                  to Margaret—"no, I do not think it is possible she is lost. But it is getting so
                  dark it is not likely,—indeed, it is scarcely possible to find her to-night. But
                  we will come here to-morrow, my child, and I'm almost sure we shall find your
                  sister here then. Some kind woman has found her alone, and cold, and taken her
                  home to a comfortable shelter for the night."
               "It is not like her to go away so; I think she would have stayed till I came back,
                  if they had let her. Will you surely come back to-morrow, lady?"
               "Yes, certainly; you do not doubt me?"
               "No, ma'am; I'm sure you'll keep your word. You will not cheat me."
               It was quite dark when the sleigh was once more brought to a stand-still before
                  Mrs. Bruce's mansion. Margaret's tears were not yet dried, nor her fears quieted,
                  but she wept silently, and tried hard to control her grief, fearing to annoy her
                  new found friend. The hopeful words Mrs. Bruce had spoken were beginning to soothe
                  her mind; but she thought no longer on the pleasant home which, for the present,
                  at least, was insured her. Continually she was repeating to herself, "Oh, if
                  to-morrow would only come! I'm sure Ellen will be home then—she will
                  go back with the woman in the morning, and wait there till I come." Nor could this
                  one, this only consoling thought, be driven from her mind for a moment, by all the
                  strangeness of luxury which at every turn met her eye in the pleasant home of Mrs.
                  Bruce.
               At night, long after the tidy maid-servant had placed Margaret in the warm, soft
                  bed, which had been prepared for her, the mistress of the house sat alone in her
                  parlor, and thought upon the strange incident of the day.
               This lady was a widow of middle age, wealthy and childless. Among a large
                  community of poor and needy people, how well known she was for her kind and
                  judicious benefactions! Any who had right on their side, though poor as those
                  turkeys which, from being associated with the name of Job, have become so famous,
                  knew well that they could not appeal to Mrs. Bruce in vain. In fact this lady, so
                  blessed with worldly wealth, felt herself to be responsible to a Power greater
                  than any of earth, for the use she made of the riches He had placed at her
                  disposal. She was very far from being what is called a woman of fashion—the
                  aristocracy in which she might be ranked was not that of wealth—she
                  belonged to a circle whose numbers are still more limited, though the paths they
                  tread are open unto all. Few of the "world's people," alas, were to be found  of it, though, had they so willed, they
                  might have been shining stars of the aristocracy of goodness!
               Mrs. Bruce had a conscience—and what is somewhat wonderful, taking all things into
                  consideration, so vile a mist had not been suffered to envelope it as would hide
                  the beams of the sun of truth and righteousness. And fortunately she made it a
                  point of duty to obey the dictates of this same conscience.
               When, therefore, Margaret Wood came before her in such a woful plight, half-frozen
                  and half-starved, it seemed almost like an accusation to the excellent woman; as
                  though she had no right to be the recipient of so many blessings,
                  while others in such multitudes were suffering from bitter want.
               So, when she had thought over and over again the child's pitiful story, and in
                  imagination, followed her till she had reached woman's estate—when she thought of
                  her future fortune, as it must almost of necessity prove, poor, well nigh
                  hopeless, broken down by hard labor, with mind uncultivated, and her heart's
                  affections, and pure and lofty impulses all crushed, and withered; when she
                  thought upon her thus, and remembered how different a fate it was in
                     her power to give unto that child, she resolved to prove to the
                  desolate little one a true and loving friend.
               She thought of her own childhood—the only daughter of devoted parents—brought up
                  in a home where never a want had been ungratified, careless and happy as is the
                  childhood of the rich. She thought upon the numberless but then unappreciated
                  blessings which had attended her early youth—of the love which, after that time,
                  had made for her life such glorious sunshine. She thought of all her long, happy,
                  wedded life, upon him who, though dead, was held in constant memory, and loved,
                  and honored, and mourned. She looked forward to the future. How lonely would it
                  be, as years crept on; and then her thoughts turned again to the child Margaret;
                  so singularly beautiful, so unmistakably innocent, earnest, honest, and
                  affectionate. And, do not wonder at it, she felt as though Heaven had sent that
                  girl to her, not merely as a beggar, whose wants must be supplied and then
                  forgotten. She felt the necessity of being something to that child besides. She
                  must make her her own, must educate her, and fit her for a different and a better
                  station than that in which she was born.
               So strong was this conviction, so earnestly did it impress Mrs. Bruce's mind, that
                  she could not hesitate about acting upon it; and before her eyes were closed in
                  sleep that night, she besought God's blessing on—her child!
               
               "Are you going for Ellen—may we go now?" asked Margaret, eagerly, when she was led
                  into the breakfast-room the following morning.
               "Yes," answered Mrs. Bruce, kissing the child, "the sleigh will be brought round
                  in a few moments; then we will go for your sister."
               A grateful heart was that beating in Margaret Wood's breast, when the woman spoke
                  so kindly. "I love you very much," she said, clasping her protector's hands and
                  timidly kissing them; "you are like a mother."
               "Would you like me to be your mother, Margaret? will you live with
                  me, and go to school, and do as I bid you, always? will you be my little
                  girl?"
               "I love you better than anybody in the world but Ellen," answered the child; "but
                  father said we must work; I will work for you, and do everything you tell me."
               
               Many times the mother and her adopted child returned to the narrow lane, and the
                  old hut, in search of Ellen, but never could they gain any tidings of the missing
                  little one.—The neighbors were still unable to furnish any information respecting
                  her—she seemed lost to them forever.
               One day, in the still continuing hope that Ellen might come back to
                  the old place, Margaret wrote, on the table where the cruel father had traced his
                  farewell, for her sister to wait there should she come again, promising to meet
                  her there, and that she would lead her to a new and happy home. But the following
                  morning, when again accompanied by Mrs. Bruce, she set forth eagerly for the
                  dismal place, thinking and hoping against hope that Ellen might have
                  been there, they found nothing thing
                  remaining of the decaying old buildings, save some still burning heaps of timber,
                  which pointed out where the dwellings of that quarter had once stood.
               Never had Mrs. Bruce seen before such utter wretchedness, such absolute banishment
                  of hope in any human countenance, as was depicted in Margaret Wood's, when she
                  turned away after that last fruitless search, feeling that the last hold on a
                  reasonable belief that she should ever meet little Ellen again was gone.
               The day following this terrible disappointment, there was given in many of the
                  city papers a description of the missing child, of her former residence, and every
                  particular which could afford any sort of clue to the discovery of the lost Ellen,
                  was set forth; but no tidings of her came; she seemed to be lost irrecoverably to
                  those who sought her.
               
               Years passed. Time, and many changes around and in the heart of the elder sister,
                  had, in a measure, deadened the sickening sense of loneliness and bereavement,
                  which haunted her so long after she had mourned over Ellen as one dead. Even the
                  days when they two had lived together in their uncomfortable home, were gradually
                  assuming a dream-like shape in her memory.
               Mrs. Bruce had done nobly by her adopted child. That girl was one to do honor to
                  any hearth-stone. Young, and gentle, and highly educated, she was cherished, and
                  loved, and honored, not only in her adopted mother's home, but wherever and in
                  whatever circle she moved; and when it was known that she was really and in truth
                  to be the rich lady's sole heiress, many suitors were not wanting.
               Among these, there was a youth, the son of an old friend of the good woman in
                  question, who had been so fortunate as to ingratiate himself thoroughly in Mrs.
                  B's favor.
               She had assisted him (pecuniarily) through his collegiate course, for his parents'
                  means were but limited, and the youth was ambitious—and when he had entered,
                  subsequently, with bright hopes on the practice of his profession, he had been
                  furnished by her aid, with an extensive and valuable library. So, as a matter of
                  duty, as well as of sincerest pleasure, Richard Lee was a frequent visitor at the
                  house of his benefactress.
               You will readily understand in consequence that it was to her a very
                  natural thought, and a much wished-for consummation, the union of these young
                  beings, whom she loved with her whole heart—and a hundred plausible reasons will
                  at once suggest themselves to your mind why the lady should at once
                  and completely have succeeded in her desire.
               I have revealed to you already that wedding scene. You know whether the
                     heart of the bride responded to the words when she vowed to love,
                  honor, and obey. Gratitude for the kindness of the past—the knowledge of the fact
                  that in wedding Richard Lee, she was but acting in accordance with her best
                  friend's, her more than mother's wishes, were the causes, and sufficient causes
                  Margaret thought them, for the part she took it upon herself to act in that
                  transaction. But there was also another reason which the young girl scarcely dared
                  to breathe, even to herself, why she should wed this man, and that at once.
               There was one who had never sought her affections, or her hand in marriage, on
                  whom, nevertheless, she had lavished all the affection of her heart. Within the
                  "holy of holies," in her breast she had enshrined him an idol, but no human mind
                  had guessed the worship she devoted to him—she had kept her secret well.
               Immeasurable was the distance between herself and him. Too well did she know it.
                  He was wedded to another, and never even dreamed the homage that young heart
                  rendered to his lightest word. And he was one of those mighty sons of genius to
                  whom the universal world bows down in reverence. The intellectual giants honored
                  and flattered him—his words were wisdom even to the wisest, and how should he know
                  or care if the girl's heart beat wildly with devotion and love for him?
               And Margaret, even while she adored, knew that such worship was sinful.
               There was nothing repellant, absolutely, to her, in the youth who spoke with her
                  the marriage vows. She knew him talented,  and ambitious, and truthful, but her heart-worship was given wholly to
                  another.
               You know now why, in that scene on which you looked, she stood so, cold, and pale,
                  and passionless. He was among the crowd that pressed around her, to
                  offer their glad congratulations, and the rich tones of his voice
                  mingled with the rest like a strange and powerful chord of music. But she had ear
                  for his only, and he named her the bride of another, while on his own arm leaned
                  the proud and lovely women he called his wife!
               Never did good Mrs. Bruce look with more of just pride on her protege, but had she
                  read the untold story of that young heart!
               My story, doubtless, has thus far proved itself a piece of transparency to the
                  reader, and he knows who was the child watching alone beside the dying woman,
                  leaving her for a moment, while she slept, to beg in the streets, and nursing her
                  with little aid from neighbor or friend: bestowing on the penniless woman all the
                  devotion and care she could have lavished on her, had she been the richest lady in
                  the land. You know that it was she who wept with that fair bride one wintry
                  morning, long ago, in a fireless room, when they were destitute of all life's
                  comforts, and deserted by their father.
               It remaineth for me to explain how this woman came to be her guardian.
               When Margaret was gone out in search of food, and a more comfortable shelter,
                  which expedition turned out so well for herself, Ellen, exhausted by hunger, sunk
                  into a sound sleep. For a long time she slept on undisturbed, dreaming, poor
                  child, of every imaginable comfort she had not, and enjoying her plenty in the
                  bright land of fancy.
               But full soon must she be awakened to the dull reality, for a human hand was laid
                  heavily upon her, and a loud voice roused her, saying:
               "Why do you sleep with your doors open here? you'll freeze to death."
               The child started up, thoroughly wakened at once, and frightened, and wondering,
                  cried, "Margaret—Margaret!"
               The woman pointed to a drift of snow, which had gathered in the middle of the
                  room, and said, by way of explanation, that she might calm the child's fears:
               "Your door was open, and I saw there was no fire on the hearth, and I thought I'd
                  look in and see if anybody lived here. Why, child, you'd a froze stark and stiff
                  if I hadn't woke ye."
               "I'm very cold," replied Ellen, her voice little raised above a whisper; and lying
                  down again, "Let me sleep till Margaret comes; she went to get some bread."
               "Where is your ma, child?"
               "Dead," replied Ellen, mechanically.
               "Where is your pa, then? is he dead, too?"
               "No; he went away and left us this morning."
               "When is he coming back? what are you going to do? you'll freeze to death
                  here."
               "No, I sha'n't freeze; Margaret will come; he isn't coming at all,"
                  said the child, impatiently, her eyelids growing heavier every moment.
               "She'll die here, that's plain," thought the woman; "she shall go home with
                  me."
               No sooner was this determination formed, than she proceeded to carry it into
                  effect. Wrapping the unresisting child in her own shawl, she shook her soundly, so
                  as fully to awaken her, and said, or rather screamed in her ear: "Come, I'm going
                  to take you home with me, where there's a good fire and plenty to eat—come on, for
                  it's getting dark, and I've work yet to do tonight."
               "But where'll Maggy go?" asked Ellen, now quite awake, "who'll feed and warm
                  her?"
               "If she comes back and finds you not here, she'll go to one of the neighbors and
                  stay over night," replied the woman, hurrying away; "now see how fast you can
                  walk—I'll bring you back to-morrow."
               With this assurance she walked away with Nelly very rapidly, further into the
                  suburbs of the city.
               And the next morning, why did she not redeem her promise? Why, for days and days,
                  in consequence of a dreadful cold taken that night from her exposure to the storm,
                  (for she had walked the long distance without shawl or cloak, having wrapped her
                      thin blanket covering about Ellen)
                  she was confined to the house and to her bed with sickness!
               The child at first cried a great deal when she found the woman could not go with
                  her back to her home, but when she saw how sick the poor creature was, and heard
                  her cough so dreadfully, she ceased urging her every moment to take her back
                  again.
               When, at last, the poor woman was able to creep out into the street, the first
                  place to which she directed her steps, was to the house where she had found the
                  little girl, and—it was burned to the ground!
               This woman was a widow and childless, and of good and tender heart, but here the
                  similarity between her and Margaret's protectress, ended. It is needless to say
                  she never saw, nor even heard of, the inquiries which were published respecting
                  the little girl who had fallen to her care. Destiny seemed to exert a
                  powerful hand in ordering the respective places of those children;
                     seemed to have established them immutably in stations of life
                  wider asunder than are the Poles. * * * * * *
               There were two or three of the dead woman's friends who came to the burial. The
                  coffin was carried to the grave by their husbands, and Nelly followed the corpse,
                  a mourner full of sorrow.
               There was a clergyman, a poor man, too, and he prayed long and earnestly over the
                  grave when the coffin was hid in the ground; he prayed for the child of the
                     widow. He was right, though he did not know the relationship existing
                  between the sobbing girl and the dead. She was even as a child, and
                  she mourned the loss of her mother!
               That funeral day was the darkest, saddest day the poor girl had ever known. Life
                  seemed to her but one long path leading through darkness, and as she went from the
                  grave-yard with the toiling women, holding fast the good minister's hand, she
                  wished with all the eagerness of her young heart, that she also might speedily be
                  laid to rest there, never to waken again.
               It was summer time, but the day was very gloomy. The sky was dark with clouds, not
                  a bird's song was to be heard, and the low deep tones of the wind sounded like a
                  heavy sigh breathed over the earth.
               Ellen went home from the burial with one of the poor women, who would not hear of
                  her going back again to the lonely place where she had lived. For several weeks
                  she remained there, sick with grief and long watching. During that time, in
                  compliance with her wish, Mrs. Grant was seeking to obtain for her a place in the
                  house of one of the women who employed her occasionally. * * * And
                  Nelly is thirteen years old now; she may look upon herself as her own mistress,
                  for there is no one who has any natural claims upon her. To youth the thought of
                  independence is a darling, preciously cherished one, but it is difficult for any
                  one who has not been circumstanced as was little Nelly, to conceive what
                  wretchedness there was in the knowledge that there were none to guide, none to
                  counsel, none to aid her, as she stood about to embark on the stormy waters of an
                  untried life.
               She must work henceforth—ah, reader, do you know what
                     that meaneth? Not as she had oftentimes toiled before, to help her
                  protector, to aid her in her labors. It must be in a far different manner. She
                  must go to a place in a family of which she knew nothing, truly speaking—must
                  serve as a servant there. She was very young, a stranger to the ways of those with
                  whom she would live—her employers would think it was their lot to have to bear
                  much because of her ignorance and unskillfulness; but she, poor young
                  thing, would she not also have to bear much? Would they care to think if
                     she were ever pleased or gratified; would the tastes of the little
                  servant-girl be ever held in consideration; would they think of her as human?
                     She must bear and suffer, and a dangerous experiment it would
                  prove to speak out in her own behalf, even when wrongfully abused;
                     she must be always faithful and enduring, and the hope of the
                  reward of a kind word from her dear old friend who could never again smile on her,
                  and encourage her, and tell her if she was doing well; even that was denied
                  her.
               Nelly had quite recovered from her illness, and was beginning to cherish more
                  cheerful thoughts of the future, for Mrs. Grant was sure of finding
                  her a situation in the house of one of her employers. One night when she came
                  home, her day's work well accomplished, there was a broader smile on her face than
                      usual, and warmer emphasis in the
                  kiss she gave the little girl. "I've good news for you, child," she whispered, and
                  then went bustling about the house, preparing supper for her good man and the
                  boys.
               When their wants were supplied, and they had gone out again into the street, some
                  of them to their labor, and Mrs. Grant was at last seated, and making preparations
                  for a fine smoke, Nelly could restrain her curiosity no longer.
               Drawing a little bench close beside the old woman, she sat resting her head on her
                  knee, and saying:
               "You've got a good place for me, mammy, I know you have, and I'm to go to some
                  lady's house to live?"
               "Yes, child, it's just so; but I wish I was to keep you for my own! A girl is more
                  of a comfort to a hard-working woman like me, when I sit down of a night to rest,
                  than a pack of romping boys is. You've made the old place look quite cheerful
                  like, since you've been here, Nelly, by your handy ways."
               "But you have been so kind to me! You have got me a
                  place where I can do for myself, and not be a burden to anybody. You are all the
                  friend I have—oh, I shall think of you very, very often, and I'll come to see you
                  when they let me out, and you'll go to the grave-yard where she is,
                  sometimes, won't you, mammy?"
               "Yes, child! yes, always, when you want me. And I tell you it will be
                  a pleasure to see your pretty face here often—you'll be more merry though when you
                  go up to the fine house where I've got a place for you."
               "I hope it isn't very great," murmured the child; "what'll I have to
                  do there, do you think?"
               "I 'spect what they'll want o' you most is, to tend door, and wait on 'em. They're
                  a nice kind of people, and not stingy—a kind o' 'live and let live' sort of folks.
                  You'll suit, I know, if you try. And you will try?"
               "Yes, mammy, it shan't be my fault if they're not pleased. But I know they'll
                  never care for me, as you have cared, and as she
                  did."
               "Well, child, I'll tell you what—'taint their nature to," was Mrs. Grant's
                  comforting assurance; "rich folks ain't like poor folks any how; it takes the poor
                  to feel. I don't know as it's their fault either. If they could only
                  change places with us kind of folks for once, they'd know more'n they do now. But
                  it's a kind of comfort to know that every house has its cupboard of bones!" * * *
                  *
               With this family, in whose employ Mrs. Grant secured a place for Nelly, she
                  remained more than a year. Kind, good-hearted people, as the old woman had
                  foretold, they were, and the comforts of life became more familiarly known to the
                  little waiting-maid there, than they had ever been before. The duties imposed upon
                  her were few and light, and they were always well performed, and Nelly Wood gave
                  general satisfaction in the large household in which she was employed.
               But soon after the twelvemonth of her residence there had expired, the body of
                  servants were at once dismissed, the house shut up, and, without any explanation,
                  its owners departed for parts unknown.
               "Never mind, dear," said the friendly Mrs. Grant, when Ellen turned to her for
                  counsel, "I was thinking some time ago of a place better than the one you've had,
                  and I've spoke to the lady, 'cause I heerd the folks up in the big house you lived
                  in was going to quit."
               And Ellen's guide was successful in this effort to serve the friendless girl also;
                  for in a few days she was accompanying her to the new place of service.
               The heart of Nelly failed her as she thought of the kind people with whom she had
                  lived, and of the strangers to whom she was now going, and closely did she clasp
                  the hand of the aged laboring woman as though she feared parting with
                  her, assuring her more than a dozen times that she would come often back to visit
                  her and the children.
               Mrs. Grant seemed to know what was going on in the mind of the girl; for, as they
                  passed through the neatly gravelled walk, which was bordered with many flowers, to
                  the kitchen door, she whispered to Nelly, "Never mind—don't be afraid. I'll stay
                  till you get acquainted a little—you'll like these folks."
               "This is the girl your mistress engaged," she said, in explanation tion to one of the servants, when they entered the
                  basement. "How is your lady this morning?"
               "Poorly," answered the other; "I fear she's not long for this world."
               "I'm sorry, poor creetur, she's so young, and good, and handsome."
               "Yes, it is too bad. The doctors says she hasn't no disease—it's a
                  decline like; just kind a sinking away as one sinks to sleep."
               "Maybe she wouldn't care to see Nelly just now?" asked Mrs. Grant, looking toward
                  the door, and still standing.
               "I think not," replied the servant, kindly, "but you can leave her here, and
                  toward noon, when the lady likes, I'll go up with her—it's a pity you should lose
                  half a day's work waiting.
               Ellen turned quickly toward her friend, as though she would implore her to
                  stay—but she did not speak.
               "What is it, dear? shall I stay?" asked Mrs. Grant.
               "No, no," answered Ellen; "go, now, because you must—but do come in for a minute
                  to-night, if this place is in your way."
               "Yes, I'll come if it's miles out of my way, darling; it'll be only a few hours
                  afore I'll be here to-night." Having said this, she hastened away to her
                  labors.
               Ellen sat in the kitchen the greater part of the morning, assisting the servants,
                  and winning the best opinions by her kind and obliging manners. At last the
                  message came, saying that the mistress desired the new waiting-maid's appearance;
                  and, notwithstanding the experience she had already had, it was with a fearful
                  heart that she obeyed the call.
               As she entered the chamber of the invalid, her step was slow and her eye downcast,
                  but when Ellen heard the lady's voice speaking so kindly and encouragingly, she
                  raised her eyes, and it seemed to her that she stood in the presence of some good
                  genii, who had at a word, and stroke, created the beautiful place in which she
                  was.
               The large windows of the apartment were thrown open, but the blaze of sunlight was
                  shut out from the room by outer and inner blinds. Many vases of freshly gathered
                  flowers filled the pleasant place with their sweet perfume, and the white
                  furniture, the snow-like drapery of the bed, the delicately tinted carpet, all
                  conspired to make the sick lady's prison house a delightful one, the very shrine
                  of purity and beauty.
               The lady was reclining on a sofa when Ellen entered the room; near her was a
                  cradle, and an infant, the young girl thought the most beautiful in the world, was
                  sleeping in it.
               "Come and sit down by me," said the sick woman, kindly, when the servant had left
                  her with the mistress; and with a slow step and timid manner, Ellen approached to
                  the cushioned bench pointed out to her.
               "You are young," said the lady, "younger than I had thought—do you think you will
                  be able to aid me much in taking care of my little one?"
               "Oh, yes, I'm sure—I'll try, ma'am," answered Ellen, concluding her reply in a
                  bashful tone, far unlike the eager, happy manner with which she had commenced
                  it.
               "How old are you, pray?"
               "Almost, no, a little more'n thirteen."
               "And have you ever lived out before, my child?"
               "Yes, ma'am, a little over a twelvemonth, but there wa'n't any children at Mrs.
                  Gray's."
               "Do you think you will like it here, then, if you know nothing about taking care
                  of children?"
               "Oh, but I'll learn very soon. Mrs. Gray thought me quick at learning the ways of
                  her house—and I love your little baby."
               Between a mistress so kind as this new one, and a servant so tractable and good as
                  Ellen, there was no prospect of dissatisfaction or injustice on the one hand, or
                  neglect or ingratitude on the other. "The baby" was the pet with both, and the
                  relations they bore to each other, precluded all possibility of jealousy on either
                  side, in the attention and love they each lavished on her.
               Every week, an evening was spent by Ellen with her old friend, Mrs. Grant, when
                  the excellences of the infant, the beauty, and patience, and kindness of the
                  mistress, and the pleasantness of her new situation, were never-failing topics, to
                  all which, as the young girl discoursed so eloquently upon them, her hostess lent
                  a willing ear. Every day Ellen was growing in grace and beauty, and her mind was
                  improving, also, under the instructions 
                  of her invalid-mistress, and her poor friend, with a sigh, was forced to surrender
                  one hope she had cherished, that her son Willie might some day win Nelly for his
                  wife—for he, poor fellow, was proving but a sorry clown, and she, to Mrs. Grant's
                  eyes, seemed almost as much a lady as the daughters of the great folks who lived
                  in the fine houses.
               In the burial ground, which lay in the neighborhood of this old woman's home,
                  there was one grave which, when the weather permitted, was visited regularly one
                  day in every seven by Nelly Wood and her friend. And among a hundred neglected
                  graves that were marked by no headstone, and no care of surviving relatives, there
                  was one which was made very conspicuous by the green and well kept sod, and the
                  flowers which, during the spring, and summer, and autumn months, were found
                  blooming there. It was a sacred place to both those hearts which visited it so
                  often, and they never turned from the else so dismal graveyard, without an inward
                  assurance that they had been made better, more patient, more charitably disposed
                  toward the world, by their momentary rest in the solemn place. Gratefully, most
                  gratefully was the memory of the dead friend cherished by the orphan girl, and it
                  was one of her proudest hopes that some day she might erect a tombstone there to
                  the memory of her beloved dead.
               The summer months passed away, and the dreary autumn rains set in, and the
                  cheerfulness which had, during the warm, sunshiny weather, marked the invalid,
                  disappeared; she seemed lost in gloomy thought, which the presence of her husband,
                  who was devoted in his attentions, failed to brighten or remove.
               During the day, the little nurse was usually her sole companion, and the gentle
                  manners of Nelly, her affection for the child so much entrusted to her care—her
                  beauty, and craving for knowledge, made her an object of more than common interest
                  to the sick lady. One dark day, when the books were laid aside, the baby asleep,
                  and the stillness to the invalid was becoming intolerable, with a sort of vague
                  listless curiosity she turned to Ellen, asking abruptly:
               "When you first came here, I think they told me you were an orphan—that you have
                  no father or mother living? How sad it must be to be an orphan!"
               "It is too true. Mother died long, long ago. I do not remember her at all. Father
                  I can just remember, and that is all."
               "Where did he live? Do you remember his last sickness?"
               "He was not ill—he did not die then—he left us a great, great while
                  ago, and I never have seen him since."
               "Was he poor?"
               "Yes, ma'am, very poor."
               "But you said us, he left us; were there many of
                  you?"
               "Only my sister and I. Sometimes I have thought he was not our father, or he would
                  not have deserted us, leaving us without a morsel to eat, and we had no money to
                  get food."
               "I should have thought you had forgotten all this, for you must have been very
                  young. But your sister has told you often, I suppose?"
               "I have no sister now," answered Ellen, sadly; "she, too, is dead, or was lost
                  long ago. I am alone in the world."
               "Dead! lost!" repeated the invalid, and rising on the sofa, she examined more
                  closely than before the features of the young girl. "Pray, then, what became of
                  you when you lost her!"
               "A poor woman took me—she found me half—dead with cold and hunger—she gave me a
                  home."
               "The one who brought you here?"
               "No," answered Ellen, and the remembrance of all that friend had been for her,
                  brought tears into her eyes—"she died before I ever went out to service."
               "Was she kind to you, child?"
               "She was my mother—I lost my all when she died."
               "Oh no!" exclaimed the lady, and her head was buried in the pillows of the lounge,
                  and for many moments there was dead silence in the room. Then she roused herself,
                  sitting up again, she beckoned to Ellen, and said in a trembling whisper: "Come
                  close up to me—put your arms about my neck, and tell me your blessed name! It is
                  not Jarvis, it is something else! Come, come, quick, if you are Ellen, Nelly Wood,
                      come!" And she stretched out her arms
                  as though she would clasp Ellen to her breast.
               With a glad cry, "It is that—Nelly Wood—yes, it is that—oh, I have tried so many,
                  many times to think what that name was—and you, you are Margaret—my
                  Margaret!" exclaimed the little waiting-maid, as she flung herself beside the
                  lounge and sobbed aloud. But Margaret did not answer, did not hear aught save that
                  first quick reply, "it is that;" she had fainted quite away.
               When, after the glad child's repeated exertions to arouse her sister, Margaret's
                  eyes at last opened, and beheld the slight form of the dear little Nelly bending
                  over her, she whispered, lovingly, "I have prayed and hoped so many times that I
                  might see you and be with you, Nelly, for but one moment before I die. And lately
                  it has been the only thought I have cherished, that we might meet once more."
               "And we shall not ever again be parted, shall we, Margaret? You will
                  love me as when we lived in that poor place—we shall be always
                  together now! shall we? shall we?"
               "Yes, always," repeated Margaret, as again and again she pressed her thin lips to
                  the brow of the happy Ellen; "and you will be well now, Mrs.—Maggy! I will be your
                  doctor, and give you medicines and nurse you, and—"
               "Yes! yes! you will be my own dear Nelly. We have both something to live for now.
                  God bless you!—God bless you!"
               Away with doctors, and their now so useless stuffs! Margaret Lee did not need them
                  after that happy morning; she had discovered a sovereign panacea, such as they had
                  not, such as they could not find—had been aroused from the dream of imagination
                  which had well nigh proved fatal; and now she has quite learned to love the noble
                  young husband who bore so long and patiently with her—and he has for ever taken
                  the place of that unholily worshipped idol that was once throned on a lofty
                  pedestal in her young heart.
               That white-robed bed-chamber bears no resemblance now to the chamber of death.
                  There are roses blooming brightly on the face of the beautiful wife, as on your
                  own, my gentle reader, and I doubt if there are many happier homes on
                  earth, than the home of Richard Lee.
               
               Let the curtain be drawn aside once more. Another scene before we part.
               What, another exhibition of misery? Yes! look on the miser's death-bed!
               You see him lying on that heap of straw, the gray-haired old man, whose life has
                  long been devoted to that one unhallowed object—the gathering of gold. He is
                  dying. There is but one to stand beside his death-bed, and watch as the spark of
                  life flickers away. There is but one to close his eyes when his cold heart shall
                  have stilled its beatings. But, alas, there is not even one to weep
                  when he is gone! There are none to miss him by the fireside—none to whom the world
                  will seem less beautiful when he is laid aside—none to whom his bent form is an
                  object of love and reverence—none in whom he has inspired other than one feeling,
                  that of intense disgust and fear!
               He who stands by him, and watches the departing, does so with no sympathizing,
                  loving eyes. His whole soul revolts from the duty which devolves upon him.
               "Now mind," said the old man, speaking slowly, and striving to rise in his bed;
                  "mind what I've said. Just as quick as ever I'm dead, do what I've told ye. You're
                  the only being I ever trusted—mind you don't deceive me! If you do,
                  I'll haunt you all your life, and make you pay more for the cursed gold than it's
                  all worth."
               They are his last words. You see he has fallen back; he is quite dead.
               The gentleman who has watched the miser's last moments is bending over him. He
                  feels his hand—it is cold. He listens—the heart has stopped its beating—no breath
                  comes from the nostrils—yes, he is dead! Let the curtain drop—it has
                  descended on him for ever more.
               The watcher descended from the chamber of death—his face bore witness to the
                  terrible scene he had beheld—he was eager to be away from the house that contained
                  even the mortal remains of such a spirit. Giving some money to the
                  man and woman whom he met at the foot of the stairs, he said to them,  calmly, "Prepare him for burial to-morrow
                  at two o'clock. I will be in attendance at that hour." And he passed out.
               In a few days every leading paper in the city of — contained an announcement that
                  the two children of the late Joshua Wood, named Margaret and Ellen Wood, of the
                  respective ages of — and — years, would hear something greatly to their advantage
                  by applying at the office of Benjamin Hayes, 80 Chestnut-street.
               The old miser had starved himself, and left to the children he deserted in their
                  helplessness, a fortune, amounting to half a million of dollars!—and a portion of
                  that money, which the old man loved so well, has built a home for the orphaned,
                  the deserted, the poor, and the destitute, where a multitude of weak and helpless
                  ones have learned to bless the names of the miser's noble children.
               And the days of Mrs. Grant's labor and care on earth are over now, for Ellen Wood
                  never forgot who, under Providence, had befriended her, and led her to the home of
                  her sister Margaret. But not alone in the homes of the living has her presence
                  been seen and felt. A certain, well-kept, well-remembered grave, perpetuates in
                  the world the name of one whose deed of charity, albeit she was poor and despised
                  on this earth, has doubtless, ere this, been rewarded in heaven. For the voice
                  whose decree no man can revert, has surely said unto her, "Friend, come up
                  higher."
               Ah, let us render thanks unto the once despised, the glorious Son of Mary, at
                     this season of all others, for the blessed assurance, that with
                  God there is no respect for persons! Let us thank and praise Him that the same
                  spirit of charity and love that was in Him has found acceptance and perpetuation
                  in many human hearts, who recognise with joy their high and holy mission—that of
                  aiding in the work of purification and charity which himself begun! Let us bless
                  Him that in the darkest fortune the moonlight and the starlight are permitted—that
                  the sunbeam and the shade have been interspersed in our pathway through the fields
                  of time!
            
            
               AURORA BOREALIS.
               
                  
                     "Let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth."
                  
               
               LITTLE ALICE DEAN was dead.
               Alice, the beautiful child, the cherished and only daughter of—a poor
                  factory-man.
               Beside her bed, every day while the fatal fever lasted, might have been seen an
                  untiring watcher—a strong, rough-looking, silent man, who fed the sick child, and
                  gave her medicine with all a woman's tenderness. There was also another anxious,
                  pale face, that very often bent to kiss the little sufferer, a woman who moved
                  about with noiseless steps, who wept and prayed for her darling when no eye
                  observed her. It was the mother. And there were, moreover, in that house five wild
                  boys, whose merry voices were hushed, whose play was all suspended; and bitterly
                  and passionately they wept, when told that little Alice must die.
               Ten years had she lived a very angel in their home; that else cheerless house,
                  where want and every discomfort were so well known. Her smile was like a sunbeam,
                  shining through the little windows, and her voice, gentle and low, the sweetest
                  melody to the hearts which loved to hear it—a patient child, on whom heavy care
                  was laid all too soon; a loving girl, who bowed her own will always to that of
                  others, meek, submissive, and affectionate.
               Young as she was, Alice had already proved herself an efficient aid to her mother
                  about the house; and to her father, the hard-working and industrious man, her
                  welcoming smile when  he came home at
                  night almost stupid from his day of wearisome labor, was really a joy invaluable.
                  And whose fingers were so nimble in covering Alick's and John's new yarn balls?
                  Who could so neatly paste Walter's paper kite? Who could tell such nice stories to
                  Dick, and explain them all as she went along so patiently to stupid little
                  Benjamin, as the dear, sweet Alice, friend of everybody, slave of everybody, I had
                  nearly said?
               It was a sad and anxious day when the doctor was called to prescribe for her; and
                  when he stood beside her bed, and felt her pulse, looked at her tongue, and shook
                  his head so solemnly, they all felt that her doom was sealed. Day after day she
                  continued growing worse; then she became delirious, and did not know any of them
                  when they called and spoke to her; and on the ninth day she died.
               It was a pleasant, sunshiny afternoon on which they buried her. But Pierce and
                  Agnes Dean felt that they were hiding away their choicest gleam of sunlight in the
                  grave, when the dead Alice, in her coffin, was laid in the ground.
               The day after the funeral, a long and most dreary day had it proved, Pierce turned
                  from the busy scenes of the city—it was growing dark, he must return home.
                  Cheerless, and unaccountably lengthened seemed the familiar walk to him—the
                  distance once was nothing; for then a welcome, and a delight which
                  never failed, awaited. Before he had nearly reached home, it grew quite dark, the
                  sky was cloudless and starlit, but there was no moon; deep and heavy lay the
                  frozen snow upon the ground; and there was a solemn, oppressive, and, as it
                  seemed, momentous silence settling over the earth, such as oftentimes precedes a
                  storm.
               The laborer sought his cottage with a desponding heart. He could have wept as he
                  entered the narrow, desolate street where he lived, had he not been too proud to
                  expose such weakness even to himself. All his lifetime, Pierce Dean had been
                  unfortunate. Fate seemed to have really set her face against him; she resisted all
                  his desperate attempts to better his condition; and in all his advances made in
                  the hope of conciliating her favor, she treated him with the greatest apparent
                  contempt. This state of things seemed to the poor man very hard and very strange;
                  for while he by the sweat of his brow, and desperate wear of limb, had only been
                  able to supply his family with bread to eat, and clothing of the simplest kind,
                  some of his neighbors had taken rapid strides towards fortune; and other some,
                  remembered as poor boys when himself was young, had far outstripped him in the
                  race of advancement, while despite all his endeavors, he stood in
                  just the same position (socially) that he had held when a pauper child. This was
                  not the fault of Pierce, nor indeed of his wife; he was not given to intemperance,
                  nor she to improvidence; but somehow they never knew the time when their means
                  proved to be in advance of their wants.
               To-night the father's cup of sorrow and trouble seemed really overflowing. His
                  long and necessary absence from the factory, had lost him a very good place; for
                  in the town in which he lived, there was never any lack of workmen. And all that
                  day he had spent in looking out for employment of some kind, but with no success;
                  and almost in despair, Pierce had set out on his return. As he approached home,
                  his step grew slower and slower, for the husband dreaded breaking the intelligence
                  of this increase of bad fortune to his wife; for he loved her, though she was
                  indeed no fairy to look upon, and notwithstanding he had never been very lavish
                  with vows and protestations of attachment.
               There was not a vestige of those good looks of which, when young, she might
                  possibly have boasted, traceable in the careworn, sickness-marked countenance of
                  Agnes Dean. Altogether graceless was her bent, skeleton-like form; but the beating
                  of the heart within was true, its blood was warm. Hardship and privation had made
                  the woman thoughtful, and of few words, and seldom were smiles to be seen in her
                  face; but her voice was kind, the fountains of her sympathizing tears were not
                  dried up; she was a watchful, careful, loving wife and mother, and Pierce prized
                  her to her worth. Therefore the idea of adding to the sorrow with which she
                  mourned her lost child, was very grievous to him.
               But, with his long delay in reaching home, Pierce was almost  frozen; he was forced to quicken his pace, for he
                  could see the fire-light through the windows, and he knew that supper would be
                  already prepared. A surprise was awaiting him, as well as the evening meal.
                  Another daughter, an infant, had come to take the place of the little departed
                  one; and joy, and thankfulness, with a troubled looking into the future, made
                  tumult in the heart of Pierce, as he watched that night over the mother and the
                  child.
               Towards morning, doubts and fears which took far flights into the future,
                  increased his heaviness of spirits; scalding tears, that would no longer be kept
                  back, filled his eyes. The wailing of the babe sounded like a foreboding, warning
                  cry, of evil days to be. The poor man had never been so mastered by conflicting
                  emotions before, and as he by degrees lost all control over himself, fearful that
                  his wife should see his emotion, Pierce with hasty steps arose, and walked from
                  the house. The peace and the solemn quiet of the night which had on his return
                  home so oppressed him, were soothing to him now. Inexpressible calmness, and
                  contentment, and resignation, took the place of the darkness which had tortured
                  him with its fell shades. Involuntarily, as in times of sudden peril and joy the
                  soul lifts itself to heaven, he turned his gaze above.
               And what think you?
               Pierce was a man of plain sense, never led astray by his imagination, not wont to
                  indulge in any flights of fancy; yet did he stand spell-bound, and without a doubt
                  of its reality, before the vision which was then revealed to him.
               Over the whole northern sky, troops of spirits were moving with a velocity which
                  wearied thought—speeding one moment to the zenith, and the next in beauteous swift
                  motion starting back and reappearing in new and fantastic forms, and, as it
                  seemed, holding high revelry amidst the silent, august stars.
               In his admiration and awe, the poor man forgot all his despondency; for the first
                  time in years, he stood forgetful that there were such things in the world as
                  hardship, weariness, and bereavement. And as he watched in delight and amazement,
                  while the brilliant forms in the realms above were reflected so clearly in the
                  snow, a spirit, brighter, fleeter, and apparently more exalted than the rest, sped
                  to the heights of heaven, then pausing and bending down, she whispered—Pierce
                  heard her quite distinctly—
               "Name thy child Aurora!" and the other spirits heard the word, and with solemn,
                  silvery voices sang they, "Yes, name thy child Aurora!"
               Awed, and half afraid, he stood and gazed, and wondered, while unmindful of his
                  presence and curiosity, the dance of the spirits was continued. An hour passed on,
                  but the mortal had forgotten how stinging cold the night was; once he remembered
                  that Agnes might need his care, but some invisible agency seemed to hold him bound
                  to that place where he stood, gazing up into the great skyey halls in the vast
                  distance.
               At last came up above the horizon, from the unknown, unseen lands, a lesser fairy;
                  the great company having disappeared, she stood before the earth-man quite alone.
                  With timid and uncertain step she passed through the magnificent corridor, then
                  bent as her predecessor had done, but still more humbly, as she said,
               "Father, I am your little Alice, that died! Do not weep for me, I am so happy.
                  Name the little baby Aurora,—then I shall be her guardian angel, for they call me
                  Aurora here. Though, father dear, you must always call me Alice, when you and
                  mother talk of me."
               Then with the swiftest step the sprite sped back to the obscure beyond. Pierce
                  knew the enchantment was over then, and with a hasty step he returned to the
                  house, where his wife, in fear and wonder, occasioned by his long absence, awaited
                  him.
               With a relieved heart, when he at last appeared, did she question him about his
                  long absence, but Pierce did not answer her. Taking up the infant, he said in a
                  voice so glad and gay that Agnes began to tremble for his reason,
               "Now we'll have a fine christening, a noble christening 
                     of of
                     of
                   our little girl; wife! Say, what shall we call her?"
               "Give her to me, Pierce, you talk like a crazy man. If I hadn't lived with you
                  fifteen years, and did'nt know you better, I should think you'd been
                  drinking."
               "No, but tell me first, what shall we name this little one?"
               
               The answer to this repeated query was a flood of tears, and when the good man saw
                  that, he did not delay obeying his wife any longer. Sitting down quietly beside
                  her he said,
               "But tell me, wifey, what shall we name her?"
               "There's no need of such haste, Pierce. If there was, I should say, name her—"
               "Would you have it Alice? Shall it be the name of the dear child we buried
                  yesterday, Agnes?"
               "That was in my head, but don't call her so yet. I couldn't bear it."
               "Wait, then—you needn't! Let me tell you, we must call her Aurora," he said,
                  gently whispering, "Alice said we must!"
               Agnes raised herself in the bed as Pierce said this, and anxiously scanning her
                  husband's face for a moment, she sunk back again exclaiming, "Pierce, you
                     are crazy!"
               "Don't say that again," answered he, but not impatiently, and rising from his seat
                  he stood before Agnes and said,
               "Just now, when you were thinking I stayed away so long, I saw something strange,
                  and heard something strange, too. Little Alice was up in the sky with other
                  spirits, and she said her name was Aurora now, and that we must call the little
                  baby Aurora. I didn't tell her we had another daughter, she knew it herself; so,
                  Agnes, we will call her Aurora, and that will be naming her after our
                  darling."
               "Yes," said the mother, softly, in awed wonder, expressing neither doubt nor fear.
                  "Yes, we will call her Aurora, for she has made light in the darkness," and she
                  turned her face towards the infant, and wept silently, most grateful tears.
               And Pierce,—he wrapped himself up in a blanket and laid down to sleep! Very
                  pleasant was his slumber, though another child to feed and to clothe was added to
                  his household; and very lovely were his dreams, though his employment was gone,
                  and the morrow and all succeeding days spread before him a rather barren path. For
                  a voice, only think of it! a voice so like the voice of little Alice
                  (only the words seemed too wise for a child's utterance) said to him in his dream,
                  "Do not despair, for the morning is dawning; you and yours shall neither starve
                  nor freeze, only be true to yourself, be active and hopeful, and He who hears the
                  young ravens when they cry, will keep watch over you."
               In the morning, light of heart, Pierce arose early, strove to make the dependent
                  little household comfortable, prepared breakfast himself, kissed the baby Aurora,
                  spoke cheerful words to Agnes, bade her be hopeful of the future, and without
                  making known his loss of place to any of them, set out for the business part of
                  the city, there to seek for work.
               And it was with the confidence of one who knew he should find profitable
                  employment, that the man went his way. The blessed dreams of the last night were
                  not to be doubted; he too should at last be happy and prospered on earth.
               And his presentiments of good did not prove idle. Better days, even from the dark
                  night of adversity, had dawned on Pierce Dean. The sunbeams of fortune at last
                  deigned to smile on him, as well as on his neighbors.
               And, not only in the man's fortune, but in himself, there was visible improvement.
                  The thoughts he cherished towards the great world were more charitable, he became
                  more mild, and forgiving, and affable; and with the capability of aiding others,
                  the strong desire to do so, increased. The blessing of God had the happy, but
                  alas! not the common effect, to make him humble, grateful, and mindful of the
                  mercies extended to him. Often the careworn and anxious visage was then relaxed
                  with smiles, the jealous and morose disposition was softened, the step became less
                  heavy, and the stooping figure was elevated with the joyous thought that he was no
                  more to be looked upon as a mere beast of toil. Tokens of increased prosperity by
                  degrees were made visible in his dwelling, and it soon became very evident that
                  the good people living there were "stealing the march" on their old persecutor,
                  Want.
               In the course of years, Pierce found himself the possessor of a considerable sum
                  of money, enough to purchase a small farm that lay up further in the north, in the
                  region where he and Agnes had spent their childhood. And as they grew older, the
                  desire grew stronger and stronger every day, to go to that quiet place away from
                  the city,—they both so longed to see the wide  green fields spreading about them; the freedom of
                  the forests was better than the pent-up city life.
               The will made the way for accomplishment of this darling hope of Pierce and Agnes
                  Dean. They bought the wild farm and removed to it. The sons of the family were
                  growing up to be fine, stalwart boys, and as they increased in stature and
                  strength, their parents began to cherish great hopes for them. John, the eldest,
                  was such a fine, manly fellow, and took to farming so lovingly and heartily.
                  Walter and Alick were such beautiful and dutiful sons, so honorable and upright;
                  and Dick and Ben were so merry and full of fun; for all of them, the father and
                  mother were full of hope, and with thankful hearts they recognised the mercy of
                  God, which had given them assurance in their increase of prosperity, that the
                  darling little ones should not be compelled to labor in the factories or
                  mines.
               But for the daughter, the little Aurora, she had come, a child of promise, as it
                  were, (for a blessed, though unspoken, promise had with her birth been given,—a
                  promise of inward peace and prosperity, which future years sustained). But the
                  mysterious appearance which had decided the girl's name, had never been made known
                  to her—why, I know not. Pierce and his wife had always hesitated about speaking to
                  her of the dead sister, other than as one wholly dead; perhaps they feared the
                  effect of such revelation on the young, fragile creature, whose delicate,
                  sensitive, spiritual nature, seemed to them not able to bear the strange tidings
                  they had it in their power to communicate.
               As to Pierce himself, intercourse with his departed child seemed never for a day
                  suspended or interrupted, after that night succeeding her burial, when, as a
                  spirit of light and love, she appeared before him. Though to his vision she was
                  never perceivable save by night,—in calm and silent nights chiefly, of the winter
                  time,—still, at other hours, in other places, her gentle voice was forever
                  whispering to him. She seemed even to have taken the form of an impulse within
                  him, which, until her death, had hardly been in its fulness recognised by him,—the
                  principle and the power of Love! She seemed to have become that principle, and as
                  such the guide of his life. In moments of passion he heard distinctly her warning
                  voice; when he was disposed to triumph, or to look with an over-complacent eye on
                  his own improved fortunes, and to think with a little of vain-glorying on those
                  who were less favored, she never failed to speak, and with reproach; and beneath
                  her steady, wondering glance, the triumphant looks and the exulting thoughts were
                  banished, and in its utterance the passionate word was crushed. Over his inmost
                  thoughts she kept ever strictest watch. He blushed before her purity, when the
                  tempter aroused in him evil reflections; he wept beneath her gentle glance, when
                  folly had lured him to sin. Guarded and guided by such a spirit, it was not
                  wonderful that Pierce Dean, in the course of time, became a model of excellence.
                  No; to him and to Agnes, the child was not dead. She lived for them a most active
                  life, ministered to the necessities of their spiritual nature, and in ways
                  numberless blessed them.
               Little Aurora was considered a matchless beauty among the people with whom her lot
                  was thrown. When very young, her loveliness was of an order which, while it
                  attracted the admiration of the gazer, also aroused his sympathy. Her form had
                  early reached its full height, was very slight, and bent, as a flower droops,
                  unable to support itself. The countenance might almost have been termed
                  celestial:—the meek, loving, hazel eyes, the complexion white and pure as the
                  lily, the soft, shining, brown hair,—she looked the very spirit of delicacy and
                  grace. With the tenderest interest had this fair, but most fragile, flower, been
                  reared: but, as years passed on, the fond eyes that anxiously watched it beamed
                  with joy; for strength came to the maiden, the bent form was uplifted, and the
                  glow of health came to her cheek. Then peerless among all beauties stood the
                  farmer's daughter,—young Aurora Dean.
               In the course of time this daughter had a lover;—a suitor exactly to her
                  fancy—after her own heart: the whole world could not have furnished (to her mind)
                  an equal. The father and mother were constrained to look on the youth with great
                  respect and favor, for Gerald Cleff was highborn, and considered the very highest
                  prize in the matrimonial line by all the beau-catchers catchers in the market of that most bustling and
                  intriguing of all little cities on the face of the earth,—.
               Gerald had first met with Aurora at a merry-making in the 
                     eountry
                     country
                   at which he chanced to be present. Ever after that blessed night they
                  had done little, either of them, but think and dream of one another. In the
                  lover's eye, there was no city star to compare with his chosen, for beauty, and by
                  degrees it became the unalterable decision of his heart that he would make her
                  Mrs. Cleff.
               Yes! but the world must not know of it!
               Ah! Gerald Cleff was a sad rogue after all. He had no idea, with all his devotion,
                  of completely sacrificing himself to the country girl! He would
                  honestly marry her; but the ceremony must be a private one, unknown to the world,
                  and to his proud and wealthy relatives. Aurora must be content to live, for a few
                  years at least, unacknowledged and in obscurity.
               The hesitating and astonished girl had not communicated this selfish proposal to
                  her parents. She loved Gerald too well to willingly listen to the indignant
                  response which she well knew was all the reply they would deign such a proposal.
                  It was a time of sore trial to the innocent, inexperienced child. Her womanly
                  pride and self-respect revolted from the thought that, because a lofty name and
                  great riches were wanting, she was therefore unworthy to be openly, and before all
                  men, known as the bride of Gerald Cleff. Had she listened to the voice of this
                  pride, she had said at once to him, "I am immeasurably above thee already, in
                  spite of thy position and self-glorying, because I recognise in myself a true
                  human being, and thou surely canst not do more." But love forbade her giving
                  utterance to words like these.
               Sorrow, such as never had tried her before, had come to Aurora when this
                  declaration of Gerald was made. Her mind was distracted: it wandered from the
                  tasks in which she had been wont to join so cheerfully,—but her trouble gave
                  itself no expression in words.
               It was Saturday night, and on the morrow Gerald would be with her; for Aurora had
                  insisted on giving him no answer until the week had passed; then she was to give
                  him her final decision. A long and dreary week, he had said, it would prove to
                  him; but it was with little fear for the result that he left her, for Gerald was
                  altogether confident in his own powers of persuasion, and would not believe it
                  possible that any woman, at least one of Aurora's rank, could find it in her heart
                  to refuse so great an honor as his hand.
               In the quiet and beautiful tranquillity of evening, the troubled girl stole away
                  from the house to the little grove near by,—a pleasant place, where she, with her
                  betrothed, had passed many swiftly-flying hours. As in the stillness of the night
                  she wandered through the many paths, the doubt if it would be really well in her
                  to sacrifice to pride all her deep love, and more generous thoughts towards Gerald
                  began to gain ground. The future, without him, assumed a heavy, lowering aspect.
                  Life, bereft of his presence and sympathy, seemed worthless.
               But there was a counsellor, of whose existence she was unaware, near the doubting
                  girl. It was the watchful, guardian elder sister, even Alice Aurora.
               Up in the beautifully calm and deep blue sky, her angel presence appeared. She
                  bent down toward the lonely one, and the startled child of earth heard her
                  exclaim, "Aurora, my little sister, I am Alice;—Alice, thy guardian angel."
               With a troubled face then looked up the younger, and said:
               "Who art thou?"
               "Thou dost not know? I am Alice,—little Alice once,—Pierce Dean's, thy father's,
                  child. And I died; but then I became a spirit,—and I watch over thee, and thou art
                  my namesake, Aurora, and I say thou must not marry that young man, Gerald
                  Cleff."
               When she heard this authoritative declaration, Aurora bowed down; she fell, as one
                  lifeless, to the ground. Then came the voice nearer and sweeter than before,
                  sweeter than any tone of music, near as though the speaker stood directly beside
                  her.
               "I have loved thee, my gentle sister, for a longer time, and with a tenderer love,
                  than thou hast for this man. I know him better than thou dost, for I have watched
                  him at times when thou couldst not see him, and with all his pride and high
                  notions,  he is not worthy of thee. He is
                  fickle, and vain, and too cold-hearted; he cannot love as thou dost; he will
                  disappoint his wife. What wilt thou answer him in the morning, when he comes?"
               There was no reply.
               "Dost thou doubt me, Aurora? Shall I tell thee about thy brothers and mine, who
                  have been so long away? Of Alick, from whom you have not heard for so long?—of
                  Walter and of John?—for I can tell of them. Would it prove to you
                  that I am worthy to be heard?"
               Still there was no answer.
               "Aurora!—my love, my darling!—look up!—only speak! Do as thou wilt; I may not urge
                  thee more."
               These words, so mournfully spoken, Aurora could not withstand. She did not rise
                  from her humble posture, but, still kneeling there, raised her eyes towards the
                  heavens, and cried: "As thou wilt have me, will I do. Alice, I shall not wed with
                  Gerald. I will tell him that on the morrow."
               And with a heavier heart than she had ever borne, the maiden returned to the
                  house, but not till she had heard the blessing and assurance of future
                  tranquillity from her elder sister's lips.
               And so—and so,—after all, the beautiful Aury became, by resolve, an—old maid!
               It was towards evening, the next day, that Gerald Cleff sought Aurora in her home.
                  He came to her with smiling countenance, looking never so irresistible before,
                  little dreaming of what awaited him. Together the young couple sought the
                  often-frequented grove, and, gaily humming the song,— 
                     
                        "Oh, when the moon and stars are bright,
                        When the dew-drops glisten,
                        Then their vows should lovers plight,
                        Then should ladies listen,"—
                     
                   Gerald bent down in the shade, and, with a smile that had little of fear in
                  it, bade Aurora pronounce his doom.
               "Wilt thou wed me, Aurora, and be mine own for ever?"
               "Yes!" answered she quietly and firmly; "yes, I will wed thee, Gerald, if thou
                  holdest me worthy to be acknowledged thy wife before the world. Not else!"
               "Worthy! oh, incomparably so! Thou art as a queen to the foolish, vain, and
                  selfish people who surround me where I live. But thou knowest not the world. Want
                  of riches and high birth are not trifling things, and, alas! worldly women, and
                  men, too, know many ways by which to convince the humbler classes of their
                  inferiority. Thou art simple and innocent, and dost not know the world. It is not
                  worthy of you; and, dearest, I can never consent to expose you to the
                  scorn, or coldness, or slight, of people a thousand times inferior to yourself in
                  virtue, in beauty, and goodness."
               "Nay, then," said Aurora, in that same gentle, but measured and slightly sarcastic
                  tone, "as thou hast said, I do know but little of the world, but what
                  thou sayest seems very strange to me. Would people dare to so treat
                     thy wife? Couldst thou not shield her from neglect or insult?
                  Methinks a man honored by his fellows would stand in no danger of
                  having his wife so exposed. I had not thought this was the way of the
                  world."
               Gerald reddened as Aurora spoke thus, and said, sharply,
               "It is a poor, weak love of which thou dost boast! True love delights
                  in sacrifices—but thou!—thou art not content to live even one little year apart
                  with me. Thy woman's head must be turned with vanity. Thou dost long most, confess
                  it, Aurora, to shine among the city dames!"
               Aurora stood and gazed upon him, as he spoke thus, in surprise. She trembled, and
                  her face grew very pale, but she had firmness to control her voice, and she said,
                  calmly—
               "It is time for you to go back;—the city air best befits you. Go, and in peace, if
                  that be possible, Gerald."
               As she uttered his name, Aurora felt her strength giving way. With rapid steps she
                  fled back to her home; and spell-bound, without the power to call her back, the
                  recreant gazed after her.
               And the silent night rolled on,—the stars shone bright as ever, and the spirit of
                  Alice restlessly flitted over the sea of heaven, and found no abiding-place. For
                  through the long hours the younger daughter of Pierce Dean wept in bitterness of
                      anguish; and full of remorse, the
                  lover hastened away to his city residence.
               Years passed on, and great sorrow was not spared the happy household of Pierce
                  Dean. John, the eldest child, who was becoming a thriving merchant in a little
                  town near where his father dwelt, died suddenly, while all the home circle were
                  cherishing the fondest hopes of him. The blow was a heavy one to the old parents;
                  it told even more deeply on them than did the death of little Alice, years agone,
                  but the grievous affliction extorted no cry of complaint or impatience. Faith, and
                  a submission to the Almighty will, were having in Pierce and Agnes, even in that
                  dreadful hour when news of their bereavement was brought them,—a perfecting
                  work.
               Walter Dean, the youngest of the three who had gone forth to seek their fortunes
                  in the world, with firmness of purpose rarely seen in one so young, had at once
                  bound himself apprentice to a mechanic. In both the sons, Walter and Alick, there
                  were hidden powers to do and to be, of which neither was fully aware when they
                  dwelt under the parent roof, and which had never been even suspected by the honest
                  father and mother.
               More than a common love for nature, more than ordinary reverence for things
                  simple, beautiful, and pure, distinguished Walter. He had the poet's sensitive
                  nature; in him it was united to a strong, healthful frame, that could battle
                  manfully with the world's storms; and his mild, dreamy eye, which, at times, in
                  moments of excitement, would flash intensest scorn on the myriad forms of human
                  folly and guilt, fully revealed what sort of spirit was in him. With a hopeful
                  heart, Walter labored at his chosen trade,—that of a goldsmith; and his quick
                  perception of the beautiful, his nice taste, added to that desire after perfection
                  in all his works, lightened all his labors;—made them pleasant in themselves. And
                  it was not long ere, from the great shop of the delighted employer, specimens of
                  the most perfect workmanship were sent forth, that were designed and finished by
                  Walter Dean.
               The young jeweller's reputation as a master of his craft, went abroad far and
                  wide. The place where he labored was thronged with customers:—the fair and the
                  beautiful, and the keen-eyed men of trade. The jeweller's fortune, and that of his
                  apprentice, was made.
               But this was not the notoriety which the young workman most coveted. There were
                  other labors carried on, in silence and in secresy, to accomplish which, hours of
                  the night were given. And they were not dreary or lonely hours; for, ever hovering
                  over the little table where he wrote, was the blessed spirit of Alice, the Aurora
                  who came to brighten his darkest hours.
               She it was who soothed him in disappointment, who encouraged him to renewed labor,
                  when dismayed and cast down by repeated failure. She it was who aided him in
                  giving glorious setting and finish to the jewels which flashed and burned in the
                  chambers of his mind.
               And it was so, that the words of power, so melodiously breathed forth by Walter
                  Dean, aroused and charmed every hearer. Men would endure his words of scorn for
                  wrong-doing, nay, even applaud him, and the prophet was in no danger of being
                  disregarded in his own country and generation.
               Astonishingly forgetful that the man who spoke such burning and such soul-arousing
                  truths toiled by day at a craft to support his body's necessities, nobles, and
                  rich and powerful people, clasped his hands, and called him brother, and praised
                  him—but they could not spoil. For when, in moments of triumphant joy, he would
                  pace his room alone, and think over, in delight, the plaudits of the multitude,
                  there was ever a voice nigh to him which bade him beware lest his exultation
                  should prove his ruin. And Walter was wise to heed the warning words; for worldly
                  prosperity, while it exalted him, even in his youth, to the station in social life
                  which the qualities of his mind and heart well fitted him to fill, never made him
                  forgetful that he was neither more nor less than man; that all which he had
                  wrought or could hope to accomplish, was only through the mercy and love of Him
                  without whose favor and aid all must work in vain.
               Alick Dean's nature was cast in a mould akin to that of Walter.
               From boyhood had been floating dreams and images of  beauty over his mind, which, in his early years, he
                  never dared dream had other existence than in his imagination. As he grew older,
                  he became a taciturn, gloomy youth; for the undefined hopes to which he clung had
                  only power to torment him; he saw no possibility of ever bringing anything of
                  worth from the chaotic state of his mind. He knew nothing then of
                  painting, as the glorious art which after years showed it to him. Least of all did
                  he ever think to accomplish anything to compete with the wonderful achievements of
                  the great artists of whom he read.
               When Alick left home, the hearts of the parents yearned after him. They were
                  troubled for him:—there was not that stability in him which marked John and
                  Walter; he was not strong to withstand temptation; they feared the result of his
                  struggle with the world. And not without reason; for to ordinary kinds of labor he
                  had always shown himself decidedly averse and incompetent.
               With a reckless love for novelty, and desire to mingle in new scenes and among
                  strange faces, the boy pushed his way southward, till the liberal portion of money
                  with which his father had supplied him was well-nigh exhausted. Then he was
                  compelled to pause, and think what he would do next. But it was thinking to little
                  purpose, till, one day, he chanced to visit the National Gallery of paintings in
                  —. Gazing on the many splendid pictures there, it seemed to him that he had of a
                  sudden found entrance to a world more splendid than imagination could have
                  conceived. The key was found that opened the portal to his confused mind, and, in
                  the floods of light which poured in, he could see and understand how all these
                  wonderworks had been accomplished. But feasting his mind on these dainty things
                  was an indulgence too great: Alick felt it was (for one in his situation), many a
                  night, when, faint and exhausted with fasting and excitement, he sought his poor
                  lodgings. Looking on the finest specimens of art would not furnish him with meat
                  and drink; admiration of the beautiful would not keep him warm, and defend him
                  against the blasts of winter. Alick must exert himself. Haunted with
                  this thought, which every day pressed more and more heavily upon him, he returned
                  to his lodgings, one night, fully determined that on the morrow he would, in labor
                  of some kind, set about earning a living. With a heavy heart was this resolution
                  made; for the first time, almost, since leaving home, a sense of desolateness
                  oppressed him. As he murmured his prayers rapidly, he thought, with tears of
                  grief, of his mother, when he had first announced his resolve to seek his fortune
                  abroad, as his brothers before had done. He recalled her parting kiss,—her
                  trembling "God bless you, my son; try to be firm; do not yield to temptation;"—and
                  more heartily than ever, in that moment, he resolved to be firm,—to put a curb on
                  his fiery temper,—to subdue his love for wild scenes of gaiety and pleasure. But
                  one by one these thoughts passed; and when Alick's eyes closed in sleep, the last
                  image reflected on his brain was that of the exquisite "Madonna," on which, nearly
                  all the past bright day, he had gazed and gazed.
               In the "noon of night" he was wakened from his sleep, by no human voice or hand,
                  though he could have sworn that a voice was calling him. But Alick smiled even as
                  he so thought:—it was only a bright light on the wall opposite him, from a
                  neighboring window, perhaps, or it might have been the moon; so he turned over,
                  and would have slept again. But again that whispering voice, calling to him,
                  "Brother Alick!" In alarm he started up, rushed to the window, and threw it open;
                  but the brightness was soon enough explained, when he looked into the north, and
                  saw how the heavens were glowing with splendid light. It seemed to him the
                  Spirits' gala night, so brilliant were those swift-moving forms, dancing through
                  the halls of glory. But brighter and brighter grew that light within his own room.
                  It seemed a moving image;—and, hark! it certainly spoke again!—it said:
               "Alick, dearest!—my wild, brave brother Alick!—be firm and patient. There is a way
                  discovered in which thou mayest labor with glory and with profit. Thou needst not
                  renounce thy dream." And while the boy stood motionless with amazement, the image
                  faded softly away; when he looked out again upon the night, the heavens were reft
                  of the visible spirits, and silently and solemnly the stars were shining.
               
               Precious were the dreams of Alick Dean, during the remaining hours of that night.
                  Refreshed and hopeful arose he on the morning of the day, which, he fully
                  believed, would see the seal set to his destiny. But, before he went to seek
                  employment of the tradesmen or mechanics, he must look once more on the "Madonna."
                  And trusting himself before that, he should not have ventured to promise himself
                  one hour of the day.
               A stranger to the boy (as indeed were all they who daily frequented the Gallery)
                  had on other occasions gazed with somewhat curious eyes on the youth who so many
                  times stood in rapt admiration before the "Madonna." The man could not repress the
                  deep and growing interest he felt in the fine-looking, but poorly-clad boy; and on
                  this particular morning he felt himself irresistibly drawn towards him;—for the
                  worshippers of art recognise the spiritual bond which unites them one to another,
                  and the elder person now was the one first to interpret the meaning of the impulse
                  which urged him to seek the acquaintance of the youth.
               When he stood by Alick, looking with him on the exquisite pictured face, he made
                  some critical observation of the painting, and the words drew forth an answer
                  which added another seal to the destiny of the boy.
               "You have the eye of a painter, my lad. Have you ever paid much attention to the
                  art?"
               There was a choking sensation in Alick's throat as he thought of the last night's
                  vision, and listened to these words. He replied that all the knowledge he had of
                  art was his study of the paintings in the Gallery, which had occupied most of his
                  time since arriving in —.
               "What is your business here?" was the next abrupt question.
               "I came to seek employment, but am ashamed to confess I've made but little
                  headway, having contrived to lose my time and wits in this enchanted place."
               "Had you ever an idea of becoming an artist?"
               "I had never seen a picture, sir, till I came to this place, a few days ago. But I
                  think if it were possible for me to know the joyous feeling with which a painting
                  like this before us must have been finished, I should be quite
                  willing to die."
               "You have certainly enthusiasm enough to become a proficient. If you would like to
                  get an insight into the business, come to my rooms this afternoon. I am an
                  artist;—we will see what can be made of you. It is very fortunate for me if you
                  are the boy I take you to be, for I am much in need of fresh hands just now." And
                  passing on, the gentleman gave his card to Alick. It was the painter of the
                  Madonna;—the name traced upon the card was that of one of the most famous artists
                  of his day, known not less for his genius as a painter, than for his kindliness of
                  heart and his generous anxiety to aid all who would perfect themselves in his
                  beautiful art.
               The road was at last fairly opened to our dreamer, and with a step that never
                  wearied, with a hand that never faltered, and an eye that never failed him, he
                  went on "conquering and to conquer," surprising all who watched his career, save
                  only himself. His heart was set high, and when others applauded, he knew what his
                  lips would not utter, that he had not yet wrought that of which he was capable.
                  The companions of Alick were not at all times such as the pure and exalted mind of
                  Walter Would have chosen. Chance threw him in the way of some whose friendship he
                  had not always the moral courage to forego, whose influence was anything but good.
                  Led away at times by these, the student-artist would indulge in the wildest
                  excesses, and, by his carelessness and prodigality, degrade the dignity of his
                  profession. But days and weeks of remorse invariably succeeded these
                  transgressions, and Alice was then constantly with him, imploring him to "forsake
                  the error of his ways." And she did not in the end plead vainly; for as the boy
                  grew older, the moral principle within him increased in strength, the hours of
                  dissipation became less and less frequent, and his application to the study of a
                  beauty which has the tendency to purify and exalt human nature, betrayed itself in
                  increased moral excellence.
               There was a picture on which Alick was expending incredible patience, time, and
                  care; and there were rumors which spread extensively among all the
                     patrons of art, that this production would surpass in beauty and
                  real merit all to be shown at the great annual exhibition in the National Gallery.
                  One only person son had been permitted to
                  see the picture;—that was Alick's master; and he had seen it but once;—and it was
                  rumored that he had wept tears of joy when he beheld the work; also, that on
                  questioning the youth as to where he had caught the idea of anything so beautiful,
                  the simply earnest answer of the student was, "This is the spirit of little Alice,
                  my sister and guardian angel; she died in childhood, but I have seen her
                  since."
               The day of exhibition came, but young Alick Dean was nowhere to be seen, and the
                  eyes of the multitude searched in vain among the treasures of genius which lined
                  the walls, for the "Alice Aurora."
               Where was the artist then? He had toiled day and night over that canvas, giving
                  birth with his colors to the beautiful ideal. Had sickness seized on him in the
                  moment of triumph? Nay. But, the night when the great work was completed, the
                  shining presence stood again in Alick's room. It hovered around that wondrously
                  beautiful work of his own hands, and the young man listened with humble reverence
                  for the words the blessed sprite should speak:—and Alice had bidden him do other
                  with the glowing canvas than place it where the throng would come to gaze upon it,
                  and to praise. How did the artist listen to the words of his inspirer? Was it hard
                  for him to forego the applause of the great city? Was it painful to renounce the
                  hope of winning the splendid prize offered for the most successful work of
                  art?
               No; it was with a joyous heart that he bound the wrappings that very
                  night about his treasured work, and prepared to set out with the early dawn for
                  the home of his father and his mother, in the distant north. And now, as he
                  thought of this long-contemplated journey in the near prospect of accomplishment,
                  Alick felt that the smile and the kiss of his mother, the grateful blessing of his
                  father, would more fully repay him for what he had done, than all the
                  false-hearted gratulations and applause which the gay city had to offer. And so it
                  was with a heart that grew every moment more joyous and light, that he set out on
                  his return home.
               In all these years which it had taken to build up their son's name, Pierce and
                  Agnes Dean had not remained the same vigorous, sturdy farmers they were when their
                  boys first set out in quest of fortune and adventure. Anxiety for the fate of
                  Walter and Alick, during the ten years of absence,—the hard labor of their earlier
                  years,—had tended to whiten the hair and furrow the faces of the good old people.
                  But gentle, kind, and loving still was Agnes; and Pierce, in his age, though
                  somewhat whimsical (if the truth must be told,) was as forbearing, patient, and
                  hopeful, as could have been expected. And what had become of Aurora?
               It is two years since Gerald Cleff, on that night of bereavement to her (and also
                  himself,) had proved so disloyal to true love, so unworthy to claim her for his
                  bride. Yes; two years of as great sorrow to himself as to her had they proved.
                  Shortly after that night of their parting, he had gone abroad; but a consciousness
                  (exaggerated, perhaps) of all he had lost in her, shame for his own madness and
                  selfishness, went with him. The foreign lands he visited were nothing to him. His
                  thoughts, his inclinations, were all elsewhere. Continually they fled backward,
                  attracted by an irresistible magnet. By degrees Aurora's name itself become all in
                  all to him; but he dared not return to her,—dared not seek her and fling himself
                  and his pride at her feet, to crave forgiveness. Ay! pride failed him then: she
                  would not lift her voice to disprove the convictions of conscience.
               But at last Gerald returned to his native land,—to the city where he had formerly
                  lived,—to the neighborhood of Aurora. He learned then that she was still
                  unmarried, that she lived with her parents, that she was more beautiful than ever,
                  but sad and silent, mingling never with the young and the gay. This account
                  pleased him; he could but think that she still remembered him, but whether it was
                  to deplore the weakness of one who had once won her love, or because she still
                  cherished a memory of him with tenderness and forgiveness, he could not tell,—but
                  he must know.
               It was exactly two years since that night when they parted in the little grove,
                  that Gerald Cleff sought Aurora Dean there once more;—sought her with hope and
                  with fear, determined to take it as a good omen if he found her in the place which
                  was  hallowed to him by many a
                  remembrance, dear as the last was bitter. And—she was there, dear
                  reader, and—and—why,—Alice the angel blessed them (why should not we?) when, after
                  one startled look of recognition, one joyous smile, but without an uttered word,
                  the two embraced one another.
               There was joy in farmer Dean's home that night, for there had been unexpected
                  arrivals there. First came a stranger gentleman with a lady, who, with smiles and
                  tears, called upon their parents to bless them, bringing with them tokens that the
                  world, called so selfish and so cold, had dealt well by them. How cordially the
                  two young farmer-brothers, Dick and Ben, took Walter by the hand, and welcomed him
                  back again; with what pride they looked on him, knowing by the tokens of late
                  oftentimes sent them, of the wreaths of honor which men delighted to lay upon his
                  head—how gladly they greeted Walter's beautiful young wife,—how tenderly the old
                  lady embraced her lovely new-found daughter—and how old Pierce's heart leaped
                  within him for very joy, as he looked upon the handsome children who had come to
                  ask his blessing!
               Then, after these had been welcomed, there had come another, a ten years' stranger
                  to that roof, the glorious artist Alick, bringing with him his ardent love, and
                  his splendid gift. And how they crowded round to take his hand, when they were
                  assured it was really himself! Oh, it was beautiful to see the long-parted, gifted
                  brothers, standing clasped in such warm embrace,—beautiful to witness the just
                  pride with which age-dimmed eyes looked on those glorious youths—mournfully
                  pleasant to hear them speak so tenderly of the buried John,—and then to hear the
                  newly arrived inquiring, but hesitatingly, as though they dreaded to hear of
                  another bereavement, after their darling Aurora. Even as they asked she came,
                  beautiful as the poet's dream, or the painter's ideal. Ten years had wrought as
                  wonderful a change in her as in themselves, yet the brothers seemed hardly
                  prepared to meet a woman so incomparably lovely, in the place of the timid,
                  obliging little sister they had left at home. Gerald Cleff was with Aurora when
                  she entered—and the perfect satisfaction visible in his face, told very plainly
                  that he had improved the hour passed to the utmost. Ah, the youth needed not to
                  draw himself up very proudly, as those sons of genius in days afterwards took him
                  by the hand to hail him brother—he might well have thought twice,
                     then, as to whether he were really worthy to be old Pierce Dean's
                  son! He surely needed not to imagine (and he did not,) that he should be lessened
                  in the eyes of his people, when they knew that he had chosen for his bride the
                  beautiful sister of Alick and Walter Dean!
               The joy that filled the father's heart that night, was more than he could bear.
                  His happiness was so great it stifled him—it seemed to him that he could not
                  breathe, so he went out into the cool air, and paced the little garden.
               But, presently, before his absence was noticed, he came again to the door, and
                  said, "Agnes—children, come out here."
               They obeyed him,—it was a lovely sight (the poet and the painter thought so;) the
                  aged parents, their united and joyful family, all glowing with health and
                  happiness, and standing in the presence of their Guardian Angel! For, lo! Alice
                  Aurora was there—she beheld their joy! Pointing up towards the sky, Pierce said,
                  "My children, it is meet that to-night we acknowledge the tie which
                  has bound us together in years of separation: is not this spirit before us, she
                  who has incited us to become what we are? Love has united us in want and in
                  sorrow, she shall unite us forever!"
               The old man paused, and such a heartfelt, unanimous "yea," never went forth, as
                  from that garden ascended to where their Alice stood. And the Spirit of Love,
                  doubtless, met its own exceeding great reward, when those two youths, whom the
                  world reverenced, told, with voices not quite unfaltering, of all that angel
                  sister had been to them; and when they had finished each his story, so full of
                  interest to the listeners, in the silence Aurora pressed the hand of Gerald, and
                  whispered, "What she has done for me, thou only shalt know!"—and
                  Gerald replied thankfully, "She has been my guide, also, and has led me here, to
                  bless me, the least worthy of you all."
               "Father! mother!" exclaimed Alick, as the bright shadows of the spirits faded from
                  the sky, "come within—I will show you wherefore I am here."
               
               Then led he the way into the house, to reveal to them the wondrous work his hand
                  had wrought—and oh, the smoke-stained room looked glorious as a palace, when that
                  grand achievement graced its humble wall—and the dreams that were dreamed by the
                  gathered household that night, were of never-departing beauty, because,
                  reader,
               
                  That home and that heart is always blessed, over which the Aurora of pure
                     love has risen!
               
            
            
               THE PHŒBE BIRD.
               
                  
                     
                        "Life! what is life? To breathe happily and joyfully?"
                     
                     —MISS BREMER.
                  
               
               A LITTLE creature, winged and feathered, has built its nest this spring-time in a
                  giant tree, near by, and from morning till night it repeats its plaintive cry,
                  "Phœ-be, Phœ-be!" a mournful cry and call which the lonely bird seems destined to
                  have never answered. A cry and call which, ringing in my ear continually, suggests
                  somewhat which is here as mournfully submitted.
               Professor Sweete married, late in life, a beautiful young girl, to whom he became
                  suddenly and devotedly attached. Dora Hopkins was poor, an artist, a
                  miniature-painter. When the Professor, yielding to the long and urgent
                  solicitations of a friend, engaged her to take his likeness, he had not the
                  slightest idea of ever making a plea that she would take his heart also; and yet,
                  before the lady-painter's work was done, he had accomplished all this,—had won a
                  love grateful, ardent, and devoted, and then what a matter of wonderment was it to
                  the good, honest soul, that he should ever have been able to exist without such
                  love!
               For thirty years he had lived among his books, had sought for his companions only
                  studious, silent men. The secrets of science, the depths of philosophy, the
                  wonders of nature had been the subjects of his life-long study and contemplation,
                  rather than the secrets, and depths, and wonders of human hearts. He had
                  cultivated his intellect to the utmost, and yet not entirely at the expense of his
                  more human nature—the Professor had 
                  merely lived as many another most worthy, good, and wise personage has done, in
                  constant converse with high things, forgetful, or unconscious, of the rich, ripe
                  fruits at his feet, within his grasp.
               But, when he took to his heart the young wife, all things became changed to him;
                  Dora was his darling, he cherished her as the apple of his eye, his most fervent
                  wish was to ensure her happiness; he made to her the greatest sacrifice in his
                  power to make—his time—which was devoted to her, and this sacrifice was offered
                  without one thought, save of sincerest pleasure. This, because he felt most deeply
                  when by her side, that it was "not good for him to be alone."
               And though he was as old again as she, and though her mind was an infant's
                  compared with his—and though she knew her own great deficiencies of education, and
                  of strong, vigorous intellect, Dora did well love her husband, and without fear.
                  She reverenced him, as one who had stooped from a high place to lift her up to
                  him—she was grateful to him, as one who had exalted her, the homeless and the
                  friendless, to companionship and equality with the wise and the happy; who had
                  given her all that she had dared to dream of, as bliss. And the husband also
                  reverenced the wife. She was not to him the mere friend of his idle hours—in the
                  glory of her genius—in her spiritual beauty—in the purity and innocence of her
                  heart—he found that which more than compensated for the want of a school
                  education; to him she was both wife and child, and he adored her as such.
               It was a happy marriage—and yet, alas! scarcely three years after their union had
                  passed, ere Dora died, suddenly, while the Professor was away from home, after an
                  illness of only a few hours. The light of his young wife's love had been most
                  blessed to the husband—it was with uncontrollable anguish that he heard the
                  tidings of her death; and when he followed her body to the grave, he
                     felt that it was to witness the burial of his heart's best
                  treasure.
               Only one solace was left the widowed man in his bereavement—the little daughter
                  Phœbe—a child two years of age at the time of the mother's death. She was a pale
                  and feeble creature, timid, but very affectionate, whose only beauty, even in
                  babyhood, lay in her large brown eyes, so very like her mother's. But in the first
                  burst of sorrow, the Professor found little comfort in the child. She was a
                  constant remembrancer of his grievous loss—she was a sad witness of the gentle
                  companion, the loving friend, the beautiful wife—he felt too bitterly that her
                  death left him alone, to perceive even in her daughter that there was
                  a household joy still left him.
               As I have said, among the learned and the scientific, Professor Sweete held high
                  place. He had been much honored in his life, and laurels, which even the most
                  intellectual never quite despise, had been awarded him. But the fond,
                  warm love of his young wife, who adored him for himself, and not for his
                  acquirements, the devotedness which accompanied the deep respect she always
                  yielded to him, had been to the learned man such grateful offerings, had made
                  their daily life so beautiful, that to him it was the dearest and most precious
                  boon Providence had ever vouchsafed. No sunbeam of Fame had so gladdened his heart
                  as her smile, no music like that of her sweet voice was powerful to set his soul
                  at peace. And now, that joy withdrawn, he could not go back to his studies with
                  the zest of former years: the spell which bound him to the Tree of Knowledge was
                  broken—he had tasted of the Golden Fruit!
               And yet—little more than a twelvemonth had elapsed when the widower married again!
                  Did this act betoken a speedy forgetfulness of the dead? No—far from it; it but
                  proved the devotion of his love. So happy had been those wedded years
                  to him, so blessed was the companionship of his lost wife, so dear to him, for
                     her sake, was become the voice of woman, so cheerless the thought
                  of a home unenlivened by the presence of a sympathising, constant friend, that the
                  Professor held it a duty to himself as also to the darling little girl, his Dora's
                  child,—when at last he met with one whose heart he fancied answered to his own, to
                  seek her hand. He did so, and the lady gave it him.
               Louise Maberry had been educated in another sphere of life than that of the first
                  Mrs. Sweete. She was of an old and highly respectable family, but her fortune, as
                  Dora's, lay only  in her natural
                  endowments. In his youth her father had run through his large possessions, and the
                  mother's reserved portion barely sufficed to educate her daughters. Louise was the
                  youngest, and last unmarried of these; she was a lady of winning manners, and well
                  educated mind, therefore was fitted to win the respect of the Professor, without
                  which, indeed, he had not given her his love.
               The mother of this lady had succeeded in securing good establishments for her
                  elder daughters, and was overjoyed to receive, in behalf of her youngest, the
                  advances of a man who stood so high in the world's estimation as this suitor. She
                  cared not so much for wealth in this instance; she knew Professor Sweete had it
                  not—but a distinguished name was the next most desirable thing; and accordingly
                  her daughter became the widower's wife.
               But in the heart of Mrs. Louise there was wanting all that confidence which had
                  been the great charm, the secret tie, of the first union. The new wife's awe for
                  her husband was nearly synonymous with fear. His name had been associated for
                  years, in her mind, with great and high, but also with stern and loveless
                  thoughts: when she was a child, he had been her instructor—she had conned the
                  books he wrote, and never could she rid herself of that idea, which children
                  invariably have of a strong-minded, intellectual teacher. She could never, try as
                  she might, receive him, or be to him a companion in the dearest sense of the word,
                  a companion such as Dora had been—she could never see in him a lover, the most
                  familiar, the nearest of all friends. Yet was such companionship in the husband's
                  mind for her; he truly admired Louise, and it was with the sincerest grief that he
                  at last became convinced he must forever knock at the door of his wife's heart in
                  vain.
               And then and therefore it was, that he, who for the love of woman would have
                  renounced the lonely paths of study; having discovered that the golden fruit would
                  ripen for him no more, returned again to his books, to his silent work—becoming
                  once again a grave, reserved, and thoughtful man.
               Two children, a daughter whom they called Dora Louise, and a son, Norman, were in
                  course of years added to the household.
               In Dora, as time passed, was unfolded all the passionate nature, all the
                  impulsiveness that lay hid beneath the mother's cold exterior. She was full of
                  health, and "fair to see"—a lively, laughing girl to take one's heart by storm—to
                  be loved after such conquest fervently, despite her glaring faults.
               The daughters of this house were living witnesses of their mothers.
                  Soul-witnesses, indeed, for sweet young Phœbe Sweete did not inherit the personal
                  loveliness of her parent, nor was little Dora a fac
                     simile of Louise. The patience, meekness, generosity, bodily weakness
                  and intellectual strength of the eldest, was in no more striking contrast with the
                  thoughtlessness, wilfulness, pride, and passionate lovingness of the younger
                  sister, than was the physical development of each. The dark hair, and full,
                  expressive eyes, the blooming countenance, joyous face, and rapid movements of the
                  life-loving Dora, had not one faint semblance in the pale face of the frail,
                  invalid-child Phœbe. They were children to be greatly loved, because they appealed
                  for love so strongly, though in very different ways, the one preferring always a
                  claim, the other a petition that was looked rather than asked, for the affection
                  of others: they were children to be tenderly and prayerfully guarded, because of
                  the great tendency in the nature of each for much that is hurtful and
                  dangerous.
               The father's heart had always turned with peculiar tenderness towards his eldest
                  child. An infirmity, springing from an accident, (that happened to her shortly
                  after her mother's death,) and fostered by uncommon natural weakness, had resulted
                  in incurable lameness, and aside from the pitying love this misfortune drew
                  towards the girl, the Professor felt that she was, indeed, motherless. Mrs. Sweete
                  was too well bred, she had too much respect for herself, and for her husband, to
                  become ever the tyrant of a young and gentle child—but she never loved the little
                  Phœbe, and never had for her any protestations of affection. She was the guardian
                  of the girl, never suffered her to want for any one comfort,—she had too much of
                  common humanity to be capable ever, of harshness, to one so patient  and so mild. She was strictly honorable, and
                  conscientious, in all her dealings with the oldest daughter. But the father
                  looked, and he knew that there was a cruelty just as extreme, more
                  torturing, to a sensitive soul, than the tyranny of physical strength, because
                  from it no appeal can be made. And he knew that Phœbe suffered from it. He read it
                  in the mute but constant, and to him most affecting appeals her eyes made for a
                  love like that the mother lavished on Dora and on Norman, which was wild in its
                  excess, for the pent-up devotion of the woman was given all to
                  them—he read it in the silence, the constraint, the sadness of the lonely girl,
                  and as he read, he took the dead wife's child more tenderly to his heart,
                  resolving that he would be father and mother to her, knowing that it was his duty
                  to let her find in him a full answer to the love-cry of her heart.
               So it was that her education was conducted solely by him, who in his tenderness
                  feared that others would unfold less judiciously than himself, or unwittingly tax
                  too far, the young girl's mind—the mind whose powers he proudly recognised—which
                  was so precious in his sight. Dora Louise, at the age of four years, also became
                  her father's pupil, and the two children studied then from the same book, read
                  from the same page, and wrote at the same table: Phœbe did this, though much in
                  advance of her sister, in order to encourage her, and Louise needed this
                  encouragement, for even as she grew older, she evinced no manner of aptness for
                  the acquisition of knowledge.
               The children had never been christened, but the child of Louise had always been
                  called Dora, for the Professor felt that in giving this name to her, he bound his
                  household together, the living and the dead, in the tenderest tie. No opposition
                  was made to this. Mrs. Sweete never opposed, in any one thing, the expressed wish
                  of her husband: all had followed the father's example in naming the little girl,
                  but he learned a bitter lesson, one day, when calling her to repeat her morning
                  hymn she exclaimed, "You must not call me Dory, father, mamma says I am her little
                  Louise."
               A sudden and a sharp pang shot through his heart as he heard this; for a moment,
                  grief and anger silenced him; but when he called the child again, he only said
                  quietly, though with unusual sternness, "Yes, yes, you are
                  Louise—that shall be your name."
               And that very evening the baptismal service was read in the Professor's parlor;
                  for the father had suddenly announced the wish that his children should be
                  christened at once. He offered no reason for this to his wife, merely stated his
                  determination; but she did not need to be told more when the clergyman took
                     her child, to "sign her with the sign of the cross" and called her
                  only Louise, while conjoined with Phœbe's name, was that of the dead Dora!
               Phœbe was ten years old, when her father led her one day into a room, whose doors
                  never opened save to himself. It had been his first wife's bridal-chamber, the
                  room in which she died: and when he took another bride, he resolved that this
                  place should be consecrated to the memory of the dead—that the daughter of his
                  lost companion alone, should ever occupy it. And this wish, which was from the
                  first made known to Louise, had been constantly complied with; because it was a
                  sacred place to her husband, it became so to her, and she was far from being
                  jealous of his devotion to the departed—had she not also her love—her
                     children?
               
               It was a large, and simply, yet prettily furnished apartment; a pleasant place,
                  whose windows commanded the loveliest prospect. Many hours of study and reflection
                  had the Professor passed here alone in silence, and unseen by mortals, here he had
                  wept, and prayed—here he had struggled—here he had gained victories. To the
                  children, this room was associated with awful thoughts, and always passed in
                  silence—they had an idea that a ghost lived there, or that some strange thing had
                  happened in the closed chamber. When, therefore, Phœbe now for the first time
                  crossed the threshold, it was with trembling; but when the door was closed behind
                  her, and she found herself standing with her father in such a pleasant place, fear
                  vanished in an instant.
               The old man sat down in a large arm-chair, and took her fondly in his arms, as
                  though cognizant of her thoughts, and with whispering voice he said:
               
               "This was you mother's room, my child," and the tears he shed fell fast and warm
                  upon her upturned face.
               "Yes, father," she said, as softly, laying her hand in his. The touch seemed to
                  inspire him with fresh strength, and he continued speaking, still very low,—
               "I have brought you here because this is now your room: it is a
                  sacred place, your mother died here—it shall be your study now, and when you will,
                     Dora, you may come here."
               She only kissed him in answer, her heart was too full for words, but he knew the
                  meaning of the grateful, fervent embrace.
               "Your mother was an artist," he continued, scanning her face intently as though he
                  would read her inmost thoughts. "She painted portraits for people, I will show you
                  some of her work; she was a gifted woman."
               The girl's eyes, those soft brown eyes, actually glowed, as she listened to these
                  words—a fire seemed to illumine them—she slid from his arms, and the Professor
                  arose, and opened, with a key which he gave to Phœbe, the upper drawer of a
                  bureau.
               "This was very like your mother," he said, taking out a small miniature, "she
                  painted it herself. You are not so beautiful as she."
               "No, father," was the girl's answer, when she had looked quietly on the picture
                  for many moments, "but she was good, and you loved her for
                     that. I will be good, you will love me?"
               "I love you always, my blessed child," was the fervent answer; and then the old
                  man took from the drawer a casket filled with ornaments, and there was in it,
                  also, a long braid of beautiful, brown hair. He gave her that, laying it round her
                  neck; it was but a shade darker than the child's, and of the same soft, silky
                  texture. She took it in her hand, and said,
               "I cannot wear it yet, father, I will look at it every day, and then,
                  I know it is mine! Oh, it is so good in you to let me have a mother, for it seems
                  as though you had given me a mother here, to-day."
               "Is it so, darling? it is what I thought, all I hoped when I brought you
                  here!"
               "Won't you let me learn to paint? I have always thought so much about
                  it! is'nt it strange? I thought I would ask you, some day, to let me learn to
                  paint." She fixed those Dora-eyes longingly on her father, as though fearful of
                  refusal.
               "You would be an artist! Why?"
               "It must be so beautiful to know such work—and mother was an artist,—and father—I
                     must work."
               "And why, still? Why must you work?"
               "I love so to look at pictures, and you know I am lame; I am not like other
                  children; and I want something to do, that I can do always."
               "You shall learn, my darling little girl!"
               "Here, father?"
               "Yes, here."
               And now into this silent place often came the young girl, to read and to think,
                  and then to con those lessons which the artist gave her. And that she really did
                  inherit all her mother's genius, the delighted Professor could not doubt when he
                  saw the ardor with which the no longer spiritless girl pursued her work, and
                  noticed the fineness of touch, the finish and beauty of coloring, which
                  characterized her labors. The artist who instructed her was astonished at the
                  rapid progress she made—and he was prouder than his pupil of her success. He
                  watched as she worked, and knew that true genius inspired her—he watched her with
                  enthusiasm, and envied her when he looked on the results of her labors—envied,
                  until his eyes turned from the ivory to her pale face, and saw the happy
                  expression which lighted up the delicate features—envied, till she would arise and
                  move at that slow, difficult pace, and then he felt generously
                  grateful to God for her, and for her rejoicing, proud old father, that such a
                  blessed gift of genius had been assured to her.
               One day, when Phœbe had just finished a likeness of Louise, on which she had
                  bestowed much care, and which she intended a gift for Mrs. Sweete, she sat gazing
                  on her work, and on her sister, satisfying herself that it was a perfect
                  resemblance. The boy and the girl stood beside her, they had been often with her
                  during the progress of this work, and the fact that they were to keep its subject
                  and its object a secret, had all along given them  a great consciousness of importance. They whispered
                  now their praise loudly as they dared, and the boy, in his admiration waxing bold,
                  ventured on what he felt to be forbidden ground—he said aloud,
               "Sister Phœbe, do tell us what makes you so quiet here always; and
                  why do you stay here alone so?"
               Louise looked up into her sister's face very appealingly, as Norman said this, and
                  though she did not speak, she looked her curiosity.
               Taking the boy in her arms, Phœbe said,
               "It was my mother's room, dear Norman; it is a sacred place to me."
               "Then it's my mamma's room, too, and I can make just as much noise here as I
                  choose. Huzzah! why don't mamma stay here, then?"
               "No, Norman, her mamma died, and then father married our
                  mamma, that's it. Sister Phœbe, what is in that bureau?"
               "Some of my dear mother's clothes and things," answered Phœbe, after a moment's
                  hesitation. "Please go away now; go softly; I must be alone."
               They started to obey her, and then Louise turned back a step and whispered, "Won't
                  you let me look in that bureau?"
               "No, Louise—not now—go, please go."
               And the children obeyed at once. They had been taught by mother, as well as
                  father, to always heed their sister's directions; for Mrs. Sweete, if she did not
                  love the girl, had in her full confidence, and reason taught her that no other
                  companion could prove so beneficial to her headstrong children, as the mild and
                  patient Phœbe. Indeed, they had for her almost as much of respect and regard, as
                  for their mother—they would obey her as soon, would serve her as gladly. The two
                  girls were very dear to each other, and Norman was the pet of all; with Phœbe as
                  with the rest; but her love differed from that of the parents, for she could see
                  his faults, and while others were blind, or winked at them, it was her endeavor to
                  make him also alive to them.
               The day after the likeness of little Louise was finished, the young artist went to
                  her studio to prepare materials for taking one of the lad; she found him there,
                  and for the first time, to her knowledge, he had entered that sanctuary without
                  seeking her permission. He stood before the bureau, that treasure-house, (to her!)
                  gazing intently upon the miniature of Dora Sweete. The contents of the drawer, the
                  jewels, and the laces, not costly, but to the daughter inestimably precious, were
                  thrown about in confusion; and the braid of hair, which she had never yet deemed
                  herself worthy to wear! alas, what desecration! the thoughtless boy had a dozen
                  times severed it, fastening the braids around his tiny wrists; bracelets more
                  valuable to her who looked on them, than had they been of diamonds.
               When she entered the room, her first thought was to avoid surprising Norman; she
                  would only gently reprove him; but in such a way that he would be sure to never
                  trespass again in like manner; but when she saw that treasured remembrance of her
                  mother thus despoiled, Phœbe lost all thought, save of her own sorrowful
                  misfortune—she wept aloud. The boy started, as if a thunderbolt had fallen at his
                  feet, and when he saw his sister weeping so violently, without the least power of
                  control, between fear and astonishment, he stood motionless. He made no attempt to
                  escape, but waited like a culprit, anticipating some sentence from his judge, and
                  it came at last. The sister stood up, trembling with the weakness which followed
                  her violent grief; she moved slowly towards her brother, and clasping his hands,
                  knelt down, unfastened the bracelets, and laid them quietly away.
               "You have grieved me more than I can ever tell you," she said; "you have almost
                  destroyed what was the most precious of all things to me. Norman, why how
                     could you do so?"
               "You did not wear it," he muttered at last, "and it was so
                  pretty!"
               "And you had everything in the world; it was my mother's hair—didn't you know it?
                  Oh, Norman!"
               He could not bear it, to see her sinking again prostrate in her sorrow: lifting
                  her head, he kissed the tear-wet face again and again, whispering over and over,
                  "forgive me, oh do forgive me, Phœbe," till she did forgive him.
               He never went into that chamber again—no other member  of the household ever heard a word of the
                  transaction, but from that day Norman loved Phœbe better than he loved any other
                  human being, Louise, his constant playmate, not excepted; and he never in his life
                  could forget, or forgive himself for having made her weep.
               The extraordinary gift of genius which had as by accident been developed in the
                  eldest daughter, excited much of her step-mother's interest, and she began to
                  manifest unusual attention towards the young creature. It was with great gladness
                  that the Professor noticed this. He longed to see the tie of mother and child
                  linking together these dearly-loved beings, yet he could not deceive himself into
                  the belief that his wife lavished on the poor lame girl any of that warm, and
                  devoted affection, which she gave her own: and when he saw, at last, that the
                  genius of Phœbe had been powerful to awaken in the mind of the step-mother only
                  that feeling of admiration and respect, which he knew was her feeling for
                     him, he learned—to be satisfied with it.
               But the daughter! She in that silent room had found all that in extreme sorrow she
                  had longed for in her earliest youth—a mother's love! She felt it encircling her,
                  an atmosphere cheering and exalting, in that sanctuary where she was born, and
                  where her mother died—she felt it warming her heart when it was most chilled and
                  lonely, nerving her hand in weariness,—a constant benediction—a perpetual spring
                  of peace. A very happy girl was she then. The smile of approval and the
                  affectionate words her father gave to her so freely out of his rich, full
                  heart—the love of Louise and Norman, these were hers, and together with the
                  glorious work given her to do, how pleasant was her life made. Silent, and pale, a
                  cripple was she still, but there was no sadness in her soul; peace, satisfaction,
                  contentment, these lived there instead.
               Louise was fourteen years old when her mother died; Phœbe had just
                  passed her eighteenth year, and Norman his twelfth. Mrs. Sweete died suddenly,
                  even as the first wife did, after only a few days of illness. The promise of many
                  years, of a long life, seemed hers: she was, apparently, in perfect health the
                  morning of that day when the disease prostrated her, and in delirium her sickness
                  passed. The last words she uttered while her reason was yet clear, were those
                  spoken just after her attack, when she gave Louise and Norman smilingly into
                  Phœbe's charge, begging her to find some evening occupation for them.
               It was a life-long charge, and so the elder sister felt it to be, when the lady
                  died without giving another. And the duty of a mother, as she, poor child,
                  imagined it, she always industriously fulfilled.
               After the mother's death, though Phœbe still continued her studies, and was guided
                  by her father in them, she was no longer his pupil, in the sense she had been, as
                  Louise and Norman still were. A great idea of being independent was taking strong
                  hold in her mind, and knowing full well that her parent's means were limited, she
                  resolved to become a professional artist, as her mother had been—she would work
                  for pay. No mention of this wish or intention was made to the father,
                  nor to any other, till the first work was really sold, and then she no longer
                  concealed from him, to whom her heart was as an open book, the strong desire she
                  cherished, and to this wish the Professor wisely acceded.
               But about this time, (shortly after his wife's death,) a strange sickness began to
                  overpower the Professor's energies. From a strong, energetic, healthful man, he
                  became, as it were, instantaneously broken. His mind lost its high tone—his
                  cheerfulness fled—he became a prey to deep-seated melancholy. It was sadder to
                  look on his smile then, than it had been to behold him weep—it was too like a wan
                  stream of sunlight illumining a sepulchre—a moonbeam lighting up the face of the
                  dead! In vain did Phœbe, relinquishing her own tasks, now entirely devote herself
                  to him—most of the time he seemed utterly unconscious of her presence, yet when
                  she was away from him his constant cry was, "Phœ-be, Phœ-be," like that of the
                  bird whose nest is in the giant elm near by, whose dreary cry seems doubly sad to
                  me this dark, miserable day.
               It was with infinite terror that the daughter watched the progress of this most
                  strange disease. It was not like the sudden fall of vigorous old age—the triumph
                  of time over the physical organization: there was a something gone wholly wrong—it
                      was a sickness which she could not
                  define—but it terrified her, and the more because of the evident concern and
                  anxiety of the attendant physicians.
               This soon was all made plain; the old man, beyond doubt, was losing his mind! But,
                  as reason was swept from its throne—as the intellect was destroyed—as the fire
                  that had so brilliantly illumined his mind went out totally, and forever, to the
                  apprehension of all earthly things—strength to the body returned again. Health,
                  that of the animal, was wholly restored; and now was the bitterness of wo, to
                  which his death had been a small thing, given Phœbe Sweete to drink. The eyes,
                  which fixed upon her, knew her not—the voice that issued from his lips took never
                  form of words, save that one cry of "Phœbe! Phœbe!" which it almost seems the
                  melancholy bird must have learned from him. Alas! the noble old Professor was
                  become a brother to the brute!
               It was long before his eldest child could fully comprehend this awful
                  truth. She had not heard or known that an affliction so grievous as this was ever
                  visited on the children of men; it seemed a thing impossible that an intellect
                  like his should pass, and the clay tenement live—nay, prosper even, as though a
                  spirit detrimental to its growth had hitherto dwelt there!
               As, ere the fatal truth was made known to her, she sat during the days of his
                  bodily recovery, and read and talked to him, and watched his seeming attention,
                  and then listened to his totally irrelevant words, she could but wonder: as she
                  brought to amuse him many of her own beautiful works, and laid them, one by one,
                  before his eyes, she was frightened at the idiot smile with which he gazed on
                  them—as in her despair she at last, unable longer to control herself, revealed to
                  him the anguish of her heart, and prayed that he would tell her all that troubled
                  him, not till then, when he put her away with brutish anger, that transformed
                  itself suddenly into pitiful cries, did she understand how it all was—and then,
                  but reader, only for a moment then, did her spirit faint and fail, as
                  she beheld the awful truth!
               There was work for her to do then: work in which Louise could aid, but whose chief
                  weight must fall on the frail, crippled pled girl; and that work Phœbe did not
                  fail to accomplish. Much yet remained to the completion of Norman's education; his
                  best instructor, his father's mind, had literally perished in the task, and now
                  must she complete it, by furnishing him with the means wherewith to seek it
                  elsewhere. Those who knew the Professor, and heard the resolve of his daughter,
                  were speedy in affording her work, which they remunerated well, and a double
                  pleasure attended the artist's work as she toiled now, for a holy purpose, day
                  after day; while the gay Louise, grown suddenly very patient, thoughtful, and
                  sacrificing, the beautiful Louise, proved that the hero-spirit was not wanting in
                  her.
               In his seventeenth year, Norman Sweete was sent to — University. A bright,
                  light-hearted, hopeful lad, was he at this time, talented, shrewd, fond of
                  amusements, one of those youths who are capable equally of being everything, or
                  nothing. And Phœbe knew, who knew him best, that he would never stop half-way,
                  either in the upward or downward course: he had ambition, and he had strong
                  passions, they might lead him to the heights, or to the depths; and knowing this,
                  it was with a troubled heart she sent him forth.
               The remembrances he bore with him from his father's house, were surely enough to
                  sober his wild spirits,—to tame his youthful blood. His hopes had been saddened by
                  the stern pictures he had gazed on, and it was with a depressed mind that he went,
                  for the first time, from the paternal roof into the world. But, in three years he
                  would graduate; then, as a tutor, he could certainly find constant employment—sure
                  support. This Norman pledged himself to do—when, after looking the last time on
                  his father, after parting with Louise, he stood with his hand clasped in hers who
                  was to support him during his absence,—and it seemed to him that look of her pale,
                  dear face, would be a life-long talisman: surely, if ever a proud boy went with
                  good desires and pure intentions forth to life, young Norman Sweete did!
               Yet, he had not been gone one year from home, when tidings came to the patiently
                  toiling, the ever hopeful sister, that for his misdeeds he had been suspended, and
                  had left the University! Several dreary days passed after this intelligence was
                  received  in his home, and he did not
                  make his appearance there. Then Phœbe, fearful that the boy, in his trouble, might
                  desperately plunge into wilder excesses, determined to go to Providence and seek
                  him out.
               She set out alone on the journey—the first journey of her life! It was a fruitless
                  one. Her brother had left the University, and as was supposed, the city—no tidings
                  were to be obtained respecting his movements. More than this, Phœbe learned that
                  it was not one wild outbreak that had occasioned his punishment. Repeated follies
                  and transgressions had incurred the master's heavy displeasure, and it was only
                  the name he bore which had preserved him from 
                     ingnominious
                     ignominious
                   and peremptory expulsion, long before he was suspended.
               With feelings almost of joy, that her father could not know of the disgrace his
                  son had brought upon himself—with wonder too, that Norman, knowing so well all the
                  high hopes that were centred in him, could so chill those hopes—and
                  with sorrow, that he had not proved able to withstand temptation, with love also,
                  and tender, forgiving affection, it was oppressed with such feelings that Phœbe
                  returned, still alone, to her father's house.
               With eager impatience had her coming been looked for by Louise,—Louise, who could
                  not believe the story of her darling's folly—Louise, who would have staked all her
                  hope of happiness on his perfect integrity.
               Even during the few days of Phœbe's absence, the extreme anxiety of the girl—the
                  constant confinement to the attendance of her father, for which her whole nature
                  was so unfitted,—had sunk her spirits to a dead level: her health was really
                  suffering from the effect of constant companionship which it had been necessary
                  she should give to her poor, ruined parent. And Phœbe, the pale and feeble one,
                  forgetful of her weariness and heart-sickness, felt that too much had been exacted
                  of her young sister when she looked on her jaded cheek, and saw how depressed in
                  spirits, how miserably nervous she was become.
               A physician who attended the Professor had also anxiously watched the change in
                  the gay, bright girl—and he became suddenly, and sadly apprehensive, that real
                  danger attended her self-sacrifice. Perhaps he would not have been so
                     much alarmed by what he saw, had he not loved the fair Louise, but this
                  being the case, Dr. Wild only the more firmly believed that her well-being
                  required an immediate change in the way of living. He longed to take her to his
                  own home where his mother lived—he longed to give a daughter to the dear old
                  lady.
               A cough, which so often for the young opens a short way to the grave, had much
                  troubled Louise for many weeks, and though she made no complaint, the fact was not
                  to be concealed that she grew daily weaker and more nervous. Especially, since
                  Norman had so cruelly disappointed her, was this observable; and to relieve her,
                  despite all opposition, Phœbe took upon herself still more of care, she turned
                  even the night into day, that she might work for all—and she was indeed the soul
                  of all. People said she was killing herself by such unheard-of exertion, but Phœbe
                  had no fear of death, and she knew that He who gives to the weak mortal strength,
                  would continue her supply so long as it was needful she should be on earth.
               It was a delicate position in which the kind physician found himself placed. He
                  was young and poor—but he devoutly loved Louise Sweete, and he knew that the life
                  she led was slowly and surely destroying her—and he knew somewhat else. A secret
                  which, perchance, a stray breath of air had whispered to him, that he should not
                  have to plead in vain for the young maiden's hand! But how could he
                  ask the elder sister to give up to him her sole companion,—how
                     could he take away the one friend of her heart?
               He did ask it; though, to his credit be it said, not till he was convinced that
                  either death or he must win: that speedy removal from her present home to a
                  cheerfuller, though still more humble one, must be accomplished, if
                  he would not see her borne to a narrower and more silent habitation.
               And so, thus said he to Phœbe:
               "What would you do without Louise? You are a glorious woman."
               What connection there could be between this interrogation and exclamation, had she
                  had time to think about it just then, Phœbe would have been quite anxious to know.
                  But now, so  matter-of-fact by necessity,
                  was she become, that she only looked on the questioner, and said,
               "I could live, doubtless. We are strong-hearted: how
                     much a mortal can bear!"
               This reply made it difficult for the poor doctor to proceed, but he did at last
                  say,
               "She is getting very pale and thin, and coughs too much. You should have a man to
                  nurse the Professor; it is no woman's work."
               "Ah!" was the mournful reply, "there is many a hard task falling on woman which
                  the kind heart might easily think no woman's work. Poor Louise! she cannot bear,
                  she was not meant for such a task as is set her. I sometimes wish she might be
                  away, much as it would grieve me to part from her."
               "But, dear Phœbe, can you not think of a separation which would be a pleasure to
                  you both, which would prove no separation?"
               "No, I cannot, Doctor; though I believe I comprehend your words."
               "Yes, I must marry her!" he exclaimed, in joyous relief, now that all was out,—"I
                  must marry her, or it will go very hard if she be confined, a watchful nurse, in
                  this house, much longer."
               There was a long pause in the conversation, and the Phœbe-Bird looked paler than
                  usual, as at last she looked up and said,
               "Doctor Weld, does Louise love you?"
               "I know she does!"
               "Then take her, in God's name; for I do believe she will die if she stays
                  here!"
               "But, but—you, Phœbe?"
               "I shall do very well," was the quiet answer; "she will be near at hand, and you
                  will be a brother now."
               "You shall have a man-nurse for the Professor!" exclaimed the lover in a transport
                  of gratitude; "it is essential. I will provide one, that is part of the
                  contract."
               "God be with you and bless you," answered Phœbe, fervently ly, and with tender
                  solemnity, as the doctor went off in search of Louise.
               And the twain were married.
               For more than three years, Phœbe dwelt with her father, to all intents alone. Two
                  other persons only made up the household—the nurse and the housekeeper—and, alas!
                  they were now as much to him as his own daughter!
               Nothing, in all this time, had been heard of Norman; and though the thought of him
                  was to the sisters, and especially to the eldest, an almost constant trouble,
                  still they could but hope, Phœbe, especially, with every dawning day, that some
                  good tidings would be heard of him ere the night came again.
               Every day, also, was this glorious Bird perfecting herself in that art which was
                  giving her a living and a fame; and that record which the angels write on the
                  faces of mortals who are becoming perfect through suffering, was being traced more
                  legibly on hers.
               The frequent companionship of the again beautiful and happy Louise, was a joy to
                  her; and there was another who often sought the Professor's house to hold converse
                  with the ever watchful daughter. It was the artist who taught her those first
                  lessons in which, at the very outset, she was recognised by him as no feeble
                  rival. He, too, since those days, had acquired a brilliant reputation, yet was he
                  well aware that more of true and powerful genius was in the woman's soul than in
                  his own. And though she was feeble, and pale, and a cripple, the gifted man loved
                  her. He loved her for her voice, so low and musical, the very outbreaking, as it
                  were, of some of her exquisite, soul-shaped designs; it thrilled his soul as no
                  other woman's could. He loved her because she worshipped the art to which himself
                  was bound, because she had a pure and elevated soul; for her glorious intellect,
                  for her mighty power of self-forgetfulness. She was never else than beautiful to
                  him, but 
                     
                        "She shone in her bright realm, apart
                        From all of earthly leaven;
                        A beacon to his erring heart,—
                        Its ray of light from heaven.
                        
                        Too perfect there, he deemed, to love
                        As mortal things are loved;
                        Too constant in its sphere, to move
                        As woman's heart is moved."
                     
                  
               
               In spite of this, he came to talk with her on all other themes than this one of
                  love, which lay nearest his heart; and, just in consequence, the thought and the
                  dream of her became only more thoroughly a part of his life, and he wished for no
                  future, if he might not share it with her.
               In the Professor's study, which Phœbe had made her own now, she sat and worked;
                  her father usually beside her, sleeping in his chair, or gazing on his daughter's
                  face, repeating to himself her name. And here, every week, came the artist, to
                  look at the lady's work, forever hesitating whether then to make
                  known his devotion. Why should he hesitate? Solely because he felt if
                  it ever happened, that he ought not to cherish a thought of her as though she were
                  his own, life would thenceforth be nothing to him. He became humble when he
                  thought of her—he forget, or held very light the honors himself had received, in
                  the conviction that she was worthy, and might have, were she not too proud to
                  claim, infinitely more valuable fame than he; forgotten was all her want of
                  natural beauty, which, to an artist's eye, might seem unpardonable in
                  a lady of his love—he only knew that her spirit was glorious, that she had a heart
                  and soul, and was not ashamed to confess to either, and it was her spirit-love he
                  sought.
               And how thought she, the "tried by fire and purified,"—how thought she, who, in
                  her childhood, had prayed but for love—how thought she of him? oh, reader, as a
                  mortal woman may think of a mortal man!
               At nightfall, one evening in summer, a child stood at the door of the Professor's
                  cottage, and Phœbe Sweete read (and the child wondered why she should turn so
                  deathly pale,) these words, which were scrawled on a bit of paper:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Dear Phœbe, I am dying: may I—may I come home?
                           
                              "NORMAN."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               A moment more, and the sister was following that messenger through the street to
                  the place where he had stopped. Norman had but just come, and he had
                  said truly, he was dying! Had not this been so, he would never have
                  ventured a return home; but in the time when mortal vigor failed him, when he knew
                  almost to an hour when his pilgrimage would end, he hastened back to his old home,
                  impelled by conscience, and his still living love, to pray for the forgiveness of
                  those whom he had never, for a moment, even in wildest moods, forgotten. He would
                  be buried by his buried mother; he would tell Phœbe, his angel-sister, that it was
                     not because he failed in love to her, or in ability to feel her
                  goodness, that he first went astray; he would look on Louise once more.
               Norman Sweete had, indeed, led a wild, a reckless life; he needed not to tell it
                  to her who now so thankfully, but so sorrowfully, led him to his father's house.
                  He had exhausted his mortal nature, and was yet so young! When he left the
                  university, it was shame that prevented his return to those whose confidence he
                  had so abused; he had endeavored more than once, in his mad career,
                  to restore himself; he had endeavored virtuously and soberly to earn his living,
                  but temptation again and again assailed him, until, at last, he was totally lost
                  to worldly good and honor. But it was, notwithstanding this fearful shipwreck that
                  he had made, with heartfelt gratitude that he was welcomed back; with devout
                  thanksgiving that his penitence, though so late, was made known, for the sisters
                  felt then that the prodigal would be forgiven by the Mightiest, even as they
                  forgave him.
               The Professor did not look upon his son until after the youth was dead. The
                  morning of the burial Phœbe led him into the funeral chamber, and uncovered,
                  before his eyes, the face of the corpse. The old man gazed upon it wonderingly for
                  a moment, and then, uttering a cry of terror, but without the least recognition of
                  the boy who had once been the hope and the pride of his heart, he ran hastily from
                  the room. Alas, what a night was that which had fallen on a day-dawn so rosy-hued,
                  so full of promise!
               When the last sickness fell upon the old man, it was thought—  and, oh, how it was hoped by one sad heart—that the
                  light of reason might, for a moment, at least, be restored, but it was not so.
                  When his head drooped heavily, and more heavily; when he could neither walk, nor
                  stand, nor sit longer, but lay in helplesness in his bed, there was still one
                  cry—and but one cry that found utterance from his lips; from his lips
                  only; and the tender, patient answer always given his call was unheeded
                  still—"Phœbe! Phœbe!" They were the last words he breathed—that was the last cry
                  that went up from the dying—and while the piteous wail rung so sadly through her
                  heart, even then she was there, supporting him, nursing him, and he knew it not!
                  How strange that it should be so; that such strong, unwavering devotion should
                  have been given one forever dead to it, while in that very hour a myriad human
                  hearts agonized for human love, and found it not!
               There remaineth but one other change, but one other trial through which the
                  Phœbe-bird can pass. She has taken the wife's vow upon her, but the Angels of
                  Heaven will hail their Sister of the Earth ere long. They have already written
                  their welcome on her brow, they have kissed her, and an increased holiness and
                  beauty lies in her dear brown eyes, and in her pleasant smile. Phœbe, the
                  long-suffering, the gifted, the kind, the wholly good, will be a Bird of Paradise,
                  and that before this summer sun looks on the autumn leaves. I know it, we all know
                  it; He knows it who has won her but to feel the bitterness of loss.
                  Twelve blessed months have passed since she became the artist's bride, but he
                  knew, before the marriage day, that death would claim her soon. He bound her to
                  him by the sacred tie, that she might be his where there is neither marrying nor
                  giving in marriage, that in the land were immortals know as they are known, he
                  might claim her by a name wherewith he named her on this earth!
               Sweet Phœbe Sweete! She is going down to the Halls of Death, to the region of the
                  Silence; the "eternal weight of glory," surely, surely, is in store for her; there
                  is no earthly good, no blessing of which mortals are aware, that is
                  meet for her who has suffered so bravely, who has done so wisely and so well; and
                     therefore it is, it must be, that the Angel of Death is leading
                  her away.
            
            
               THE CLAIRVOYANT.
               
                  
                     
                        "Folded eyes see brighter colors than the open ever do."
                     
                     E. B. BROWNING.
                  
               
               MY vision was not of the night; I was not revelling in the land of dreams. A
                  mortal, a human being, held over my bodily powers a monarch's sway, and thus my
                  spirit was set free from the bondage of sense.
               This person, by whose aid I was freed from consciousness of the fetters of flesh,
                  had exerted his power, thinking to guide my thoughts, to direct the workings of my
                  mind, also, by mere exercise of his will. But he had attempted that which was
                  beyond his power of accomplishment, he could not control and enslave, even for an
                  instant, the spirit which fled in that moment far beyond his empire, away from the
                  things of time. He had looked upon me, and I know not how it was, but his strange
                  gaze overpowered my nervous system, inducing a sleep of the animal life, and then
                  this panting, struggling soul escaped his influence, as it had that of the body.
                  It went forth, as the prisoned bird at the opening of its cage, it soared away
                  from the earth which had bound it so long. From the earth, I repeat,
                  for its course was not, as had been anticipated, to the 'far and foreign
                  lands.'
               I was sick, nigh unto death, with the tumult, strife, and confusion, which had
                  been my portion since my birth-hour. To a place of rest, and peace, and
                  contentment, to a house not made with hands, like a weary child, I bent my course,
                  and for the nonce, time had no more dominion over me.
               
               How pleasant, oh, how beautiful was that going home! At the instant
                  of my release, remembrances of pre-existence, of a life which had been mine before
                  ever I became a stranger and a pilgrim in the world, began to crowd upon me. Those
                  moments of exaltation and of intensest yearning which I had known on earth, found
                  now a perfect exposition.
               Never had the loves, the hopes, and the aspirations of my mortal life satisfied
                  me. It had seemed to me always that I had given for my earth-home an existence
                  that was deeper, fuller, grander. Forever a mournful conviction of unfitness,
                  incompleteness, and imperfection, had attended my toil. Now, for the first time,
                  could I understand that most sad, sweet saying, which, while it sets the
                  "apocalyptic never" on all the hopes of the mortal, sheds brightness and glory
                  over the aspiration of the immortal: "Whatsoever thou desirest,
                  shall be granted thee the moment of thy death;" for now had I anticipated the
                  joyousness of that release, the glory of that freedom, which is the attendant of
                  death. I understood then how it could be, how it must be, that the human, groping
                  in thick darkness on the earth, rarely accomplish the deeds and work for which
                  they are best capacitated; how they labor under constant difficulties, which
                  astonish, and bewilder, and try the only half-sentient soul. I knew at this moment
                  how it could be, that in death the veil removes from their eyes: how they must
                  perceive, then, and clearly, the work which is their birth-right, which the
                  All-Merciful will suffer them to carry forward to illimitable perfection in the
                  eternal ages. For what is death, but the mere closing of eyes on the
                  temporal, that they may open again, and look with perfectly-discerning, and
                  clearly-penetrating gaze on the eternal, the immutable?
               As I said, when the mortal had so unwittingly set my spirit free, I felt that I
                  was going home. Not to the Heaven, the World of the Resurrection, for that only
                  may be entered by those who are forever done with life; and did not one of the
                  earth guard for me my garments of mortality which must be reassumed? Neither to
                  the homes of the dead went I; but into the wide and glorious soul-land, into the
                  realm of the pre-existent!
               Going home! to my mother, my blessed angel-mother, my spirit-mother! she who gave
                  me to that beloved, my foster-parent, that we might for a few years be a joy and a
                  help to one another. I was going into that land which the darkness knows not,
                  which the light of purity enlivens; from whose altars ascend the incense of
                  knowledge, whose foundations and pillars, whose rivers and whose fruits, whose
                  thought, and whose All in All, is God!
               How can I tell with words, how can I speak as to be understood, of
                  that realm upon which rests the eternal calmness, the everlasting beauty? By what
                  terms common among men, can I dwell on the splendor and the blessedness of
                  soul-land? Can you fix on the blind man's mind an idea of the glory of flowers, of
                  the setting sun, of the face of beauty? Can you, by groans, or prayers, or
                  shrieks, give to the dead assurance of your love? Can the heart of the deaf thrill
                  at the glad tones of your voice, or conceive of music?
               Weakly, most faintly, can I utter, and that with tears as I feel my weakness, what
                     cannot be fully comprehended. How could one, save in
                  soul-language, rightly tell of the soul-life? or how, with the types and figures
                  of the dull insensate, can be made known the surpassing majesty of
                     that intellectual, that unfading?
               I made my journey thought-rapid, with a consciousness of freedom that was ecstacy
                  itself. I had sought clairvoyance in a vague hope of being for a moment released
                  from the sorrows which haunted me even in my dreams, my last thought on earth had
                  been of struggle, and weariness, vexation, and want. In the hard labor for daily
                  bread I was exhausted. I no longer revelled in the idea of a better day. The
                  exaltation and defiance with which I had pressed on in the path of exertion, was
                  over; the strong will had become paralyzed by incessant reverses and rebuffs.
               The awaking from despair by the communication of glad tidings which overwhelm the
                  troubled one with tumultuous joy, may afford an idea, most shadowy, it is true,
                  but still an idea of the exultation with which I went forth to my mother, to my
                  home. If ever you have known such moments of sudden, unexpected expected bliss, you will remember how, when the
                  wild joy had calmed into a blissful certainty, you cradled yourself in an
                  intoxicating kind of rest, you will have a conception of the steady,
                  and buoyant, and blessed peace, which continued with me as I went my way. But when
                  I entered the world of the pre-existent, I was conscious that a change, a wondrous
                  and awful change, had been wrought in me, since I had years before gone thence to
                  earth. As I moved through the hosts of stainless, undefiled ones, I knew I was no
                  longer of them. In amazement they looked on me, none knew, none recognised; yet I
                  knew them. I dared not offer them tokens of friendship and acquaintance; sin and
                  evil had marked my soul, I was as Cain among them; the brand of guilt was upon
                     me—I was of the earth! Oh, with what horror and shame did I
                  confess this to myself! How desperately I strove to hide me from those inquiring
                  glances! with what agony did I go on my way, seeking for my mother! and with what
                  fear was that search continued!
               Would she recognise, would she still love, would she hear me?
               I saw her coming up from the far distance—the beautiful, the peerless
                  perfection—with her was another, purely bright as a sunbeam. What a fount of holy,
                  yet saddest recollection, opened, as I saw these two together thus! So had
                     I stood beside her; so had I listened to her
                  teachings; so had I looked upon her with a boundless love and
                  veneration.
               My mother was speaking to the soul-child beside her in that peculiar, touching
                  manner, which I remembered well had been shown towards me that day when she sent
                  me to the mortal state, and I felt that it must be so—she was about to give
                  another of the untried to battle with the "clutching waves of sin."
               Inexpressibly grievous was the thought of my earth-home thus forced upon me; and
                  in that moment, all I wished was to save my beautiful, innocent soul-sister, from
                  contamination such as I had felt. I wished her to never know the agony of
                  mortality—and it was, therefore, to save her, rather than with the joy of reunion,
                  that I stood forth from the obscurity I had sought—it was, therefore, that for the
                  first time speaking, I eagerly cried, "My mother, my mother, crucify her not!"
               She looked upon me—she knew me!—of all who had forgotten gotten, she remembered.
                  The dreaded climax, her forgetfulness, and want of power to recognize, was
                     spared—she loved me!
               
               Then guided she the tempted, the tempest-tossed, the tried, to our home of the
                  dear olden time; then stood we, mother and child, together as one, then looked we,
                  face to face, then spoke we, one with the other.
               "Thou art come back, my child, though the hour appointed has not yet arrived; yet
                  it is well, for now shalt thou be the guardian of this other child, who is going
                  forth to the earth."
               "Oh, forbear! forbear!" I cried, interrupting her. "Send her not, mother; she is
                  not strong to combat, she is not brave to bear. Keep her under the shelter of
                  thine eye, oh, mother!"
               "Nay, it is written she shall go forth. Tell her of the earth, of the home that
                  awaits her."
               "It is a desolate desert, where there is no water; a parched and burning desert,
                  without shade trees; a mighty desert, where the birds of prey build their nests,
                  where the simooms rage. Wo to thee, sister, if thy feet falter by the way! the
                  caravan will go on and forsake thee. Wo, if thou makest known the grief of thy
                  heart, they will mock and laugh at thee; if thou comest to want or need, no hand
                  will be lifted to aid thee! There is sin, there is folly there, there is monstrous
                  guilt among the people; there is fraud, and envy, and slander; there is murder and
                  blasphemy, there is destruction and corruption in earth!"
               "How hast thou met all this?" exclaimed my mother.
               "It has broken my heart."
               "Thou weak one!" and she turned away from me. Then she said to the young soul, my
                  sister, "child, wilt thou dare go into such a world?"
               "Mother, yes!" answered the untried one, suddenly and decidedly.
               I looked on her with wonder, I said: "Thou dost not, surely thou dost not
                  understand, thou canst not know. Treachery and coldness from those thou hast most
                  trusted, misunderstanding, doubt, these are the very least of the evils which will
                  afflict thee. Child! I feel I cannot explain, nor can you comprehend what slavery,
                  and vice, and calumny, and poverty, and unjust  scorn of thy fellows, and the torturing of
                  conscience, and self-mistrust, mean! Every mortal has to learn. Make
                  her not a mortal, mother!"
               "Cease; I had rather thou never camest into my presence, than hear such words as
                  these. What hast thou done in the world? The doing much, the doing
                  good, saves one from such thoughts as thou hast."
               "I have labored and toiled, and borne the burden and the heat of the
                  day, and have only reaped in a harvest of nothingness. My work has been done all
                  for naught; my hopes have proved themselves altogether vanity. Oh, I
                     have toiled! Do not add to my cup of bitterness by doubting
                  that!"
               "Now, how shall I give into thy hands the care of this dear soul? I would that
                  thou hadst never come here, daughter. Yet—it is as well. She will not now grow up
                  in the world cherishing fancies, and thoughts, and hopes, that must all in turn
                  wither. She will live a fuller and a nobler life, because prepared
                  for all that awaits. But you have taken from her the sweet blessing of youth; you
                  have robbed her existence of all romance. Child, dost thou dare go?"
               "Oh, yes—yes! What is that slavery, and that horrible wrong? that
                  coldness, and treachery, and poverty? I will give myself to laboring, and so it
                  may, in part, perhaps, be done away. I will fight against that sin. Sister,
                  surely, thou hast?"
               I looked upon her conscience-struck, awed, and half-afraid—and I was forced to
                  answer—"No!"
               Reader—may God save you the anguish of being compelled to answer in such manner,
                  when that question shall be asked you!
               "Go back, and rejoice that there is yet time," my mother said. "When you come
                  again, then will you be satisfied with your work, my child. I give you a holy
                  work. I make you an apostle. Speak out among your fellows, and with no whispered
                  words, of that which you do know. Smile thou never on sin: if it stands before
                  thee clothed even in the purple, scorn it! Countenance never the works of
                  oppression; believe in the eternity of truth, in the immutability of God's
                  justice. When the times comes for thee to speak, fail not to rebuke vice in its
                  million hideous forms. Behold, I give thee another work. When this, thy sister,
                  shall appear on earth, thou wilt know her. Lead her in the paths which she should
                  tread; guide her; teach her the everlasting truths; establish her in the eternal
                  hope. And, my children, be ye only faithful over the things given to your care,
                  and ye shall come again, bearing precious sheaves with you."
               I have heard a child's voice on this earth which I recognize. There is a soul
                  tabernacled in the flesh which our mother gave to my guidance, though
                  others of this world claim her. The time is not yet come for the dispelling of the
                  early joy. Sorrow has not yet pressed the little one to her heart. What do I say?
                  That time was before she ever came into this world. I read it in the wondering
                  look with which she turns away from every temptation, from the voices of sin, of
                  dissension, of wrath; in the trembling tones with which she reads of the sway of
                  an almost universal evil; in the pure love with which she clings to the human,
                  exalting, and ennobling, all with whom she comes in contact. They who look upon
                  her, think to see the day when she will need that comfort which her words afford
                  them now; but they will look in vain—that time can never come.
               I foresee the day when she shall arise and declare what weary and fainting mortals
                  will rejoice to know. I see, in shadow, a form that shall move a very angel
                  through the harvest-field of our Master; I hear, in echo, a voice, as of a voice
                  heard in a dream, gentle tones and wise utterances, which shall be powerful to
                  rebuke, and convince, and restore, and save. I have prophetic hearing of a song of
                  joy and thanksgiving, that shall float upward from the bondmen of sin whose chains
                     she shall loosen—a song that shall be borne through the
                  far-distance to the blessed soul-land to Our Mother—and beyond the soul-land, to
                  Him!
               Oh, Mother! the weak and the weary, the tempted, and the falling, shall learn of,
                  and shall bless thee, for that little child!
            
            
               
               THE HUMAN VERB.
               (A SCRAP OF AUTOBIOGRAPHY FOUND ON THE BODY OF A WOMAN
                  DROWNED.)
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Friend, he was sheltered by the grave,
                           And therefore dared to be a liar."
                        
                     
                     SHELLEY.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "Here stand I, for what end, God knows, not I."
                     
                     LOWELL'S "COLUMBUS."
                  
               
               "WHEN Judge Holborn's will was read, my dear young brother and I learned, to our
                  amazement, that he had left us utterly destitute. This was so different from all
                  he had led us to expect in his lifetime, that we were more than surprised, we were
                  incredulous. But the proof was left before us; it was convincing, indisputable—we
                  were permitted to read the will with our own eyes—and we learned thus, that not
                  only had the gray-headed old man the heartlessness to leave us, his most faithful
                  servants and friends, (for we were more than servants to him,)
                  penniless,—but by words, whose meaning is too dark and foul for record here, which
                  I cannot bring myself to write, he had forever blasted my reputation—had fixed
                  upon my character, with his dying hand, the seal of utter worthlessness! God only
                  knows wherefore this black deed was done—the archfiend must have prompted it.
               "Harvey and I were young, and strong; we could work for our living: the old man's
                  property was certainly at his own disposal—but he had no right,
                  neither heaven nor hell could have given him a title to rob me of my reputation!
                  It was a grievous and terrible wrong he did, in daring to fix on me a stain deep
                  and broad enough to cloud my whole life!
               "This was a wo indeed, heavier than I had imagined I could bear; but we know not,
                  till the trial is put upon us, how great things it is possible for us to endure.
                  With peculiar heaviness did this calamity fall upon my brother. He knew that my
                  life, in its few years, had been kept wholly free from those dark stains which our
                     protector imputed to me: he knew—and in my
                  wretchedness this thought was my consolation—that I was innocent, that I had been
                  robbed, most cruelly robbed of my good name, our sole possession.
               "Harvey was younger than I. God had greatly blessed him with genius; his soul was
                  finely attuned, and keenly sensitive: the unexpected blow fell upon him even more
                  heavily than upon me, for the consciousness of entire innocence of the evil
                  charged upon me, and a firm confidence in the infinite mercy of God, supported me.
                  Oh, our poverty, in comparison with that wrong, seemed a small thing to us!
               "Of course it was impossible that we should remain in Hampshire after the false
                  charge had been brought against me, which it was out of my power to disprove, save
                  by words. We were young, and poor, and destitute. He who had deliberately wrought
                  the great wrong was dead, and his lips were closed irrevocably over that great
                  falsehood.
               "From Hampshire, Harvey and I went to Greenbush. We had a few dollars which the
                  poor boy had made, by the sale of a picture of his own painting, and with this,
                     our all, we set out in life, scarcely knowing whither to go, or in
                  what way to busy ourselves. We only wished, first of all, to be away from that
                  place, where coldness and cruelty met us at every turn—away from those who
                     should have been friends to us helpless orphans. A kind word, an
                  assurance of faith in our virtue and integrity had not cost them much, yet they
                  would not give it,—none gave it, of all those people to whom God had been very
                  gracious; they denied us belief, when we told the living truth, certifying to it
                  with tears!
               "Our father had been an artist; he lived and died poor. Harvey alone had inherited
                  his genius—both of us his poverty. In some way, Judge Holborn had become greatly
                  indebted to my father, by services rendered in days long passed away. The  judge was a widower—he had buried all his
                  children, four in number—they died young,—and when my mother was on her death-bed,
                  he came to our house and comforted her and us: he made her last moments happy by
                  the promise that he would shelter and support us, her destitute children, as
                  though we were his own.
               "Heaven knows how that promise was fulfilled. Had we not been naturally ambitious,
                  we should never have acquired the least education—we were never sent to school a
                  day after we entered his house, but the little schooling we had previously was to
                  us an incentive—we had inquiring minds, and were bent on learning. It was this
                  ambition which kept us from the evil, into which, as untrained children, we could
                  not otherwise have escaped falling. It was this desire to learn, which preserved
                  me, more than anything else, from becoming the fearless sinner which the old man
                  declared I was. In leisure moments, when we rested from the labors imposed upon
                  us, we attentively read the books which other children loaned us—even for books we
                  were indebted to others, and not to him, for the library of the house
                  was always kept close shut, securely locked.
               "When we went to Greenbush, Harvey resolved to teach drawing, if he could find a
                  small class of pupils; I, who was not in any manner gifted, determined to set him
                  an example of patience and hope, by laboring with my needle—thus thinking to
                  support myself, and aid him.
               "For six months we remained at Greenbush, in extreme poverty. We found little
                  encouragement, and without friends, so young and so poor, it was no easy thing for
                  us to work our way forward. At last we became so destitute that we felt any sort
                  of change would be a relief, for in our case change could not be for
                  the worse. Then we removed to a large city not far distant from Greenbush. Harvey
                  supposed that he should be much more likely to find scholars there, and as a
                  seamstress, I would surely be able to obtain work.
               "My poor brother was not a great proficient in his art: he needed an instructor
                  for himself, for as yet he was only self-taught; but he had more of hope than any
                  other mortal I ever knew, and his sole ambition was to succeed, and excel in his
                  profession: it seemed great enough to overleap all obstacles.
               "It was our idea, by joint and constant labors, to procure money enough to secure
                  his instruction; that object attained, it would be no difficult thing for him to
                  find abundance of scholars. Then we would travel from one place to another, and
                  really enjoy life as well as other people. Children we were indeed, to dream of
                  such a consummation!
               "No matter how darkly the days passed with us, we never revealed to one another
                  the despondency within our hearts. We were spared to each other, and we knew that
                  with health and energy, none need starve in a world that is
                  overflowing with plenty. But there were many times when we felt, in
                  our city home, the bitter miseries of poverty. The work we did was for people who
                  always gave us our pay grudgingly. They had surely never heard that God loveth the
                  cheerful giver!
               "We took lodgings in an obscure part of the great town, in an old house where many
                  other families lived. Our rooms were in the fourth story; two small apartments,
                  separated by a narrow hall. There were two other, and larger apartments on this
                  floor, both occupied by a poor family—a man and his wife, and their many
                  children.
               "At last, after many unavailing attempts to procure work, through the kindness of
                  Mrs. Hay, whose little girl Harvey was instructing in the first rules of drawing,
                  I was introduced and recommended as a seamstress to a Mr. Woodruff, who kept a
                  large clothing store on — street. He promised to supply me with work during the
                  remainder of the winter: this happened on the sixth day of January—a date I can
                  never forget. On the afternoon when this arrangement was made, I returned to my
                  room with the lightest of hearts, though the day was disagreeably wet, and the air
                  damp with heavy fog, it seemed bright and cheerful as a June day to me. I carried
                  with me a large package of work, for which I was to be paid as soon as it was
                  finished; this was one article of the agreement between my employer and myself—the
                  money earned was to be given me at the completion of every job! Oh, how thankful I
                  was then, when I thought of my brother, and of the easy  life which we should hereafter lead! No dread of
                  weariness, or of the possibility of failure or fatigue, entered into my head. Work
                  to do, and wages! Ah, it seemed to me that day as though I had reached the very
                  heights of bliss!
               "I sat in my room while the shadows of night deepened over the city. A bright fire
                  burned upon the hearth; we could afford that now! and keen was my enjoyment of
                  that warm, penetrating blaze—it was the first time that winter that I had kindled
                  anything like a good fire. I sat there in the darkness, deferring to light the
                  candle till Harvey should come. Soon I heard a heavy step, a very slow and heavy
                  step upon the stairway. I knew that it was he—no other person had occasion now for
                  coming up to our story. Harvey's step had often sounded to me very heavy when he
                  came home fatigued and disappointed. (Miss Landon says that 
                     
                        "Nothing like a heavy step
                        Betrays a heavy heart.")
                     
                   The lodgers who had occupied this story with us had removed the day before to
                  a house more miserable than this even, I could but suspect, for they were
                  miserably, dreadfully poor,—the wife in very bad health—and the man out of work.
                  Supposing, of course, that the person advancing through the hall and entering
                  Harvey's room was none other than himself, I waited for his appearance,—most
                  impatiently waited, I so longed to tell him of our good fortune.
               "It was probably five minutes, it seemed an hour to me, before I heard his step in
                  the hall again; then there was a tap at the door, and Harvey immediately entered.
                  Certainly it must have been he who had just before come slowly up the stairs, but
                  there was nothing dispirited in his manner, as he stood there looking upon me with
                  the gladdest of smiles. He did not speak, but kissed me twice, and then, after he
                  had removed his soaked boots, he sat down at my feet. Looking again upon me with
                  that happy smile, he clasped my hand, and exclaimed,
               "'Long live in memory this day! Mary, we have a fortune at last—the sun
                  shines!'
               "'Yes, that's the truth,' I said, thinking he had heard through Mrs. Hay of my
                  good luck. 'Mr. Woodruff will let me have work enough to keep me busy all the rest
                  of the winter. Won't we live now?'
               "To Jericho with your sewing! Don't you know I'm an artist? I've sold my picture,
                  and here, behold! are five ten dollar bills! fifty dollars in pay for that! just
                  think of it! what now?'
               "'What, to be sure? are you quite certain that you're not a little out of your
                  head, Harvey?' I asked in amazement.
               "'I do so wish now I had shown you the picture before it went,' he said in answer,
                  regretfully. 'You didn't know it, to be sure; I kept one thing from you, and now
                  am sorry for it. I've been working on a child-angel's head for several days,
                  morning and evening, in my room. I meant to have sold it to the Art-Union, and
                  then should have taken you to see it some day—but I fear now you'll never see
                  it—for I sold it elsewhere. Long live this day in memory!'
               "'Amen!' I shouted, excited as himself; and, oh, how long it was before we
                  subsided into quiet, and talked like reasonable beings!
               "Harvey had gone out, taking his picture with him: his intention was to visit one
                  of the shops, thinking thus, through one of the agents, to have it introduced to
                  the notice of the Purchasing Committee of the Art-Union. On the way he was stopped
                  by an old man, who asked to examine the painting. When it was uncovered, he looked
                  at it in surprise and delight: he asked my brother what disposition he was going
                  to make of his work, and if he were poor; and then he said he had the exact
                  counterpart of that head among his collection of paintings, and he offered fifty
                  dollars for it. This seemed to Harvey an enormous sum, and he accepted it at once.
                  It was a princely fortune in our eyes!
               "Harvey had taken a violent cold that day, having walked with old, thin boots,
                  many miles through mud and thawing snow; and the slight cough with which he was
                  always affected, was painfully increased. But this did not trouble him—he thought
                  not at all of it; and when I spoke of seeking an instant remedy, he would not hear
                  of such a thing—declaring that it  was
                  too late for me to venture out then—and so he dismissed the subject. He was too
                  light of heart to be troubled about anything that concerned only
                  himself; and I could not but be happy also, as I looked upon him.
               "We did not light any candle that night. The fire-blaze was so cheerful—it made
                  such pleasant light and shadow in the room, that we did not need any other
                  illumination. Strong as young giants in spirit, we talked of the great things we
                  would yet accomplish. My dear, young, handsome brother! how his imagination rioted
                  in those delightful visions which flooded his brain! There seemed to him, and to
                  me also, no possibility of his failing to reach the great height of excellence in
                  his profession at which he aimed.
               It was a moonlit night; the clouds and the mists had given way; and the Queen of
                  Heaven smiled on the earth. Through the large window at the end of the hall which
                  separated our rooms, the light clearly streamed, we needed no candle to light
                  either of us to bed. We would be prudent after all, though we were so
                  fortunate.
               "From ten o'clock, when I retired, till the clock in the spire of St. Marks' told
                  six in the morning, I slept not for a moment. I was so glad—so thankful; I knew
                  then how hard a thing it is to bear sudden prosperity with calmness! But one
                  thought, only one, in all those hours, troubled me: the remembrance of that great
                  wrong Judge Holborn had done me in his death. How could it ever be overcome? The
                  bitter thought took in those still hours the form of a passionate prayer—and, oh,
                  how I wrestled with the angel for the blessing of a restored name! Yet, even then,
                  I felt that it was better to suffer as I did, rather than venture, as the old man
                  had, before the Lord of Heaven, with a lie staining his soul.
               "In the morning I sunk into a sound sleep. When I awoke again, it must have been
                  near nine o'clock, and there was a sound as of many persons passing along the
                  hall, and in the neighborhood of Harvey's room. I arose in amazement, and somewhat
                  of alarm, and dressed myself hastily. I could hear men talking all the while with
                  my brother, and heard his voice in answer.
               "In a few moments, when my suspense was becoming perfectly agonizing, he came to
                  my door, rapped, and called to me. I went out at once. A glance at Harvey's pale
                  face, and the solemn sternness of the men gathered around him, filled me with
                  awful forebodings. He took my hand without uttering a word—his own were cold as
                  ice—and led me into his chamber. I trembled violently—he looked so excited and
                  distressed. 'Be calm,' he said, with a gently, entreating accent; but I had lost
                  all self-control.
               "'Gentlemen,' he said then, turning to the strangers, 'ask this woman all you wish
                  to know.' And Harvey stood back from me, leaving me alone fronting a group of men
                  who looked searchingly upon me.
               "One of these persons, a commanding, officer-like individual, stepping forward at
                  these words, fixed his piercing eyes upon me, and demanded,
               "'Give me your name—tell me what you are?'
               "'I am Mary Wilbur, a seamstress, the sister of this young man, Harvey Wilbur,' I
                  answered, steadily.
               "'What is your brother's occupation?'
               "'He is an artist.'
               "'Where was he yesterday and last evening?'
               "'Part of the day—that is, in the morning—he was busy with his sketching in my
                  room. In the afternoon he was out till dark giving lessons to his pupils down
                  town. In the evening, from seven till ten o'clock, he was in my room.'
               "'Where were you in the afternoon of yesterday?'
               "'In the street, seeking for work.'
               "'Are you poor?'
               "'Yes—no, not now,' I added, thinking of our late good fortune.
               "'Ah! a fortune has fallen to you, then?' continued my inquisitor, glancing from
                  me to his companions.
               "'Yes, sir.'
               "'Through whom?'
               "'Through our own efforts. My brother has sold a painting to a gentleman, and I
                  have succeeded in getting work at Mr. Woodruff's store.'
               
               "'Look here, madam,' said another of the men, with stern impatience. As he spoke,
                  he opened the door of a large closet, which was built when the house was erected,
                  in the wall of the room. I did look, oh, my God! upon a murdered man, a corpse!
                  and did not faint, nor scream—but I felt that the sentence of a terrible wo was
                  pronounced upon me in that moment.
               "The body was bent together and crowded into a box. It was that of a young, slight
                  man, who had evidently come to his death by violent means. The expression of the
                  face was dreadful; there had been no loving hand near to smooth the features when
                  the murderer's work was done.
               "'Have you seen this body before, madam?'
               "I drew nearer to the body. I bent my head to look more scrutinizingly upon it:
                  the very blood seemed freezing in my veins, as I did so, and thought of where that
                  corpse was found, and heard that momentous question. I was horror-struck; and, for
                  a moment, it was utterly impossible for me to utter a word. I turned to Harvey,
                  and his glance instantly reassured me—he was no murderer! Then I felt
                  wonderfully calm and courageous. I answered at once, 'No; I have
                     never seen that person before, either as a dead or as a living
                  man.'
               "My brother, my Harvey, was arrested on suspicion of murder! They carried him away
                  to the prison: they left me alone in my misery—my unutterable despair!
               "How those days that followed passed, I know not; they came and went, and were as
                  a long, horrid dream: they left none other than a dream-like trace in my
                  memory.
               "At last there came to me a gentleman who had been appointed to defend Harvey. He
                  had visited the dear boy in prison; and he had besought him to come
                  to me and assure me of his entire innocence of that foul deed. And Mr. Curtis
                  wished also to examine me as a witness, before I was called upon at the public
                  trial.
               "The person who was murdered was a young man, an artisan, who had lived in a house
                  but a few doors from the place where we lodged. Neither Harvey nor I had heard
                  even that he was missing. It appeared that he was known by many to have recently
                  became heir to a small property—to obtain which, it was not doubted, some person
                  had committed the awful crime of murder.
               "The body was immediately recognised by the dead man's friends; and in Harvey's
                  room were found tools which had evidently been used for a bloody purpose; and
                  under his bed were found torn and blood-stained clothes. The closet in which the
                  body was discovered, was locked—the key found among my brother's things; the door
                  had been broken open by the officers in their search. These men had previously
                  searched through all the lower part of the house. Indeed, the fact that some
                  notorious villains lodged there, (of which we were at the time ignorant) had first
                  induced the suspicion that, by some of these persons, the dreadful deed was
                  wrought.
               "Mr. Curtis endeavored to assure me that there would not be the least difficulty
                  in proving my brother's entire innocence of the crime with which he was charged;
                  but I could not conceal from myself the fact of the great imperfectness of my
                  evidence, and mine was the chief that could be favorably adduced! I had never seen
                  the painting that Harvey sold; the person who purchased it, was altogether unknown
                  to either of us; he had not even given my brother his name, but merely purchased
                  the picture in the streets; and there was no clue whereby to discover him. That
                  heavy step upon the stair, which I had supposed to be his! now was I morally
                  certain that another person had entered his room in the night; but, where was the
                  proof?—Only my conviction. Mr. Curtis wished for testimonials to our past
                  integrity—he wished our friends to come forward, and certify to our good
                  character! Our friends!
               "To this most kind and christian man, I revealed the sad story of our past life,
                  up to that very night which saw the brightening prospect of our future,—I revealed
                  all to him—and he believed me.
               "The day of trial came. Until that time I had not seen Harvey since his arrest. My
                  heart died within me as I looked on him then, he had suffered so terribly. The
                  violent cold  taken on that dark day
                  which was so bright to us, had not been allayed—it had increased—it had told upon
                  him, for he was very pale, and coughed incessantly, and dreadfully.
               "The trial was not a lengthened one. It was of course a case of circumstantial
                  evidence. The prosecuting attorney, may God forgive him! did not spare us. With
                  the weight of his eloquence, and learning, and penetration, he
                  crushed us—our counsel could do nothing—there was nothing to be done. False
                  witnesses, who testified to the most flagrant falsehoods, were not found wanting:
                  our ruin was complete.
               "They who had known us in our childhood, remembering the words and the testimony
                  of the dead—giving to them unhesitating credence, refused to offer any evidence
                  for us, and when compelled to speak, they but repeated the testimony against me
                  that Judge Holborn had left in his will. The 'eccentricities of genius' shewn
                  forth in Harvey's character from his childhood, his ambition, his peculiar talent,
                  his nervous temperament, his imagination, his poverty, were brought against him as
                  presumptive evidence that he might stain his hands with blood in a
                  moment of passion, or, for the sake of money! he, who would have starved, who
                  would have borne all wrong, sooner than wrong another!
               "During the trial, Harvey was terribly excited—the bare thought of being accused
                  of such a crime was almost beyond endurance—the extremity of his position, his
                  entire helplessness, almost maddened him. But that his manner could have been
                  interpreted as that of a guilty person fearing conviction, I cannot believe—that
                  any looking on his youthful face, so truthful, so honest in expression, could have
                  thought him a murderer, I will not believe.
               "They allowed my testimony, but it was outweighed, was made and
                     proved to be, nothing worth; all that I could aver was set down on
                  the testimony of an interested person who was resolved even to swear falsely, if
                  so her brother's life might be saved. Had not the dead declared that I was
                  unworthy all confidence and respect? was I not worse than a heathen in the eye of
                  the pure and holy?
               "There was a moment when all hearts were constrained to feel; when many wept. It
                  was when Harvey, at the conclusion of the evidence, arose, and declared before God
                  and man, his entire innocence. That sweet, and thrilling voice! 'tis ringing in my
                  ear constantly, and that pale, beautiful face, grown at last entirely calm, how is
                  it ever before me! my brother! my brother!
               "Many gave credence to his words, I know they did—but the counsel for the
                  government had not labored with the jury in vain—they brought in a verdict of
                  deliberate murder, and my darling was condemned to death. When Harvey had finished
                  his earnest, simple statement, I could not resist the frantic impulse that seized
                  me. I stood up in presence of the mighty throng, and told with voice that never
                  faltered, the story of our life. The spirit of the lioness guarding her young was
                  in me then; I felt strong to battle with the united foes of the world. I had grown
                  desperate, for I knew, I could but know, how small a chance was left for him; I
                  struggled, as with a giant, for the one comfort, the one hope of my life. They
                  could not silence me by word or look. I felt that in the moment when they were
                  about to take from me my all, I had a right to put in my protest—they
                     should not work that mighty wrong, till I had spoken. 'Anguish
                  worketh inspiration;' and it seemed to me in that hour as though I were inspired
                  and sustained by a mighty spirit, not of earth. And they let me speak, until
                  exhausted, body and soul, I fell to the floor. I knew that many wept while I
                  spoke. I knew that if the mass of that people could have decided Harvey's fate
                  they would have said—Let him go; if he is guilty even, under the guidance of one
                  who loves him so, he will repent and do well: but my effort was made in vain.
               "The day of execution was appointed to be three months from the time of
                  condemnation. The Saturday of every week they suffered me to be with my brother in
                  his cell, and during the other five days I labored—God gave me strength—to
                  maintain myself. I took lodgings in the house of a poor woman who lived near the
                  prison; all I cared for then was to be near him: to feel that he was
                  near, to see that only a wall of stone interposed between us.
                     That day of the weeks which I spent  with Harvey, was given to him solely. I comforted
                  and nursed him, strengthened his heart with words which had no balmy influence for
                  me; I made more steadfast his faith, and his hope in Heaven; it was a blessed work
                  the Father in Heaven suffered me to do.
               "And all this time he was dying—slowly, surely dying, and we both knew it,
                     knew it and were glad. Excitement and despair had given him a
                  death-blow—he would not need that of the law! There was a physician in the prison,
                  a kind, good man, who did much towards allaying the fever of Harvey's mind, but he
                  could not restore the dear boy to health, to life. And it was with joy that we saw
                  this: we could bear all but that thought of shameful execution for an uncommitted
                  crime.
               "His spirit fled away from earth one week before the sentence was to have been
                  passed upon him. I was with him in that hour alone. I
                  only, supported him in his last moments, I only received his last words, his last
                  kiss, his last blessing. My wild sorrow was hushed then; I shed not one tear, but
                  talked with him calmly and peacefully, as though we had been at home, and speaking
                  of an earthly future. I made no effort to call in others when I saw that the time
                  of his departure was at hand. While he lay in my arms, still living, I was strong
                  to bear, for he was mine; but when my tears fell at last upon his face, for one
                  moment, and he knew it not, when I felt the hand which had grasped mine so fondly,
                  growing icy-cold—when, driving back those tears to my heart which they flooded, I
                  arose and called the keeper, and pointing to my brother dead, prayed that he might
                  be mine for burial, when I went again from the prison, this plea
                     refused, and sought my dwelling-place, how could I but
                     wonder at the providence of God? how could I keep one human
                  feeling in my heart?
               "Sometimes, in my bitterest sorrow, I have wondered if there were indeed a God of
                  mercy. I have had dark and dreadful thoughts—yet, even at such times I have found
                  my guardian angel. The faith which Harvey kept to the last, has tended to reassure
                  and comfort me. The Almighty is merciful, and shall I hesitate to
                  trust in Him? Shall I not rather prove that trust in hastening from this dreary
                  world? I cannot live in this inhospitable place where human beings have trampled
                  upon, and crushed me; among those who have dared take from me the joy of life, who
                  have heaped insult and intolerable wrong upon me—I cannot, I will not live!
                  Father! forgive me, if I hasten before the time!
               "There is a river dark, and swift, and deep. A current that flows on mightily
                  towards the eternal sea. 
                     
                        "There is a rest for those who weep—
                        A calm for weary pilgrims found;"
                     
                  
               
               "It must be mine. If I fling myself into its embrace, and float on to
                  the land of the redeemed from wo, God! it is that I cannot longer bear the mortal
                  chastisement! Here I am an outcast from human pity, mercy, and love.
                  There is no strength in the arm of flesh. My heart has fainted, and failed me. I
                  starve. I lie! To thy surging waters, oh stream of life, I hasten; bear me quickly
                  to Him, to our Father, to the eternal shore!"
            
            
               
               THREE PICTURES:
               
                  SUNRISE—NOONDAY—NIGHT.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Looking within myself, I note how thin
                              A plank of station, chance, or prosperous fate,
                              Doth fence me from the clutching waves of sin;
                              In my own heart I find the worst man's mate."
                           
                        
                        LOWELL.
                     
                  
                  AN artist was slowly passing through the thoroughfare of a great city, where,
                     for a few weeks, he was sojourning.
                  He was a young man, and the few years of his life, if they had proved heavy and
                     sorrowful in experience, had at least left no dark impress on his forehead. His
                     figure was strikingly elegant, the face manly, and very beautiful; it might
                     well have been taken to represent the Genius of Thought, so calm, elevated, and
                     ennobled by spiritual excellence was it.
                  The artist was a poor man; you could guess that by the worn garments in which
                     he was attired, for from the figure, bearing, and whole appearance of the
                     youth, it was evident that he was not of that class of geniuses who affect
                     shabbiness in personal appearance, in the name of eccentricity.
                  And he was an ambitious young man, too. A glance into his studio, where
                     constantly and diligently he toiled in his vocation, had told you that. It
                     would seem by the constant emendations he made, and by the finished style he
                     labored to impart to all he did, that nothing but perfection, or superior
                     excellence in his art, would satisfy him.
                  He has come out into the open air this morning, not because he is wearied with
                     his work—for it is a continual source of delight light to him—neither in search
                     of amusement, but to ponder on a thought long harbored in his mind. Three
                     pictures should be his fame. From his quiet studio he would send into the world
                     a moral lesson, that should delight and instruct, and leave in the world an
                     abiding moral influence. Not only did Martin Gray long to win for himself a
                     proud name on the earth, but with the poets and preachers, he would fain lift
                     up his voice and teach—he, also, would be a priest and a reformer, and by his
                     works testify to the infinite beauty of holiness and virtue.
                  The artist's mind beat joyfully as he revolved this idea in his mind—his hope
                     was high—his hand was skilful.
                  "If my name only ranks with the masters' some day—if I can do some real and
                     substantial good in my generation, I cannot labor too hard to secure these
                     ends," he said to himself as he passed, unconscious of the noise and confusion
                     about him, along the street.
                  Mechanically turning the first corner, Martin moved on to quarters of the city
                     where the strife and bustle of the multitude was more subdued.
                  At once he stood silent, as though changed to marble; then a heart-cheering cry
                     of joyous surprise burst from him, "I have found it! I have found it! here is
                     sunrise at last!"
                  There were children playing in the street, poor little children, boys and
                     girls, whose only play-ground was that hot and dusty place. In the person of
                     one of the group, the quick eye of the artist detected extraordinary beauty,
                     though it was decked in rags almost as extraordinary. She was a girl of six or
                     seven years of age, faultless in form and feature, the very embodiment of one
                     of Martin Gray's ideals.
                  It was not solely the exquisite loveliness of the child's face, though the
                     shape and coloring were perfect, but besides the dark rich hair which fell in
                     such profusion on the shoulders of its little mistress, and besides the deep
                     sapphire of the large languid eyes, and the classic regularity of feature,
                     there was an expression, a soul-look, which intensified her
                     natural beauty, and stamped her as the owner of an intellect whose range was
                     far higher than that reached by any of her playmates.
                  
                  "Tell me your name, little angel," said the artist, in the excitement of his
                     delight.
                  "My name is Alice Flynn," was the prompt answer, accompanied by a smile, and
                     frank look of inquiry, which read very plainly—What is your name, and what do
                     you want of me?
                  "Have you a mother? where does she live? Go with me to your home, I must speak
                     with her."
                  The child answered these queries by at once leaving her playmates—the artist
                     followed her quickly, and, in a few moments, they entered a narrow by-way.
                     Passing a short distance along it, Alice paused before a shabby old frame
                     house, which seemed on the point of bidding an eternal farewell to all things
                     terrestrial.
                  "This is the place where we live, sir," she said, with the sweetest voice in
                     the world, "will you come in?"
                  "The little girl is yours, ma'am, I believe," said Martin, as he stood in the
                     presence of what seemed to him an ogress, a gigantic woman, who certainly could
                     lay but little claim to beauty, when compared with the "child-angel" who called
                     her mother.
                  "Yes—she was'nt lost, was she? or was she up to mischief in the street, just
                     tell me that?"
                  "No, no, nothing of the kind," answered the artist quickly; "I was struck with
                     her appearance—and now that I have an opportunity, at last, of accomplishing an
                     object I have long contemplated, I trust you will not object."
                  "Lord, sir, what is it you want—speak it out quick, can't ye—my work is waiting
                     for me, don't ye see? Do ye want the child's front teeth or her hair? I've sold
                     her hair twice to a barber, but her teeth—"
                  "You mistake," exclaimed Martin, sharply, for he was disgusted with the cruel
                     words and manner of the old beldam, "I am an artist—I would like to take her
                     portrait—will you permit me to do so?"
                  "No!—what would you do with it?—the girl's about spiled now with folks' telling
                     her how beautiful she is. To be sure, she is well enough (this
                     with a sort of brutish pride) in looks, but beauty don't give us bread, and her
                     looks only spiles her— she is getting proud and hateful, since people have told
                     her so much about it, the little fool."
                  "If that is so, I fear it's not the wisest course to let her play so much in
                     the street," said Martin.
                  This approach to advice, roused the woman's ire.
                  "Where's she to be kept, I'd like to know that? A woman like me, as arns her
                     bread by the sweat of her face, has little time to be looking after the young
                     ones. People like me can't keep their children to home like other folks, who
                     have plenty of room in-door and out. So, you see, young man, your advice aint
                     worth much any how."
                  "Of course, madam, you know your own business best; but seriously, you cannot
                     mean to refuse my earnest request? I assure you it will be the greatest favor
                     if you will suffer me to take the child's likeness. I am willing to pay you for
                     the privilege."
                  "Then it shall be done," said the woman, brightening up. "How much will you
                     offer?"
                  "Two dollars," was the answer. "I will pay you more at some future day—but I,
                     also, am poor."
                  Poor fellow, he spoke the truth, indeed, for the two dollars were just half the
                     contents of his old faded purse, at that moment.
                  "Well, she may go for that. Here, Alice, you're gwine to have your face
                     painted—let me brush you up a little."
                  "No—no, I pray, madam, leave her to me. I will take her to my studio as she is;
                     I would not have her appearance changed in the least—the drapery of the child
                     does not need any alteration—I will bring her to you again in an hour."
                  "Well, she'll be safe enough I s'pose, go on."
                  "Are you going to paint my face, sir? What for? Will it hurt me?" asked Alice
                     Flynn, as she, with Martin, passed along the streets, hand in hand.
                  "Not your face, child—I'm going to paint a face like
                     yours, that is all."
                  "What for?"
                  "To hang up in my room, and then, perhaps, to sell it, some day, for a deal of
                     money."
                  
                  "Sell me! sell my face!" and the little innocent laughed, and wondered why any
                     body should want to buy a face like hers!
                  Martin, too busy with his own thoughts, made no answer to her many exclamations
                     of astonishment, and wonder. Two steps at a time with the girl in his arms, did
                     the youth ascend the three narrow steep flights of stairs which led to the poor
                     little attic, which he dignified with the "name, style, and title" of
                     studio.
                  A barren place it seemed to Alice Flynn, for such a nice gentleman to live in;
                     indeed scarcely a whit better than her own poor home.
                  "Are you poor too?" she asked with childlike confidence, and a most unchildish
                     and unnatural sadness was in her voice as she spoke.
                  "Yes, I am poor. I paint pictures for a living, Alice. I shall not grow rich in
                     a day;" and the artist's words were not uttered with his usual
                     light-heartedness.
                  "Now, lie quietly, Alice, for a moment," continued Martin. He had placed her on
                     the ancient lounge, the only reasonable piece of furniture in the room. "Now,
                     close your eyes; ah, not so close, let them be half open as though
                     you were just waking up; now, I will paint a picture the world shall wonder at!
                     Yes, I also will make a sunrise!"
                  Quietly and motionless as though bereft of life the child lay and watched the
                     artist's movements: in him she forgot herself, consequently had none of that
                     intense consciousness of expression, so often perceivable in the faces of
                     people who become immortalized and perpetuated on—canvas!
                  (What a sight to see! the lonely, desolate places, where the impoverished
                     children of genius, the painters, sculptors, and poets, have with patient,
                     almost hopeless toil, wrought out their wonder-works!)
                  An hour passed, and not for one moment had the hand of the artist paused; it is
                     enough to say, that even he was satisfied with the progress made during those
                     swift-winged sixty minutes.
                  Upon the easy couch Alice had fallen asleep unperceived by the painter; he
                     awakened her with regret, but the time he had promised to keep her with him was
                     passed, and Martin had little inclination to brave the wrath of the mother.
                     Thoughtfully he led the child to her home, and when he parted with her there,
                     it was with a heart full of sorrow, for he knew that a life of hardship, and
                     want, and temptation, was in store for that girl.
                  "Poor and handsome," thought he. "God protect her! To be sure, it would be a
                     sad sight were the innumerable host of poor people all hideously ugly; and as
                     to the necessity of the thing, it would seem that such folks require the simple
                     pleasure of being admired, inasmuch as they are debarred from participating in
                     all amusements that cost money, and beauty costs nothing. Yes, Heaven have
                     mercy on the poor family that boasts of a beauty! as surely as the sunlight,
                     pride will creep in under the door-sill, or by the window—certainly in a covert
                     manner. The pretty daughter must be prettily dressed, even at the expense and
                     by the self-denial of the more plainly-gifted remainder of the family. Then
                     come struggles, heart-bitterness, and envy. God be thanked, if hatred and
                     malice do not also come! Now, there's that little Alice Flynn, if she were only
                     my sister, or one over whom I had the shadow of control! Oh, that I were only
                     rich! She ought to be educated! Heavens! what a smile; and what a mind she has;
                     she thinks! God defend her!"
                  Indulging in such thoughts as these, Martin had passed again through the
                     crowded streets, quite unmindful of all things save the high project he had
                     conceived, which now for the first time, he felt convinced, might really be
                     performed. Once more we find him before his easel, and how he labored there!
                     Six days, morning and evening, he worked on his creation, and Saturday night
                     saw him looking upon it with such intensity of satisfaction, as betokened a
                     very happy heart, for it was finished, and his heart and his mind had declared
                     it "very good!"
                  The following week there was to be an exhibition of the paintings of native
                     artists in New York, and to the rooms prepared for this purpose Martin conveyed
                     his work; and it was not without a thrill of pride that he placed it among the
                     multitudinous proofs of genius there.
                  The "Sunrise" was unframed, and having been the last  brought in, it occupied an obscure and
                     unfavorable position. But Martin surveyed it with the eyes of a lover.
                        He knew its superior worth, and so fancied that others would
                     behold it in just the same light. But Martin was destined to be disappointed:
                     during the first days of the exhibition, while the rooms were filled to
                     overflowing, but little attention was paid his portrait. Sometimes it was so
                     fortunate as to attract an exclamation of surprise, and a momentary glance of
                     admiration; and, once or twice, a group of young people stopped to honor it
                     with examination—but there were works of well-known artists, which must be
                     criticised and applauded—there were "first attempts" of rich and fashionable
                     men, which must be praised—and, besides, it was of course taken for granted,
                     that the best pictures occupied the most prominent positions, and
                     that those condemned to the back-ground were only passably good, or
                     mediocre.
                  By degrees, Martin began to take these facts into solemn consideration; and
                     then it was only by great effort that he managed to keep his hopes alive, that
                     some good fortune was yet in store for his darling.
                  An early hour on the morning of the fifth day, found him once more attracted to
                     the exhibition-rooms—he would endeavor to secure for his child a position more
                     favorable, for some of the paintings had already been removed by their
                     owners.
                  But two persons were there when he entered—a lady and gentleman in deep
                     mourning—and they were standing before his "Sunrise!" Passing up the long hall
                     slowly, with his eyes directed to the closely-covered wall, where he saw, what
                     only an artist could, the out-written, burning hopes of a multitude of men, he
                     contrived to keep watch of the two who remained so long motionless and
                     speechless before the pictured child.
                  "Do you know the author of this work, sir, and if it is for sale?" asked the
                     stranger, as Martin drew near.
                  "I have an acquaintance with the artist," answered he: "the painting, I think,
                     is not for sale."
                  "Why should it be placed here then?" asked the gentleman, quickly, and with
                     great evident disappointment.
                  "Because, sir, there is something dear to the author of a work besides the
                     money which the sale of it would bring. I feel at liberty to answer you freely
                     as you have asked: the artist hoped that, by this work, attention might be
                     attracted to his skill, for he is a young man necessitated to labor, and as yet
                     altogether unknown in his profession."
                  "I admire the genius of the man; he will succeed in making himself known to the
                     world, beyond a doubt. But perhaps I might offer for this picture a price that
                     would more than satisfy him."
                  There was a silence; and in the lady's eyes was such a beseeching look, that it
                     almost vanquished Martin's determination. Looking down, he said,
                  "The painting is my work: I cannot part with it at any price."
                  "It is yours! and you will not sell it? Mr. Artist, you do not, cannot know,
                     how much you refuse! We had a child—a darling little girl—she was an angel to
                     us—she is lost to us—is dead, young man! And this portrait—it is so like her—I
                     would secure it at any price! Name it—high as you value your beautiful work,
                     consider, to us, it is infinitely more valuable! The hours of
                     labor spent upon it have endeared it to you—it is more than even that to us—it
                     is life—for it brings her back again!"
                  The lady trembled as her companion pleaded with the artist so earnestly. It was
                     not in Martin Gray to deny a plea like that. "It shall be yours!" he exclaimed:
                     "permit me to retain the work for a few days—it shall then be returned to
                     you."
                  A thankful glance of the tearful eyes of the bereaved mother, was what Martin
                     thought at that moment a full reward.
                  "God bless you, sir! you have made us happy! If five thousand dollars are any
                     compensation, they are yours."
                  That was another kind of reward! The young man thought both invaluable; and it
                     was with a light heart that he carried the picture once more to his attic
                     studio.
               
               
                  
                  II.
                  Martin Gray's fortune was made, and ever after he was a firm believer in
                     presentiments—for the Sunrise had in very truth been the making of him. In the
                     midst of his good fortune, he did not forget the poor child, whose beauty had
                     so materially aided his genius. Previous to his departure for the old world, he
                     placed a well-filled purse in the mother's hands, saying, "Your child is an
                     extraordinary girl. This money will be sufficient to secure her a good
                     education—pray do not neglect it, for she will be an honor and a great help to
                     you some day. Promise me that you will keep her out of the street as much as is
                     possible, and that you will send her to school. I am going abroad; when I come
                     home again she will be nearly a woman. Give me your promise that she shall be
                     sent to school."
                  "Yes, she shall go: as to keeping her out of the street, I s'pose I might as
                     well try to—but, yes, I'll try my hand at it."
                  "Be kind to her!"
                  Martin travelled abroad. He studied in Italy, he studied in Germany—he
                     journeyed through nearly all Europe. Among artists, and artist-patronizers, the
                     success of his first exhibited picture was well-known, the Sunrise was
                     everywhere commented upon, and the papers liked to talk of the young artist,
                     Martin Gray, of his skilful hand and generous heart.
                  But during those years of labor and study, his one idea remained
                     unaccomplished. The second picture, which he had resolved should be a
                     continuation of the Sunrise, was untouched. Imagination was not to be suffered
                     to delay the work in this instance either—but the second picture, even as the
                     first, must be a portrait.
                  Still, his hands had not been idle. In Paris, his studio (it was not there an
                     attic!) became a point of interest and fashionable attraction; and in Hamburg,
                     the American artist dwelt neither in poverty nor obscurity. The walls of his
                     rooms were adorned with evidences of his capabilities, and, besides the honors
                     heaped upon him, in a pecuniary point of view, his labors had made his
                     fortune.
                  Years passed on, and Martin was at home again; at home, and surrounded by a
                     multitude of friends, though when seven years before, he sailed from the great
                     city, he might readily have told the voices which bade him God-speed. But fame
                     and fortune wonderfully enhance the interest felt in the once poor
                     son of genius—so Martin Gray proved it. His friendship and acquaintance was
                     sought as most desirable; his words were quoted, his dress and style imitated;
                     fair ladies trilled his songs, (for he was something of a poet, too,) and, as a
                     "lion," the young exquisite was pronounced by fathers, mothers, and daughters,
                     as perfect, charming, and altogether unexceptionable.
                  "Well, what in the way of amusements, Frank?" asked the artist, as arm-in-arm
                     with a city gallant, he strolled up Broadway, a few days after his arrival in
                     New York.
                  "What! not heard yet that Alice gives a musical entertainment
                     to-night? My good fellow, you argue yourself unknown by such unseemly
                     ignorance," gaily said his companion, the Hon. Francis Dundas.
                  "Indeed, I must confess to ignorance. Who is this great singer Alice? Some
                     newly-risen star, is she not?"
                  "Yes, but the few who have heard, say a star that bids fair to prove of the
                     first magnitude—and that even an artist's eyes can see no defect in her
                     matchless beauty."
                  "And which point of the compass does she hail from?"
                  "Oh, she is a native of our city. Her rare beauty, some time since, attracted
                     the attention of old H—, the millionaire, he does something towards educating
                     her; she turns out a girl of uncommon talents, and has determined to become a
                     public singer. I am told her history is a complete romance, wanting nothing of
                     tragedy or comedy to make it irresistibly interesting."
                  "A singer, a genius, and a beauty! we will hear her by all means!" exclaimed
                     Martin, enthusiastically.
                  And they did hear her.
                  It was not a "grand entertainment." Alice was the sole performer. She had
                     preferred it should be so, that her powers, whatever they were, might be
                     estimated at their own worth.
                  
                  Small, and well-chosen was the audience before which she appeared; it was
                     composed of people of refined taste, whose approbation a young debutante might
                     be proud to win. How young she was! and how truly and perfectly beautiful!
                     There was a slight flush on her cheek, else pale as marble, that told how
                     strongly the chords of her heart were struck. She sang—Oh! the voice whose
                     tones filled that high hall, was like that we hear in dreams, when angels come
                     to keep watch over us, chanting through the long hours of the night!
                  During the whole first part of the concert, there was an intense silence, for
                     the audience felt a deeper gratification than could be uttered; but the smiles,
                     and tears, and breathless silence of those gathered before her, were, to the
                     maiden, tributes more acceptable than tumultuous applause had been.
                  "She is a wonder!" "a miracle!" "what a voice!" "what style!" "only eighteen!"
                     Such, and like exclamations escaped every listener, as "Alice" withdrew at the
                     conclusion of the "first part," from the saloon.
                  Frank Dundas turned to his companion—
                  "Well, Gray, what do you think? Your wits seem wandering."
                  "I am lost! it is divine! I have never seen or heard her equal. Tell me, what
                     did you say is her name? The face haunts me; I could swear I have seen it
                     before."
                  "Tut! swear not at all! It's not likely you have ever seen her before to-night.
                     Perhaps, however, she corresponds with some fairy-queen or lady-love, of your
                     own prolific fancy. Is it not so? I can well conceive such a thing possible,
                     though I'm neither poet nor artist."
                  Martin bowed, to save himself the necessity of reply, for he was deep in
                     thought; through the obscurity of the distant past, his memory was striving to
                     grope her way.
                  After a few moments, the singer appeared again.
                  "Did you say her name is Alice?' asked Martin Gray, as his
                     eyes, for the second time, rested upon her. "Alice—Alice, what else?"
                  "I have never heard—she is only known by that name. She does not probably need
                     so many cognomens as we less gifted individuals; and I suppose intends that the
                     world shall know, without being told further, who is meant when the singer
                        Alice is spoken of."
                  "Dundas, I have seen that face before, you may depend upon it. Will you believe
                     it, during all my residence in Europe, I have earnestly sought, but in vain,
                     for just such a face as hers."
                  "Pray, wherefore? Are you not sworn foe of all lady-loves, save the sweet
                     goddess of painting?"
                  "Hush! Love has had nothing to do with my search; pretty faces are to be found
                     everywhere; and though an artist, I am free to say, the man who marries a woman
                     for her beauty, is a poor fool. Did you ever see my picture, called Sunrise?
                     the one I painted several years ago."
                  "Remember it? Why, my dear fellow, to be sure I do, and what a grand lift it
                     gave you before the 'darling public;' I would be stupid indeed, to forget that
                     picture; a copy of it has been the best ornament of my room for years."
                  "Well, perhaps you know, though of course you could not, for I never spoke of
                     my intention to another—ever since that picture was finished, I have determined
                     to make it one of a series, by painting two others, one of such innocent
                     loveliness arrived at womanly perfection—and the third was to be the image of
                     crime, or beauty ruined. Never till this night have I seen a face worthy to
                     take the second place in the series. I see one now, and I have an impression
                     that amounts almost to a conviction, this woman is that child!"
                  "She lives in Tenth-street. If you wish it, we will visit her to-night when the
                     concert is over, or to-morrow. Perhaps, however, you would prefer calling upon
                     her alone?" said Dundas, with a hearty, co-operating look of voice and
                     manner.
                  "By all means, accompany me; we will go in the morning, and I would be willing
                     to lay my life on it, that singer's name is Alice Flynn."
                  The following morning the lady sat alone in her simply-furnished apartment, in
                     a boarding-house in Tenth-street. The beauty which had dazzled all who beheld
                     her on the previous  night, did not
                     owe anything to dress, or to lamp-light, it bore the inquisitive glance of the
                     sunshine well.
                  Alice received her guests, the Hon. Francis Dundas, and the Artist Martin Gray,
                     with a grace and ease of manner which delighted them. She spoke with the
                     enthusiasm of youth of the art in which she was so great a proficient, and
                     every word she uttered, revealed a mind well cultivated, refined, and
                     noble.
                  An hour passed speedily by, but the Honorable gave no sign of an intention to
                     depart. The artist who had surveyed her as he would an exquisite gem, first
                     rising to take his leave, said, "I have a favor to urge, Madam, it is a very
                     great one; I am painting a series of portraits, will you permit me to take
                     yours as a representation of Noonday?"
                  "I should be a poor representative of the majesty of your theme. Pardon me, I
                     must decline an honor so unmerited."
                  "Permit me to judge that," said Martin, earnestly. "It is an idea
                     I have long desired to carry out. I wished to make the picture an exact
                     likeness, and therefore sought a beauty that was perfect, so there should be no
                     work left for my imagination; now that the object of my long search is found,
                     do not deny me this great privilege. Only accompany some of your friends to my
                     studio; by showing you the Sunrise, I can better explain what it is I wish; or
                     perhaps you will suffer me either now, or to-morrow, to escort you
                     thither."
                  "To-morrow," she answered, "I will come. Ere then, I trust, you may find one
                     elsewhere more worthy to represent your ideal."
                  "That is utterly impossible. To-morrow then, before the rooms are filled with
                     visitors, I shall look for you," said Martin, with a decidedly grateful accent
                     and look, and the young men walked slowly away.
               
               
                  III.
                  The Noonday was nearly finished. The city was ringing with the surpassing
                     beauty, and the matchless voice of the young singer, Alice. And Martin Gray's
                     numerous and powerful friends everywhere declared, that the picture on which he
                     worked so diligently, would add the greenest leaf to his glory-crown.
                  The artist loved his picture—loved he the original? No! he could have
                     worshipped the canvas on which that matchless face was impressed, but when he
                     looked on Alice, and listened to her beautiful words, and the so musical,
                     delicious pronunciation, though he saw and heard with the most enthusiastic
                     admiration, it was still only that of the artist—the man's heart
                     was untouched.
                  He had never shown her the "child-angel." After his first call upon her, so
                     strengthened was become his persuasion that she was the Alice of
                     by-gone recollections, that he feared to hazard the display of the portrait to
                     her.
                  Let us see if his precaution was a wise one.
                  It was the last sitting. On the following day the lady was to depart, with a
                     distinguished company of singers, on a long professional tour through the
                     Western and Southern cities. She had risen, for the hour was past, and stood
                     looking for the last time on the beautiful works of the artist.
                  "Do you remember," said Martin, approaching her, "I promised to show you the
                     portrait which I called the Sunrise? Pardon me that I have not done so before,
                     this is the one."
                  He raised his hand, and turned to the light a small picture which for the few
                     past days had looked upon the wall.
                  A broken exclamation of surprise, rather than the usual tribute of warm praise,
                     escaped the young creature.
                  "Did you paint this?" she asked. "Pray, tell me when, and how,"
                     she added, recovering her self-possession immediately.
                  "I was a youth, poor and needy, having some talent and a great deal of taste
                     for sketching and painting. Unfortunately, as I thought then, I was forced
                     either to resign altogether this employment so delightful to me, or to pursue
                     it in order to supply myself with food and clothes. To me it must not be a
                     pastime. I could not hesitate long—it became my profession. But I had what to
                     another might seem an inconceivable dislike, to painting faces, merely as a
                     workman paints letters on a sign. I imagined that it was just as easy to win
                     the smiles of Fortune, by picturing only the exceedingly beautiful, and giving
                     them emblematic names. Passing one day through the streets of this very city, I
                     came upon a group of children playing—one  of that little band struck me as being nothing
                     short of perfection; I could think of nothing as I gazed on her, but how
                     beautiful a sunrise! how splendid a day will ensue! At my request the child led
                     me to her home; the mother consented that I should take the little one's
                     likeness, and, this is it; I never saw the girl again. Afterwards, as you
                     already know, I travelled in Europe, but though constantly on the look-out, I
                     never found a Noonday, worthy to follow a Sunrise like that child's. I thank
                     you, madam, that in you, and in my own land, I have found what Europe could not
                     show me."
                  "May I ask," said the lady with face slightly averted from the artist's gaze,
                     "may I ask the name of the girl?" It was the question which of all others he
                     wished her to propose, and he watched her closely as in a careless tone that
                     belied his glance, he said,
                  "I remember it very well; it was Alice Flynn."
                  "Thank you. It is indeed a lovely picture. You have amply deserved, sir, all
                     the honors that are, or can be awarded you."
                  Martin Gray attended her to the carriage that stood in waiting, but Alice, the
                     songstress, did not look upon him till she gave her hand in parting; when he
                     saw her face then, the artist knew he had not been deceived; she was pale as
                     death.
                  A few months afterwards came from a city far to the south, a letter to our
                        hero; its contents were a bank note and these words:—
                  "The child for whose education you so generously provided, when both she and
                     yourself were poor and unknown, would fain convince you that with increase of
                     years, and fortune, and happiness, she has not forgotten, that she is not
                     ungrateful. All the good that has befallen her in this life, she is glad and
                     proud to trace directly to you—to that one act of well-timed charity. May the
                     God of Heaven forever bless you! The 'Sunrise' and the 'Noonday' of your life
                     you have made unspeakably glorious, may the 'Night' be without a cloud, and
                     complete in its magnificence!'
                  It required no shrewd guesser to determine for Martin Gray, the
                     author of this brief note. The cities of the south were at that very moment
                     vieing with each other in lauding the Northern Songstress, the queen of beauty
                     and song, the lady "Alice"—and the artist rejoiced in her brilliant success,
                     impatiently waiting till he should see and speak with her again.
                  There were few homes on earth so beautiful as his; and the wife and children of
                     his age—for Martin in course of time became an old man—were all that his heart
                     could desire. There were no lines betokening care, or fierce strife with the
                     world on his handsome face: he had labored, and that constantly, it is true,
                     but his had not been a wearying toil, rather, intensely satisfying. The visions
                     of beauty with which he mentally surrounded himself, had never been frightened
                     away by harsh experience—to him, even as in his youth, "all things beautiful
                     were what they seemed!"
                  Many enchanting, perfect works had gone forth from his hands to the care of the
                     world, but there were two original paintings for which he rejected every offer,
                     however extravagant. Copies and engravings of them had been made, but the
                     canvas on which his fingers worked, while his eyes gazed on the loveliest and
                     most perfect specimens of beauty to his mind conceivable, were precious,—were
                     beyond all price to him.
                  The series had not yet been completed, for Martin Gray had never seen a human
                     being fearfully beautiful and irrevocably fallen, whereby to represent the
                     "Night." And as years passed on, his heart more earnestly and continually hoped
                     he never might.
                  The great artist is dead! The passing visions of a beautiful fancy have forever
                     flitted away—"he sleeps the last sleep,"—but his works live after him. They
                     live to speak to us of their creator—to tell us of his goodness, of the deep,
                     unfathomed spring of human love, within his heart. He sleeps; but he has left a
                     name that is cherished by his country—and his genius is a source of national
                     pride. How well is he remembered and loved by those who knew him! and the
                     students in his own glorious art, with what enthusiasm and reverence do they
                     cherish his memory!
                  During his widow's life the studio remained as he had left it;  it was a Mecca, to which, for years, pilgrims
                     the most devout resorted. To many that artist's rooms were sacred places:
                     standing in them, they breathed the air of inspiration, and held sweet
                     communings with the Spirit of the Beautiful!
                  Of the sublime lessons, and they were many, which spoke forth from those walls,
                     there was one that made the gazer shudder and turn pale. No one, looking on the
                     three faces which were separated from all other paintings wrought by the same
                     hand, could resist the conviction that the artist had meant to convey to the
                     gazer's mind, a deep and an awful moral lesson, for the "Night" was with the
                     "Sunrise" and the "Noonday!"
                  It was marvellous, it was dreadful, to trace the great resemblance between the
                     likenesses of the angelic little child, the 
                        imcomparably
                        incomparably
                      beautiful maiden, and the splendid but fallen woman!
                  The same bright, curling hair—the same deep, sapphire eyes—the fresh bloom on
                     the fair cheek—the graceful form—they were unmistakable. But, oh! there was an
                     expression on those features of the eldest woman, that the innocent child and
                     the guileless maiden could not have interpreted: it was a bold, defiant look,
                     which told it was a sorrowful and an ever-to-be-lamented day, that saw her come
                     before the world to wrestle for its honors—a very siren, but, ah! how weak to
                     strive against its sinful allurements—its awful temptations.
                  They are one and the same, felt every heart that gazed upon them. Reader,
                        they were! For the "Night" was also a portrait,
                     and the last work of Martin Gray!
                  Alas, alas! sweet Alice! splendid and courted Alice! wretched, and ruined
                     Alice!
               
            
            
               AN EXHAUSTED TOPIC.
               THE COQUETTE.
               FROM a far longer time than I can well remember, till within two years past, the
                  Cleveland family were our next door neighbors. Florence, the 
                     eldst
                     eldest
                   daughter of the house, was a dear friend of mine, and I would not for
                  the world make her the heroine of this story to-day, were it not for the following
                  fact: two years ago, the whole family migrated to Wisconsin, and now that they are
                  gone so very far out of the world, I think no blame should be attached to me for
                  giving her "experience" to the good public. Sure am I, that buried as she is in
                  the backwoods, she will never hear that I have seized upon her as a subject
                  whereabout to expatiate—without some of our travelling people prove so forgetful
                  of themselves, and what is due to Flory and me, as to touch upon this topic when
                  they meet her in the West.
               Everybody said that Florence was a "coquette," and admitting, as a settled thing,
                  the idea that "what everybody says must be true," I suppose she
                  was—that is, she was "a gay, airy girl, fond of admiration"—and I will not deny
                  that she may have exerted herself the least bit in the world to obtain it; but
                  most indignantly do I repel the assertion that she was artful or designing, or
                  that she ever regularly "set a trap" to ensnare any human heart.
               Florence, when she went from us, was of middle height, very fair, and her cheeks
                  wore the bloom of roses—her hair was of a light, glossy brown—and, oh, those
                  beautiful ringlets! I can  vouch for
                  the truth of it, they never emerged from curl-papers (and, by the way, how
                  refreshing and pleasant, now-a-days, it is to see anything natural, even a paltry
                  curl!) Then her eyes, "deeply, divinely blue," sometimes filled with a sober,
                  tranquil, holy light, and, again, dancing, beaming, and overflowing with joy and
                  happiness.
               Though Flory was the admiration of all eyes, and the beaux seemed really to have
                  no appreciation of the presence of we poor insignificants when she was by, yet to
                  not many of us did the "green-eyed monster" ever whisper one bad, ungracious
                  thought of her. We all loved her, and a sadder set never waited in
                  our depot the arrival of the Eastern train, than gathered there the day Mr.
                  Cleveland and family were to leave for a home in the "far West."
               There were some, indeed, who invariably honored Florence with the title of
                  "coquette;" they had a way of closing their eyes and sighing very sanctimoniously
                  whenever they heard of her new conquests: particularly may this remark apply to
                  old widow Forbes, who rejoiced in the possession of four grown-up daughters,
                  "fixtures" most decidedly they were, in her household—for these four were not in
                  any way remarkable for possessions of any kind, and two of them had well-nigh
                  passed the third stage of woman's unmarried life. But by far the greater part of
                  the villagers rejoiced in the presence of Florence Cleveland, as they would in a
                  sunbeam on a dull day; she was always so cheerful, so generous, and obliging.
               None of those sunny curls of hers were visible the day Florence set out on her
                  journey. Perhaps you think that was because ladies do not usually travel with such
                  appendages in view, and that they were snugly packed away in the back of her
                  travelling hat? But had Flory's head been uncovered then, I fear me it would have
                  borne terrible witness to the desecrating hands which had been busy about it; for
                  the fairy-like ringlets which had so long adorned the beautiful head, full
                  beautiful enough without them, were slumbering on the hearts of us, her miserable,
                  weeping cronies; and I know not how many gentlemen's purses were freighted with
                  like treasure.
               What a stupid, silent company we were gathered there that day! It was a bright
                  morning—there was not a cloud to be seen in all the sky, and Susy, the old
                  fortune-teller, said it was a day that augured well for their future prosperity:
                  but that did not help us any. Everybody seemed to think we were about to lose the
                  choicest light of our village, and so, indeed, we were.
               At last the odious depot-bell rung—soon after the "fire-demon" heaved in sight,
                  followed by its long train of crowded cars. In ten minutes, the leave-taking was
                  over, our friends were seated, their worldly goods were stowed away, another ring
                  of the bell, that never sounded half so remorselessly before, and away they went,
                  over the road, across the bridge, past the burial-ground, and on—on—on!
               To my bosom I pressed a package Florence had given me that morning, which she bade
                  me not open till they were fairly gone. I need not tell you how I hastened home
                  when I had seen the last of her—how, with just one look at their old garden, which
                  ran back of our house, through whose paths we had wandered so often together—how,
                  with one thought of my loneliness, I hied away to my room, that I might be alone
                  with my sorrow. There, also, everything seemed determined to speak of
                     her. Close by the window, was the "old arm chair," her parting gift—a
                  keepsake—many a time had the broad leather-covered seat supported us both, and so,
                  of course, the very sight of it gave me such a blue-fit, that I threw myself into
                  its "open arms," and indulged in the most luxurious fit of weeping, the length
                  whereof might be counted by hours. But when I had fairly cried it out, (you know
                  all things must have an end,) I went to bed with the most dreadful headache
                  conceivable, and opened, then, with more of regret than curiosity, the last
                  testament of dear Flory.
               It was in the shape of a long, long letter, filling many pages of paper; but I
                  shall not indulge the reader with a glance even at all the contents—satisfy
                  yourself with these few extracts, and oblige yours, &c.
               "Writing is not my forte, you know that very
                  well," the epistle began, "but I have been, for a long time past, determined to
                  explain myself to you—and when father finally succeeded in convincing us all that
                  the West is such a wonderful  country, and that it is the best and only place in
                  which to settle our troop of boys, I made up my mind to write you what I had
                  intended to speak. Don't think me vain, but I'm going to be my own heroine in
                  these pages; I'm going to give you the key which will make all clear before you,
                  that was aforetime unexplainable.
               "When I am gone, and the partial regret some will feel at first, is worn away, and
                  they begin with all earnestness to give me what they think my due, honoring me
                  once more with the flattering titles they have already bestowed on me so freely,
                  then do you, my friend, take up the gauntlet in my defence. If I should happen to
                  die of those horrible fevers, into whose hands we are about to commit ourselves
                  'aunt Sally' may say it is a just 'dispensation of Providence' that has removed
                  me; and that forlorn old Juliet Baker might take it into her head to write my
                  veritable history, under the title of 'The Coquette,' and so be published in one
                  of the Magazines, as a warning to all who shall come after me—an immortality to
                  which, I assure you, I do not aspire. Or Tom Harding might be tempted to discourse
                  more eloquently than ever on my respective demerits—drawing some of his most sage
                  conclusions therefrom. So, dear, if such things do happen, remember to stand up
                  valiantly for 'woman's rights' and me!
               "As I have mentioned Tom Harding's name, I may as well in these 'confessions' have
                  done with him as speedily as possible.
               "I know very well what the gossips said, when it was rumored that I had 'cut him
                  dead,' after encouraging the poor fellow, who was really 'too good for me.' But it
                  happened in this case that they were all wrong—as doth, unfortunately, sometimes
                  happen even with gossipers.
               "Tom, since time immemorial (you will bear me out in the truth of this statement,)
                  has been one of the most active of our village beaux; attaching himself, with all
                  his canine characteristics, to every lady favored with the least beauty, and
                  making himself vastly useful in getting up all sorts of parties of pleasure in
                  summer, and in the winters also. It was very needful, was it not, that we should
                  always be on good terms with him, and this, as a body, you know very well, we
                  managed to do. As he had been in love with, and offered himself to at least a
                  dozen girls of our acquaintance, I don't know why he should have thought
                     I would take up with him at last. Now, was it not presumption,
                  Carry? To be sure he did come to our house night after night, and sat
                  often with us in church on Sundays, and it was rumored we were
                  engaged, but that, I fancy, did not make the case a clear one."
               "The fact is, I never for a moment thought of marrying Tom Harding; but I did
                  suppose him a great deal better youth than he proved to be. When he foolishly
                  proposed the subject to me, I dismissed it again, quietly as might
                  be, convincing him that the thing was forever impossible. And I kept his secret
                  well. No one, till to-day, can say that I was ever guilty of speaking of this
                  offer and its refusal, and you know why I now refer to it. Tom himself, by his
                  ungentlemanly conduct, exposed all that ever was exposed, and his impudent, silly
                  behavior towards me, has made me heartily despise him. I sincerely hope no damsel
                  that I love, will ever accept offers, which some dozens of women may
                  yet have the honor to hear from him.—
               "Harry Kirkland was indeed a fine fellow—at least I thought so once—for I was
                  engaged to him, within a time I well remember. Talented too—was he not? But, oh,
                  what an unreasonable mortal!
               "When I engaged myself to Harry I did love him truly, or what I thought was him,
                  but you will not wonder that my love cooled before such evidences of tyranny as he
                  gave, in a petty manner: they afforded me overpowering proof of what I might
                  expect when the chains of Hymen should be flung around us.
               "He went to his club, and the lyceum, and became a member of the Odd-Fellows'
                  Society, so soon as there was one organized in the village—indeed, on all points,
                  acted his own pleasure even as to the number of segars he would smoke per day. And
                  I, like a reasonable woman, thinking all this part and parcel of his own business,
                  never thought of interfering. But no sooner had I, in a kind of dumb
                  way answered his pathetic appeals, by acknowledging that I loved him, than he at
                  once, without questioning his right and title, proceeded to take the reins of
                     government ernment into his own
                  hands. And then it was incessantly, 'Florence, why do you allow that coxcomb to
                  visit you?'—or, 'why did you go to the party last night when I was away?'—or, 'how
                  can you endure that conceited fool?'—or, 'do, dear, manage your hair in some other
                  style, curls are so common!' Or, at another time, when I had arranged myself with
                  special thoughts of him and his particular taste, the ungracious salutation would
                  be 'It is so strange you will wear flounces; I cannot endure them—and
                  they do not become you.'
               "Well, I gave James Thompson, 'the coxcomb,' as Harry called him, leave to
                  understand I was no more 'at home' to him; and I stayed away from all places of
                  amusement to which Harry would not, or could not go, (which former I at last
                  discovered was most frequently the case). And I did treat Charles Wood more coolly
                  than my conscience approved, for nature gave him a good, kind heart, if she did
                  not make him a genius; and I left off flounces, which my tasty little dressmaker
                  thought 'such a pity;' and I braided my hair, which all the time
                  cried out against the stiff bands put on the curly locks; and, in short, for six
                  months I made a fool of myself, by giving way to all my exacting lover's whims. It
                  makes me shudder when I think of what had been my fate if I had married him—I
                  should have died a very martyr long before this day.
               "I knew that on most subjects, Harry's opinion was worth having, his judgment
                  sound—so I resolved to try what might be done on this point, which concerned our
                  happiness so much. By degrees I went back to my old habits, saying never a word to
                  him about the test I was intending to put to him. Perhaps you would
                  have proceeded differently—you might have chosen to urge him not to distress
                  himself about affairs far too trifling for his interference—about which no woman
                  likes the dictation, even of a favored lover.
               "But, such a course was not the one for me; and, in the end, a person acting on
                  other reasoning than mine, probably would have arrived at the climax I did.
                  Wherever among my old friends I chose to go, I went, without consulting the
                  pleasure of his highness, who had led me about as a child quite long enough. What
                  books I liked, I read—considering my judgment in such a matter quite as good as
                  his own. I dressed in what fashion I pleased, and wore my hair in the style nature
                  intended. At one determined stroke, I broke the thread-like chains, which, from
                  their very fineness, had been more galling than links of iron. I could read
                  Harry's thoughts by his undisguised astonishment of look; and it was with anxiety,
                  I do confess, that I awaited the result. For all this time I loved him well,
                  though my attachment was not of a nature so selfish as was his love for me.
               "One day I sent him a note, with a purse which I had knitted for him, requesting
                  him to accompany me in the evening—there was to be a horse-back party on the
                  lake-shore. Much astonished was I on the return of the messenger—he brought back
                  an answer to my note, with the rejected gift! Harry declined the
                  ride, saying he had a severe headache, (well might his head ache, when it
                  contained a brain capable of conceiving such a note!) After some preliminaries,
                  Harry proceeded to tell me that my gifts were altogether unacceptable, so long as
                  my heart continued not right towards him; that I had grieved him beyond all
                  expression, by the heartlessness I had exhibited in my disregard of all his
                     wishes and opinions; this strange note ended by begging that I would not
                  join the party that night—he would visit me in the evening, and receive from me
                  then any explanations I might be ready to make.
               "In ten minutes more, the messenger was on his way back to Harry Kirkland's
                  office, bearing with him a neat package, which contained that young man's notes,
                  miniature, gifts, &c., with an assurance, which I wrote with a most steady
                  hand, that my evening ride would doubtless prove vastly agreeable; and, that as I
                  had no apologies to offer or explanations to make, he need not be under the
                  inconvenience of seeking me again at home, or elsewhere. I will not speak of the
                  manner in which that afternoon passed away after I had returned Harry's second
                  note unanswered, unopened; nor what thoughts were busy in my mind; nor what
                  feelings filled my heart. But, I will tell you this, at tea-time, when father came
                  home, he did not reject his daughter's kiss, nor the purse either; and now it is
                  snugly resting in the bottom of his pocket, well filled, as I hope it ever may
                  be.
               
               "That moonlight ride—you remember it: perhaps you remember, also, that there was
                  no gayer mortal among you than a certain Florence Cleveland. She may not have
                  slept quite soundly that night, but it was not very long that Harry Kirkland's
                  image disturbed her dreams. He was proud as I—doubtless thought himself the abused
                  one; and I can readily believe, that many times since he has blessed the day that
                  saved him from coquetting me. You know how suddenly Harry moved to New York that
                  fall, and also how you wondered, in your ignorance, that we did not
                  correspond!
               "And what of George Stephenson? Ha! ha!! I always laugh when I think of him—do
                     you, dear? What did we think of him, till we discovered one day,
                  much to our amazement, that he was engaged to us both? I will leave the echo to
                  answer what!
               
               "Never shall I forget that tableau presented—we being our own spectators—when,
                  with head resting on my knee in the old summer house, you, with trembling lips
                  told me of that delightful youth, and of your future prospects; and how when you
                  approached the interesting climax, I chimed in, and told my story too; and how,
                  instead of becoming sworn foes from that hour, two more loving and light-hearted
                  beings seldom took pen in hand, than we, when we wrote that joint letter which
                  saved George from the fate of bigamists! Well, we must agree that there was never
                  a more fascinating youth than he, if only to save ourselves from the obloquy of
                  falling in love with such a rogue. Who' d have thought it? those very stories of
                  his early life and sorrows, which drew such earnest tears from my eyes, I suppose
                  you, too, have wept as he told them. Ah me!—Then, there was the poet Ernest Ward.
                  I tolerated him, because his father was a college friend of my paternal, who
                  wished us always to show the boy kindness, and make him feel that he was not quite
                  without friends in the world. But you cannot believe that I loved
                     him. Poor fellow! he is dead now. A long life seemed never to me
                  to be his heritage: the fact is, he did not possess sufficient energy to keep him
                  alive. And he was eternally railing against fate and his poverty, themes which no
                  man must dwell on, who wishes to gain favor in my eyes. His talents were not of
                  that order which commands the ear of the public, and yet he seemed to think so,
                  and in that thought centred his hope. There was nothing practical about Ernest. He
                  belonged to that miserable class of dreamers (how many of them we see around us!)
                  who are aptly described as having lost their way in the great roads of life—as
                  having groped blindly past the stations they were designed to fill. Ernest had a
                  good deal of fancy and ingenuity, more than should have been lavished on newspaper
                  enigmas, and verses descriptive of the color of my hair, and eyes; he might have
                  made a capital designer and manufacturer of toys. He was made, I am convinced, for
                  some such purpose, and might have excelled in some such art; but least of all you
                  will acknowledge was Ernest Ward fitted to be my husband—and well for us was it,
                  that if he did not know it, I did.
               
               "Last of all of whom I will speak is Edward Graham; and thus I fancy I hear him
                  lamented by some whom I will say, I am not sorry to have left behind
                  me—'a fine fellow, but driven to desperation and to sea, by that worthless flirt,
                  Florence Cleveland.' Now will I give you an opportunity, ma chere, to laugh in your sleeve, if you will, for beyond the
                  shadow of a doubt, I am engaged to this same Edward, and what is more, I mean to
                  marry him.
               "How shall I explain conduct that will appear strange as this to you? You know Ned
                  almost as well as I do; as we have both known him from our childhood, it would be
                  idle in me to speak of his fine, noble, generous character, and of his
                  sensibleness—which is a far rarer component of the human character than many
                  people seem to imagine. Our engagement was, I confess, an altogether unanticipated
                  thing to me, though there was always a lingering thought in my mind that Ned
                  approached a little nearer my standard of manly perfection, than any suitor I ever
                  had. You and I have often admired the outward man, so I will not now speak of
                  those great black eyes of his, which seem to pierce you through and through—as
                  though they would know all your secret thoughts—which as far as regarded him could
                  be only thoughts of admiration and 
                  respect. Neither will I now refer to that glorious voice, and the
                  manly form that was never yet bent with the weight of a mean or sordid
                  thought—that could not stoop to anything low or ignoble. Now, when I tell you,
                  that Ned hired himself to a sea captain, whom his father has known from boyhood,
                  for three years,—that his wages, excepting a trifle, have been paid at Ned's
                  request, into his father's hands, to aid the old man in his embarrassment, you
                  will certainly concur with me in thinking, that my Edward Graham is the most noble
                  and generous youth in the whole world!
               "Only a week before his departure we made our arrangements; for before that time,
                  Ned had never spoken to me of love. I never heard of his broaching the subject to
                  any one else, did you? In three years he is coming back again—by that time we
                  shall have become settled, and have learned to love our new home. What farmers we
                  shall be! Then Ned will join us in Wisconsin; and who says we shall not be a happy
                  family there? and that Flory will not prove quite tractable and human, although
                  people have dared and presumed to call her a 'desperate flirt?'
               "So my dearest, I have given you a true history of my coquetting (?) life, with
                  the exception of the tragedies you are acquainted with already. Frank Blake died
                  it is true, but never for a moment have I reproached myself with his death. He was
                  'found drowned,' so the verdict of the coroner's jury ran; but have none others
                  been found drowned than men who were in love? I am not jesting, or speaking
                  lightly now. Heaven knows the subject is too fearful to jest about! Could they who
                  have seemed to delight in calling me little better than a murdress, but know what
                  bitter, bitter hours I have spent writhing under their scorpion tongues, they
                  would, I think, be satisfied. I tell you again, my friend, Frank never treated me
                  more kindly, or considerately, or justly, than he did that day when I
                  told him I could not love him as he deserved to be loved—though I must ever bear
                  towards him the utmost respect, the kindliest feelings. And when Tom Harding made
                  that incident a theme for newspaper gossip, I wonder Heaven did not blast the
                  right hand that dared write such things.
               "You know afterwards, I went to Frank's home—to his widowed mother. She, too,
                  turned in horror from me, when I told her who I was, and why I had come so far
                  from my home in search of her. Go to her now, my friend, and she will tell you
                  that she attaches to me no blame. Even the agonized, heart-broken mother believed
                  me, when I told her all that had transpired between her son and me. She knows, as
                  you know, and as I know, that I never won the affections of her son intentionally,
                  for the mean purpose of adding one more name to my list of conquests.
               "And of that other whose name I will not write—he who died in the convict's
                     cell—had I aught to do with that man's crimes? The brutish madness
                  with which he heard my refusal of his suit—his dreadful downward course
                  afterwards; oh, can unreturned love be the instigator of such crimes? Had he not
                  been a reckless youth ever: disliked of all the village boys, whose friendship,
                  even his wealth and good family could not buy for him? If I would not wed a
                  villain such as he, where rests the blame? Oh surely, not with me. I did not make
                  that festering, sinful heart of his, nor did I lure him on to hope that I would
                  ever be his wife. If love is heaven, what were life with such a man? I cannot
                  write more. 'I am not what I have been.' Yet the sun shines brightly still, as in
                  my childhood, and the future is full of hope. If I have disproved that charge of
                  folly and heartlessness laid against me, it is well; nevertheless, I cannot think
                  my proceedings have been so very criminal, or sinful—they had no power to frighten
                  honest-hearted, noble, Ned Graham!
               "Hereafter, when you see a woman whose conduct is (as mine has been till now) to
                  you quite unexplainable, and full of mystery, listen, dear friend, and bid those
                  around you listen, a little more earnestly to the voice of human love, and
                  christian charity; and trust me, the number of those who have the
                  power to act long in direct opposition to the better impulses of woman's nature,
                  is surprisingly small.
               "If your trust continues in me still unshaken, as in the days gone by, (I know it
                  does—that you have not seriously doubted me ever,) come ere long to Wisconsin, and
                  I will insure you a  husband of the
                  'free soil,' who shall bear as little resemblance to our faithless George, as my
                  Edward does, and a home in the wilderness, the glorious wilderness!
               "God bless you, love—good bye. —"
               I have not yet obeyed the call of my friend to the far west, now her happy home.
                  Do you think it advisable for me to place myself in the hands of such a—, but
                  first let me ask you, do you think Florence Cleveland was a coquette? And if so,
                  is a coquette a heathen?
               And, is this once prolific topic yet exhausted?
            
            
               THE SERPENT AND THE DOVE.
               
                  
                     "Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse."
                  
               
               
                  TWO infants, bearing no sort of resemblance, save in sex and helplessness, were
                     on the same day born.
                  Surrounding one, was all the pomp and state that distinguishes the mansion of a
                     lord in the land, and amid scenes of almost regal magnificence, the eyes of the
                     infant opened. Far to the opposite as you can well conceive, was the home and
                     surroundings of the other new comer on earth.
                  Joy-bells were rung, there was a smile of satisfaction on the lip of the sire,
                     and gladness in the heart of the mother, when their first-born, the heir of
                     princely wealth, awoke to life. But there was, in that same hour, a sorrowful
                     increase of anxiety and care laid on the mind of the poverty-stricken father,
                     and a despondency and sickness of heart in the mother of the other child.
                  Besides the satisfaction with which the birthday of the one was welcomed by
                     many friends and a great household, and the attentions of the poor kind friend
                     who, on that day, strove to make that other family comfortable, there were
                     other and far different attendants of these twain.
                  While the heir of the greatest estate of the kingdom, lay helpless in the arms
                     of his nurse, unseen by all eyes save his own, which were half shut and
                     apparently without any power of vision, there came fluttering through a path of
                     sunlight a white-winged dove. It floated around the little child, circling ever
                     nearer and nearer, and striving, as though it were a human thing, to win  the attention of the child. But it
                     was only for a moment that the babe glanced upward and looked upon the gentle
                     bird. Even the white glitter of those wings which were like silver in the
                     sunshine, could not successfully attract his eyes: for, also brightened by that
                     sunlight, coiling, and moving rapidly on, his black eyes glistening and
                     emitting that baleful light which has an almost almighty power to charm the
                     souls of men, came the serpent to that place which was so hallowed by the
                     presence of a young, new life. The bright thing dared to lay itself at that
                     child's feet, to fix those hateful eyes full on the innocent! And lo! the
                     infant's tiny arms outstretched as though he would clasp the reptile to his
                     breast! and a gay smile overspread the face of the boy.
                  So from the walls of that proud castle, the unregarded dove sped away, and the
                     sun, which had been all that day shining so brightly, went suddenly behind a
                     cloud. Ere night came, there was a furious storm breaking over and around the
                     mansion of that lord; the rains descended, and the winds blew violently upon
                     it, so that the day which had opened bright with promise and rejoicing, closed
                     in darkness and gloom. And while the mother pressed her infant more closely to
                     her breast, as though she might so shield it from all harm, an unaccountable
                     fear came upon her—and, with dark presentiments of evil, the powerful lord
                     paced his fine halls alone. The frenzied joy which filled his heart when they
                     told him that an heir to his house was born, had quite died away, and it was
                     with a shudder almost of regret, that he thought upon the child.
                  So passed the first day of the new Lord of Rossford on this earth.
                  That other, who, in the same hour with Walter Cunningham, first saw the light,
                     was the child of a poor day-laborer. The birth of an heir to the poverty of
                     that house, was no extraordinary event—there were no bells rung to tell the
                     gladness of the parents' hearts—there was no feasting and making merry, because
                     unto them a child was born!
                  Already many young beings had come into that home to be fed, and clothed, and
                     cared for. Of course, beyond the procuring of apparel and food for their
                     offspring, the hopes of the parents might not soar; their bodily wants were all
                     that they could satisfy; indeed all the capabilities of the
                     hard-working man and woman were completely exhausted in their toil for such
                     things as perish.
                  The father had gone to his labor, which, no matter what the event, so long as
                     sickness was not on him, must not be suspended for a day, or something very
                     like starvation, would speedily ensue; the ill-clad, ill-fed children were out
                     at play; the mother slept.
                  The faded old curtain which shaded the window of the hovel, was slightly put
                     back, and a stray sunbeam peeped in, thinking, no doubt, it was a worthy act of
                     charity to enliven so poor a place. Its pure rays were not shocked by such a
                     scene of filth and degradation as too frequently meets the gaze that dares fix
                     on the homes of the poorest poor. Hard workers though they were, with scarcely
                     a thought of ever bettering their circumstances in life in any degree, the good
                     mother of that household would have thought it a sin and a shame to increase
                     the discomfort of her children and husband, by making the worst of a fortune,
                     bad enough in itself.
                  No coroneted cradle, no robes of lace, were prepared for this little child; no
                     costly gifts were sent him; no congratulations were lavished on the parents; no
                     proud and flattering predictions were made as to the future of the babe. Ah,
                     no! wrapped up in coarse, rude "swaddling clothes," the infant awaited those
                     two visitants which every day and hour attend the newly-born.
                  The blue eyes of the boy were upraised. Though their power of vision was not
                     the most acute, they saw, perhaps, something to admire even in the dark and
                     smoke-stained ceiling, which was so low as to seem almost even within his
                     reach. A wise observer of things might have regarded this act of the child as a
                     sure indication of the strong excelsior
                     spirit within him. But, perhaps again, and most likely, the act was simply a
                     providential one, for just then, overhead, the white dove paused, and fanned
                     him by the gentle motion of her wings, and the infant smiled when he saw it,
                     and a faint, weak cry of joy escaped him. The woman who was watching him, moved
                     him gently  in her arms, and the
                     action forced his eyes to fall upon the black, many-hued serpent which lay
                     coiled at his feet. Strange was the cry that burst then from his lips, but it
                     was a cry of terror rather than of joy.
                  Slowly was the dove flitting away, when the child's eyes raised again and fixed
                     upon it: looking back with intense regret and sorrow, the silver-winged saw the
                     appealing look of the infant, which seemed beseeching him to stay and abide
                     there—and, quick as thought, the look was answered, the dove was hovering, a
                     guardian angel, over the child again!
                  And still the mother slept, but, in a measure, the destiny of that child was
                     fixed!
                  The sunshine disappeared gradually from the little room; ere long, the children
                     came home again, "tired of play;" the clouds gathered thick and black, the
                     thunder muttered in the distance, and frequent flashing of lightning, told of
                     the wild "storm brewing." Soon the father came from his labor. The heavy look
                     of care with which he had gone forth in the morning, was entirely gone from his
                     honest face—a smile was on his lip, and a cheerful light in his deep-set, gray
                     eyes. He brought with him the supper of the family, and the friendly neighbor
                     at once busied herself in its preparation. And while she did so, the man took
                     the baby in his arms softly, and tenderly, and real fatherly affection looked
                     from his eyes, as he scanned the helpless little thing.
                  When the supper was prepared and the youthful legion gathered, with no very
                     graceful movements, nor with remarkably soft voices about the table, the father
                     gave the infant over to the mother, and as he did so, he spoke kind and tender
                     words to her, and somehow her heart had meantime grown also marvellously light
                     and glad; she could smile as she laid the helpless new-life in her sheltering
                     arms.
                  And the rains descended, and the winds came, and the storm beat upon that
                     house, but it fell not—peace, and contentment, and a sense of security were
                     within, for an angel had been there, and blessed those parents through their
                     little child.
               
               
                  II.
                  A beautiful, graceful boy was playing in a park magnificent in its proportions,
                     and princely in its stateliness. He was clad in a suit of black velvet, with
                     wristlets and belt of gold cloth. His hands were small, and delicately
                     fashioned as a girl's, and on one finger sparkled a diamond ring.
                  The boy was very beautiful, but his countenance lacked the openness and
                     nobleness of expression, so pleasant to observe in children. There was a
                     suspicious, penetrating look in the small black eyes, and there was something
                     about the thin lips certainly not calculated to inspire much confidence in the
                     uprightness and truthfulness of his nature. Yet his was a striking countenance:
                     the forehead was high and broad, though retreating—his bearing was noble, that
                     of one who knew he occupied a high station in the world—his voice
                     was sweet, and winning in its natural tone, and there was a grace and loftiness
                     in his manner developed extraordinarily in one so young.
                  He was alone, and it was yet quite early in the day. The plumed hat was thrown
                     carelessly on the grass, and the usually pale face of the boy was flushed with
                     excitement, and a smile of triumph was on his scornfully-curled lip. After
                     looking eagerly for a moment on the smooth gravelled walk, he stamped heavily
                     upon the ground, exclaiming, gladly,
                  "That makes thirty!"
                  "Thirty what?" asked another boy, who came up, just then, from a remote corner
                     of the park.
                  The new comer was of the same age with Walter Cunningham, but with his age all
                     points of comparison ended. Very, very great was the difference in
                     their personal appearance, whether regarded naturally, or as fortune had dealt
                     with them. He was shorter, and much more clumsily built; his hands and feet
                     were large, and far from gracefully formed, his thick, black hair, looked bushy
                     and wild, and the large, marked features, bespoke him the descendant of a race
                     of laborers.
                  In fact, these two young boys stood the representatives of two distinct and
                     widely separated classes of people.
                  The one proud and haughty; slenderly and gracefully formed,  with voice soft as a maiden's, was a type of the
                     nobility of the day—the gilded frame. The other, strong of limb, with rugged
                     voice, and rugged form, dependent on his hands for the bread that kept life in
                     him, noble in soul, large in hope, untiring in endeavor, ambitious and
                     powerful, though a mere boy, was a fitting representative of the great and
                     mighty class, The People; the picture without which that shining
                     frame had been indeed but a worthless, showy thing. For the people
                        may live without an aristocracy—the aristocracy independent of,
                     and without the people—never!
                  "Just thirty ant-hills," was the answer returned to the question of Peter
                     Whitney. "The dirty creatures! I mean to kill them all, and destroy their
                     nests; they shall learn better manners than to come here and set up in Rossford
                     Park!"
                  "Well, that's a queer speech," replied the other boy, bluntly. "Why, master
                     Walter, they haven't hurt you, have they?"
                  "Hurt me? no! I'd like to see 'em at it! but I found one on my hat yesterday,
                     and they have no business there, or here. I'll kill them all—I won't leave
                        one!"
                  "But how silly that is! Don't you know the poor weak things can't hurt you, nor
                     anything in the park? Why not let them be? They have worked so hard to make
                     their nests in this pleasant place, they deserve to live here. I always feel a
                     great deal more contented, and better too, when I see such little creatures
                     working away every day so patiently."
                  "Look here—don't you try to teach me, Peter Whitney. You know who
                     I am, I suppose—and who you are, too."
                  "Yes, I know. You are a very proud, rich boy, and an only child: you'll be heir
                     to all this fine land some day. I am a poor workman's son, and
                     plenty more like me are at home. You ride in a coach, I walk on
                     foot, and barefoot too. You wear velvet, I wear fustian. Do you think
                        that's a reason why I shouldn't tell you that it's a sin, and
                     very cruel in you, to kill these ants, and put your foot on their nests?"
                  "Just stop where you are, or it may be worse for you, sir. You've said enough;
                     and don't you ever try to teach me again, you low-bred, impudent"—
                  "I see—you're angry now, master Walter; but when you're alone and think,
                        for you can't help thinking, then you'll see that you are in
                     the wrong."
                  "Go away! go off this minute, Peter Whitney, and don't you ever come here again
                     in all your life; don't you ever speak to me again, or dare to
                     come near the castle!"
                  But Peter was gone, and out of hearing, before half the young lordling's
                     mandate had escaped his lips.
                  And again the serpent glided to the feet of the heir of Rossford, and casting
                     those glittering eyes upon him, he smiled a serpent's smile in the young boy's
                     face; and the boy laid his caressing hand upon it, and the demon in disguise
                     whispered, "Thou hast done well, rich, beautiful boy; teach all such upstarts
                     their proper place when they come near thee; and by keeping the world at its
                     distance, thou shalt teach the common herd of men that thou art not such as
                     they."
                  As Peter Whitney went on rapidly to the workshop where he was learning a trade,
                     and by his diligence and skill winning the praise and respect of his master,
                     the white-winged dove went with him, and her shadow fell like a ray of light on
                     the path before him; and the boy was very happy.
               
               
                  III.
                  Walter Cunningham was a man of the world—a "lion" in London. A successful
                     author—a wit—a gentleman of great wealth and refinement, (by marrying these
                     words I would have none think I hold them inseparable,) and of
                     course ambitious, or he would not have been a writer at all, being so far
                     removed from all necessity. But this enumeration is far from a complete
                     catalogue of the young man's personalities. The world saw him in a most
                     favorable light, at least that part of it with which he cared to pass well.
                  But there was a woman whose peace of mind he had ruined forever—whose name he
                     had made a by-word in her native village—whose prospects in life, humble as
                     they were, he had blighted—whose hopes he had destroyed. She was a girl
                     trusting and blameless, cursed with beauty when he first knew her; but, in
                     after years, when he was in the height of his pride and  glory, she, among strangers who did
                     not know her shame, was enduring a wretched, a burdensome life. While he
                     reigned in the scenes of fashion and revelry, and the shadow of a thought of
                     her came seldom nigh him, she drank even to the lees that cup whose waters he
                     had made so fearfully bitter. Nothing remained for her but to die,
                     or to live a life which was one continued death-pang; but, for him there was
                     the honor of men, the love of fair and good women, and the world's
                     admiration!
                  There was a boy, the son of poor parents, who had denied themselves, as only
                     poor and loving people can, of every luxury, and many a necessary
                     comfort, that they might give the child an education, by which he might one day
                     make a respectable figure in the world; for their hopes and the prophecies of
                     friends, induced the belief that he both could and would. The youth struggled
                     well—he was nerved by the desire to fulfil his parents' hopes, and to prove
                     himself worthy of them: he was successful in his endeavor, but his health gave
                     way in the constant and unwearied efforts he made. Still, night and day he
                     devoted himself to the intensest study, for there was a prize to be won, and if
                     he could only take to his father and mother that testimony of his
                     standing in the graduating class, what a joy it would be! It was
                        not for himself, to satisfy his own pride, that he struggled to
                     surpass his fellow-students—it was for those who were dearer to him than
                     self—for his old father and mother, to whom he would give, while they were yet
                     spared to him, an earnest of what he would yet do!
                  There was but one rival in any degree to be feared by him. That rival had
                     wealth and a title, and for friends, he might have named the nobles of the
                     land—this consideration, probably, had no influence in the minds of the
                     professors! The rival was Walter Cunningham; and could he suffer a
                     poor, unknown plebeian to triumph over him?
                  For a few days before the final decision was passed on the students' progress
                     and ability, the proud and ambitious youth gave deep attention and great
                     diligence to study. He had a more active, quicker mind, than the poor man's
                     son: he mastered difficulties more easily and gracefully—the path of learning
                     ing was not to him a rough and hilly way. Of far keener and subtler intellect
                     than the other boy, and possessed of much of that natural cunning which Bacon
                     says a man must possess if he would impress others with an idea of his
                     knowledge when he has it not, there was little doubt in the minds of those who
                     watched the struggle, that Walter would win the prize, and he did
                     win it.
                  There was an essentially mean pride, a disgusting selfishness in the young
                     noble, or he would have seen, and would have been taught by the knowledge that
                     his rival needed the honors, all of which he grasped—needed them
                     as an encouragement in that life of labor to which necessity had dedicated
                     him—needed them to keep up his often flagging hopes—needed them to assure those
                     who of their need had given him the means to buy learning, as a promise of his
                     ability and ultimate success.
                  The poor youth went from the college, suffering under a disappointment the
                     keenest—he went broken down in constitution to be nursed for a few months by
                     his more miserable parents, and then to be laid by them in the earth.
                  I do not mean to assert that in another event this had not been so. That, had
                     he won the prize, his life would have received an impetus which would have
                     overcome the disease within him—that he would henceforth have gone on
                     conquering and to conquer—surmounting all difficulties—overcoming all
                     obstructions; but I believe it would have been the case—the success of a first
                     great endeavor is with many such an all-important thing! And I say, too, that
                     many a time in pursuing that one, and to him trifling object, (comparatively)
                     the White Dove flitted over the head of Walter Cunningham, bidding him to not
                     strive for victory then—but the Serpent was all the while nestling
                     at the feet of the young man, and his hand rested lovingly upon it!
                  But I would not have the reader suppose that the nobly born, the heir of
                     Rossford, never heeded the presence of the Dove—that the voice of
                     the Serpent was the only voice to which he ever listened. Many a time did he
                     grieve over his weakness, when he had given way to the plausible reasonings of
                     the spirit which came to him in the shape of bewildering evil. Often he  rebuked her for her teachings, and
                     scorned her words. But this was not frequently the case; his tears were not
                     tokens of amendment. It was only at times when the Serpent spoke too loudly and
                     too coarsely for his delicate ear, that he scorned her counsel! He did not love
                     the presence of the emblem of purity, and meekness, and love, which so often
                     came before him on pure white wings. And this was not all, nor the worst. Of
                     that crafty spirit he learned craftiness—learned to speak with stammering lips
                     and a false tongue—learned to hide beneath soft smiles and guise
                     of frankness, a treacherous heart, and base desires. Alas for such an one! alas
                     for those with whom he has to deal! For himself it were better that a millstone
                     were hung about his neck, and be drowned in the depths of the sea, than that he
                     should live a falsehood among men—a curse in disguise! to shame the mortal form
                     he wears!
                  But he was rich and powerful. In the House of the Peers of England his voice
                     was often heard, and his words had weight. The young and the old applauded him
                     and sought his favor; and yet, was there ever in those speeches, which by their
                     eloquence enchained every listener, and might, had he so willed it, have worked
                     incalculable good, was there ever a burning word let fall in behalf of the
                     oppressed, the down-trodden, the starving poor? Was ever an indignant rebuke of
                     wrong known to issue from his lips—a token of a virtuous and generous heart
                     given? Never! never! No human heart, or mind, or desire, or life, was ever a
                     whit the better because of him! He might charm by his glitter and
                     show, (it was the glitter and show of the serpent!) but never were his words
                     winged over the land by the dove of peace and purity, telling hope to the
                     famishing—assuring the wronged and abused that there was one pleading for them
                     in the high places of the land!
                  He married. Interest, and a gratification of pride, were the basis of the union
                     on his part. Ah, the curse that almost invariably follows a connection such as
                     that! The miserable, gradual awakening of the wife, who at first did
                        love the man she had wedded—the coldness and disesteem which time
                     strengthened and increased, the views less lofty and noble she began to
                     entertain for virtue, the readiness and pleasure with which ere long
                        she
                     
                        listined
                        listened
                      to the beguiler—the tempter!
                  The wife of Walter Cunningham was not possessed of a strong and lofty mind: a
                     lover of pleasure more than a lover of goodness, if that was only to be found
                     and attained by travelling in the hard path of self-denial—she was not long in
                     learning to seek out for herself a mode of life which was seldom troubled with
                     thoughts of her husband. United by marriage vows, but wide asunder in thought
                     and inclination, as can be well conceived—each determining at last to seek his
                     and her own happiness in the way they saw fit, that was their wedded life. Fame
                     does not spare such people—though, perhaps, the notoriety they acquire is not
                     that they would prefer!
                  She, the wronged, abused woman, as she believed herself, sought in coquetry and
                     extravagant display, a solace for the mortified affections of her heart. He,
                     among other women, whiled away the hours which should have been kept sacred to
                     his home duties. Heaven have mercy on the children of such an household!
                     Riches, and titles, and honors, can have really very little to do with making
                     their comfort and happiness, or towards instilling in their minds principles of
                     goodness, honesty, and virtue. Oh, if a voice from the silence may only speak
                     to them, and pray them to heed the flittings of the dove! if they will only
                     learn in time the vileness of the serpent, and her beguilings!
               
               
                  IV.
                  The deciding point of Peter Whitney's life was not in his
                     birth-hour when his eyes directed upwards, and fixed upon the Dove, any more
                     than it was the deciding hour of Walter Cunningham's life. A thousand times the
                     choice was proffered to him, a thousand occasions presented themselves when he
                     must choose whom he would serve: the temptations which filled his path were
                     certainly as great as those which bewildered and beguiled the lordling—only
                     they were of another order, and appeared in a really less suspicious, and
                     therefore more to be dreaded form.
                  Assuredly he had been tempted oftentimes, but a voice had ever whispered to
                     him, and he had heeded it; "You have a  mission in this world—a mission such as is given
                     to every man, and every woman—you must do good. You must help the
                     oppressed: you must see to it that the hand of the powerful is not
                     suffered to lie on the helpless so heavily as to crush human nature, and to
                     bend it to a too weak submission. Where there is want, as much as is in your
                     power, relieve—where there is envy, seek to arouse the envious to
                     noble exertion—where there is wrong, help to make right again; where there is
                     suffering and sorrow, if you can do no more at least, give sympathy and
                     prayers. You are not sent a mute into this world. You have a voice, use it on
                     the side of justice, of goodness, of God. Labor, it is man's noblest privilege.
                     Guard your heart, 'redeem the time,' let your soul be not lost; for if you win
                     the brightest of crowns in the race and the battle of existence, what
                        will it profit you in the end if the heavenly birthright is
                     lost?"
                  A heart that had an inclination to always listen to such a voice, could not be
                     very far removed from safety.
                  Industry, honesty, loftiness of aim and desire, together with firmness, and
                     perseverance, accomplish great things for a man; no matter how humble his
                     birthplace, the end he reaches will be necessarily grand. Almost always we see
                     the strong mind and powerful workers, in all departments of labor, intellectual
                     and physical, springing from the people. The ambition of such men, as it is the
                     highest, is often the noblest, too—the objects they seek are great objects. It
                     is a pleasant sight, a man raising himself by dint of moral strength from
                     obscurity to the proudest eminence of glory: if he may not be a God and create,
                     he may attain to a place "little lower than the angels"—may, but
                     to reach this end, some effort is required on man's part, effort to expand his
                     intellect, effort to correct and purify his heart, or one can but think that he
                     will prove in the end, not a "little," but a great deal lower than
                     the angels!
                  The disciple of the white Dove brought honor upon his teacher.
                  You might have seen him a man of middle age, whose hair was not yet beginning
                     to turn gray, nor his feet to falter, occupying a most honorable station in the
                     world. A wealthy manufacturer, a benefactor and counsellor of the poor, a
                     husband band (of one whom he had married from his own station), bound to his
                     wife by the strong chords of true unceasing affection; a father whose chief
                     hope and endeavor it was, not to leave his children vast fortunes, and high
                     place among men, but a better and nobler heritage, a good example of a
                        life of virtue; whose chief object in life it was to attract his
                     children's eyes, constantly, from that loathsome thing whose beauty he knew was
                     so fatally alluring.
                  You might have seen him in the House of Commons a representative of the hopes
                     and desires of the people—pleading always on the side of right, laboring with
                     all the powers of his mind to secure the good of the masses; swerving never
                     through interest in the path of duty, never heeding or fearing the threats of
                     bad men, but desirous of all things to work some real and permanent good, not
                     that his name should live after him, but that he might alleviate sorrows the
                     like of which he had himself known in his youth—do away with wrongs and abuses
                     which were "grinding the face of the poor." You might have seen Peter Whitney
                     thus, a man of all men to be envied, holding a place in the hearts of the
                     people so firm and secure, that nothing could invade it—a man of not
                     extraordinary mental power, who by his moral might conquered and
                     subdued many a veteran in the hosts of wrong.
               
               
                  V.
                  There were two men who died one day.
                  
                     One was nursed by hirelings—for, of his children not one remained
                     beneath his roof, in their home, and his wife in a distant land, forgetful of
                     him and of them, was a reigning queen in the courts of fashion. The offspring
                     of his mind, the children of his genius, his books were on the tables of the
                     great; the eyes of beauty and of taste loved to look upon them; his name was in
                     the papers, and his fame had gone abroad over the earth; his wealth was still
                     unbounded, but it was a wretched death the Lord of Rossford died.
                  There was not one satisfying thought left then to cheer, not one hope pointing
                     to the future, not one joy or consolation on which as a "steady help" he might
                     rely. Only one friend was left with him in the hour "when heart and flesh
                     fail"—a bosom  friend it was! The
                     serpent had crept in there; it was coiled and lying, in mock
                     humility no longer, at his feet, but cold and heavily it pressed, like an iron
                     weight, upon his heart, and the strength of a Hercules could not have removed
                     it. It sang no longer its sweet, syren songs; it had no more allurements and
                     beguilements, there was no longer need for tempting, when the
                     life-deed of sin was wrought; the serpent was become a demon to
                        fear, a friend who had by his alluring smiles, destroyed. He
                     died, the Lord of Rossford. They buried him in state. A monarch appeared in his
                     funeral train, the most honorable men of the realm wore the badge of grief;
                     papers were dressed in mourning; obituaries of length narrating all the
                     particulars of the brilliant life of the departed, afforded meat and drink for
                     readers of reflection—ah! had the serpent been suffered to speak as loudly of
                     her dealings with that dead man.
                  Poems in honor of the "illustrious departed" were written by gifted men, and
                     women tuned their harps to sing their admiration. A biography was written, and
                     emblazoned gorgeously; it occupied a conspicuous place in the libraries of the
                     land; but, after all, Walter Cunningham was a dead man whose soul had gone to
                     judgment; they might pile his memorial stone, but his spirit was alone before
                     God, and the applause and the honor could not surely avail him there!
                  Doubtless, there were many who were spurred on in the courses of life by his
                     brilliant example, many who were made more ambitious, who became great and
                     honored, who received in their youth fresh impetus from the course of this rich
                     titled man. Yes; and there were his children made miserable for life, by the
                     dissensions, by the disgraceful private history of their parents: children
                     whose high station hardly compensated for the total absence of parental love
                     and care, which they had felt "from their youth up." Yes, and there was more
                     than one obscure and humble home the great world never heard of, where Walter
                     Cunningham had sown, with his own lordly hand, the seeds of bitterness, of
                     sorrow, and of ruin. Alas, the serpent!
                  There was another man who died, and was buried; and to this day his memory
                     remains a blessing on the earth. In the hour when death drew near, the faithful
                     Dove was hovering over his bed, her white wings fanned and revived him; her
                     meek eyes, however, fell not on him, they were raised upward, she
                     seemed impatient to bear his spirit away to the land of bliss.
                  Children were there; and the faithful wife who had shared his early life's
                     struggles, and his after life's blessings. Children whom the mother might
                     always lead, without fear, in the footsteps of their father, wishing for them
                     no greater honor than was theirs already, in being his sons.
                  And there were many besides the dear ones of his household, who in their
                     separate homes prayed for the dying man's recovery, and waited anxiously to
                     know if God would hear their cry. They were men redeemed from despair, whose
                     feet he had set in the right way, whose hearts he had encouraged when they were
                     bowed down with despondency, over the dark sky of whose life his words and
                     kindliness had risen, as the rainbow of promise: children to whom he had given
                     labor and remuneration ample, who were content and glad to work when
                        he was their master; women whom he had not led
                     into temptation, whom he had instead, saved from vice and degradation; girls
                     whom he had encouraged; boys whom his seasonable notice had tended to make
                     worthy men. Most of these had found employment in his factories—a "strike" had
                     never been heard of among them—their wages were sufficient, and never
                     withheld—the "last ounce" was never required of them: their master did not look
                     upon them as mere cattle who were made but to eat, work, and die! It was no
                     wonder therefore that there was weeping and sorrow when this man was departing
                     from among them, for it was not probable that they should soon look upon his
                     like again.
                  There was a bell that on a funeral day tolled long and mournfully, and was but
                     a faint expression of the grief of the hundreds who gathered at Peter Whitney's
                     burial; there were tears, such as the poor have little occasion to shed often
                     by the graves of the rich, that watered the sod of his grave: there were hearts
                     among those who have but little time to think of  life or death, save of the misery of the one,
                     and the release given by the other, that sorrowed on that day over their dead
                     friend, as very few are lamented when they go hence. There is a monument raised
                     to that man's memory by factory laborers, and he is known now, not
                     as a powerful noble, not as a gifted and accomplished author, not as a
                     brilliant man of the world, but as "the poor man's friend." There
                     was, moreover, a White Dove which from the day of his death brooded over many
                     another heart, whose pure white radiance made holiness where sin, in the
                     blackness of its darkness, reigned before.
                  Joy! joy to the man and the woman in whose soul so peaceful and heavenly an
                     influence is reigning!
               
            
            
               THE MAN IN THE MOON.
               A TRUE STORY.
               LONG, long ago, there lived in a far country among the mountains, which towered
                  towards heaven much in the manner of mountains now, a young maiden, who must
                  certainly have been one of the progenitors of "the sinless child," for in personal
                  beauty and in excellence and purity of mind, this girl was unsurpassed, perhaps
                  unequalled in her day. "A rare and radiant maiden," albeit unaccomplished and
                  unlearned.
               Kind, generous, and affectionate, was Rose May, having withal such a reasonable
                  amount of spirited independence in her nature, as a child born and bred among the
                  "southern wilds," would be like to have.
               It was a glorious dwelling-place, that of my heroine. Grant May, her father, was a
                  shepherd, a rugged man of middle age, whose furrowed face bore testimony to the
                  fact that he had encountered and weathered many a hard storm in the course of his
                  life. A true son of the mountains was he; for three or four generations back, his
                  fathers had lived shepherds in these same grand heights, and I doubt much if
                     this son of his father could have long endured to breathe the
                  warmer and gentler air of a less elevated home. Occasionally, but at long
                  intervals, he had wandered away to the world below him, but, like the eagle, his
                  eyrie and his affections were fixed amid the towering heights, the rugged scenes,
                  and bracing air of the mountains—there was the home for which nature, and a forty
                  years' residence, had fitted him.
               The shepherd's house was built in what, to an eye unaccustomed tomed to such scenes, would seem a most dangerous
                  situation. But it was just the contrary. Erected on the side of a deep ravine, at
                  the bend of the stream, it was sheltered on three sides from the rough, wild winds
                  of winter, and in summer it seemed half buried in the vegetation, which was
                  nowhere on the mountains so abundant as about this place. Above, beneath, and
                  around the cottage, were hardy bushes and flowering shrubs, and towering high
                  above them, the pine trees and the strong-limbed offspring of that rugged clime;
                  and still above the flowers, and the bushes, and pines, spread the bright blue
                  sky, which seemed to rest its mighty arches on the peaks and crags of those great
                  heights.
               Yes, it was a glorious home, a noble dwelling place, that of young Rose May! The
                  voice of the southern wind, when it crept so softly up the mountains, and through
                  the branches of the pines, to kiss her brow, and tell her of the wild beauty of
                  the land from which it wandered, was sweet and welcome music to her ear; but no
                  less loved and welcome was the trumpet-blast of the storm, when it came rushing
                  like a fiend past her home, shrieking the challenge of a giant fresh from the
                  fortress where the soldiery of winter were garrisoned—a very Goliath.
               Rose loved the flowers, the gay, bright blossoms, which, in mid-summer bloomed
                  about her home; but more keen was her delight in the grandeur which made her heart
                  to thrill, and her blood to leap wildly through its veins, when, on awakening,
                  some dreary mornings of winter, she saw the pine-trees loaded with the wealth of
                  glittering icicles, which glowed and blazed with a splendor, greater than if the
                  treasuries of all the kings and princes of earth had been melted and poured over
                  those same stately scions of the soil.
               Nature, in all her phases, was beautiful to Rose May. But there was something in
                  the heart of the girl which made her sympathise with, and rejoice more keenly in
                  the grand and terrible shapes the great queen chose to appear in during more than
                  eight months of the year. Therefore was she most truly a daughter, a bright,
                  strong-hearted, noble daughter of the mountains.
               They had aptly named this maiden after the pride of all the flowers; for though
                  there were many sons in Grant May's household, Rose was the only daughter, and she
                  was like a rose indeed, the fairest, as well as the tenderest bud, opening beneath
                  the family roof-tree. The bloom of health was on the maiden's cheek—the glow of
                  health was in her veins, and in the calm beating of her heart, which told so
                  steadily, "all's well."
               While the shepherd and his sons were absent from home all day, tending their many
                  flocks, Rose remained with her mother at home, assisting her with willing hands in
                  the domestic toils; and a steady and invaluable help-mate was she; spinning yarn
                  from the sheep her father called her own, and then knitting the proceeds into
                  stout socks and mittens for those who labored out of doors; and ingeniously
                  contriving numerous garments whereby to keep the ears, necks, and feet, of her
                  wild, light-hearted brothers warm in the dreadful winter weather. Rose was in fact
                  quite a pattern maid, never complaining, or caring to rest herself even when she
                  was most weary, if there was still work to be done—and the last thing she would
                  ever have thought to boast of, was ignorance of any part of the book of Domestic
                  Economy, which volume, if you, my dear reader, have had any occasion to thumb, you
                  know very well is not printed in the most readable or understandable type.
               Rose May had not many companions. There were, it is true, other families, numbers
                  of them, scattered among the mountains, but these lived at long distances from
                  each other and they were all so circumstanced as to preclude the possibility of
                  frequent visitings. But when these far-off neighbors did meet, it was with the
                  warm and earnest good feeling which people so situated would be likely to
                  entertain for each other. Perhaps, indeed, their mutual interest was even more
                  sincere and honest, their friendship more generous and truthful, than if they had
                  been able to hold more frequent and familiar communication, partaking, as they all
                  necessarily did, of the mundane nature—for they had scarcely time ever to discover
                  one another's particular failings and short-comings.
               There were two families, however, whose members maintained a more familiar
                  intimacy with the household of Grant May, than the other mountaineers, and for
                  this reason—in both these  households
                  there was a son, each only sons, too, who regarded Rose May with fonder eyes than
                  a mere friendly interest would warrant; they both loved her with all the devotion
                  their wild, earnest spirits were capable of—both acknowledged her the queen of the
                  mountain flowers, and the object of their supreme regard.
               One of these youths was named Joseph Rancy. His father was the wealthiest of the
                  shepherds—the son would be the old man's sole heir. This fact alone was calculated
                  to greatly enhance the merits of the young man, to make him a favored guest, a
                  much sought-for friend, and an acceptable suitor, especially in the eyes of
                  parents who had a double eye to their daughter's happiness and good
                  fortune.
               Joseph was a tall, robust, free-spoken youth, with a heart whose honesty forbade
                  his lips ever speaking a word which could not safely be echoed in its recesses.
                  But his very bluntness, though it arose from his honesty of purpose, was not,
                  perhaps, calculated to make him a great favorite with that class of persons
                     said to be lovers of soft words and honeyed speeches. Joseph was,
                  however, much liked by Grant May, and all the young brethren of Rose. They admired
                  him for his generosity and daring, and for many noble traits of character which he
                  evinced. The young man knew he stood well in their eyes—but as to her whose favor
                  he cared for more than all the rest, he was yet in a state of doubt and
                  perplexity.
               The other youth who so frequently visited Grant's cottage, was Rob Horn. To say
                  Rob was handsome as a picture, would be paying him rather an equivocal compliment:
                  but handsome he was, tall and straight as an Indian, with a bright, smiling face,
                  which (but for a certain treacherous expression sometimes seen lurking about the
                  mouth,) seemed to hail every man a brother and friend. Then his hair was black as
                  the raven's wing, eyes ditto, a becoming bloom on his brown cheeks, graceful,
                  light-hearted, companionable—there you have Rob Horn, my gentle one; is he a
                  person you would suppose Rose May might love?
               Rob was an only son, as we stated—but the great difference between him and Joseph
                  Rancy was, that his father was far from being wealthy, having only
                  managed to keep "above board" during all the long years of his earthly
                  pilgrimage.
               More than once, Rob had roved from his mountain home to the lowland villages, for
                  his was a restless spirit, and his were roving eyes that grew weary at times of
                  looking on the same grand scenery; still he seemed to retain an unextinguishable
                  affection for his native home, for after a short absence, he always returned to
                  his father's humble cot, with his head full of the strange sights he had looked on
                  in the busy world, but with his curiosity for the time satisfied, and his heart
                  all right towards home. The reason, however, of his invariable return, was, that
                  up in the old Eagle's Eyrie (that is, in Grant May's dwelling), there was a little
                  bird whose wild, free-gushing songs had an attractive power for him.
               And among the fairer-faced damsels who lived in the cities, was it possible that
                  none appeared to Rob comparable with the unfettered-by-fashion, Rose? Were there
                  none whose voice, and whose smile were sweet as hers? Let us see.
               Sitting by the blazing fire in Grant May's kitchen during the long, pleasant
                  winter evenings, and telling to the gathered family the strange habits and
                  fashions of the people with whom he had occasionally mingled, describing to the
                  wondering children, modes of life which they in their simplicity had never dreamed
                  of, and to the father the latest changes which had occurred in public affairs, and
                  to the mother of the women whose acquaintance he had made, it is not to be
                  supposed that he neglected all the while, and thought not at all of the fair young
                  listener, to please whom he would have talked on forever, had that been necessary;
                  no, indeed, she was not forgotten, for during many years, Rob had been incessantly
                  at work, forming a telegraph route between his heart and her own; he was even
                  then, during those winter evenings, busy in that great work of his life, and ere
                  long he was determined to prove if the work were perfect; but he delayed the first
                  real dispatch—fearing lest it should be uncomprehended, unanswered.
               To Rose, Rob had always seemed kind, and noble, and honest—all, in
                  short, that man ought to be—all that Joseph Rancy was.
                  And a keener insight than she was capable of, or than many mortals tals possess, (fortunately,) would have been
                  requisite in this case to detect the true gold from the glittering dross. Even
                  when the maiden's father discovered how all the inclination and affection of his
                  child chose Rob instead of Joseph, he did not see any extreme objection in the way
                  to the girl's union with the former; and it was only with a sigh for the fortune
                  which might have been his daughter's, that he gave up all idea of her ever wedding
                  Joseph Rancy.
               These two boys had always been the most intimate, and best of friends. In earlier
                  days the visits which they planned together to make their young friend Rose, were
                  unmarked by jealous thoughts; they were the best of all holiday enjoyments. No
                  matter how deep the snow might lie on their path towards Grant May's cot, these
                  appointments made between themselves were always regularly kept; for the thought
                  of the bright faces which ever gave such hearty welcome, and the ready zeal with
                  which a place was made for them by the warm fire, was sufficient inducement for
                  them to brave the coldest weather, and the stormiest day.
               But as the two grew older, and learned to distinguish between friendliness and
                  love, they did, sorry am I to tell it, grow jealous of one another—and at last
                  before they had concluded it were better to make these visits to Rose alone, each
                  by himself, when she had unwittingly spoken in a more kindly tone than usual to
                  either of them, and evinced in any way an innocent and thoughtless preference, the
                  other was sure to walk homeward with closed lips and aching heart, in most
                  unsocial mood.
               Joseph Rancy had never dared to speak openly to Rose May of love. It was strange
                  that one so stout-hearted as he, with all the advantages of wealth, and much
                  personal beauty, should falter as he tried to tell a simple mountain maid he loved
                  her! Yet it was so. The words refused to obey his bidding when he called to them.
                  He had never lived in those busy places where men and women congregate, yet he did
                  know that "faint heart never won fair lady," and the very knowledge of the truth
                  increased his fears. Poor fellow! he doubted his own power to 
                     pelase
                     please
                  , and he knew that Rob Horn was a powerful rival.
               Still, Joseph was not one to easily give up a thought he had cherished so long.
                  The hope of winning Rose was too dear to be relinquished—he could never forget
                  that he had loved her, even though she turned a relentlessly deaf ear to his
                  suit—his heart would never be satisfied with the love of another woman. And I say
                  but the truth when I tell you that he was worthy of her love—more worthy, if a
                  less dashing lover than Rob Horn. There was less glitter about him, far more real
                  worth—less of admiration and passion, than deep and earnest love in his thoughts
                  of Rose.
               He had placed his hopes on winning her regard; and it is not agreeable with the
                  natural order of things, to suppose that he would forever continue irresolute in a
                  case momentous as this. And so, once again, with the express determination of
                  having his fate at once decided by her, he set out on a summer morning, resolved
                  that his courage should hold out till he had heard his doom from her own lips.
               The day was favorable: oh, if the sweet lady would only prove so too! The time
                  also seemed "one of a thousand," for, before Joseph had half-way reached her
                  father's house, he met Rose May. She was gathering wild flowers, and when she saw
                  him approaching her, gaily bade him assist her in the pleasant work. I know not if
                  those simple people ever studied the "language of flowers"—perhaps, however, the
                  science is a natural one—but this I know, that there was a great
                  preponderance of mountain-roses, buds, and half-opened blossoms, in the flowers
                  Joseph gathered for the little lady. Ah, what a lucky wight! the beautiful summer
                  morning—the silent wood—the naturalness of the offer of his heart with the flowers
                  he gave her! But, notwithstanding the chances were all with him, Joseph
                     still hesitated and delayed; and it was not till the flowers were
                  all gathered, and Rose had actually set out on the homeward path, that he nerved
                  himself to the pitch requisite.
               And indeed it was quite a point of destiny that he had reached; the
                  next step, you see plainly, was an important, an all important one to him. It had
                  been the hope of years that he might win and one day wed Rose May: he had lived in
                  that hope; its out-working had been one of the most blessed of his  thoughts; and now, in five short minutes, (perhaps
                  less,) he would know if this dear dream were to have fruition, or must pass away
                  like the "early dew," leaving him no possibility of indulging in it again—that is,
                  with reason; and Joseph was a reasonable youth.
               As I have said, he was uneducated in the schools, and ignorant and innocent of
                  polite learning, therefore he knew but one way of discovering a fact—that was, by
                  asking a question point-blank. When Rose was about emerging from the wood, whence
                  a little path led down the ravine to her father's house, he paused in the walk,
                  and said quite distinctly,
               "Wait a moment. I came here to ask you a question I have wanted to ask this long
                  time—will you be my wife?"
               "Yours, Joseph?" replied Rose, as honestly and unreservedly as the question had
                  been put,—"Yours?—how can you think of such a thing?"
               "I have thought of it for years, Rose. You have so many brothers and
                  friends, like enough you have considered me as one of them; but I have no sister,
                  Rose—no friend half so dear as you. It does not strike me that I have asked you
                  such a very strange thing. Perhaps, when you think it all over, the matter will
                  not seem so odd. I would not have you answer me in haste, dear Rose."
               "Never, Joseph Rancy," answered she, speaking rapidly, but kindly, though so firm.
                  "I have always thought of you as a dear, good friend—that is true;
                  but I can be no more than such to you."
               "Is that all, Rose? Oh, think again—you call me your dear friend—be my wife, my
                  best, and dearest friend! Your home is so happy—think of mine lonely and drear as
                  it is now. What a paradise it might be, were you there! Rose, dear
                  Rose May, do think again."
               "I have thought, Joseph. Do not speak to me so any more—it pains me. There are
                  many others who can make your home as happy—far happier than I can; forget that
                  you have had such thoughts about me, my friend."
               "How can I forget?" said he, sadly. "Tell me, Rose," he added, falteringly, "is
                  there any other—do you love anybody better than me?"
               "Yes; my father and mother!"
               "Not them—I don't mean them; the love I ask is not that kind you give them—is
                  there another—?"
               "It is not right in you to ask such questions—you know it is not. Don't make me
                  think the less of you as a friend, by going too far now."
               "Forgive me, dearest Rose—I'm going. Don't let what I've said trouble you: I'd let
                  my tongue be seared with hot iron, before speaking what I have to you to-day, if I
                  thought 'twould make you less happy."
               "Good-bye, Joseph—now you are what you always have been, generous and good; and if
                  I don't love you as you could wish, I honor you from my heart."
               There was a lingering sadness in the maiden's voice as she spoke, that convinced
                  Joseph she was honest in her words, and that she did really grieve that she was
                  the cause of disappointment to him. Yet, that knowledge did not soothe him as he
                  went back to his home, disconsolate and unhappy. Still, Joseph was a young man of
                  sound mind, and he loved Rose May even better than he had before—her very firmness
                  made him respect her—though that firmness was all directed against his suit.
               Often as he thought on the immeasurable distance there must forever be, even in
                  thought, between them, so often came the soothing remembrance that it was not lack
                  of worth on his part that made her reject him. Had she not said she honored him?
                  and was not such respect and kindly feeling the highest and the purest kind of
                  love? Might he not, some day, convince her that it was also the best love, the
                  most conducive to happiness in wedded life? Alas, close following this thought,
                  came the death-blow to all hope, for Joseph was convinced that her heart was no
                  longer her own—that she would wed another!
               Yes, and there was one she had promised to wed—one for whom she had more than
                  respect—one whom she more than honored—and he none other than Rob Horn! He was the
                     fortunate tunate youth whose
                  telegraph-dispatch was successful in receiving a speedy and satisfactory
                  reply!
               The home of one of the most powerful of the spirits was in these mountains—a
                  spirit who loved justice and equity—who watched the scales wherein the good and
                  evil were weighed with jealous eye. This powerful being took much interest in the
                  shepherds' affairs; sometimes she had even deigned to speak to them in her quiet,
                  unostentatious way; and when she taught them, it was generally on some subject of
                  domestic, good or household economy. Almost all her instructions had been of this
                  nature, for they were a quiet, religious people, among whom she lived, giving way
                  rarely to temptation: once or twice, however, the spirit had spoken in rather
                  strong and understandable language to an offender who rarely in his sinful career
                  had any "compunctious visitings."
               No one had ever seen her bodily, yet there was but one person who dared doubt the
                  spirit's actual existence, but one who would not recognise her power; and who
                  should this reckless one be but the wild youth, Rob Horn. He dared
                  say and say openly, that there was never such a being in existence, and that from
                  the very nature of things there never could be.
               It was the only point in her lover's character that gave rise to fears in the mind
                  of Rose May—this skepticism. For Rose had always been a firm believer in spiritual
                  existences; and often, but unavailingly, had she besought Rob to, at least, speak
                  in a manner more respectful of the powerful agent, who would, she knew, work him
                  wo, if he continued obdurate in his belief. But there was nothing in the natural
                  world the young man feared—no danger he dared not brave—why, then, tremble at the
                  unseen, unknown, unheard? Why give heed to the superstitious fears of old women
                  and maidens? Instead of being able in this instance to convince her lover, Rose
                  after all was herself almost persuaded by his jests and ridicule, to doubt the
                  existence, at least the great power of that which she had never seen or heard. She
                  began to give place in her mind to Rob's words, that it was the
                  idlest thing in the world to believe in such romantic stories. But as yet Rose had
                  kept her growing infidelity to herself—she would not have dared breathe to her
                  mother even, her strengthening doubts—perhaps it was well for her that she did not
                  dare.
               It was night—the night previous to his bridal day—and at a late hour Rob left his
                  lady-love, and took the rough path that led him to his own dwelling-place. The
                  happy fellow, if we may judge from facts, was in a most delightful state of mind,
                  well-pleased with himself, his bride-to-be, and all the world beside. "To-morrow
                  was his wedding-day," and ever thereafter Rose May, the brightest flower of the
                  mountains, was his own. Well might he rejoice.
               In a few days, after the festivities following the great occasion were over, Rob,
                  with his wife, were to journey to the nearest large town, to spy out the wonders
                  of the strange land—which plan was half enough to make young Rose wild with joy,
                  for the greatest multitude she had ever seen gathered together, met on the Sabbath
                  days, in the little church to worship.
               It was a bright, moonlit night, the soft light streamed over the path he was to
                  tread, as Rob returned home. The parting kiss of Rose was warm on his forehead; he
                  fancied she was beside him walking in the same path, and nearly all the way he
                  talked sweet words of love, as though she were by to hear. When the young man
                  nearly reached his home, he encountered Joseph Rancy. These two had been far from
                  cordial in their greetings of late, and with good reason; for Rob's manner to
                  Joseph had been that of triumph—Joseph's that of a man heartsore, and jealous of
                  the success of his rival.
               But this night Joseph Rancy had come out with the express purpose of meeting his
                  old friend—to speak with him in the manner of by-gone times, as kindly, and as
                  generously. When he had come up directly in front of Rob, he was still unobserved;
                  he paused then, and held out his hand, saying—
               "I came out on purpose to meet you, Rob."
               Horn took the proffered hand in his own, and said—
               "I am truly glad to see you, Rancy; we have not met of late."
               "No, we haven't been the friends we once were. I have shunned you—because—because
                  you seemed to triumph over  me, Rob.
                  You, who have been so successful where I failed miserably."
               "Was it my fault that I won Rose May? tell me that," replied Horn
                  sharply. "Where's the blame, then, if I did rejoice?"
               "No blame, none, none," said Joseph; "you have been fortunate,
                  indeed; I wish you and yours much joy, Rob, now and ever."
               "Hold," cried Rob, as Joseph turned away, "you will come to the church to-morrow,
                  will you not? You will wish to see Rose married."
               "Rob! no—I can bear to know that you are going to marry her—I can hope and pray
                  for you both—but to see her married to another! You will not need me
                  there."
               These words were spoken in a tone of deep reproach, and Joseph went off quickly as
                  he spoke them, leaving Rob to pursue the home-path alone. The only answer he
                  returned for his friend's grief, was a smothered laugh, which, stifled as it was,
                  in the stillness of the night, Joseph heard distinctly.
               All that night, the disappointed seeker after peace sat on the opposite bank of
                  the ravine, where he might look on the dwelling-place of Rose May—and all that
                  night he prayed for her happiness, and strove hard to banish all unfriendly
                  thoughts towards Rob from his mind. But when the morning came, long before the sun
                  rose, he wandered away among the mountains, that he might be far from the place
                  where she would be given to another.
               Rob went on to his home—the cot was still as sleep itself, for his father and
                  mother had retired to their rest hours before. He went to his chamber, and soon,
                  upon the easy couch, he also slept. And then he dreamed—of course it was of his
                  young and beautiful bride, the girl whom he would be so proud to hear the old
                  priest pronounce his wife. But, though he could only dream of her, it does not
                  follow that his night-visions were pleasant.
               He fancied that the spirit of the mountain (the same in whose existence he had
                  doubted so long,) came to him with an angry frown upon her countenance. He
                  trembled, yes, actually, he, the strong, iron-willed youth, trembled when he
                  looked on her—he had never quailed before. When she had come quite close to his
                  bedside, and rested her hand upon his shoulder, (where it lay like lead,) and
                  gazed so sternly upon him, Rob said,—
               "Why dost thou come here to disturb me and trouble my dreams, thou terrible
                  shape?"
               And the spirit answered:
               "Tell me, instead, what is it thou art about to do?"
               "That is quickly said—to-morrow I shall marry Rose May, the loveliest maid the sun
                  ever shone upon."
               "Ah, Rob Horn! Rob Horn!" said the spirit sternly, interrupting him, "bethink thee
                  what it is thou wilt do; bethink thee what has become of thy betrothed in the
                  distant village? does she wear thy ring, does she remember thy kiss and thy
                  love-vows? What of her, Rob Horn?"
               When the spirit spoke thus, Rob was amazed, and he could not conceal it: his face
                  became suddenly very red—was it the confusion of guilt? Soon he rallied again, and
                  said,
               "I cannot marry two wives; I have loved Rose all my life, I must
                  marry her; the maiden in the village can find another bridegroom."
               "Thou art not worthy to wed one like Rose May—but there is one
                  worthy, over whom thou hast triumphed many a time, and even this very night,
                  because thou hast chanced to be more successful than he; beware, thou may'st go
                  too far."
               "Too far! she will be mine to-morrow—what power in heaven or earth can separate
                  us? She is mine—mine—mine!"
               "Thou may'st deceive thyself. I ask thee, wilt thou not give up Rose May, and
                  betake thee to the pale and sorrowful maid, who has waited for thy coming
                  long?"
               "Give her up? my Rose? never! thou fool, to ask it of me!"
               "Yet I do ask thee again—wilt thou not be just? Do that which thine honor
                  requires; the girl thou hast deserted will die."
               "Be Death her bridegroom, then! Who art thou, to take my Rose from me? She is
                  mine—I will wed no other."
               "Why so sure? Did ever such wickedness as is in thee prosper? Thou hast a bad
                  heart, Rob Horn, and a thousand  things
                  may come between thee and her, even after the priest proclaims her thine. Nothing
                  is sure or stable for one like thee. Give her up now, or beware! a fate more
                  terrible than thou canst think, may be in store for thee!"
               "Begone, thou prating idiot! Rather will I give up my life than Rose, my bride, my
                  beautiful!"
               So firmly was this third repetition of his determination spoken, that Rob awoke,
                  and, as might be supposed, he found himself alone, and the sunlight streaming
                  brightly through his little window. Heartily congratulating himself that it was
                  all a dream, the young man arose, and, ere long, had tastefully adorned himself
                  with the new raiment prepared for the momentous occasion.
               The morning was verging towards noon, when, in the little church, the
                  wedding-party gathered before the altar.
               There was beautiful Rose May and her handsome bridegroom, and, after the manner of
                  things of necessity, the twain never in their lives looked so charmingly as then.
                  And there were the parents of the plighted ones, happy as parents might be, who
                  believed they were about to witness the consummation of their children's joy.
                  There, also, were all the young brothers of Rose, bright and smiling as such
                  youngsters on these occasions invariably are. These were all gathered about the
                  altar: the body of the church was nearly filled with the young friends of the
                  to-be-married ones, and the sturdy old mountaineers, with their wives.
               It would not be strictly cleaving to truth, to say that Rob Horn was wholly at
                  ease that morning. That strange night-dream tormented him. It was foremost in his
                  mind, claiming even in that holy hour, more of his thought than the girl who
                  leaned, in trustful fondness, on his arm. Why should a merely ugly dream annoy him
                  so! Had he really a promised bride in the far-off village? Have patience with
                  me,—you shall know it all.
               They were kneeling before the altar. The consecrated hands of the old priest were
                  raised in blessing above them; he was about pronouncing the uniting words; and
                  Rob, the bridegroom, was thinking, even then, that if there were, in reality, such
                  creatures as spirits, he had overpowered his visitant at least, when suddenly
                  there came a shape of light floating through the open door of the church. It moved
                  on noiselessly through the holy edifice, above the heads of the astonished and
                  alarmed congregation, until it came to the altar, and there paused. Then a voice,
                  soft and thrilling as the summer breeze, yet distinctly audible to every person
                  gathered there, said,
               "Rise, Robert Horn, thou shalt not speak the marriage vows."
               And, pale as death, Rob, unable longer to resist, lifted up himself.
               Then, distinctly as before, the voice said,
               "Did I not tell thee to beware? Did I not forbid thee to wed this maid, thou who
                  hast another plighted to thee, one who waits and watches, wondering at thy long
                  delay? Did I not bid thee beware—and thou couldst 
                     laught
                     laugh
                   at my words! Answer me, Robert Horn."
               The bridegroom lifted his eyes to the Shape, and said,—how his voice trembled!
               "Thou didst bid me beware, but I am here, notwithstanding; here to
                  take this woman for my wife; whosoever thou art, thou canst not, and shalt not
                  part us."
               "Thou hast sealed thy fate," answered the spirit of the mountain—"for thy
                  wickedness, thy falseness, thy unbelief, thou shalt be banished away from the
                  earth forever! And it shall be a part of the misery of thy banishment, that once
                  in every month, from thy prison-house, thou shalt look down upon this lower world.
                  Thou shalt see, and know, and feel, all the pangs, and the bliss, and
                  the glory of love, yet shalt thou hereafter share it never with a mortal. The
                  water-brooks, the oceans, and the seas, shall reflect thy image, and thou shalt
                  know the bitterness of seeing even these unconscious, soulless things, careless of
                  thee. Thou shalt live on for years, till they are counted by centuries; long after
                  she whom thou hast so shamefully deserted, sleeps the quiet, blessed sleep of
                  death. Thou shalt live to mourn and to lament over a fate thou canst not change.
                  Thy doom is more dreadful than thou canst yet conceive! Come, wait not even for
                     her last embrace. Come—come—come!"
               Swiftly away they passed, the spirit and the wifeless bridegroom, without pausing
                  for one parting look, or kiss, or word,  with the trembling girl, the promised bride. In an instant the little church
                  was vacant, and without its walls might be seen gathered a group of terrified
                  people—foremost among them the widowed Rose, gazing upon the far upward flight of
                  poor Rob Horn.
               The new moon that night came up in all her glorious beauty, and sailed on calmly
                  over the broad, blue, upper sea; night after night she glided over the vast
                  expanse, unfurling gradually wider and wider her sails, till in full and perfect
                  splendor she at last appeared. And then, yes then, Rose May beheld
                  her lover once more; but oh that shadowy glimpse she caught of him was worse to
                  her than had she looked on utter vacancy. She knew that he was gazing
                  on her home, that he looked on her with despair, but alas! she saw no more the
                  tender light once filling his beautiful, dark eyes: she heard no words from his
                  silenced lips, and it was like a torturing dream to look upon him thus, and fancy
                  all the horrors of his banishment.
               And what of Rob? He dwells in moon-land yet! amid those elevated mountains,
                  instead of the dear wild heights, his dwelling place on earth. Whoever could have
                  dreamed the wretched Wandering Jew, had an unknown companion in yon bright sphere,
                  whose lot was yet more miserable than his own? Who ever thought a "breach of
                  promise" might be visited on unfaithful man, in quite another and more effectual
                  way than by laying strong hold on his most precious purse-strings?
               Oh, ye soft-hearted maidens, I pray you henceforth bear in mind who
                  is the captive knight to whom so oft your fond eyes are directed: "oft in the
                  stilly night" when he doth stand on the brink of those "moon-mountains," gazing so
                  sadly on the world beneath, remember ye this story I have told, and turn away, and
                  leave him quite alone. Sing not in pensive strains the praise he loves to hear;
                  laud not the beauty of the exile's home, for oh, his strained ear is quick to
                  catch your words; his eye is clear to note your admiration. Let him not gladden in
                  one word from you!
               And ye gay-hearted knights, so strong to promise, and so slow to do, ye who do
                  count it pastime to win woman's love, and then to fling it aside as a poor flower
                  whose fragrance is quite lost, be ye too warned in time, for spirits
                     are, and moonland yet may find room in its borders for your
                  feet!
               And now what more remains for me to tell? You have guessed, I know, how the
                  warm-hearted spirit taught Rose May, that Joseph Rancy possessed all the good and
                  attractive qualities of the lost lover, with none of his sins and follies! You
                  have guessed that one gay morning the old church doors were opened for another
                  bridal party; that young Rose stood again in marriage garments before the altar,
                  and Joseph by her side. You have guessed how the spirit once more glided through
                  the "place of prayer," to add her blessing to that which the priest pronounced
                  over the bridegroom and the bride!
               Why speak of the happy home where Joseph Rancy dwelt with his beautiful lady-love?
                  Why tell of that wedded bliss, which people for the most part have heard already
                  of, or else desire in an especial manner to hear of, and to know? Why say that all
                  the teachings and advice which the spirit deigned to administer to these blest
                  mortals, was ever received and heeded by them with the utmost care and
                  gratitude?
               Do you believe in dreams? No!—why not? Have you indeed yet to learn that through
                  them the good spirits whisper to us advice, and peace, and warning, and
                  consolation! are you so cold and dull, as to believe that there are no ministering
                  spirits, no guiding, guardian angels? Do you, can you scornfully repel the idea,
                  that the forests, and mountains, the oceans and the plains, have their myriad
                  viewless, intellectual inhabitants? Ah, foolishly unwise—may these powerful agents
                  have mercy on you, and charitably bear with your shameful, wilful blindness!
            
            
               
               ABOUT A GENIUS.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           We wither from our youth, we waste away,
                           Sick, sick, unfound the boon—unslaked the thirst.
                        
                     
                     BYRON.
                  
               
               IN summer-time there are few things more delightful, than an occasionally wet day,
                  to "out-of-towners."
               Then we of the country in our almost noiseless homes, may delight in the strange
                  and pleasant quietness attending a still, steadily-falling rain; we can watch with
                  admiring eyes how the fields, and the well-draperied woods, grow bright and
                  cleanly 'neath the hand of that pattern housekeeper, Dame Nature; we can listen,
                  undisturbed by the multitudinous noises which infest a city, to the dear wild
                  birds, who, impatient of the long continued weeping of the skies, occasionally
                  break forth into the merriest songs, as if questioning each other as to how the
                  changes of the elements were borne.
               And then there is the generous sun-king, (I acknowledge, however, he does not live
                  for country people only), glancing out at intervals from between the
                  heavy clouds, smiling upon us joyously, and looking for all the world as though he
                  would say if he could, "never mind, children, the storm will soon be
                  over." And then the after-part of the summer shower! the freshened fragrance of
                  the flowers, the purified atmosphere, the bright blue sky, the glory of the
                  setting sun, the rainbow in the east, the drops of water glistening on the flowers
                  and on the grass, so pure and bright that one might almost imagine them the tears
                  of spirits, the glad songs of innumerable birds, the groups of children exhibiting
                  in various ways their nautical daring on and about the newly-formed lakelets in
                  the roads and fields, then the holy calmness of the ensuing night, the soft light
                  of the stars, and after that the trembling glory of the new moon! Oh beautiful,
                  beautiful summer-time, how precious are thy smiles and tears!
               But—a rainy day in winter! Its horrors encircle me as I write! deliver me from
                  entering into its details! However much you may delight
                  in a day like unto this, oh listener to this humble voice emerging from the
                  wayside, I have no courage to speak even, of the
                  stubborn, hard-headed, cheerless figure Nature presents when she stands gazing in
                  such mute dismay upon her domicile.
               It is in human nature, at least in mine, and I claim to be human, to be always
                  looking for a something better, and despite all this dreariness
                  without, my heart is continually singing, "spring is coming! spring is coming!"
                  But a few weeks! and then, instead of the dismal trappings of winter, how
                  beautiful and bright all without and around us will be! The very thought is enough
                  to make every soul shout, "hasten the time! amen!" There is such a desolateness
                  about the white-headed old monarch, that people shrink from his appearance as
                     they grow old in years!
               Looking back with the eyes of childhood on these stony-hearted months, when frost
                  and snow reign king and queen over earth, they seem indeed the most joyous—and not
                  without reason. For then the "Christman," and the youth so full of promise, the
                  bright New Year, are never-failing guests by the mid-winter fireside. There is joy
                  for the child on the ice-bound hill, on the glassy frozen lake, in the jingling,
                  merry sound of sleigh-bells, in the blaze of the cheerful home-fire, in the
                  bracing out door air, in the huge snow-drifts,—everywhere, everywhere there is joy
                  for the child.
               And why? Because of bounding hopes and joyous dreams, and the careless yielding up
                  of oneself to every passing enjoyment; because of freedom from labor; because of
                  ignorance of the worth and supremacy of gold; because of utter innocence of the
                  strict "proprieties" of life! There is joy for the child because he has not yet
                  learned much of disappointments; he 
                  does not know how comfortless is the close-fitting garment of manhood. He is not
                  wise enough to see in the winter storms, in the driving blasts which so delight
                  him, types of what assuredly await him. He does not know that the life-storms with
                  which he will have to struggle, will come suddenly and furiously upon him; that he
                  will perforce then fling aside his mittens, and grapple open-handed with his foes.
                  And it must certainly be at the warm and genial hearth-fire of truth and honesty,
                  and no stifling stove-heat, by which he must keep his heart and his hopes, and
                  affections warm, and in health, else they will die away suddenly and utterly, even
                  as the fire of the "patent air-tight" dies!
               Hark! now I hear the flapping of wings; and, lo! here, close beside my window, are
                  passing pigeons—snow-white pigeons; and, where could it have streamed
                  from? there is a ray of light, real sunlight, on their wings! and,
                  since I have begun writing, the clouds seem to have "spent their fury,"—they are
                  less dull and dreary—they are slowly breaking away.
               The view from my window is not especially charming. In one direction there are
                  sheds, and barns, and barren trees; and, a little farther on, the spire of an
                  unpretending church, and sundry chimney-tops, together with the roofs of a few
                  loftier buildings, meet my eye. These, certainly, are all very
                     suggestive scenes, and might make so many important heads of a
                  very interesting discourse; but, in another direction from this same window, there
                  are great fields, and farther on, woods and hills—between which and my home, there
                  are two points in the landscape whereon my eyes very often rest, and many are the
                  recollections, bitter and sweet, they awaken. One is a village school-house—the
                  other a thickly-populated grave-yard.
               Over these hills, and through the woods, and by the sandy shores of our beautiful
                  lake, I was once a frequent wanderer; and with me then invariably in all those
                  rovings, was a child of somewhere near my own age, to whom, good reader, you may
                  now consider yourself introduced.
               Looking over one's past is not an over-pleasant business at any time. There are
                  very many reasons why people, for the most part, dread the rolling up of that
                  curtain within which lies buried much of destroyed confidence, and love that died
                  of fearful wounds; but I am willing to trespass on my own feelings that you may
                  know something of Lily Reeve.
               People said she was a genius. They said rightly—she was. And, to complete the
                  interest attachable to her therefor, Lily was poor—very poor—and had
                  been all the days of her life.
               When the Reeve family moved to C—, they had no acquaintance or relative in our
                  village; and their circumstances were not such as would attract any notice towards
                  them. Had it not been for Lily, they would probably have remained long enough in
                  our midst unknown and uncared for. The mother was a middle-aged woman—a widow: of
                  the children I knew not much, save that, with much appropriateness, their name
                  might have been "legion." Lily was the eldest child, not beautiful, and far from
                  interesting, personally.
               Why her parents had bestowed on her so decided a name as Lily, was always a
                  mystery,—for she was very far from resembling, even in the slightest degree, that
                  graceful flower. Neither was she a brunette, but of complexion rather dark, hair
                     very black, and always curled, which gave her a decidedly Mrs.
                  Heman-ish look at times. Her features were irregular—oh, certainly, she was
                     far from beautiful,—and yet there was much sweetness of expression
                  in the mouth, and much of vigor and determination perceivable in her large, dark
                  eyes.
               It was a good many years ago, but I remember distinctly the first time I ever saw
                  Lily. With a number of juveniles, I was returning from a long walk—all our
                  foot-jaunts were long in those days—when, on passing by an old-fashioned
                  frame-house, brown with age, and poor and disconsolate in its outward appearance,
                  one of the group said, "Let's go into that house; a girl lives there who
                  paints."
               And we went in. One of the more confident of our number said to the woman who
                  received us, "Will you show us some of the pictures your daughter has
                  painted?"
               With a smile of satisfaction, as though she were pleased that even we children
                  should have heard of her Genius, the woman bade us sit down; and then she brought
                  from an old chest a handful of papers, and spread them on the table before us.  Some of these were pictures of warriors
                  on their steeds, others were landscapes, and some heads. There was one which more
                  than all the rest attracted my attention and curiosity, the likeness of a sleeping
                  child. We asked if this were one of her children, or only a fancy sketch?
               "That was her little brother who died," replied the woman with a sigh. "Lily drew
                  it when he was dead." There was something so sad in the mother's voice as she said
                  this, that it checked our gay spirits, and tended to subdue our loud expressions
                  of admiration. While we yet stood turning over the papers, and gazing in wonder on
                  the work of a girl no older than the youngest of us, the subject of our thoughts
                  came into the room.
               When she perceived our object there, she came up to the table, and putting her arm
                  around me as though sure she was among friends, she asked if we liked her
                  drawings. I remember well the thrill which passed over me at this simple movement,
                  for I had begun to regard the girl as something quite extraordinary, and almost
                  more than human. From that day I date a friendship I am proud to have formed—one
                  which, while it lasted, delighted me more than any similar tie I have ever
                  known.
               It was easy to see that the heart of the mother in those days was full of
                  hope—that the mind of the daughter teemed with ambitious desires—and a
                  determination, apparently invincible, to accomplish great things. About that time,
                  there were many people who turned prophets, and looking into the future—they saw
                  another name added to America's illustrious daughters of song—the name of Lily
                  Reeve. Do you think their prophecy has proved true?
               In the old school-house, (which, I heartily regret to say, has been of late
                  abandoned, and its former inmates have taken possession of a more stately edifice
                  up-town,) in that little old brick building, we, in the years long,
                  long gone by, were wont to assemble—and Lily joined us there. And although on the
                  humdrum route of learning we were quite in the advance, she soon very
                  far outstripped us, and moved on with most rapid strides through all the first
                  branches of education. It was impossible possible for us dullards to see her
                  strange advancement, and not feel a little curious of her ability, notwithstanding
                  we liked Lily so well. In one short year, she had acquired nearly all the
                  instruction it was possible for our teacher to impart; and, as may be supposed, he
                  watched her progress with considerable anxiety. But the man's honor, as an
                  instructor, was not destined to be sacrificed to the young girl's genius.
               One afternoon, when school was dismissed, Lily said to me, "You and I will go home
                  by the other street. I have something to tell you, and that way will be longer.
                  Besides, I want to be away from these rough boys and girls."
               So we crossed the road, and entered a path which led us by a long way home. When
                  we had reached the bridge which crossed a deep, rapidly-running brook, we sat down
                  on the bench placed in the shade of an old tree, which, from time immemorial, has
                  stood there with the most of its tangled roots buried in the water; then Lily
                  spoke again, for the first time since we went out from the school-house.
               "Do you know they are going to send me to the other school—they think I can learn
                  more there, and have teachers in the higher branches, and in the languages. Oh,
                  dear!"
               "But why that 'oh dear!' Lily? I only wish I could go there too; but I am such an
                  ignoramus, and you know everything!"
               "Not quite everything. I should be glad to go, and there are a great
                  many reasons why. I have the greatest desire to learn, and I'm sure if I have a
                  little more education, I can make my way easily through the world; but—but—in
                  short, they are rich people who are going to send me, and they will expect
                  miracles from me, you may depend on it—I know. Because I am poor, and can write
                  pretty well, and sketch likenesses, and paint, they have taken an interest in me;
                  but, I tell you beforehand, and you will see before long I am right, that I shall
                  have to work like a slave to keep up with their expectations. Isn't it enough to
                  make anybody say 'oh, dear?'"
               "No; I don't think so. You can't help coming up to their
                  expectations—and they have such nice teachers in that other school—and no great
                  rude boys go there."
               
               "That makes no difference at all. One can learn in one place as well as another.
                  If it were not that mother felt so glad when the ladies made her the offer to send
                  me there, I'd never go. You don't know anything about what it means to be
                  dependent: you can't think what a heavy load seems laid on me, ever since so many
                  of these folks have begun to talk about me, and 'take an interest,' as they call
                  it. I really begin to doubt my own powers. It seems to me that my mind ought
                     not to be forced like a plant in a hot-bed. I almost wish I never had
                  any particular gifts."
               "And you say this, Lily Reeve, when all the girls in town are envying you? Now
                  just be firm, for I'm sure, if you only make up your mind you
                     will do a thing, you can do it."
               "Do you believe it?" she asked, so suddenly and earnestly, that I was startled,
                  and began in some trepidation to bethink my words.
               "Certainly," I answered at last. "I heard our minister say the other day, that
                  your verses were excellent; and you know your pictures sold well at
                  the fair. How can you doubt yourself so?"
               "I don't know," said Lily, thoughtfully; "perhaps they are nearer right than I
                  dare think them—but—I cannot explain it to you. I am never satisfied with anything
                  I do. My verses always sound so rough in comparison with the melody in my brain;
                  and my pictures, when I begin them, my fingers almost fly—I think I will surpass
                  everything that has been done—and when they are finished, they always look so rude
                  and rough, that I am tempted often to burn them."
               "Never mind," said I, confidently, "you will see the day when all will be more
                  bright; and you know the teacher says 'practice makes perfect,' and he always
                  looks at you when he says it—you ought to have learned that by this time."
               "I'll learn it now from you," said Lily; "we'll go now to the woods. I want to get
                  some flowers to take to mother."
               Just beyond the woods to which we then bent our steps, there was a large field, in
                  the upper portion of which, early in the season, we always found multitudes of
                  purple flowers and white lilies. Our first business that night was to fill our
                  aprons with these treasures, then we went into the woods and sat down in a most
                  romantic place, and began to arrange our huge boquets. Lily made hers into little
                  bunches for each of her family, while I twined mine into a wreath and laid it on
                  her head. But soon the increasing shade in the woods warned us that it was time to
                  be returning home.
               The thought of the obligation she was about incurring, evidently still troubled my
                  companion's mind, for she spoke but little, and then her words were desponding,
                  and even the bright flowers with which her hands were filled, failed to attract
                  her attention, or to awaken the delight they did usually.
               We were about crossing the stile that was placed at the entrance of the wood, when
                  Lily suddenly flung the beautiful green moss she had gathered in a damp place,
                  with violence from the bosom of her dress, where she had laid it. And when I
                  looked with amazement at the excited girl, she exclaimed, "Look there! I had a
                  snake in my bosom!" Truly enough, there was a tiny, striped, infant snake,
                  creeping out leisurely from the bunch of moss she had flung upon the ground. A
                  thought darted through my mind—I grasped her arm and said,
               "You shall hear the moral of this before you go a step farther, Lily Reeve. I'm no
                  genius, but I'll teach you a plain lesson: you have thrown the snake away from
                  you; don't—don't ever take it back again. Don't doubt those who mean
                  to do you a kindness; only just do what nature intended you should, and all who
                  know you will be satisfied! When you come to be very famous, the people who help
                  you now, will think you did them a favor in letting them aid you. Mother says,
                  perseverance will work wonders—you can prove it."
               When I had finished my oration, I stood somewhat astonished at my own audacity;
                  but after a moment's silence Lily said,
               "Thank you, thank you—for you have learned me two lessons; I'll not forget them.
                  No, I will never take the serpent back—depend on that."
               A few days after this, Lily was established at the larger school, dwelling with
                  other boarders in the family of the principal cipal, the wonder of all the scholars, and the pet
                  pupil with the teachers.
               The hopeful expectations of the dear girl's family were kept up by her progress,
                  and by her own increasing courage and cheerfulness. And in reality the expectation
                  they cherished of her being soon able to support them all by dint of her genius
                  seemed no unfounded one. Her work became daily more worthy and more promising now
                  that she possessed these superior advantages; fortune seemed really determined to
                  work good things for the rich people's protégé.
               Lily was not yet seventeen, but her poems had many of them attracted much
                  attention. Injudicious praises were lavished upon her; by their attentions and
                  flattery, the proud, and the rich, and the learned, seemed to have conspired to
                  spoil a girl, a school-girl poor "from her youth up." They did not take it into
                  consideration that it was quite possible for them to raise her hopes and
                  self-appreciation too high—they did not give heed to the fact that it might
                  require years of struggling and disappointment for her to produce anything worthy
                  the reward and honor they would fain believe were rightfully hers even then.
               But soon enough they had cause to regret the course they adopted. 
                     "A change came o'er the spirit of her dream."
                   Self-confidence rapidly usurped the place of a befitting humility, which had
                  once characterized her. Instead of comparing herself with the great masters of
                  song and painting, Lily seemed to think that in outstripping all her schoolmates,
                  and in being considered a prodigy among teachers, she was rapidly filling the
                  measure of her greatness; and the laudations which good-will prompted others to
                  speak, instead of being valued at their worth, came at last to be considered as
                  quite true and well-deserved.
               It is said that more strength of mind is requisite to bear composedly a sudden
                     favorable turn of fortune, than is necessary calmly to endure
                  reverses. Having never had occasion to test the truth of the proposition, I of
                  course have only a right to supposepose there is somewhat of reason
                  in it. At all events, that is a very easy way by which to account for Lily's
                  derelictions.
               It was the wish of her "patrons," as well as of the kind lady to whose care she
                  was chiefly entrusted, that Lily should finish the course of studies apportioned
                  to each scholar previous to graduating. But there was a growing willfulness, an
                  increasing confidence in her own attainments, that tempted her to set at nought
                  all these desires. Her impulsive nature longed to be free from all restraint; she
                  would fain throw aside all bondage, together with the loathed idea of dependence,
                  and labor for herself in the way she was best fitted to labor. She wished to begin
                     at once to reap the reward of years of study (a natural wish, but
                  how wild a one, too many might testify!) and thus to alleviate the wants of her
                  home.
               So, despite all the remonstrances and pleadings of those who now began to see
                  their mistake in their dealings with the young girl, Lily left the school, and
                  returned to her own home.
               I shall never forget her as she was at that time. The passions, hopes, desires,
                  and resolution of mature years, seemed to have even then a full development in
                  her. In feeling she had grown too old, in will too decisive, to submit patiently
                  to the judgments of other minds. But soon enough was the lesson forced upon her
                  that poetic efforts are rarely changed at once for food, and fuel,
                  and raiment.
               "I have sent a poem of some length to—," she said to me one day, naming a
                  distinguished writer and editor, "and you know I am superstitious—if he accepts it
                  and will pay me for it, I shall take it as a good omen for my future; but if he
                  does not—" she hesitated.
               "Well, if he does not, Lily?"
               "Then those horrid doubts will come back with renewed force! Oh, they tormented me
                  so once!"
               When I saw my friend again there was no need to ask what her reception at the
                  editor's table had been. It was a freezing cold winter night, and feeling somewhat
                  disconsolate on my own account, as well as rather curious in regard to Lily's
                  progress, I sought her in her own home.
               I found her there, seated at the centre-table, yes, it was such,  for it occupied the central portion of the
                  apartment, but it was not of polished mahogany or marble-surfaced, gentle reader,
                  but a miserable, old, broken affair, that had seen its best days long before it
                  came into the possession of its present owners. Scattered about the room were the
                  numerous boys and girls of the family—there was little temptation even for them
                  abroad that night, it was so cold and stormy.
               The room in which they lived was the upper story of a small building, the first
                  floor of which, was occupied as a mechanic's shop; it was partitioned by a curtain
                  of cloth, which was all the separation between the sleeping apartments, and the
                  place where they cooked, and ate, and lived.
               There was a deep silence in the room when I entered. Lily was occupied with her
                  drawing, lighted by two tapers burning in a cup half-filled with oil. There was
                  none of that cheerful hope beaming in her fine eyes that usually filled them when
                  she welcomed me; and all the faces in the room looked doleful enough; some new
                  rebuff they had certainly met.
               "I am drawing this for you," she said when I sat down beside her, and looked at
                  her work. "It is for a parting gift."
               "Parting!" I exclaimed. "What are you going to do now? Were you successful in your
                  letter to Mr.—?"
               "Read and see," she said, producing a letter.
               And I read as follows:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MISS REEVE.—Dear Madam, Your favor was many days since received, and
                              now, at my first leisure, I hasten to reply. I regret that an answer,
                              similar to that given many applicants during every week, must be
                              returned you. And I regret this the more, because your poetry shows
                              talent: but—you need much practice; and, permit me to say, a writer
                              must usually have acquired some reputation before he can
                              receive any 'golden rewards.' If you are necessitated to labor, I
                              would advise you that there are many ways less vexatious, and more
                              certain as to their issue, in which you might successfully employ
                              yourself.
                           "I retain the MS. subject to your orders.
                           
                              "Respectfully, &c.,
                              "— —."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               It was with difficulty that I could repress my tears, as I looked around that
                  cheerless room, and on the young girl whose disappointment I knew must be so keen.
                  But calmly and apparently undisturbed, she continued her drawing.
               "What will you do now, Lily?" I asked, anxious to at least break the embarrassing
                  silence.
               "We are going West next week."
               "West? where—how?"
               "To Indiana. I have borrowed the money; we cannot stay here and starve. If I
                  cannot get a living by writing, there are many other ways, and I will
                  at least try them."
               The picture she was drawing—I have it yet—was an imaginative, and a striking one.
                  It was a moonlight scene. Beside the water's edge, among wild rocks, a girl was
                  standing alone; the figure was a perfect likeness of herself. The
                     expression of the sketch was touching.
               "She is looking for peace there," said Lily, in explanation. "She has sought it so
                  often, but has not found it—and she never will."
               "Does she seek it in the right way, Lily?"
               "I don't know. Everything seems changed to me of late. I am bewildered, it seems
                  to me as though I had lost myself. Since that letter came, I doubt my powers more
                  than ever. To think of one in my situation having to practice before
                  I can work successfully! There is little time to practice, I think, when eight
                  human beings are wondering where their next meal is to come from—when their
                  wood-yard is in such a state of emptiness and depression as ours is!"
               The mother sighed heavily as Lily said this, but did not speak.
               "You certainly can do something here," I cried. Don't go and bury
                  yourself in the backwoods. I'm sure you can be a teacher in our school here, if
                  you will only ask. It's perfectly wild in you to think of going this winter!
                  Travelling, you know, at this time of the year is a very costly business, dear
                  Lily, besides being so cheerless!"
               "There is no use in talking about it. I should love to live here, for my own part,
                  all my life, but I have engaged a school  in the town we are going to, and they wish it to be opened early in the spring.
                  There's no help for it, we must go."
               And they went.
               From that day, until within a few months, I heard nothing in regard to the Reeve
                  family. Lily had promised to tell us of her experience in the West, of her success
                  in this new attempt at securing a livelihood; but her promise was unfulfilled, and
                  we could but fear lest despondence had utterly crushed all the aspirations of her
                  genius—that if she yet lived, poverty and hopelessness had come to be her only
                  portion.
               Still, though her name had never reached us through the medium talents like hers
                  choose for their utterance—the press—I had always a lingering hope and belief that
                  Lily had, under some assumed name, made herself famous. Knowing so well her
                  ability, the more I thought of this, the clearer became my conviction that it was
                  so. At last, thinking of her continually in my waking hours, and dreaming of her
                  night after night, it became absolutely necessary that I should write to her once
                  more—a thing I had not done in many years—in order to discover if she were
                  actually dead or alive, famous, or unknown to the world. It was with much anxiety,
                  as all my lady-readers will believe, that I awaited her reply, for an answer, I
                  felt convinced, I should receive. It came at last,—and as people such as she are
                  regarded by the world as a species of public property, that is, as far as their
                  thoughts, words, and deeds, are concerned, I have few scruples in laying her
                  epistle open for public inspection, knowing that some good must come of the
                  trespass!
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I have but just received your letter, dear friend of by-gone days,
                              and believe me, the thought that you remember me, and with interest
                              still, has given me no little satisfaction. I am inclined to laugh,
                              and weep, and wonder, when I think of myself as I was in the days long
                              ago, when we lived among you so very poor and dependent; but there is
                              a feeling of gratitude in my heart, stronger than every other emotion,
                              now excited in my breast by the freshened remembrance of my old
                              home.
                           "You ask me what I have been doing, and wish to know under what name I
                              have 'immortalized' myself. You will not believe that I left behind me
                              all my ambitious desires when we made our abode here in the West! Have
                              you ever chanced to hear of—? It is the name I adopted when I first
                              appeared before the reading world. Perhaps you may have observed
                              it—perhaps have read verses accompanying it—but I am confident you
                              never recognised in those merry strains, the voice and heart-tune of
                              your once poverty-stricken, and desponding friend."
                           [The reader may imagine my astonishment on reading these words, for my
                              correspondent, Lily, was none other than a most beloved and popular
                              writer.]
                           "I feel conversational, to-day; besides, I know it is but just to
                              assure those who were so generous in my days of adversity, that their
                              money and sympathy were not altogether thrown away. I was very
                                 far from being forgetful of those who, in my earlier years,
                              rendered me such valuable and efficient aid; but I thought it better,
                              even at the risk of being considered ungrateful, to remain unknown to
                              them and to you, until I should be able to reflect some little credit
                              upon them. I shall soon publish a book which is dedicated to those
                              friends of former years; through that I hope to relieve myself of any
                              charge of forgetfulness or coldness, that they may have justly brought
                              against me.
                           "It is only ten years since we first made our home in the Western
                              world: but I have grown gray in feeling, since then, and looking back
                              into my childhood, the road to it seems one of interminable length.
                              Decidedly as our fortunes have brightened, we have had our struggles
                              and heart-sorrows here, also; we have had much of sickness, too, which
                              seems to await almost every settler in the West: but there is so much
                              good for which we should be thankful, that it seems almost a sin even
                              to revert to our first trials and vexations. My mother, thank heaven!
                              now that she is old, may rest; her latter years are not harassed with
                              the thought and the care of an impoverished, dependent family; my
                              brothers are in a way, all of them, to support themselves, and my
                              young sisters are being educated in such a manner, that they will
                              never have to rely on others for their support port. And for all these blessings, I
                              pray we may ever be thankful.
                           "When we first came to this place, all things were decidedly
                                 new. The, inhabitants, men, women and children, truly
                              seemed to have reflected in their own natures, the marvelous
                                 greenness and freshness of the close-surrounding
                              forests; the village was poor, like all new places, and not one
                              quarter its present size. Indeed, we call it a city now.
                           "But you can never imagine what a house of refuge it was to us poor
                              people! I was glad from my heart that there were none rich, none
                              powerful here—that all was one grand level, above which wisdom and
                              strength of mind, and superior goodness, alone might rise. I was glad,
                              I say, for despise it as you may, I am bold to acknowledge there was
                              something awfully repelling to me in the thought of looking
                                 up to people, because they happened to be rich, or
                              occupied by right of birth, a high station. Even the notice taken of
                              me in my young days, was galling to me—you knew that—it savored too
                              much of a condescension, which, child as I was, I despised and hated.
                              There were many children here when my school was first opened—for many
                              years it was the only school—how well it has been
                              patronized, I need not say; but I prospered and was contented.
                           "Oh, it was such a joy to look on our own comfortable
                              home; to know what a cheerful fire and plenty of food meant in one's
                              own house! There is something so exhilarating, dear friend, in the
                              thought of independence, of reliance on one's own
                              exertions! For a whole year after our removal here, I altogether
                              abandoned my pencil and my pen; I thought I would never labor with
                              them again. But I was mistaken in myself, as I had been many times
                              before. I knew not the wants and necessities of my own nature.
                           "The second winter, I had continually a restless yearning for higher
                              and nobler pursuits than the mere business of schoolteaching. That
                              supplied our human wants and necessities admirably, it is true, but
                              there were longings of my mind that it became as necessary for me to
                              supply. And so, once more in the long winter evenings, I resumed my
                              pencils and my pen, and I worked with them. It is out of
                              my power to express to you the intense satisfaction that followed
                              these labors; it seemed as though I had found suddenly an Aladdin's
                              lamp, and that it dispelled the darkness which had encircled a once
                              cherished hope, and showed me a great end that I could accomplish! I
                              did not immediately force my new productions on the editors, but
                              remembering well that one salutary lesson received long ago, I strove
                              hard to perfect myself. It would be wearisome for you to listen to the
                              narration of my progress till I had gradually won the attention of the
                              noble people of the West; of how kindly and charitably they hailed my
                              writings—of how encouraging were the letters, which, from many
                              sources, unexpected and unsought, I received; in those days, I felt as
                              though I were, indeed, working out my destiny. Words crowded to my
                              lips for utterance, thoughts pleaded in my brain to be heard; I longed
                              to speak encouragement and strength to others, such as I knew well
                              from my own experience, full many an overburdened soul needed. I spoke
                              them, and I know they found acceptance and regard in many
                              a heart.
                           "You will ask if I was then wholly satisfied; if notoriety pleased me;
                              if I cared for no other and humbler good when I had attained that; if,
                              in short, I looked not for other love than that given me by my own
                              kin? In all calmness and confidence, now, I can answer, yes. There
                                 were hopes unsatisfied, desires unfulfilled.
                              Admiration was not all I craved—commendation not all I
                              coveted. But years passed on, and with them the time when I could most
                              sincerely have rejoiced in loving, and in being loved. The wild dream
                              that haunted my mind, of a perfect happiness on earth, of another kind
                              of affection that I had yet received or given, went by. Coldness, and
                              I am almost constrained to think at times, heartlessness, have usurped
                              the place once occupied by the winged god; the altar which needed but
                              a word to be enkindled and wrapped in flame, is torn away—a calm,
                              immovable spirit occupies its place, I am neither lonely nor unhappy,
                              only I feel strangely changed—there may be no cloud hovering over me,
                              there is certainly no sunshine: passionless, and without the least
                              craving for human love, my years glide on. I am satisfied with having
                              made the comfort of those for whom I have labored, and yet,  true to woman's belief—to
                                 mine! I am well aware that I have missed life's
                              highest good; I have passed by, in my eager search for a something
                              that has not satisfied, that bright treasure which the poorest of
                              earth's children, equally with the most exalted, have extended to them
                              by the hand of our beneficent Father.
                           "Well! am I not strangely confiding with one whom, for ten years, I
                              have not known by thought, or word, or deed? But we were children
                              together, and I am remembering, to-day, how you, more
                              than all I left behind me, once knew the thoughts and the hopes I
                              cherished. Doubtless, since we have come to be women, both of us have
                              much changed, but at this hour, I will believe you sympathise with me,
                              as in the days of old.
                           "Not long ago, there came to me the word of one, a man gifted with
                              noble intellectual faculties, and rich in heart-wealth: he has wished
                              me to be his wife; but knowing what a very pauper I am in all that is
                              best calculated to make his a happy home—you will understand I am not
                              speaking of fortune or of beauty now—I have declined his
                              suit. I cannot regard him as I could have a few, but a
                              few short years ago. I do not love him as my imagination tells me
                              woman can and should love. For a moment,
                              when I read his words, my heart beat wildly—I was happy, but that
                              passed, how quickly! I distrust myself—I do not wish now that any one
                              should intrust to me a charge of happiness through life; it would be
                              madness, no less than foul wrong, indeed, in me to wed
                              with one whose affections I could make such a paltry return. I shall
                              never marry.
                           "And, now, believing that I have outwearied you, and feeling that you
                              will gladly let the remainder of your interrogatories,
                              to-day, pass unanswered, I will conclude, with the earnest hope that
                                 you may never be tempted to barter the sacred
                              affections of your heart, for any more alluring, but less, oh, believe
                              me, far less satisfying prize. In the name of our
                              childhood,
                           
                              "Always yours,
                              "LILY REEVE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Dear reader, it may be proper to state, that in spite of this emphatic disclaimer
                  on her part, a western paper I have recently received, contains a notice of the
                  marriage of the distinguished poetess, Lily Reeve, with the Hon.—. Had it not been
                  for this one other proof of what is called the fickleness of woman's nature, you
                  perceive I should have been enabled to end my story without the record of a
                  wedding; but you will bear in mind that this repetition of the almost invariable
                  climax, is not my fault!
            
            
               
               CALLORE.
               A LADY sat and read:
               "Whatever judgment after-thought may pass on my confession, I know that when you
                  read these pages your heart will be with me, and that it will not, in any moment
                  of perusal, really and harshly condemn. If it does, throw the letter at once
                  aside, and give all thought of me to the winds: for if I cannot stand reproachless
                  before the tribunal of your affections, I could wish to be nothing to
                  you henceforth.
               "You call me to account—you ask an explanation of my past—for you have to decide
                  between me and my accusers, those accusers being your nearest friends: you do
                  right in asking this much, and I will answer as plainly—without attempting the
                  palliation of any circumstance of my life that it may be necessary for you to
                  know.
               "If you were with me to-night, Marien, you would not wonder that I set about this
                  sad work with a calmness that might prove to another than you an entire ignorance,
                  on my part, of the issues that will attend it, or result from it. The 
                     untterable
                     unutterable
                   beauty of the heaven and earth, as they are glorified now in the
                  clearest and most solemn moonlight, have brought a Thought to me, and a Spirit is
                  near—and I do not tremble when I know that she sees that thought.
               "Fifteen years ago I loved as the young love, passionately, yet not ignorantly.
                  Callore was but a child when she was sent to my father to be educated by him. I
                  have never since seen a creature so beautiful as she: young as she was, there was
                  an angelic grace in all she said or did, that won sincerest admiration and
                  affection from those with whom she lived. Knowing, as I did, that this grace was
                  the human utterance of her spirit-beauty, seeing in her, as I did, the gentlest
                  and loveliest of all God's creation, is it a wonder that I learned in our
                  intercourse, boy though I was, to almost adore her? And it was no childish
                  passion—but a genuine love, strong and enduring, the richest offering of my heart
                  for her. I told Callore of this before she went away from us. I was just entering
                  on the study of my profession then, and a consciousness, prophetic, of ultimate
                  independence, gave strength and force to my words—but such weight they did not
                  need. When I left my happiness to the decision of that young girl, I knew I was
                  not deferring to the fancy of a child—her answer would be that of a true woman.
                  Callore's heart had awakened—it was all as I hoped—it was her first love—she had
                  no wish to conceal it—it was my first, but for you, Marien, my only
                  love—I am proud to declare it!
               "During the twelvemonth that followed, I visited my betrothed but once. Her home
                  was at a long distance from the village where I lived; the journey thitherward was
                  neither dangerous nor tedious, but one that with my small means could not often be
                  afforded. I found Callore's parents in miserable circumstances—in the past months
                  her father had met with repeated losses—his business was closed—he was beggared.
                  They welcomed me with hearty joy to their fire-side—they promised that she should
                  be mine as soon as I was prepared to provide for our support. The blessed
                  impressions of that visit lasted me long; in after days its very remembrance
                  caused me anguish almost insupportable.
               "When I set out on my homeward journey, the grief of parting was annulled by the
                  ambitious fancies that filled my brain—by the brave and new determinations I took
                  with me from her presence. Some verses of mine which had been recently printed,
                  were so fortunate as to meet with attention, they elicited the approbation of
                  critics. The unhoped-for success had encouraged me to continue these efforts quite
                  frequently, and a stray thought of fame and fortune now and then dazzled my brain.
                  When I parted with Callore, I resolved to make more decided  efforts in this way—if they proved successful I
                  would then use my pen as a means of support—would abandon the design of living by
                  my distasteful profession. My friend herself had encouraged the plan. Unaware of
                  my authorship, she had read my verses, had spoken to me of them, and repeated
                  sentences of them with an enthusiastic admiration that transported me with joy. It
                  was owing chiefly to her instant and proud appreciation that I began first to
                  think really seriously of authorship.
               "In a few months—to me they went winged with light and promise—I had published a
                  volume of my poems. I was never in my life so happy as when I sent a copy of that
                  work, in manuscript, to her. I thought how she would read the pages—how she would
                  linger fondly over those songs which were addressed to her, by words which had a
                  latent meaning, that would meet her eye alone; how her tears would fall as she
                  closed my work and thought of what a true dedication it was to her! how she would
                  live, one day at least, in the pages, and in that day have no thought
                  but of me!
               "While I listened to the congratulation of others, I impatiently waited for her
                  acknowledgment: the reward for which I most longed was her praise—one sweet word
                  of approval from her lips was worth all else, more grateful than the encouraging
                  words of critics, than my mother's kiss, than my father's honestly expressed
                  satisfaction. You understand how natural this all was, Marien! You who know how
                  divine a thing is love—you who know how much more precious is the praise springing
                  from the warm, loving, and beloved heart, than that awarded by the clearest
                  intellect.
               "I had my reward—my impatient spirit was put at rest full soon. A letter came—but
                     she did not write it: her approbation was expressed, but in the
                  words of another. They had wronged and deceived me—they had married Callore!
                  Yes—to a man who could afford to re-establish her father's fallen fortunes, to
                  maintain her in splendor! The blow stunned me: by reason of its very heaviness, I
                  could not at first understand, or conceive, or realize it all. I
                  lived as one in a terrific dream, when some undefined horror takes possession of
                  the soul, from which he awakens with an involuntary 'thank God!' I was in a state
                  of frenzy, which, while it admitted the performance of all my usual duties, left
                  me bewildered only to myself. I had no need to question, to disbelieve: positive
                  knowledge left me nothing to hope for—all was before me, from the nothingness that
                  remained after bereavement, to the fame, the glittering, but worthless fame that
                  was within my grasping. That was a bereavement indeed, one of which I could not in
                  those days, nor ever, until now, speak to another. I could not bring myself to so
                  profane Callore, I could not endure that others should associate her name even
                  with unworthy thoughts. I knew that she was tried beyond me—that the
                  wrong inflicted on her was greater than on me.
               "Was not this a thought insupportable? that she had been
                  sacrificed—that she had been sold? It was too much.
               "The only prayer I offered in those days was that she might find consolation, that
                  she at least might be at peace—it was the only desire of my heart. As time passed
                  on and the pressure of the blow was removed, I began to slowly recover from its
                  stunning power—then my sole wish was to look on Callore once more, and learn so
                  from her own lips, what I felt she alone could tell. I had now abandoned my
                  profession: the pride of intellect took full possession of me; for poverty or for
                  riches I cared not at all, I was only determined on becoming a master-mind of the
                  age. Even before aware of my irreparable loss, ambition had begun to greatly
                  strengthen within me—that, as well as love, became a motive and an incentive. The
                  one was a vanity, the other a delusion: what a madman did the two impulses make of
                  me when I knew that Callore was lost to me!
               "Three years passed away—then I went to the capital. The determination I had once
                  made of immediately seeking Callore had never been acted on: I had not even once
                  heard of her since that announcement of her marriage was received. But my other
                  resolve was in the meantime carried out. I had established myself among the men of
                  letters.
               "It was with much pride that I accepted an invitation extended me to lecture in
                  the city where the mighty men of the nation were gathered, and I resolved, before
                  I went to—, that from the position I should there occupy, I would speak to  those helmsmen truths which were not
                  often uttered in their hearing. My plan was thwarted, the very day after my
                  arrival in the city I was confined to my room, to my bed, sick and delirious. From
                  that long and dangerous illness I recovered at last, feeble in strength, and
                  doubly wretched; my sickness had been one continued and distressful vision—the
                  sorrows of all the past had fallen upon me anew—I lived them over, I bore them
                  afresh—they were more grievous than at the first, they had lost the novelty, had
                  settled into a dreary consciousness of reality.
               "I intended to go quietly from the city as soon as my strength was sufficiently
                  recovered, having entirely given up the idea of lecturing. The day previous to
                  that which I had fixed upon for my departure, a friend, who had devoted himself to
                  me during the weeks of my sickness, was with me, persuading me to appear that
                  evening as his guest—the close of the session was drawing near, and he had made
                  preparations in his beautiful home for the great ball of the season; I pleaded
                  every imaginable reason for declining, but he would not admit one, and so I was
                  compelled to comply.
               "I was there—and it almost seemed as though that night had been ordained as a
                  triumph-night to me. I say it without vanity, without a wish to impress you, but
                  merely as a simple fact: the unavoidable breaking of my public engagement, my
                  severe sickness, and narrow escape from death, with prior reasons, made me an
                  object of the peculiar and most kind attentions of lovely women and noble men. It
                  was after midnight, and I was about retiring, at a time when the great proportion
                  of the guests were engaged in the dance: just then my host approached me,
                  accompanied by a lady and gentleman, who had requested an introduction. . . . . .
                  Shall I go on! That lady was Callore, my Callore! and the old man,
                  was it not enough to make one weep, that old man, older far than her own father,
                  was her husband! I could not control my amazement when I gazed upon her face, as
                  the name was announced—my eyes were riveted on hers when I clasped her hands—my
                  voice—it was in her heart when I spoke. We met, but for this recognition, as
                  strangers—not a word that betrayed our communion of the past was spoken as we
                  conversed together, but there was a language that had meaning which none but us
                  could know. Alas! that it was not a dead language to us. Callore looked much older
                  than she really was, but beside him, how youthful! and how marvellously beautiful
                  she was! Her sorrow had chosen for itself an expression which none in the wide
                  world save myself could understand—if she had wept much, her eyes had not dimmed
                  with the tears; they were full of an expression I had never seen in them
                  before—but we had never met as now, before—it told me, and that paleness of her
                  cheek told me, as her eyes fixed on me, on him, and on the gems that
                  adorned her person, on the magnificent robe she wore, the story of her bondage, of
                  her slavery, and in the bitterness of my spirit I could have cursed them who had
                  so wronged her and me!
               "Callore had gone much into the world since her marriage-day; I could read that in
                  her manner, in the mingling of exquisite grace and womanly dignity, in her entire
                  self-possession during that oasis-moment of our interview. The man, her husband,
                  her owner, once expressed a few words relating to the poet before
                  him, meant for compliment—she never strove to echo their sentiment, but, as while
                  he spoke my eyes sought hers, I saw her ineffectual efforts to appear calm and
                  indifferent—she mastered her emotion in a moment, and then was passing away with a
                  gentle inclination of the head at parting. It was all.
               "I stood spell-bound, watching her as she went—and I felt well assured that as
                  much of anguish had pierced her heart in that interview as was dwelling then in
                  mine. The miserable past was our present again, and the future, shorn of all
                  glory-hues, was as dark, as hopeless, as our blighted youth had been. I did not
                  after this venture to write to Callore—I sent no message—that undefined thought
                  which was not really hope, but merely expectation, that thought which had kept me
                  free from any engagement of a similar nature with other women—that thought which I
                  knew had soothed her while she wore her heavy, gilded chain, was dead to each of
                  us. I say us, for I felt and knew it even then, that as it had been
                  with me, so was it with her. We had been in our early youth as twins with one
                  heart,  we could read each other
                  through, even in a moment of casual meeting—though we might be enigmas to the
                  world, it was not possible that we should be such to each other. Though not a word
                  of our past had been spoken in that interview, it was all intelligible for both of
                  us—our years of separation were unsealed with the first look interchanged.
               "We did not, after this, meet again. I went immediately from the city to my own
                  home; I could not risk the trial of seeing her even once more. I felt that would
                  be a trial more than I could bear. With somewhat of courage, after this, I resumed
                  my labors; my ambition had received a new spur—my work should prove a consolation
                  to her as well as to me—I would immortalize our hopeless love. In this labor I was
                  interrupted; I received a letter, the first and the last, from Rufus Calcraft's
                  wife. I enclose it. Marien, if you would have yet other proofs that
                     you are now all in all to me—how shall I present it?
                     Could I offer proof more conclusive than in laying before you the
                  secret which a broken heart whispered to me?
               "'Were it not that sentence of speedy death is passed upon me, I would not dare to
                  write you; I would not do so even in this extremity, could I otherwise depart in
                     peace—in peace, Walter! What a sound have those words for me—do I
                  err in saying for us? They are like the gush of living waters, and
                  the shade of palm-trees in a desert. That the best happiness of our life has been
                  wrecked, that we have lived for years as once we had not believed we could live
                  for a day, is it not idle in me, a dying woman, to declare it? That night when we
                  met at last, when he spoke the flattery which must have been hateful
                  to you, I closed my lips—I would have flung myself abjectly before
                  you, but that I had suffered as you had, but that I had been wronged as you. I
                  could not bring myself to say what all the world had said, and so I was silent
                  when my heart was fullest; by right I should have stood beside you, your
                     own; and while the world uttered its praises, it would then have been
                  mine to whisper of love. Remember—(I should not bid you remember, you, who I know
                  have never forgotten)—think of the days when we were one; think what it must have
                  cost me to have fettered my lips that night; think how I must have schooled myself
                  to have been able to go, and that calmly, from you, knowing that it was forever,
                  Walter!
               "'There is one book that I have studied more devoutly in the past than even that
                  priceless volume which has bidden me 'be patient, for the coming of the Lord
                  draweth nigh;' that book of your inditing, which reached me on my marriage-day! I
                  laid it in my bosom, I wore it there while my voice was joining in the marriage
                  service, it was there till it had found, every word, a place in my memory—it has
                  been my only treasure, Walter.
               "'I have been ill since that night when we met; they have told me to-day that I
                  shall not recover, that I have not long to live, and therefore I write, for before
                  I go, I would leave with you a memorial, a word that shall prove to you it was
                     not the love of riches—it was not the fear of
                  poverty—it was not the pride of wealth—it was not want
                  of the fondest devotion for you that bound me to another. I scarcely know how all
                  was brought about, I only know that I listened to the desperate prayer of my
                  father, and married. I am thankful in this hour that I never reproached him for
                  the advantage that was taken of paternal authority; oh! my beloved, I needed not
                  to reproach one, who, after that tie was consummated until he died, never forgave
                  himself. I work no injustice—I do no wrong to my husband in writing thus to you.
                  He and I have lived in entire peace together—have been faithful and forbearing
                  toward each other. I believe he will sincerely mourn my loss. But I am not
                     his in this hour, Walter; my duties with him are ended; it is in
                  justice to myself, as well as to you, that I write a farewell to you. Death may
                  call me away this night; I do not shrink from the thought that he may find me
                  speaking thus to you. I am conscious that the spirits of the just are round about
                  me; that the eye of Him who has upheld me in the past weary years in his great
                  mercy, is upon me, and I know it is no sin to write thus to you, and to say,
                  Heaven bless you—when they are the last words I can say to you—I, who should have
                  been your Callore.'
               "But one wish, one determination resulted from this letter, which I read with the
                  wildest grief; I must see Callore before  she dies; I must hear from her lips such words as she would have spoken to me
                  in her last hours, had she been mine. I must hear her voice once
                  more. And so I went to the town where Calcraft lived. Four days after the 16th,
                  the date of her letter, I stood in the hotel of—, at nightfall, asking my host of
                  Rufus Calcraft's lady. He told me that she was dead—that she died on the 17th, and
                  had been buried that very morning of my arrival!
               "Again that sudden, strange calmness, which had once before left my brain clear in
                  a moment of bitterest trial, came over me—it was chilling, like the breeze of
                  autumn. I was free to act and think, and bold to do. I ordered a supper, and
                  partook of it; I rested from my journey, and in an hour, the moon was just rising
                  then, I strolled away to the burial-ground. I had been there before, once, long
                  ago, when I made my first and only visit at her home. Callore went with me to the
                  grave-yard then, and both of us stood long—how well I remember that—before the
                  monument which Calcraft had just then placed at the grave of his wife; and while
                  we stood there, she told me the story of the departed woman's life. I
                  was going to Callore's home now; and how can I tell you of my thought as I went? I
                  believe if you had looked into my mind, you would have seen in it settled madness,
                  sober despair—but this lasted only while I walked slowly to the burial-place; when
                  I stood in the grave-yard, and looked upon her freshly-sodded grave that was close
                  beside the tomb of Rufus Calcraft's first wife—is it needful that I should tell
                  you how love and grief quickly mastered that calmness? But my tears at last were
                  checked, my sorrow silenced, my grief was awed before a resolute purpose, and I
                  turned away, determined to fulfil it. Late in the night I passed slowly through
                  the town again. There was the brightest moonlight, like this night's, which called
                  back the fresh memory of it. I went by the majestic house where the widower
                  lived—where Callore had lived, where he was sleeping in his decrepit old age,
                  while she, the young and beautiful, was banished away to a dark and silent house.
                  I was glad my Callore could have no more dreams. I went by the church where we had
                  prayed together long ago, when I, unknown known and poor, was permitted to regard
                  her as my future wife. The gate stood open, but I needed not to enter—I was going
                  to meet my bride at another altar! I passed on deliberately, but directly, till I
                  entered the grave-yard; in the central portion of this ground stood a weeping
                  willow, whose branches trailed upon the ground—in its shadow was Callore's grave.
                  I had brought with me some tools, and I never hesitated a moment after I reached
                  the place, but at once commenced using them—and I remember that I sang while at
                  work, a song which we had once sung together.
               "It must have been as much as two hours that I toiled there before I reached her
                  coffin; I worked with the strength and energy of a maniac, and when I had reached
                  the vault—I cannot tell the rest! I have no recollection of it; but this I know,
                  Callore was living! I had roused her from a slumber that had else been death; I
                  had given a home among the living to her whom the old man gave a grave!
               "She sat beside me in the shade of that willow, and I remember that I said, 'your
                  husband buried you, your marriage is annulled—it cannot be resumed—you are mine at
                  last, Callore!' and, as persuaded by a perfect and solemn conviction that I spoke
                  the truth, she whispered in reply, 'You have given me life—I give that life to
                  you; for I believe we have a right to unite with one another—it is a providence
                  that you came here.'
               "God is my witness, there was no passion in this annulling, this uniting decision;
                  though I knew that the coward heart would shrink from a union so proposed, I felt
                  there was no sin in it; because there was no precedent for such a procedure, was
                  it therefore a crime? When she, whose soul was the abode of purity
                  and holiness, could look upon me as she did then, could bless me in the name of
                  our Heavenly Father, and give me her hand in token of submission to my will, do
                  you think that she did it with a consciousness of wrong-doing? Do you believe that
                  I clasped her to my breast, blessing Him whose mercy had restored her to me, with
                  the least of that sense of sin and guilt that would have forbidden my asking His
                  grace to be with us on our future pilgrimage? You, you, I know, do
                  not believe it  —your heart is not so
                  contracted by mingling with the worldly; you are not so selfish, so cowardly, so
                  weak, as to believe it.
               "I remember that we went away before the morning came, and sought a distant
                  shelter—that afterwards I provided the way and the means for her escape; I
                  remember how we crossed the ocean, and in another land were lawfully
                  married.
               "A portion of this story is what you have heard before; it is what has expelled me
                  from your presence till I could speak to you of all.
               "Oh, Marien! I have yet another memory to unseal. I give it to you—it
                  is the last I have kept back from the world. You are now my world, and I love you,
                  or would not give it you.
               "I remember a day, the deepest shadow that lies on earth this night looks as full
                  of light, compared with the darkness of that time—a day when Callore was finally
                  laid breathless, speechless, cold, in a grave dark, and deep, and desolate, as
                  that from which I rescued her. Our wedded life was very brief, but it was
                  beautiful—a twelvemonth of joy that ended in overwhelming wo—for then she
                  departed.
               "I came back to my native land. I was greeted among those who loved and honored me
                  once with suspicion; no proof of what was laid to my charge existed; but my sudden
                  departure from my native land, and Callore's vacant grave, awakened suspicion. But
                  it was scarcely defined even in the minds of those who in consequence of it became
                  my bitter enemies. Calcraft was dead, he had cursed me with his dying breath, and
                  I, too, could have cursed the world which had condemned me unheard, if the spirit
                  of my guardian Callore had not been ever near me to save me from the sin.
               "I have revealed to you all the mystery, your gentleness has won it from me, when
                  I had thought no human being ever could unseal my past. And another reason has
                  brought me to sue for your love. I have seen in your features such an image of my
                  loved and lost—I have heard in your voice such an echo of her gentle tones—I have
                  read in your noble, your beautiful spirit, such a response to, nay, such a
                  re-living of the spirit of my Callore, that I am forced to live and love on, when
                  I had only thought to die, or to live and to hate my kind. My youth has passed
                  forever—my name is a theme for contumely; I have nothing but my love to offer you
                  who are in the glory of your youth, your beauty, and your innocence. As your own
                  guardian angel shall dictate, answer me."
               It was a night of tempest—a night of rain and thick darkness, that Marien Leonard
                  wrote her answer; how full was her heart that night of a sorrowing and despairing
                  love. As few women are ever bound was her heart-life in his keeping. His manner,
                  his words, his unhappy fate, that letter, even, had more and more attracted her
                  heart towards him, until she made at last to herself the acknowledgment that was
                  full of terror and dismay—she loved him! It was very strange, indeed, how this
                  should happen. There was apparently enough of the beautiful and the good about her
                  young and lovely life to attract and win Marien, how was it that the storm, the
                  darkness, should have charmed her instead?
               Yet had she resolved to renounce him—yes, though after this was done, she felt
                  that all would be over with her in this life, and perhaps for ever would be over.
                  And to tell him this she was now forcing the tears back to her heart, calming
                  herself to think cold and cruel words—nerving her soul to bid him an eternal
                  adieu.
               Singular was it. Even while Marien sat resolutely thinking on this decision, the
                  very inclination to weep passed; the bright glow faded from her young cheek,
                  leaving it like marble, the quivering lips pressed together with the courage of an
                  almost fierce will, the moist eyes gazed steadily forward, as though they would
                     look down all things, and so she took up the pen she had at first
                  abandoned in despair—and thus she wrote:
               "Walter, I am yours. Your 'confession' (why make use of a word so humiliating?) is
                  before me. I have read it again and again, and I believe with you, most firmly
                  believe, that the tie which ultimately existed between you and the angel Callore,
                  was justly assumed. I believe that you were led to her grave, and not
                  that a mere common human grief sent you there. I believe that after you gave her a
                  resurrection from the grave, she was yours; that inasmuch as he had buried her,
                  the husband band had thenceforth no
                  claim upon her, she was dead to him. She was virtually divorced, and
                  in your mutual love you did right to take counsel of each other, and not of the
                  world, for you were the world to her, and she as much to you. I am proud to
                  receive your love—I am grateful to you for it, and that I can return it; I
                     was in doubt, in hesitancy—can you believe it? till my hand took
                  up the pen to write, I was about to say, in God's name go, and let us never meet
                  again. I was nerving myself to this when a voice, a conviction as from her in
                  heaven, came to strengthen me in my belief that our marriage is an honorable, and
                  will be a happy one. At the moment that you will, I am your wife."
               Alas! at the moment that he willed she was a bride—of death!
               If her "strength of passion" slew, or the preventing providence of God led her
                  away from earth when the mad poet would have won young Marien, let the reader
                  judge. Only this I know, that in a distant land there are three graves
                  together—Callore and her twinned-spirit Marien, and Walter, sleep there side by
                  side. Around one of those names, Fame, with a gentle hand and
                  sorrowful tears, has laid a wreath of glory, and its shade falls lovingly on the
                  memory of the women whom he loved.
               When, on that night which should have seen his bridal, he waited for her and she
                  came at last; when he saw her droop, and swoon, and die there at the very altar,
                  they said it was with such perfect calmness as might argue his having foreknown
                  all how it would be, that he bore her in his arms away from the amazed and
                  frightened witnesses.
               Again he was on the wide ocean, and another bride, dead Marien, was with him. He
                  rested, he stayed not, till he had laid her in a grave beside his Callore; and ere
                  long the hands of strangers had given him a rest, as I have said, with them; they
                  will rise together at the judgment.
            
            
               THISTLE-DOWN.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "As one by one thy hopes depart,
                           Be resolute and calm.
                           
                           Oh, fear not in a world like this,
                           And thou shalt know, ere long,
                           Know how sublime a thing it is
                           To suffer, and be strong."
                        
                     
                     LONGFELLOW.
                  
               
               
                  There is no time like these clear September nights, after sunset, for a
                     reverie. If it is a calm evening, and an intense light fills the sky and
                     glorifies it, and you sit where you can see the new moon with the magnificent
                     evening star beneath it, you must be a stupid affair, indeed, if you cannot
                     then dream the most heavenly dreams!
                  But Rosalie Sherwood, poor young creature! is in no dreaming mood this lovely
                     Sabbath night. Her heart is crushed in such an utter helplessness of grief, as
                     leaves no room in it for hope; her brain is too acutely sensitive, just now,
                     for visions. The thistle-down, in beautiful, fairy-like procession, floats on
                     and up before her eyes, and as she watches the frail things, they assume a new
                     interest to her: she feels a human sympathy with them. Like the viewless winds
                     they come, from whence she knows not, and go, whither none can tell. They are
                     homeless, and she is like them, but she is not as they, purposeless.
                  If you could look into her mind, you would see how she has nerved it to a great
                     determination, how that, mastering visions and hopes once cherished, she has
                     gone forward to a bleak and barren path, and stands there very resolute, yet,
                     in  the first moment of her resolve,
                     miserable; no, she has not yet grown strong in the suffering; she
                     cannot this night stand up and bear her burden, with a smile of
                     triumph.
                  Rosalie Sherwood was an only child, the daughter of an humble friend Mrs.
                     Melville had known from her own girlhood. She, poor creature, had
                     neither lived nor died a sinner, but once 
                        
                           "As love's wild prayer dissolved in air,
                           Her woman's heart gave way!—
                           And the sin forgiven by Christ in heaven,
                           By man is cursed alway."
                        
                     
                  
                  On her death-bed Cecily Sherwood gave her unrecognised child to the care of one
                     who promised, in the sincerity of her compassion, to be a mother to the
                     unfortunate infant. And during the eighteen years of that girl's life, from the
                     hour of her mother's death to the day when she was left without hope in the
                     world, Rosalie had found a parent in the rigid, but always kind
                     and just, Mary Melville.
                  This widow-lady had one son; he was four years old when her husband died, which
                     was the very year that the little Rosalie was brought to Melville House. The
                     boy's father had been considered a man of great wealth, but when his affairs
                     were settled, after his decease, it was found that the debts of the estate
                     being paid, little more than a competency remained for the widow. But the lady
                     was fitted, by a life of self-discipline, even in her luxurious home, to calmly
                     meet this emergency. With the remnant of an imagined fortune, she retired to an
                     humbler residence, where, in quiet retirement, she gave her time to managing
                     household affairs, and to superintending the home-education of her
                     children.
                  Her son, Duncan, and the young Rosalie, had grown up together—until the girl's
                     twelfth birth-day, constant playmates and pupils in the same school. No one,
                     not even the very busiest busy-body, had ever been able to detect the slightest
                     partiality in Mrs. Melville's treatment of her children; and, indeed, it had
                     been quite impossible that she should ever regard a child so winningly
                     beautiful as Rosalie, with other than the tenderest affection. Under a light
                     and careless rein, the girl had been a difficult one to manage, for there was a
                     light like fire in her eyes, that told of strong will and deep passions; and
                     besides, her striking appearance had won sufficient admiration to have
                     completely spoiled her, if a guardian the most vigilant as well as most
                     discerning, had not been ever at hand to speak the right word to, and do the
                     right thing with her.
                  Mrs. Melville was a thoroughly religious woman, and seriously conscious of the
                     responsibility she incurred in adopting the infant. She could not quiet her
                     conscience with the reflection that she had done a wonderfully good thing in
                     giving Rosalie a home and education: the deep pity she felt for the unfortunate
                     orphan, led her to exercise an uncommon care, that all tendency to evil should
                     be eradicated from the heart of the brilliant girl while she was yet young,
                     that a sense of right, such as should prove abiding, might be impressed on her
                     tender mind. And her labor of love met with a return which might well have made
                     the mother proud.
                  There had been no officious voice to whisper to Rosalie Sherwood, the story of
                     the doubtful position which she occupied in the world. She was an orphan, the
                     adopted child of the lady whom she devoutly loved with all a daughter's
                     tenderness; this she knew, and it was all she knew; and Mrs. Melville was
                     resolved that she should never know more.
                  The son of the widow had been educated for the ministry. He was now twenty-two
                     years old, and was soon to be admitted to the priesthood. In this he was
                     following out his own wish, and the most cherished hope of his mother, and it
                     seemed to all who knew him, as though the Head of the church had set His seal
                     upon Duncan from his boyhood. He was so mild and so forbearing, so discreet and
                     generous, so earnest, and so honest,—meek, and holy of heart, was the thought
                     of whosoever looked upon his placid, youthful face. Yet, he had, besides his
                     gentleness, that without which his character might have subsided into a mere 
                        peurile
                        puerile
                      weakness,—a firmness of purpose, a reverence for duty, a strict sense
                     of right, equal to that which marked his mother among women. Duncan Melville's
                     abilities were of a high order—perhaps not of the very highest, though if his
                        ambition bition were only equal
                     to his powers, they would surely seem so to the world.
                  His voice had a sweet, persuasive tone, that was fitted to win
                     souls to Christ, yet it could ring like a clarion when the grandeur of his
                     themes fired his own soul. With the warmest hopes and deepest interest they who
                     knew the difficulties and trials attending the profession he had chosen, looked
                     on this young man.
                  Duncan and Rosalie had long known the nature of the tie which bound them
                     together, members of one family, and they never called themselves brother and
                     sister after the youth came home a graduate from college. For, from the time
                     when absence empowered him to look as a stranger would look on Rosalie, from
                     that time he saw her elegant, and accomplished, and bewitching, as she was—and
                     other than a fraternal affection was in his heart for her.
                  And Rosalie, too, loved him—just as Duncan, had he spoken his passion, would
                     have prayed her to love him. She had long ago made him the standard of all
                     manly excellence, and when he came back, after three years of absence, she was
                     not inclined to revoke her early decision; therefore was she prepared to read
                     the language of Duncan's eyes, and she consecrated her heart to him.
                  During the years which followed his return from college till he was prepared
                     for ordination as a priest, he did not once speak to her of his
                     love, which was growing all the while stronger and deeper, as the river-course
                     that, flowing to the ocean, receives every day fresh impetus and force from the
                     many tiny springs that commingle with it. Duncan Melville never
                        thought of wedding with another than Rosalie Sherwood.
                  It was, as I said, near the time appointed for his ordination, when he felt,
                     for the first time, as though he had a right to speak openly with
                     her of all his hopes. He asked her, then, what in soul-language he had long
                     before asked, a question which she had as emphatically, in like language,
                     answered—to be his partner for life, in weal or wo.
                  He had tried to calmly consider Rosalie's character as a christian tian
                     minister should consider the character of her whom he would make the sharer of
                     his peculiar lot, and setting every preference aside, Duncan felt that she was
                     fitted to assist, and to bear with him. She was truthful as the day,
                     strong-minded, and generous, humane, and charitable, and though no professor of
                     religion, a woman full of reverence and veneration. He knew that it was only a
                     fear that she should not adorn the christian name, that kept her
                     back from the altar of the church, and he loved her for that spirit of
                     humility, knowing that she was "on the Lord's side," and that grace ere long
                     would be given her to proclaim it in doing all His
                     commandments.
                  It was certainly with a joyful and confident heart that, after he had spoken
                     with Rosalie, Duncan sought his mother yesterday, to tell her of the whole of
                     that bright future which opened now before him.
                  How then was he overcome with amazement and grief, when Mrs. Melville told him
                     it was a union to which she could never consent. Then, for the
                     first time in his life, the astonished young man heard of that stain which was
                     on the name poor Rosalie bore. He heard the story to the end—and, with a
                     decision and energy that would have settled the matter with almost any other
                     than his mother, he declared,
                  "Yet, for all that, I will not give her up."
                  "It could not be expected that you would fulfil the engagement. Rosalie herself
                     would not allow it, if she knew the truth of the matter."
                  "But she need not know it; there is no existing necessity. Is it not enough
                     that she is good and precious to me? She is a noble woman, whose
                     life has been, thanks to your guidance, beautiful and lofty."
                  "God knows I have striven to do my duty by her; but I know not
                     what I should have done if I had ever thought you would wish to change your
                     relations with her, Duncan."
                  "The world has not her equal! it is cruel, it is sinful in you, mother, to
                     oppose our union."
                  "She is a lovely woman; but, my son, there are myriads like
                     her."
                  
                  "No—not one! Tell me you will never breathe a word of what you
                     have told me, to her!"
                  "Never."
                  "Oh, thank you! thank you! mother, you could not wish another daughter?"
                  "But for that I have told you, I could not wish another."
                  "Then I say you must not work this great injustice on us. Rosalie loves me—she
                     has promised to be mine. You will break my heart."
                  "You are deluded and strongly excited, my son, or you would never speak so to
                     me," said the mother, with that persisting firmness with which the physician
                     resorts to a desperate remedy for a desperate disease. Then she spoke to him of
                     all the relations in life he might yet be called upon to assume—of the misery
                     which very possibly might follow this union in after days. Hours passed on, and
                     the conference was not ended, until, with a crushed heart and trembling voice,
                     Duncan arose abruptly, while his mother yet spoke, and he said:
                  "If the conclusion to which you have urged me in God's sight, is just, He will
                     give me—He will give Rosalie, too—strength to abide by it. But I can never
                     speak to her of this, and I must find another home than yours and hers. You
                     must speak for me, mother, and let me charge you, do it gently. Do
                     not tell her all. Let her think what she will—believe, as she
                     must—that I am a wretch past pardon; but do not blight her peace by telling
                        all."
                  "I promise you, Duncan," was the answer, spoken through many tears, and in the
                     deepest sorrow.
                  An hour after, he was on the way from the village, that he might spend the
                     coming Sabbath in another town.
                  And, after he was gone, the mother sought her younger, her dearly-loved child.
                     Rosalie heard that familiar step on the stairway—she had seen Duncan hurrying
                     away from the house, and she knew the conference was over; but she had no fear
                     for its result. So she hushed the glad, tumultuous beating of her heart, and
                     tried to veil the brightness of her eyes as she heard the gentle tapping at her
                     door, that announced the mother coming.
                  As for Mrs. Melville, her heart quite failed her when she went
                     into the pleasant room, and sat down close by Rosalie. In spite of all the
                     strengthening thoughts of duty which she had taken with her as a support in
                     that interview, she was now at a sore loss, for it had been a bitter grief to
                     her kind heart when, of old, for duty's sake, she made her children even a day
                     unhappy. How then could she endure to take away their life's best joy—their
                     richest hope? It was a hard thing—and many moments passed before she could
                     nerve her strong spirit to utter the first word. Rosalie, anxious and impatient
                     too, but unsuspecting, at last exclaimed,
                  "What can it be that so much troubles you, mother?"
                  Then Mary Melville spoke, but with a voice so soft and sad, so faint with
                     emotion, that it seemed not all her voice; she said,
                  "I want you to consider that what I say to you, dear child, has given me more
                     pain even to think of, than I have ever felt before. Duncan has told me of your
                     engagement to marry with him. And it has been my duty, my most sorrowful duty,
                     oh, believe me, to tell him that such a tie must never unite you. He can never
                     be your husband—you can never be his wife."
                  She paused, exhausted by her emotion—she could not utter another syllable.
                     Rosalie, who had watched her with fixed astonishment as she listened to the
                     words, was the first to speak again, and she tried to say, calmly,
                  "Of course you have a reason for saying so. It is but just that I should know
                     it."
                  "It cannot be known. If I had ever in my life deceived you,
                     Rosalie, you might doubt me now, when I assure you that an impediment, which
                     cannot be named, exists to the marriage. Have I not been a mother to you
                     always?" she asked, appealingly, imploringly: "I love you as I love Duncan, and
                     it cuts me to the heart to grieve you."
                  "Has Duncan given you an answer?"
                  "Yes, Rosalie."
                  "And it?"
                  
                  "He has trusted to his mother," she said, almost proudly.
                  "Rather than me," quickly interrupted Rosalie.
                  "Rather than do that which is wrong—which might hereafter prove the misery of
                     you both, my child."
                  "Where is he? Why does he not come himself to tell me this? If the thing is
                     really true, his lips should have spoken it, and not
                     another's."
                  "Oh, Rosalie, he could not do it! I believe his heart is broken. Do not look so
                     upon me. Is it not enough that I bitterly regret, that I shall always deplore
                     having not foreseen the result of your companionship? Say only that you do
                     believe I have striven to do the best for you always, as far as I knew how. I
                     implore you, say it!"
                  "Heaven knows I believe it, mother. When will Duncan come home again?"
                  "Monday—not before."
                  When Monday morning came, on the desk in Rosalie's room this letter was
                     found:
                  "I cannot leave you forever, Duncan,—I cannot go from your protecting care,
                     mother, without saying all that is in my heart. I have no courage to look on
                     you, my brother, again. Mother, our union, which we had thought life-lasting,
                     is broken. I cannot any longer live in the world's sight as your daughter by
                     adoption. I would have done so, I would have remained in any capacity, as a
                     slave, even, for I was bound by gratitude for all that you have done for me, to
                     be with you always,—at least so long as you could wish. If you had unveiled the
                     mystery, and suffered me to stand before you, recognising myself as
                        you know me, I would have stayed. I would have been to you,
                     Duncan, only as in childhood, a proud yet humble sister, rejoicing in your
                     triumphs, and sharing, by sympathy, in your griefs. I would have
                     put fetters on my heart—the spirit dwelling in me should henceforth have been a
                     stranger to you. I know I could have borne to even see another
                     made your wife—but in a mistaken kindness, you put this utterly beyond my
                     power. Too much has been required, and I am found—wanting ing! If even the most
                     miserable fate that can befall an innocent woman, if the curse of illegitimacy
                     were upon me, I could bear that thought even, and acknowledge the justice and
                     wisdom that did not consider me a fit associate for one whose birth is
                     recognised by a parent's pride and fondness.
                  "But, dear Mrs. Melville, I must be cognizant of the relation, whatever it is,
                     that I bear you. I cannot, I will not, consent to appear nominally your
                     daughter, when you scorn to receive me as such.
                  "Mother—in my dead mother's name I thank you for the generous love
                     you have ever shown me: for the generous care with which you have attended to
                     the development of the talents God gave me. For I am now fitted to labor for
                     myself. I thank you for the watchful guardianship that has made me what I am, a
                     woman self-reliant and strong. I thank you for it, from a heart that has
                     learned only to love and honor you in the past eighteen years. And I call down
                     the blessing of the Infinite God upon you, as I depart. Hereafter, always, it
                     will be my endeavor to live worthily of you—to be all that you
                     have, in your more than charity, capacitated me to be. Duncan, you will not
                     forget me—I do not ask it. But pray for me, and live up to the fulness of your
                     being—of your heart and your intellect. There is a happy future for you; I have
                     no word of counsel, no feeble utterance of encouragement to leave you—you will
                     not need such from me. God bless and strengthen you in every good
                     word and work—it shall be the constant hope of the sister who
                        loves you. Mother, farewell."
                  This letter was written on the Sabbath eve on which our story opens—written in
                     a perfect passion—yes, of grief, and of despair. The anger that Rosalie may at
                     first have felt, gave way to the wildest sorrow now, but her resolution was
                     taken, and her heart was really strong to bear the resolution out.
                  After her sudden and most unlooked for disappearance, the mother and son sought
                     long, and I need not say how anxiously, for Rosalie. But their search was vain,
                     and at last, as time passed on, she became to the villagers as one who had
                     never been. But never by the widow was she forgotten, and oh, there was  in the world one heart that sorrowed
                     with a constant sorrow, that hoped with a constant nope for her.
                  He had lost her, and Duncan sought for no other love among women. When all his
                     searching for Rosalie proved unavailing, the minister applied himself with
                     industry to the work of his calling, and verily he met here with his reward;
                     for as he was a blessing to the people of his parish, in turn they almost
                     adored him. He was a spiritual physician whom God empowered to heal many a
                     wounded, stricken heart; but there was a cross of suffering that he bore
                     himself, which could not be removed. It was his glory that he bore it with
                     martyr-like patience—that he never uttered a reproachful word to her through
                     whom he bore it.
                  As years passed away, the gifted preacher's impassioned eloquence, and stirring
                     words, bowed many a proud and impenitent soul with another love than that he
                     wished to inspire, still he sought not among any of them companionship, or
                     close friendship. They said at last, considering his life spent in the most
                     rigid performance of duty, that "he was too high-church to
                     marry"—that he did not believe such union consonant with the duties of
                     the minister of the cross! But the mother knew better than
                        this—she knew a name that was never spoken now in Rosalie's old
                     home, that was dearer than life to the heart of her son, and desolate and
                     lonely as she oft-times was, she never dared ask him to give to
                     her a daughter—to take unto himself a wife.
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  IN a splendid old cathedral a solemn ceremonial was going forward on the
                     morning of a holy festival. A bishop was to be consecrated.
                  A mighty crowd assembled to witness the ceremony, and the mother of Duncan
                     Melville was there, the happiest soul in all that company, for it was on
                        her son that the high honor was to be laid!
                  How beautiful was the pale, holy countenance of the minister, who, in the early
                     strength of his manhood, was accounted worthy to fill that great office for
                     which he was about to be set apart! He was a man "acquainted with grief"—you
                     had known it by the resigned, submissive expression of his face; you had known
                     that the passions of mortals had been all subdued in him, by the holy light in
                     his tranquil eyes. Duncan had toiled—he had borne a
                     burden!
                  A thousand felt it, looking on the noble front where religion undefiled, and
                     peace, and holy love, and charity, had left for themselves unmistakable
                     evidences: and more than all, one being felt it who had not looked upon that
                     man for years—not since the lines of grief and care had marked the face and
                     form of Duncan Melville. There was reason for the passionate sobs of one heart,
                     crushed anew in that solemn hour; there was pathos such as no other voice could
                     give to the prayers which went up to God from one woman's heart in the great
                     congregation for him. Poor, loving, still-beloved Rosalie! she was there,
                     there, her proud magnificent figure bent humbly from the very commencement to
                     the close of the ceremonial; there, her beautiful eyes filled with tears of
                     love, and grief, and despair, and pride; there, crushed as the humblest flower,
                     that glorious beauty!
                  And the good man at the altar, for whom the prayers and the praise ascended,
                     thought of her in that hour! Yes, in that very hour he remembered how
                        one would have looked on him that day, could she have come, his
                     wife, to witness how his brethren and the people loved and honored him. . . He
                     thought of her, and as he knelt at the altar even then he prayed for her; but
                     not as numbers thought upon the name of Rosalie Sherwood that day: for she also
                     was soon to appear before a throng, and there were a myriad hearts that
                     throbbed with expectancy, and waited impatiently for the hour when they should
                     look upon her.
                  Bishop Melville had retired at noonday to his study, that he might be for a few
                     moments alone. He was glancing over the sermon he was to deliver that
                     afternoon, when his mother, his proud and happy mother, came quietly into the
                     room, laid a sealed note on the table and instantly withdrew, for she saw how
                     he was occupied.
                  
                  When he had finished his manuscript, the bishop opened the note and read—could
                     it have been with careless eyes?
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Duncan, I have knelt in the house of the Lord to-day, and
                                 witnessed your triumph. Ten years ago, when I went desolate and
                                 wretched from your house, I might have prophecied your destiny.
                              "Come to-night and behold my triumph—at—the Opera
                                 House!
                              
                                 "Your sister,
                                 "ROSALIE."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Do you think that as he read that summons he hesitated as to whether he should
                     obey it? If his bishopric had been sacrificed therefor, he would have gone: if
                     disgrace and danger had attended his footsteps, he would have obeyed her
                     bidding! The love which had been strengthening in ten long years of loneliness
                     and bereavement, was not now to stop, to question, or to fear.
                  "Accompany me, dear mother, this evening. I have made an engagement for you,"
                     he said, as he went, she hanging on his arm, to the cathedral-for afternoon
                     service.
                  "Willingly, my son," was the instant answer, and Duncan kept her to her
                     word.
                  But it was with wondering, with surprise that she did not attempt to conceal,
                     and with questions which were satisfied with no definite reply, that Mrs.
                     Melville found herself standing with her son in an obscure corner of the Opera
                     House that night. Soon all her expressions of astonishment were hushed, but by
                     another cause than the mysterious inattention of her son: a queenly woman
                     appeared upon the stage, she lifted her voice, and sobbed the mournful wail
                     which opens the first scene in—.
                  For years there had not been such a sensation created among the frequenters of
                     that place, as now, by the appearance of this stranger. The wild, singular
                     style of her beauty, made an impression that was heightened by every movement
                     of her graceful figure, every tone of her rich, melodious voice. She seemed for
                     the time the very embodiment of the sorrow to which she gave an expression, and
                     the effect was a complete triumph.
                  Mary Melville and her son gazed on the debutante—they had no word, no look for
                     each other: for they recognised in her voice the tones of a grief of which long
                     ago they heard the prelude—and every note found its echo in the bishop's inmost
                     heart.
                  "Come away! let us go home! Duncan, this is no place for us—for
                        you. It is disgrace to be here," was the mother's passionate
                     plea when at last Rosalie disappeared, and other forms stood in her place.
                  "We will stay and save her," was the answer, spoken with tears and trembling,
                     by the man for whom, in many a quiet home, prayers in that very hour ascended.
                     "She is mine now, and no earthly consideration or power shall
                     divide us."
                  And looking for a moment in her son's face steadfastly, the lady turned away
                     sighing and tearful, for she knew that she must yield then, and she had fears
                     for the future.
                  A half-hour passed and the star of the night re-appeared, resplendent in
                     beauty, triumphing in hope;—again her marvellous voice was raised, not with the
                     wail of sorrow, not with the bitter cry of despair that was hopeless, but glad
                     and gay, angelic in its joy.
                  Again the mother's eyes were turned on him beside her—and a light was on that
                     pale forehead—a smile on that calm face—a gladness in those eyes, such as she
                     had not seen there in long, long years: but though she looked with a mother's
                     love upon the one who stood the admiration of all eyes, crowned with the
                     glory-crown of perfection in her art, she could not with Duncan, hope. For
                     alas! her woman-heart knew too well the ordeal through which the daughter of
                     her care and love must have passed before she came into that
                     presence where she stood now, who could tell if still the mistress of herself
                     and her destiny? who could tell if pure and undefiled?
                  That night and the following day, there were many who sought admittance to the
                     parlors of Rosalie Sherwood—they would lay the homage of their trifling hearts
                     at her feet. But all these sought in vain; and why was this? Because such
                     admiring  tribute was not what the
                     noble woman sought—and because, ere she had risen in the morning,
                     a letter, written in the solitude of night, was handed her, which barred and
                     bolted her doors against the curious world.
                  "Rosalie! Rosalie! look back through the ten years that are gone; I am
                     answering your letter of long ago with words—I have a thousand times answered
                     them with my heart, till the thoughts which have crowded there, filled it
                     almost to breaking. We have met—met at last—you and I! But did you call that a
                     triumph when you stood in God's house, and saw them lay their consecrating
                     hands upon me? Heaven forgive me, I was thinking of you then—and
                     thinking, too, that if this honor was in any way to be considered a
                        reward, the needful part was wanting—you were not there! Yet
                     you were there, you have written me—ah, but not Rosalie, my
                        wife, the woman I loved better than all on earth—the
                        acknowledged woman, her whose memory I had borne about with me
                     till it was a needful part of my existence. You were by when the people came to
                     see me consecrated—and I obeyed your call, I saw you when the
                     people anointed you with the tears of their admiration and praise. If you read
                     my heart at all, to-day, you knew how I had suffered—you
                        saw that I had grown old in the sorrow. Was I mistaken to-night
                     in the thought that you, too, had not been unmindful of our
                     past—that you were not satisfied with the popular applause—that you, also, have
                     been lonely, that you have wept—that you have trodden in the path of duty with
                     weariness?
                  "There is but one barrier now in the wide world that shall interpose between
                     us—Rosalie, it is your own will. If I was ever anything to you, I beseech you
                     think calmly before you answer, and do not let your triumph, to-night, blind
                     you to the fact which you once recognised, which can make us happy
                        yet. I trust you, as in our younger days: nothing, nothing but
                     your own words could convince me that you are not worthy to take the highest
                     place among the ladies of this land. Oh, let the remembrance that I have been
                     faithful to you through all the past, plead for me, if your pride should rise
                     up to condemn me. Let me come and plead with you, for I know not
                     what I write."
                  The answer returned to this letter was as follows:
                  "I learned, long ago, the bar that prevented our union—it is in existence
                     still, Duncan. Your mother only shall decide if it be insurmountable. I have
                     never, even for a moment, doubted your faithfulness—and it has been to me an
                     unspeakable comfort in the days when I was alone, and toiling for a support, to
                        know that none had supplanted me in your affections. In the
                     temptations, and struggles, and hardships I have known, it has kept me above
                     and beyond the world, and if the last night's triumph proves to be but the
                     opening of a new life for me on earth, the recollection of what you are, and
                     that you care for me, will prove a rock of defence, and a stronghold of hope
                     always. Severed from, or united with you, I am yours forever."
                  Seven days after, there was a marriage in the little church of that remote
                     village, where Duncan Melville and Rosalie Sherwood passed their childhood.
                     Side by side they stood now, once again, where the baptismal service had long
                     since been read for them, and the mother of the bishop gave the bride away!
                  "Honi soit qui mal y pense!"
               
            
            
               
               WHAT KATY DID.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Oh, tell me where did Katy live,
                           And what did Katy do?
                           And was she very fair and young,
                           And yet so wicked, too?
                        
                     
                     HOLMES.
                  
               
               I WAS passing through a grove of budding maple trees, and a certain set of
                  listeners with whom I had engaged to talk, were in my eye—and I was in a
                  wondering, a desperate mood! what could I find to say that they would
                  care to hear? All at once my gloomy meditations were disturbed by the voice of a
                  creature, which came from the heights above, chirping out—not softly, not
                  musically, but in a shrieking tone, as though bent on vociferous disputation with
                  somebody—"Katy did." The spirit of opposition roused within me as I
                  heard that cry; I was about to deny the assertion, point blank, when the sweet,
                  tiny voice of another insect answered, distinctly, "She didn't." It was like the
                  acceptance of a challenge in effect. Forthwith the first-named speaker began
                  again, with increased energy, "Katy did! Katy did! she did! she did! she did!" But
                  still the milder voice, quite undismayed, replied, valiantly, and with a solemn
                  air of undoubtable truth, "She didn't!"
               The neighboring spirits were now all aroused; never did mortal hear before such a
                  rush of sound as burst upon me then! A perfect flood of abuse gushed from one
                  throat, while distinct and dignified denial met it all in reply. Asseverations
                  numberless, and uncharitable defamation of one powerless now to vindicate herself,
                  followed. Here is the substance of that wondrous confabulation.
               Little Kitty Clover was the only child of her widowed father, 
                     "A fine old English gentleman, all of the olden time."
                   She was a blooming fairy of a girl, spoiled of course, and worshipped, too—a
                  very "household goddess." Miserably educated had the young thing been; for, only
                  think of it! at sixteen years of age, she was as wild and free in spirit as a
                  chamois, as brave as a chamois hunter, and through the unpardonable neglect of
                  those who had the care of her, she had been taught nothing whatever of sorrow,
                  save the dictionary definition, and that she could scarcely
                  comprehend. At this age she was still under the care, or rather in the
                  companionship of a governess, Lucy Freer, a lady also young; indeed but two years
                  older than her pupil; but she was a dignified, commanding personage,
                  (and thus differed very much from Kitty;) a silent, sad, remarkably handsome girl,
                  who sometimes wept and never laughed, (which was strange, for one would have
                  thought that the spirit of mirth dwelling in Kitty, was of an absolutely
                  infectious nature;) but Lucy had the sweetest of smiles when she was pleased or
                  happy; and that smile, with her unvarying goodness and talent, secured the warm
                  love of her pupil.
               As we have intimated, Kitty's father had done all that he possibly could to spoil
                  his daughter; and the labor in that way, it must be confessed, had been far from
                  vain. But, fortunately, nature had given the girl a warm, affectionate heart, and
                  the training of her childhood had not tended to make her half so selfish and
                  exacting as, in all reason, might have been expected. She was innately frank and
                  noble; and there was a clear expression of her blue eyes, which told how honest
                  and sincere she was in all her thoughts and doings.
               Retired and unsuperficial as had been her way of life, poor Kitty! she found
                  occasion to fall "desperately in love!"
               Not long after the governess made her home at Woodland cottage, in C—, a gentleman
                  from London came to call upon her. The pupil happened to be present at the
                  interview, and she heard the stranger announce his intention of making his home in
                  the village, and the great evident satisfaction of Lucy Freer, as she
                  heard this determination, did not escape the observation servation of the keen-eyed Kitty; and having little
                  else to think about, for several days, she indulged in an idle wonderment as to
                  what kind of regard her governess could cherish for the handsome man, that she
                  should be so very light of heart, so really joyous, from the very
                  moment of his appearing.
               Eugene Lind, that was his name, was about thirty years of age, as fine-looking,
                  stately, and elegant a person, as need be: he was a lawyer by profession, but
                  still more of a poet by choice. As the only acquaintance he had in C—, was housed
                  at Woodland, he became at once a frequent guest at the cottage, where he found
                  always a genial host in Reginald Clover; but the truth must be said, that though
                  the old man's welcome was certainly desirable, it was not him that the lawyer
                  really went, or cared, to see. This became quite evident, when, ere long, in view
                  of his old friendship for Lucy, he made bold to push his way directly to the
                  school-room, when his visits were made in the day time, which was oftenest the
                  case.
               It was no marvellous wonder that Kitty Clover, secluded as she was from the rest
                  of the world save that minute portion of it that dwelt in, and just about her own
                  home, it was no wonder, I say, that in the course of time she should have begun to
                  think quite as much of Mr. Lind as she did of her grammar and mathematics; that
                  she should even prefer at last, and greatly prefer, listening to his
                  fine readings and conversation, to any other amusement. But she did no more than
                  listen, that is, for a year, till she was sixteen, and then Kitty had become so
                  accustomed to his presence, and so cognizant of her own powers of speech, as to
                  find it really possible to talk with, and to learn of him; and he was a better
                  teacher than Lucy even, for he imparted a high charm to every book he laid his
                  hands on—it became "tabooed" instantly to the child's apprehension.
               Ah! no longer did she sit then, a shy and silent creature in the great bow-window,
                  pretending to total abstraction from all things past, present, or future, save
                  what she found in the dry pages of her book; but boldly, at least calmly, came she
                  forward to sit beside her governess—to meet the glances of the poet-lawyer—to
                  listen and to speak with him and Lucy, as a sane and intelligent being.
               And so it was, that day by day, and more and still more thoroughly she learned to
                  love him; so it was that his words fell one by one with creative power on her
                  heart, till the most radiant and glorious flower, sprung up there; but though its
                  fragrance filled her life with a beauty which she felt, she could not
                  comprehend it, did not at all understand it, till at last she passed from
                  wondering to knowledge, as she wakened to see how very pale the governess was
                  growing—how languidly she carried forward the work of instruction—how abstractedly
                  she went about all her tasks—how she neglected totally the volumes which had once
                  been her loved companions—how she oftentimes wept—how dull and dispirited she was
                  when Eugene Lind was not by, and how she invariably, for a moment at least,
                  brightened up and smiled when he drew near.
               And when poor Kitty's eyes were opened, lovely reader, they seemed
                  good for nothing in the world but weeping, just a vent for tears; for then she
                  knew, she could not help knowing, that Lucy Freer loved the lawyer.
                  And it was a terrible discovery to make, was it not? For now the
                  child, what right had she to think of him? She did not wonder for a moment whether
                  or no the love of the governess was well-founded, whether or no he returned it;
                  she could only say to herself, "he has visited her constantly, has exerted himself
                  to be agreeable, and it's all his own fault and doing; he has no right, and is too
                  old to trifle so. Lucy is an orphan, and poor; she is beautiful, and good enough
                  —yes, even for him! I have a father, and am rich; he ought to love her, and he
                  shall tell her that he does."
               And so little Kate, (recollect, my world-fashioned lady, all this happened a long
                  time ago, and Kitty had learned her knowledge of life's obligations only from wild
                  romance,) felt that a duty devolved on her which must be performed; and oh, how
                  strenuously she labored, how dispassionately she reasoned with herself, that she
                  might become strong to fulfil it!
               Eugene had not visited the cottage in many days; a Friday night came round, and
                  for two whole weeks he had absented himself. On this day, as by mutual consent,
                  the books were laid aside, the school-room deserted, Lucy retired to her own room,
                  ill, certainly at heart, and Kitty, silent and troubled, yet  stronger to bear her burden of sorrow because she
                  felt that another suffered more than she, walked, practiced her music, arranged
                  flowers with the utmost determination; and then, restless, but not knowing what to
                  do with herself, she wandered about the house, quite as if in a dream, yet
                  cautious as a somnambulist, for how carefully she shunned the presence and
                  inquiring glances of her good old father. She was dreaming— such a
                  dream, indeed, as adds years to the "inner life" of the young—dreaming of
                  bereavement, self-sacrifice, and death! even she, that bright young girl!
               But at last, with an assured purpose Kitty seated herself to write a letter. A
                  difficult work it was to pen it, good and loving soul, thou wilt not
                  doubt it. No attempt at disguise was made in the writing, yet she left the letter
                  without signature, thinking to herself, he will understand how it all is; he will,
                  if there is any honor in him, explain, at least he will feel that there is one
                  here who watches him.
               "MR. LIND,—Because you seem blind, and deaf, and dumb, to all that you should, as
                  a man of honor, be proud to see and know, I deem myself excusable in reminding you
                  of what you owe to one who has received your frequent visits as a brother, as
                     more. I have no feeling of false delicacy in thus appealing to
                  you. A sense of right you must have. You will feel that I am only true to myself,
                  to my sense of right in so doing. Halting thus, when you have gone so
                  far, you do that which no gentleman should do. I cannot yet believe
                  that you have sought the presence of one who loves you well, if not wisely, merely
                  because it afforded you a momentary pleasure. Let me remind you that the future
                  peace of a human being depends on the course you pursue."
               This heroic epistle was of course written, destroyed, and rewritten, many times,
                  before Kitty became fully satisfied that it was to her purpose. That very night it
                  was dispatched to the post, with no feeling of false delicacy, as she said, but,
                  with a very little trepidation. Dear child, she must certainly have been laboring
                  under a species of moral insanity, must she not?
               The next day, Saturday, happened to be consecrated to the memory of St. Valentine,
                  February the fourteenth. Much relieved in mind, Kitty sate on this All Fool's day
                  with the governess in her boudoir, a very charming place by the way, where beauty
                  lived with the heiress. They were listlessly looking over the love-declarations
                  which filled the silver waiter before them; and it was evident that the passionate
                  confessions on which they gazed produced little effect, save a vague momentary
                  curiosity, in the mind of either. One of them in her young heart had renounced all
                  loves—and as for the other—.
               But at last, Lucy looked upon her pupil with a flushed, smiling face, exclaiming,
                  "Here is a missive for you, from Eugene. You know this writing, isn't
                  it his? It will be worth reading."
               "Hum!" was the doubtful, brief reply—and Kitty held her hand out quite carelessly
                  for the valentine, though try as she might, she could not conceal the sudden
                  flashing of her eyes, and her hand, I believe, trembled a little. She took the
                  note and read, to herself—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              I, who love you very truly
                              Dare to tell you so to-day;
                              Sweetest maiden, though love-laden
                              Bolder souls beset your way,
                              Do you hear?
                           
                           
                              While the earnest, eager voices
                              Vow their passion, and their truth,
                              I, too, bend in adoration
                              Of the splendor of your youth—
                              Do you care?
                           
                           
                              And because your lightest whisper
                              Chains my spirit as a spell,
                              Oh, because your smile is dearer
                              To my heart than I can tell,
                              
                                 Will you love me?
                           
                           
                              In my memory I have throned you,
                              Thinking of you every hour;
                              Dear young Kitty, I adore you,
                              Ah, forget your tyrant power—
                              
                                 Try to love me!
                           
                           
                              E. L.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
               A sudden smile, brilliant in its gladness, passed over the maiden's face as she
                  read, but then remembering somewhat, she arose, and hastily flung the perfumed
                  note within the grate, saying,
               "The impudence of those village boys is unpardonable; neither of us know them much
                  more than by sight, and they have no right to presume so far!"
               But though she spoke so pettishly, Kitty's smile, as she read the quoted love-lay,
                  had not escaped Lucy's notice, and she said quietly in reply,
               "My dear, Eugene Lind is not a boy, and I don't think his writing to
                  you this day a piece of impertinence, either."
               At night-fall when Kitty sate alone, another epistle was laid before her, which
                  she read from beginning to end in such a state of bewilderment as may be
                  "imagined, but not described."
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "DEAR FRIEND,—I have this morning received a letter, singular rather
                              in its bearings, (at least to the fashion-moulded automaton it might
                              seem so,) to me it is too blessed to appear anything but
                              blessed. A letter written in such a style of undisguised earnestness
                              and truth, that, though it is Valentine day, I cannot doubt (perhaps
                                 you will say it is because I will not)
                              either the writer's name, or the purport of her words;—a declaration
                              of love! And to me it is unspeakably dearer than anything else in the
                              wide world could be. It is only because I felt sensible every day of
                              an increasing interest in her, that I have stayed so long away—it
                              seems an age to me—from Woodland Cottage. Now, if it be indeed
                                 true, that I have gained the affection of your
                              glorious charge, am I not blest? Of such a 'consummation, devoutly to
                              be wished,' I have dreamed, but never dared really to hope. To-morrow
                              I shall come to you, Lucy, and you must counsel me. The letter
                              enclosed has just reached me, accompanying one for myself from
                              Richmond. Joy to you! for now you can 'give care to the winds' once
                              more—a bright day is dawning, I clearly foresee it.
                           
                              "Adieu,—Yours ever,
                              "EUGENE LIND."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Was there ever, was there ever such a mishap?
               Surely never did astonished, troubled mortal wish more fervently for instant
                  annihilation, than did poor Kitty Clover as she read this letter, discovering at
                  its conclusion that it had been addressed by mistake to her! With
                  what frantic haste did she commit it to the flames—how furiously the bell-rope
                  swung in her hand—how passionately she dispatched the servant who answered her
                  call, with the letter which had come enclosed to Lucy. And then, the windy tempest
                  having passed, how wildly did she weep, as she barred herself from human sight
                  that she might agonize alone over the effect of her most stupid interference! Dead
                  within her was all curiosity; she cared not who the stranger Richmond was; she
                  cared not for the conviction that Eugene Lind was at that moment rejoicing in the
                  thought of having won her love; the natural misconstruction he had been so glad to
                  put upon her words, took in her mind nothing like the shape of a "comedy of
                  errors"—it was something intolerably worse.
               For hours she wept wildly, and without ceasing; but the fountain of tears was at
                  last exhausted, and near midnight, having become calm again—the calmness of
                  desperation it was, doubtless—and thinking of everything but sleep, Kitty ventured
                  into the presence of her governess. Neither had Lucy yet retired; but there she
                  sate, poring over her letter, and looking more beautiful and happy than she had in
                  many weeks.
               Kitty seated herself at Lucy's feet, and said, quite regardless of her friend's
                  astonishment at the ghost-like appearance she made,—
               "Is there anybody you love?"
               "Why, if there were not, I should die."
               "Whom do love?"
               "You, dear Kitty."
               "But is there anybody you shall marry? Do you like any person well
                  enough for that?"
               "I truly hope it. 'Twould be forlorn to think otherwise."
               "Now, in Heaven's name, don't trifle! Tell me something about yourself—about your
                  past life. If you do not, Lucy, I shall go mad at once."
               
               Lucy seemed lost in wonder, or in retrospection, as Kitty spoke thus. She did not
                  answer, and the impatient child, unable to bear the silence and suspense, threw
                  herself on her knees, and looked up imploringly, with clasped hands, on the
                  governess; finally she said, "Lucy Freer, tell me, do you love Eugene? What has
                  made you so sad and pale lately?"
               "Do I love him? Yes! heartily; he has been so kind to me," was the
                  now immediate and energetic reply. "Would you hear of my past, dear Kitty? It is a
                  dreary story."
               But it was now the young girl who was silent. With her head bent to her knees, she
                  sat at the feet of the governess; perhaps Lucy comprehended her thoughts by
                  intuition, but at all events she did not wait long for a reply.
               "I am a married woman already," she said.
               And now was Kitty all life and fire; up she sprung, exclaiming—
               "Is he, then, your husband?"
               "No, far from it," was the answer, which rolled back a cloud that threatened a
                  more than Hades' gloom in the soul of the pupil.
               "I will tell you all, dear child; indeed I will, for I can now; sit
                  down." She was obeyed. "To-night, Eugene Lind, God bless him! has sent me a
                  letter, the first received in months from my husband, Richmond Freer. Come nearer,
                  Kitty, look up, I am sad no longer, even though I tell you he is exiled, he can
                  never come back to old England again. But I am going to him. I am going very
                  soon." Even at this unexpected announcement the listener would not lift her head.
                  "When I was at school in London, I wrote occasionally for a paper which Richmond
                  edited; and by so doing I was able to help my poor, dear mother very much, and she
                  was indeed in need of help. After a while I became personally acquainted with the
                  editor, and when he was at last arrested for publishing what was called an
                  incendiary, a too patriotic paper for these slavish times, you may be sure I did
                  not forget to feel for him. After his trial was over, and the sentence of
                  banishment was passed on him, we met again, for we loved each other, Kitty, and
                  misfortune only made him dearer to me. The very night of his departure from
                  England, his cousin, Eugene Lind, married us, and my poor mother was present at
                  the ceremony; she would not oppose the union, wild as it doubtless seemed to her,
                  because she knew that we were not fickle in our love, and felt that a bright time
                  might come at last even for us. Shortly after Richmond's departure, she died. I
                  was left alone. When I had finished the course of studies and graduated, owing to
                  Eugene's efforts, this situation of governess, in your house, was secured to me.
                  May Heaven bless and make all your life happy, Kate, for you have been kind to me;
                  and you are very dear to me. For a long time Richmond lived on the continent, but
                  he did not prosper there —he has been very unfortunate, poor fellow! Now that he
                  has gone to the New World, a pilgrim shorn of all things but my love, do you not
                  see I must go to him? He calls me—I must go. What a glorious word is that
                     must! Kitty; you will not ask me again if I love Eugene Lind, or I
                  shall launch out into such praises of him as will astonish you."
               Thinking now but one thing, that Lucy had in some unaccountable way
                  discovered her secret, Kitty sprung from her humble posture—she could not speak
                  one word—but with a kiss, she left the governess alone.
               And oh, what a miserable little puss was she that live-long night. It was now all
                  clear; she, the proud, lofty-hearted, impulsive Kate, stood in the eyes of another
                  as having demanded his love—a beggar imploring his hand in payment for the heart
                  she had given him unasked! Hu! what blackness of darkness was that which enveloped
                  her now, body and soul, as she sat through the night-hours pondering, with burning
                  brain, on her delusion. How hateful, how intrusive seemed the sunlight which at
                  last streamed in upon her! How would he ever believe, how could he ever be told
                  the ridiculous truth of the matter? For the very tenor of that philanthropic
                  letter she had written, made it impossible for her to find, or even
                     seek, a confident in Lucy.
               There was but one thought that could at all console the mourner; perhaps Eugene
                  Lind would seek her hand some day, relying on the truth of what he imagined to be
                     her declaration, and then how disdainfully she would spurn
                  him—yes! if she  died in the struggle,
                  she would renounce him! Dear spirit of human pride, what a mighty thing thou
                  art!
               True to his expressed intention, Eugene visited Woodland cottage that day, and
                  every day, until the departure of the governess: but Lucy and Mr. Clover alone
                  received him. It was said in the house that Kitty, in her grief at parting with
                     "Miss Freer," had wept herself sick; and, for some cause or other,
                  it was very evident that the young girl was transformed into a "weeping
                  maiden."
               But to Lucy's mind, it was all very clear; she had read Kitty's heroic appeal to
                  Eugene, and could not doubt that it had been made on her account. There was no
                  occasion for seeking her pupil's confidence, and when her cousin, in his trouble,
                  revealed to her all his doubt and grief, though she made no explanation, she felt
                  warranted in reassuring him, by promising him an ultimate victory, if not an easy
                  one.
               It was a relief to Kitty Clover, when she was left alone in the
                     cottage—alone, for her father accompanied Lucy and Mr. Lind to the
                  sea-side. The sorrow at parting with her friend was soon overcome, the tears wiped
                  away, and she breathed freely once more.
               When Eugene returned from Liverpool, as Lucy had counselled him, he wrote to Kate
                  a frank and manly letter, which ended with these words:
               "You have my life in your hands, to make it glad or miserable. I love you, and can
                  be happy only if you return my love. May I come to you, and will you welcome me?
                  Oh, remember, I pray you, how much depends on your reply, and be merciful!"
               And the answer was only, "I do not love—I cannot receive you." With a smile of
                  triumph, this was written; and though a more thoroughly false declaration never
                  issued from the will of a proud woman, still, when it was fairly
                  penned and sent, Kitty felt her powers of self-endurance and respect rising
                  rapidly; life seemed to her then as, after all, a very pleasant burden, easy to be
                  borne. Yes! she could live—live happily, too, with her dear old sire alone, free
                  in heart and in fancy, fetterless as the winds; for the shadow of a shade of
                  control, Mr. Clover never thought of exercising over her.
               Was she, then, really happy? Why, in that case, was she so fearful,
                  so shy of cherishing old memories? And if she was not fearful, how
                  happened it that she so carefully piled away her old music; every song, every tune
                  she had used in the by-gone? Why did she hide from sight, in the high, remote
                  shelves of the library, all those books from which Eugene once read to her and
                  Lucy Freer? Why was the school-room, that pleasant chamber, so studiously shunned?
                     Why was it, dear, wise reader?
               During all the summer days, the daughter spent much time in company with her sire;
                  and to please her, the old man began to be quite literary in his tastes; and, with
                  chess, and books, and gardening. the time went swiftly on to both. But a change
                  had come over Kitty, and Mr. Clover had eyes to perceive it—but he rather rejoiced
                  in it, and became more proud of her than ever. She was a child no longer—nor a
                  lovely, joyous girl—but a quiet, thoughtful woman, becoming every day more
                  beautiful, more studious, and womanly. The idea of going into the gay world, had
                  once made her almost wild with joy, but now the proposal which the father made,
                  that they should pass the ensuing season in the metropolis with his relations, was
                  received with simple quiescence, and the preparations for a long sojourn from
                  home, were calmly and soberly made. The brain of the lovely heiress was busied
                  with no brilliant anticipations of conquest, love, and show—what could it
                  mean?
               The sickness, which, for the first time in her life, prostrated Kitty, the very
                  week previous to the intended departure, was not, therefore, attributable to great
                  excitement, or to any like cause. It was a slow, nervous fever, which, by degrees,
                  wasted her strength away, and left her an infant, in helplessness, on her bed. The
                  course of the disease could not be checked; it brought her to the very door of
                  death, and there the angel stood, ready to break the slender thread of life—yet
                  the destroying work, as if in mercy to the father, was delayed.
               Much of the time of this sickness, her mind had wandered  sadly; and he who watched incessantly beside the
                  girl, the adoring old man, had become cognizant of a fact, a secret, which he was
                  not too proud to use.
               And so one evening he stood, just at twilight, with another—not the nurse, nor the
                  physician—in the sick-chamber. Kitty seemed sinking all the day, and at nightfall,
                  the physician had left her, for a moment, almost at his (professional) wit's end.
                  Then it was that Mr. Clover went forth, and when he came again, Eugene Lind was
                  with him.
               She was sleeping when they entered, and both of those strong men trembled when
                  they stood together, looking silently upon her wasted, pallid face. Eugene sat
                  down beside her, and when she awakened, the father went softly from the room.
               Hush! I cannot tell you of that waking from death to life: from the assumed
                  indifference that had nearly chilled a young heart out of existence, to the life
                  of love. No, and I will not tell it; but don't you say it is because
                  I am tired of talking, that I pause, or that I feel inefficient to tell it all. It
                  is not true.
               But still later in the season, when the brown leaves were falling from the trees
                  in every direction, when the clouds gathered often in the sky, and the frequent
                  rains presaged cold winter storms, there stood one of those intensely bright days,
                  yet vouchsafed October, a little lady, frail and young, leaning on the arm of a
                  gentleman, in the beach-grove near Woodland cottage. Cheerily fell the sunlight
                  through the almost leafless branches, and numberless insects flitted to and
                  fro—one of these, a tiny thing, alighted on the maiden's hand—not the one clasped
                  in his! They had paused in their walk to rest, and neither had, for
                  many moments, spoken; but, as they began, as by mutual consent, to retrace their
                  steps, the gentleman looked up into the blue sky, exclaiming, fervently,
                     "How beautiful it is, to-day;" and with a heart full of
                  thankfulness, he murmured a name—a name with which the reader is familiar. Then he
                  looked upon her, and he seemed to find all heaven reflected in her
                  eyes—and more beautiful than the sky or the sunshine, seemed she to him; he bent
                  his stately form, he kissed her; and, reader, her arms wound round him in a
                  moment—she returned, for the first time, his embracing. It was a marriage
                  covenant, nothing more nor less!
               Ha! then the insect flitted away, far, far up, above those happy mortals, with a
                  cry heard never before, and the grove became vocal with it: how crimson grew the
                  pale girl's face as she heard that strange, bold voice proclaiming, "Katy
                     Did!"
               Over the ocean flew a message, thus it run:
               "She is mine, Lucy! this brave, proud, generous little Kitty, is mine! And because
                  she is given to me in this eleventh hour, I feel that she is a gift of God—a gift
                  unspeakably precious. My heart is full of thanksgiving and the voice
                  of melody, for we are one now—one forever—in life and in death—one. I shudder when
                  I think how she has twice been nearly lost to me, once by her own lofty pride, and
                  again by sickness. She is so pale and weak, so unlike her former self in physical
                  beauty, that I tremble when I look upon her; yet I know, Lucy, that she will not
                  die. We shall both live to prove on earth, how strong a tie of love unites
                  us."
               Yes, they did live to prove it. And certainly a happier poet never breathed, than
                  he whose bright and cheering songs, springing from a deep, clear fountain in the
                  heart, went afterward floating over the wide earth—they were the most glorious
                  songs of the affections.
               And so you have the long and the short of the matter. More than once have "trifles
                  light" set this great world a-gadding!
            
            
               
               THE OWL AND "EULALIE."
               
                  
                     "Tu-whoo! Tu-whoo!"
                  
               
               STEADILY the rain beat against the casement, and the wind, hushed to a soft,
                  sighing sound, made mournful melody with it and the plaintive river-song, to the
                  ear of Augustine Vere, as he sat, long after it grew dark, by his study window,
                  watching the lightning, which flashed continually across the heavens. It was a
                  comfortable place in which the gentleman was ensconced: see, now that lights are
                  brought in, and the curtains drawn, what a tasteful look is imparted to the
                  library by the pictures, and medallions, the pretty carpets, and tables, and those
                  large, easy chairs. But with such a care-full expression on his face, and his
                  evident unrest, Mr. Vere should not have remained alone on a dreary evening like
                  this, you say; he should have been reading or chatting with his wife—he should
                  have given the twilight, just past, to telling his children fairy-tales. Alas,
                  poor man! he had neither wife nor child in the world—he was a widower—and little
                  Grace, his daughter, died long ago.
               Such thoughts as, I suppose, never trouble married men and fathers, had been for
                  days troubling him, suggested by a miserable croaker in living form—it came in the
                  shape of a chattering owl, which, with its eternal "Tu-whoo! tu-whoo!" had haunted
                  him day in and out, till the victim began to get desperate. The afternoon that was
                  just passed, the great, gray thing, had perched on the eave-trough just above the
                  library-window, and struck up that monotonous tune which, till the rain began, it
                  gave no sign of intention of ever bringing to a close. Many a time, I repeat, had
                  it made its unwelcome self Mr. Vere's guest—never till now had it proved such an
                  inconceivable bore, for the train of thought only suggested, in past
                  visitings, was now arriving at a climax!
               But, it was not, as may be supposed, on account of any 
                     "Loved, and lost Lenore,"
                   that the creature came with that reproachful interrogative, that melancholy
                  "to who? to who?" reminding Mr. Vere of all that had gone away from his embrace,
                  down to the grave: farther back than that page in his life-book on which the names
                  of his dead wife and child were written, his memory went, his thoughts circled
                  around another, one whom he had deserted in the loveliness of her youth, and the
                  helplessness of her orphanage—and the remembrance of her was a grievous reproach
                  to him.
               He has pushed away from before him pen and paper—it was his intention, when he
                  first seated himself at his desk, to write: let us look over his shoulder as he
                  unfolds a scrap of printed paper, and let us read with him the lines which the old
                  gray owl has brought back to his thought—lines which, for years, have been lying
                  with the rubbish of the past.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           A FAREWELL.
                           
                              Until this night I never felt the word,
                              The dreary meaning compassed in its fold—
                              My soul by thine must never more be stirred!
                              Between us floods, estranging floods, have rolled!
                           
                           
                              How can this be? Thou wert my life, my all—
                              I asked of Heaven no blessing but thy love;
                              All worldly good, even fame, seemed poor and small
                              To thy dear love, and thou could'st faithless prove!
                           
                           
                              I strove for fame—it only was to lay
                              The rich gift at thy feet, to with it bend
                              Choosing thee, oh, lost guide! to lead my way
                              Through life's sad darkness, and we part! my friend.
                           
                           
                              I have so trusted—thou hast so deceived.
                              "Twas such a blessed dream, that on this earth
                              
                              Thy loving aid was mine. I am bereaved—
                              The balance-dust outweighs my future's worth.
                           
                           
                              For, we are never more as we have been,
                              Yet will I faint not in my hope's recoil;
                              I can look up, for nothing daunts my ken,
                              I have no more heart-gems the world can spoil.
                           
                           
                              Farewell! farewell! it is a prayer to speak
                              In parting, when a hope lives with the sorrow,
                              The dark cloud binding me will never break,
                              There is no sunrise for my soul to-morrow.
                           
                           
                              EULALIE.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Why! it was strange—something very like a tear fell on that printed leaf as Mr.
                  Vere pushed it away from him, and much in the manner of one inspired, he drew his
                  writing materials towards him, and dashed off the following letter:
               "The importunate whisperings of a voice in my soul impel me to write to you,
                  'Eulalie;' the suggestion of my heart would long ago have led me to
                  do this, but reason, shame, and regret, that equalled my remorse, have forbidden;
                  they restrain me no longer; the spirit of the past—the very distant past—is upon
                  me. I have a confession to make—a reconciliation to crave. I see in that past a
                  record of my wretched mistake, my miserable misdoing; and, believe me, they have
                  worked on me their unhappy results to this hour.
               "I have a longing to humble myself before you. It is an idle homage to pay at so
                  late an hour; but I must pay it—I must pray for your forgiveness. I wish to
                  extenuate nothing; it was my base, selfish, my contemptible pride, my unholy,
                  impure, polluted ambition, that made me false to my vows with you. I have lived,
                  till of late, 'Eulalie,' in my own shadow. There are minds (yours is one of them
                  if it has developed as your girlhood promised,) in which the thunder-crash
                     accompanies the lightning: the intense power in extreme action is
                  seen and demonstrated. With me it has been otherwise: results have followed, to my
                  apprehension, slowly on their causes; therefore it is, that after so many years
                  have come and gone, I appear, penitential, and as a beggar, to throw myself at
                  your feet, for the first time seeing my sin, (I can call it by no lighter name,)
                  in all its hideous proportions. I have lived behind myself; how else
                  can I account for it that I am existing, self-robbed of the best good that was
                  ever in my grasping? How else can I account for it that I am alone and solitary,
                  unblessed, unblessing? that you, whom I loved devoutly, are not here to make a
                  fiction of such words as I am writing?
               "The vow of our youth, it is my shame and disgrace that it was not
                  fulfilled—its repetition was our last word in parting. Oh, Eulalie! this
                  self-reproach!
               "I never knew the effect my falsity produced on you. I would ask, if
                  I dared, were you the author of these lines, 'A Farewell,' which came to me long
                  ago—if you addressed them to me? It would be in no spirit of idle curiosity I
                  should ask—for the knowledge could only make my self-condemnation and reproach
                  keener still. I am alone, and longing, above all things, to hear your voice again.
                  There is much that I might explain, much that you might find to palliate in my
                  offence, could we once more speak together. I heard of you five years
                  ago in your old home. You were then still winning honors, loved, and famous. I
                  would seek you there, had I the courage to do it. If I may not come to you again,
                  will you not write to me, and say that I am forgiven? You are wise; God has
                  brilliantly gifted you; it will be a comparatively easy thing for you to pardon
                  what, only in the hours of your youth, may have seemed a wrong. Perhaps you have
                  even lived to rejoice that I proved false and fickle—worse than a fool. I do not
                  offer my love anew—I only pray you answer me."
               There was no more hooting of the owl that night; but the bird only paused in its
                  duty on account of the rain. Day by day, for the succeeding three months of
                  summer, as it had been during all the spring, it continued a frequent visitor at
                  the cottage-eaves; and nothing prevented its coming to a speedy death, but the
                  superstitious idea which haunted Mr. Vere, that listening to the creature was but
                  a part of the penalty he was condemned to pay for the transgression of his
                  youth.
               In the autumn, came this letter to him:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                           
                              "MY DEAR AUGUSTINE,—
                           
                           "Your letter, three months old, is lying open before me. I have only
                              to plead an unusual pressure of duty as my reason for so long delaying
                              its answer. Will you pardon me? for, indeed, I have had you often in
                              my thought, and have longed to convince you how truly I am your
                              friend.
                           "You asked if I were the author of those lines to which you referred.
                              I can imagine what you believe: 'Eulalie' having been my signature in
                              those days when I was so fool-hardy as to attempt authorship. Will you
                              credit my words, my shame in claiming them arises only from an
                              afflicting consciousness of their entire want of artistic beauty. You
                              must regard them, not with the eye of a critic, but as a mere
                              passionate outbreak from a heart that fancied it was broken and
                              wretched forever.
                           "Go with me for a moment to the past. It is by no flowery path I lead
                              you back. I was seventeen years old then. You were very little older.
                              Step by step, I could hardly trace my way to that point.... My life
                              has been, of latter years, exceedingly barren of incident—there are
                              few landmarks visible. I have scarcely thought to count the
                              mile-stones, or to look up to the guide-boards. But this is
                              digression.
                           "You remember—we had met but a few times, yet in our youthful zeal we
                              ventured to take the vows of eternal faithfulness upon us. We counted
                              on nothing but our own power of constancy, and so were betrothed. It
                              was foolish—we knew so little of each other. We trusted too much to
                              that similarity of taste which had led us to one profession. You knew
                              I had ambitious fancies—had won a trifle of attention by my verses.
                              You, also being literary, had better prospects of success
                              than I. Your uncommon powers as a critic and reviewer were even then
                              developing; thus, as young aspirants for immortality of fame, our
                              pursuits brought about a union between us, which we thought
                              indissoluble. Accident parted us. During three years I think our
                              engagement remained firm. But you were more fortunate than I—were in
                              the world. The kind of ability you possessed was more in demand than
                              my poetic talent. You prospered, because famous. I watched your
                              progress proudly; I labored to become your equal. It was not after all
                              strange, believe me I do not think it at all strange now,
                              that you found among the crowds of people with whom you became
                              acquainted, one who seemed to you, who was more
                              brilliant, more attractive, more engaging and loveable than a simple
                              country girl, whose way of life had kept her nature from
                              developing,—had made her quiet and reserved. As to the charge of
                              inconstancy, I will not even prefer that. I know the power of
                              temptation, and happily recollect my own entire want of beauty, and
                              conversational talent.
                           "I am writing of these things as they seem to a woman—honestly, as
                              they seem to me now. It costs me more of a struggle to go back again
                              to the past myself, in my own spirit, as it was mine when young—to
                              tell you how the sudden tidings of your marriage came to the deserted
                              girl. Yet I feel strong to do it; and neither you nor I, I trust, are
                              violating any duty, in speaking thus together of an event
                              so long gone by. We are too old, have passed individually through too
                              much, have learned ourselves too well to speak such things in another
                              spirit than it is right for us to speak.
                           "There were days and weeks which went by without leaving any trace in
                              my memory save the one hope that I might die. For a time the ability
                              to think or act as a rational being, the thought of fame, the love of
                              life, were over. Had the Angel of Death come to me then, I would
                              gladly have given him my hand, and hastened his steps as he led me
                              away. But I was to live; and once, I remember that day well, in the
                              overflowing anguish of my heart, in the bitterness of my
                              disappointment, I did write those lines of which you
                              speak. It has been said that a woman never writes such verses from the
                              heart. No woman, I suppose, would record
                              such sorrow; that one who had seen seventeen years only, might, in the
                              very abandonment and recklessness of her desolation have done it, I
                              prove. The verses were written, were printed, and I read them, when
                              every word that had come with a pang from my soul, returned with an
                              honest echo there. My recovery from that shock was sudden and strange,
                              I recollect it well. Even while I was weeping, and lamenting most
                              bitterly, a revulsion came over me; it was not pride, nor hate for
                              you, but shame and contempt for myself,  that I could suffer any
                              disappointment to so overwhelm me. Then I deliberately battled with
                              myself till my reason conquered my grief, and I was free again. I grew
                              so strong as even to pray for your happiness after that—to look and
                              listen with longing for the story of your success. And no one could
                              have felt a greater disappointment than I, Augustine, when I learned
                              that you had abandoned the pursuit of fame. A thought that you
                              deserved congratulation for this, also, mingled with my regret; for I
                              knew, by my own fortune, that you were thus escaping peculiar
                              disappointment and trial, peculiar temptation too. I heard of you,
                              though, in other ways, and believe me, I was glad to learn that you
                              were married to a good and lovely woman, and that yours was a happy
                              home. If you asked me —are you happy? I could answer you
                              at once, yes—I am content with my lot—I could not wish it otherwise.
                              Were I not happy, content, I would scarcely dare ask you
                              and yours to come here. I should fear another awakening of old
                              memories than that which your letter has caused. Will you not
                                 come here?
                           
                           "It is long since I have poetized; when I wrote these verses, which I
                              send you, I was thinking only of you. They will come to you fraught
                              with another tone than the 'Farewell' you mentioned. My heart was
                              glowing with a true, friendly feeling for you when I wrote them; can
                              you call to mind the day of which they were written?
                           
                              I very, very often think of thee,
                              And of that lovely day when we, together
                              Through the wild woods and fields went merrily,
                              As blithe wert thou as that bright summer weather.
                              No faintest cloud flecked the clear sapphire sky;
                              Oh, dost remember how the sun that morning
                              Trode, "like a god," his course, and from on high
                              Looked his proud smile, vouchsafed for earth's
                                 adorning?
                              Dost thou remember how the woods were hushed,
                              And how those waters crept, so slow and solemn
                              To the high wall, how leaping far they gushed
                              To quickened life, 'neath their own misty column?
                              A dearer friend or day I shall not see—
                              Dost thou remember, dost thou think of me?
                           
                           
                              
                                 Remember us! for we are gone afar,
                              That day and I, and summer hours are ended.
                              Dear love, I tread beneath another star,
                              We dreamed beneath one star our fate was
                                 blended.
                              
                                 Remember us! the sunshine will come back
                              I pray to herald thee more blest affection,
                              And if the shadows spread along thy track,
                              Think! without sunlight they have no reflection!
                              Wild storms are glorious; oh, if they dash
                              Thy best hopes to and fro in wild commotion,
                              See! midst the tempest and the thunder-crash
                              From the far depths rise the pure pearls of ocean!
                              I have no fear for thee in weal or wo,
                              Thy brave, high heart, thy hero-heart I know.
                           
                           "Adieu, Augustine. Do not falsify my prophetic words.
                           
                              Believe me ever truly your friend,
                              "EULALIE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               There was a response, eager and instant, given to that letter.
               
                  "You will receive me—you even bid me come to you! oh, 'Eulalie!'
                     let me tell you how I come, with what hope, with what exceeding thankfulness.
                     Through my stagnant heart a new tide of life is flowing—the rainbow—the
                     glory-hue is over all the world again, and I also am young once more—for you
                     have forgiven me! Do I err in thinking that coming to you now, we shall both
                     lose sight of all the past years, and be as in our youth, affianced? What have
                     I written? It is that which lies in my inmost heart, 'Eulalie,' its most
                     treasured hope, most sacred idea! I have lived for years alone. God took her
                     from the earth, whom I suffered to come between you and me. She was a glorious,
                     a beautiful woman; a blessing while she lived, an angel long before she died.
                     If I knew what I believe, that she is my guardian angel, aware of
                     all my thoughts for you, I would not shrink before such knowledge: she would
                     rejoice if I could make reparation in any shape for the sin of my youth.
                  "Will you suffer me to come to you with such thoughts? will your kindness
                     receive—will your compassion refrain from condemning? will your
                        love await me? What do I ask? Forgiveness was a small thing
                     compared with this.—I will fill any measure of greatness that you could wish.
                     if you will so
                      receive me. Does it sound to you
                     like barter? You have fame enough to satisfy, might be your answer. I know it
                     well—but I will lead you on—I will myself scale a higher height, which you have
                     not yet dared attempt. Your presence, your words, would be a continual
                     inspiration. Remaining as I am, I shall inevitably be
                        lost—desperate—lonely—nothing! With hopes such as a mere friend
                     never cherished, I would come to you. May I thus come? Your answer
                     decides my life—it will send me back to the outer darkness, or forward through
                     the pearly gates to a realm of light and glory. I am waiting your answer—think,
                     'Eulalie,' how it is I wait!"
               
               There was reparation such as the deserted orphan in her bitterest sorrow could not
                  have wished, visited on Augustine Vere in the answer which he speedily received to
                  his appealing note.
               "I am distressed beyond measure—I cannot forgive myself—am astonished, annoyed I
                  would say, but the word expresses too lightly the real grief that I feel in
                  reading your letter, Augustine. Did you, indeed, think of me in a lover-light,
                  when you wrote? Do you mean it, when you say, 'you have ventured your
                  future happiness in a thought of me.' God help you! God help us both! I cannot
                  sufficiently deplore this sad eventuation.
               "I have friendship that I can give you, faithful, pure, and good as one human
                  being ever offered to another—I have even love for you—but I am bound
                  by other ties as well. Is it possible that you do not know I am a wife, a mother?
                  It is four years since I married. When your first letter came to me, trusting to
                  your own and my integrity, I was glad to hear from you; glad that you
                  thought my friendship worth the asking; I did not imagine till the letter came,
                  which has so troubled me, that you had other thoughts than of reconcilement. My
                  friend, I have but one prayer now to offer for you. Be a dreamer no longer, arouse
                  and act! come into the world, come here if you will; I shall be glad
                  to see you, and proud to show you my husband and my children. I long to know you
                  as taking that place among honored men which you will be justified in occupying. I
                     long to see you: I can say what I will not write, for I must not
                  render my words liable to misconstruction; come, and I will speak, knowing well
                  that spirits undefiled and pure, listen. We are children no longer; we are
                  laborers in one vineyard; are we not? We can assist one another in our work, can
                  counsel and guide. You must not waste any more of your years. There is work to be
                  done: fail you not!"
               He read these words with tears, but he obeyed their bidding. Every line of the
                  letter pierced his soul; and the hooting owl almost maddened him with its "to
                  who?" but the sickness of his heart had passed, he lifted up his
                  spirit, weak, though it was with remorse and a vain regret, and he grew strong
                  again.
               After all, "Eulalie" died first, and of a broken heart! Not love-broken was it.
                  She never panted for better gods of earth than were given her in her own home, her
                  children and her husband. But the world, the coward, soulless world, saw her, in
                  the strength of her purity, extending a friendly and directing hand to Augustine
                  Vere—saw her as it seemed, guiding and leading him who needed such a counsellor as
                  she proved, and then a voice of scandal rose— 
                     
                        "A whisper broke the air,
                        A soft, light tone and low,
                        Yet barbed with shame and wo."
                     
                  
               
               And the whisper gathered strength and force, and went out abroad into the world,
                  and smiling lips repeated it, and hard hearts lent it credence, till it came back
                  at last in all its terrible exaggeration, its awful falsity with a "thunder-tone"
                  to Eulalie. Then she died!
               Would that the grim, gray owl might haunt forever the homes of those whose
                  poisoned arrow found her gentle heart! Would that a jot of the tender sympathy,
                  the holy tenderness that made her life so precious to dear "hearts of home," might
                  fall on them, (an unwonted blessing it would prove!) teaching them that gratitude
                  and love, instead of "envy, hatred, and malice, and all uncharitableness," were
                  due, 
                     "They know to who! to who!"
                  
               
            
            
               
               MAGNETIC INFLUENCES.
               "POVERTY had made fierce assaults on my father's house, and when I reached my
                  tenth year my childhood was over, and the necessity of labor upon me. Thus far, I
                  had been struggling with the trouble and the sorrow that come with want, and this
                  was the reason—oh, it assuredly was not a want of natural affection!—that I went
                  from home for the first time, and set out in life for myself, without grief,
                  without fear, without even a thought of shrinking from that future on which, alone
                  and unfriended, I launched my frail life-boat. When I look upon that far-off time
                  now, I can see something tragically comic in the final parting with my mother and
                  brothers. Not one of us shed a tear, but I know my mother's voice trembled when
                  she looked her last on me, and bade me be a good boy, and keep from evil company.
                  The blessing of that poor, struggling, blessed woman was all that I took with me
                  when I went out on my uncertain pilgrimage in search of bread and work.
               "There were four of us children. Joseph, my oldest brother, was learning a trade.
                  Tom and Martin, both younger than I, had as yet found no place in the service of
                  richer people, though Tom, then eight years old, was promised some situation in
                  the spring. From the time when I first learned to read, or to really know
                  anything, my great desire was to be a printer—that was my father's trade; but he
                  and my mother always discouraged the wish. My father all his life had been
                  unfortunate, and his mind was not strong to rise up, and brave, and conquer the
                  difficulties in his way; he sunk under them all, and his bad habits had greatly
                  added to our household misery and want. This it was that made my mother shrink
                  from the thought of one of her children learning such a trade: because her husband
                  had done so miserably by it, she imagined it was the poor trade that was to blame,
                  when in fact the fault was his own, the failure his own, the inefficiency his own.
                  The opposition I met with at home only decided my predilections, and when I set
                  out for Burlington, which city was distant only about twelve miles from the place
                  where we lived, my firm and only intention was to learn the printer's trade.
               "I had my reason for so firmly adhering to this choice: one of the few books my
                  father owned was a biography of Franklin, and from that, and some other books, I
                  gathered that the surest way to distinction and place led from the
                  printing-office. Perhaps I did not covet honor and place so much at first, but I
                  felt that the printing-house was also the vestibule of the temple of knowledge to
                  the children of the poor, and there were golden fruits which I longed to taste,
                  and money which I wished to change in that temple.
               "I remember distinctly the day when I first made application to a publisher for
                  employment. Oh, what a wild and hazardous attempt it was, for a young, misshapen
                  child like me to make! I went to many offices and asked for work in vain; and at
                  last, more in desperation than hope, I found my way into a poorer and smaller
                  house, where in one room the working-presses and workmen were gathered together. I
                  had been advised by those of whom I sought employment, to go home and wait till I
                  grew older, and larger, and better able to work: but I would not be entirely cast
                  down; I would not think of having to return to my poor mother; I
                     would find something to do. It was in this spirit that I entered
                  the Journal office. Mason, the man who carried on the publishing,
                  was there when I went in, but he seemed just then very busy, so I went away and
                  stood with folded hands in an out-of-the-way place till he called me to him. I did
                  not think he had noticed me as I went in, or that he really saw me
                  when he lifted his gray eyes upon me for an instant.
               "When he called me, 'Boy, come here; what's your business in this place? I went up
                  to him and said, boldly, for I began to think it was 'live or die' with me, 'Work
                  in your office, sir.'  'You are too
                  young,' he said; 'you are—are lame?' 'No, sir,' I answered, 'I am not
                     lame, nor very young. I am old enough to work, and poor enough,
                  too.' 'Are you very poor?' he asked, quickly, and with an interest of
                  which he seemed almost ashamed; then he added: 'What could you do here?' 'Learn to
                  be a printer,' said I, but with a sinking heart; 'what Franklin was.' 'You can be
                  of no use to me for a long time: what shall you do if you go back
                  home?' 'I shall not go,' I said, with determination. 'What! a runaway?' 'No, sir!
                  a poor woman's son, who has lived on his mother's earnings long enough.' When I
                  said this, a look, as though the questioner had himself not yet forgotten what it
                  was to weep, passed over Mr. Mason's face. He seemed, for a moment or two, lost in
                  thought, and it was very gravely that he then looked up and said: 'Are you
                  inclined to be industrious? to earn every morsel of food you eat,
                  every hour you sleep. Going to work in such a place as this is no sport, my boy;
                  it's the hardest kind of labor. There are very few who turn out to be
                  Franklins.'
               "'I am here to work,' I replied; 'must work, or die.' He got up at
                  once, when I said this, and leading me across the room to a man, gray-headed, yet
                  not much older than himself, said to him: 'Thompson, I wish you would look after
                  this boy: he has come here to learn the trade: don't push him too hard, but make
                  him learn.' Thompson looked at me an instant, and with a 'Yes, sir,' resumed his
                  proof-reading. Mr. Mason walked off a step or two, but then turned back.
                  'Thompson,' he said, 'can you find anything to set him at work on to-day?' 'He
                  shall have lots to do, if that's what he wants,' said the man, briefly, yet not
                  unkindly. 'Let him go home with you to your boarding-house, and you will confer a
                  favor on me by looking after him occasionally, my dear fellow; we
                  must make a man of him.' And Mason went off.
               "Thompson turned to his proof-reading again then, and continued occupied with it
                  for some time. When he had finished his work, he took out his watch, and glancing
                  at it, arose, and laid his papers away; then striding toward the door, he said to
                  me, 'Come.' I had been gazing steadfastly at him till he spoke, and though no
                  physiognomist, I was not afraid to obey him at once, and to ask him where we were
                  going. 'To dinner,' was the reply; and to dinner, and breakfast, and tea, I went
                  daily with that man for five years, and had never occasion to question the entire
                  confidence with which, on that happy morning, I accompanied the Quaker bachelor to
                  the place where he boarded.
               "Thompson was not an old man, though his hair was very gray; he had the silent,
                  subdued manner and look of one who has passed through much tribulation, and in all
                  his suffering remembered that the wicked shall not always triumph, that the just
                  shall live by faith. A more thoroughly just man, I never met; a kinder, more
                  forgiving soul have I never seen. His meekness, being essentially of the spirit,
                  never assumed the cringing, unnatural garb of the hypocrite. I have thought since,
                  that the light of his excellency should have been rather placed on the hill-top,
                  than suffered to burn in that narrow, contracted sphere of labor; that such virtue
                  and true godliness might, but for a fate the most untoward, have been mightily
                  influential in a wide sphere of action. But when I have thought so, it has
                  invariably occurred to me afterward, 'Perhaps the good seed that his example was
                  permitted to sow in the hearts of the young men who came within his influence was,
                  after all, as important work as he could otherwise have possibly performed in the
                  Lord's service.' If my pen were equal to the task, if my heart were sanctified for
                  the work, I would give the world a 'record of the good man's life;' but I cannot
                  do it yet. I am not meet for the task. Perhaps—some day—
               "Thompson wrote much and constantly for the paper; to it he had devoted his mental
                  energies for fifteen years, and the work, as far as worldly riches were concerned,
                  had poorly paid him; but his ambition was not for riches, and every number of the
                  paper issued, was dear as a child to him. Nearly all the correspondence of the
                     Journal was in his hands. As a critic, he might have been
                  thought severe, and at times unnecessarily so; but it was because of his
                  determination, formed in youth, as he himself told me, to maintain (so far as he
                  had to do with it) the high honor and integrity of the press, unbiased, unsold,
                  that he spoke out plainly convictions, which, in another case, his charity would
                  certainly have concealed in his own breast. The  appearance of this man always reminded me of a
                  tamed lion. He was of immense frame, but very thin, and his Quaker garb gave him
                  almost the look of a Titan. I have mentioned him thus particularly, because, from
                  the first, he was as a father to me.
               "I have at this time no exciting events to narrate of my connection
                  with him. He operated on my destiny only in the way (oh, how powerful
                  that is!) which the loved and honored elder friend may work, without ever formally
                  reading one chapter of advice to his young companion. I loved him as I had never
                  loved a human being, from the very first day of my acquaintance with him; from the
                  time when he first placed the working stand for me, and gave me my lesson in the
                  glorious art of printing. My heart beat quicker than it ever had before, when his
                  toil-stained, bony hand touched mine: that was the hand which placed me firmly on
                  the ladder whereby I fancied I was to mount to greatness!
               "From the day when Mr. Thompson was witness to the indentures drawn up between Mr.
                  Mason and myself, (which day I may truly say was the very happiest of my life,)
                  the bachelor seemed to view me as his own peculiar property; the care with which
                  he watched me, was like that a guardian angel might have exerted to lead a
                  helpless, lonely child, in the right way. At the first I slept in a room occupied
                  by two other of the printer-boys; but one night they got into a furious quarrel,
                  and raised such a disturbance that I escaped in terror to Mr. Thompson's room, and
                  always after that I shared his bed. I lived with him in Mr. Mason's employ until
                  my sixteenth year, when my dear friend died. My trade was well learned, and when
                  my master failed, which he did shortly after Thompson died, he generously gave me
                  my liberty, with credentials of professional ability. I had nothing to do now but
                  to plan and to fulfil. My chief hope amounted to but this: I would, some day, when
                  able, purchase an interest in one of the popular weekly literary papers; and there
                  was one thought which supported me in all my wildest hopes. The year in which I
                  was born, saw the death of one of the most glorious sons of fame. He was a man
                  whom 'kings delighted to honor,' whom the world reverenced, the great 'all-sided
                  one.' Had any measure of his spirit fallen on me?
               "I read a memoir of this greatly beloved author one stormy night during Thompson's
                  illness. When I left the office at evening, Mr. Mason handed it to me for critical
                  notice, and I read it from beginning to end to my friend, before we slept. We were
                  both carried away with the charming style of the narrative, and with the deep
                  interest of the subject; and when I closed the book at last, Thompson said, in a
                  tone of half-regret:
               "'Warren, I should have been an author.'
               "'You are,' I answered.
               "'No! no!' he exclaimed, 'it's a wasting time I've had of it; this job-work with
                  the intellect is surely not the thing, at least for one who feels
                  that his range should be higher. Warren, dost thou aspire to be an editor?'
               "'It is one of the most commanding positions a man can occupy,' I said;
                  'assuredly, sir, I do not aspire to anything better.'
               "'If thou wert wealthy, and could afford to conduct a paper for thine own
                  amusement, AND the good of others, or for thine own intellectual exertion, it
                  might be well enough: oh, it is a cramping, tempting office, for a poor man!'
               "'Do you know, sir,' I said, chiefly desirous to change the current of his
                  thoughts, 'this poet died the very year I was born?'
               "'Dost thou argue smooth things from that, my boy?' asked he, with an
                  almost sighing voice. 'Thou dost then believe in the transmission of soul?'
               "'Not that, but—'
               "'But the book has opened a new theme of thought for thee? It is well: the fact
                  that thou art capable of the thought argues much. Well! why shouldst thou
                     not wear the mantle of the great departed?'
               "I could not answer 'why,' but this I know, there was a great hope borne into my
                  soul that night, and for a time nothing could dislodge it. Since then? Dost thou
                  ask, 'Since then?' I have not yet finished my course. I remember,
                  after Thompson son slept that night, I
                  wrote some verses, suggested by this new thought. I can recall now only one,
                  beginning: 
                     
                        "'My birth fell in thy death-year; was it chance
                        That sent me light as thy grand eyes grew dim?
                        Across the record of thy life I glance,
                        And to my soul another hope would win.'
                     
                  
               
               "In my twenty-fifth year, I found myself in a great commercial city, in the
                  editorial chair of a well-established literary paper, of which I had, by purchase,
                  become the joint proprietor. Thompson had left to me, by will, nearly all the
                  little property he possessed, and industriously and faithfully had I endeavored to
                  add to it, till the darling wish of my heart was accomplished. It had been, as Mr.
                  Mason foretold, no play-work by which I came up to this station: by the hardest
                  manual labor, and by active head-work alone, I managed to accomplish all. It had
                  been nearly fifteen years of such labor as brings premature age on a man, but the
                  thought of my Elijah's mantle had made me equal to it. In the world of the
                  pre-existent might I not have walked with him side by
                  side? Might not a portion of the spirit of the great departed have fallen, as he
                  soared heavenward, on me? Me, the weak and helpless child, whose
                  first breath was drawn in a world about to be bereaved of one of its mightiest
                  minds, about to hush its heart with awful grief, to hear his parting cry?
               "If this thought was a vanity, it nevertheless acted on me as an
                  inspiration. The early youth of the poet had been spent in poverty as keen, and
                  want as imperative as mine: how gloriously, with the power of true genius, with
                  the patience which is the hand-maid of true genius, had he struggled through all
                  the clouds of darkness to a day of peerless brightness! And I said to myself as I
                  thought of all this: 'It may be a poetic, extravagant, presumptuous fancy, this of
                  mine, but I will yet be dear to my country as he was to his Germany:
                  if the thought is a fancy, and not an inspiration, I will prove, for
                  my own satisfaction, that mind can make a reality of an ambitious imagining.'
               "My position as an acknowledged editor of a literary paper, introduced me at
                  length to new circles. My partner was much older than myself: after graduating at
                  college, he had adopted this profession from choice. As a long-acknowledged
                  'member of society,' he had much the advantage of me; and his rare talents would
                  have secured success to any paper he chose to conduct, so long as he continued
                  faithful to its interests. My knowledge of society had been gathered chiefly from
                  books: even had my social rank, anterior to editorship, secured free entrance to
                  refined and cultivated intellectual society, the constant and severe application
                  demanded by my necessitous condition would have prevented me; and when Mr. Curtis
                  insisted, one night, on my accompanying him to a select literary party at the
                  house of one of his fashionable friends, where he promised I should see a human
                  arts-union, I accepted the invitation in much trepidation, for I was keenly alive
                  to the personal disadvantages under which I labored.
               "What was the chief impression, the most lasting memory of that night? It was then
                  that I first met with Jane Baltimore!
               "I remember, it was with a thrill of commiseration that, shortly after entering
                  the splendid saloon, I observed her standing alone by herself, her eyes gazing on
                  one of the lovely pictures which crowded the walls. The commiseration was as keen
                  for myself as for her, when I thought on us two there; we of all others seemed so
                  out of place in the magnificence of that dwelling. We, alone, I thought, gave
                  unmistakable evidence that we had come out of a hard land of bondage, pursued
                  through the sea of division by opposing foes; dwellers in the home of all our
                  aspirations, if indeed we were dwellers, and not pilgrims and strangers, more by
                  miracle than in any other way. Certainly we did stand among the 'elect of
                  genius,'—was it by courtesy, or by right? One thing is certain, notwithstanding,
                  nay, because of the early struggle and the hard, unequal contest, and
                  the victory. I have seen that girl standing, since that night, no longer neglected
                  or out of place; ay! even among the most polished, robed in her intellectual
                  beauty, and it was a more brilliant raiment than any jewelled robe. But of this
                  hereafter.
               
               "This girl, 'Jane Baltimore,' was in the course of the evening introduced to me by
                  Mr. Curtis, as one of the contributors for our paper. Before I entered the office
                  she had written, and since then, constantly, for its columns: her pen treated on
                  all subjects, and ably on all. Personally, I had known nothing of her; had merely
                  been told that she was a paid contributor. Her productions, whether poetry, prose,
                  imaginative, political, or religious, had always appeared anonymously, and it had
                  seemed strange to me that this should be so. I did not want to believe that
                  poverty was the motive that guided a woman's pen so continuously. Once I had asked
                  Mr. Curtis of her, and he said that the young person was writing for a living, and
                  that was all he knew of her. He himself did not till this evening make her
                  personal acquaintance, and then it was through our hostess, Mrs. Bey. (This lady,
                  I may here mention, was a devoted patroness of 'rising genius,' and she prided
                  herself much on the office. She it was who, having learned in some way of Miss
                  Baltimore's existence and talent, forthwith numbered her among the young 'lions'
                  whom it was her peculiar duty to pet and look after, till they grew in fame to
                  respectable dimensions, when it would of course be her happy privilege to lay
                  claim to their everlasting gratitude.)
               "That the young 'unknown' had appeared on this occasion unwillingly, was obvious,
                  for she was a stranger by station as well as reputation to all there present; and
                  as I said before, it was therefore with a feeling of compassion, both for her and
                  myself, that I sought an introduction, and devoted myself to her during the
                  remainder of the evening. Understand me, it was not with a thought of
                  condescension, which would have been most ridiculous in me, who had come up from
                  the depths to the surface, nor with an idea of pity, other than that I felt due to
                  myself, in still greater measure. If I had offered my attentions in that spirit of
                  common but unpardonable vanity which admitted the idea that I was conferring a
                  favor, I should have been at once repelled by the reception my advances met. There
                  was a coldness and constraint in all Miss Baltimore's words, which, had I not
                  learned a great deal of her intellect from her written thoughts, would have struck
                  me as stupidity; but her reserve roused my curiosity, or rather that obstinate
                  spirit which in me was for ever up and determined to conquer every thing that
                  looked like an obstacle. And when I read, or fancied I read in her manner, 'My
                  mind is my own, a stranger shall not intermeddle with it,' I felt that the secret
                  of it lay in the neglect, poverty, and seclusion, in which her life was
                  passed.
               "Arm-in-arm we moved from the larger saloon to a smaller apartment, where there
                  were fewer guests. We had been gazing on two remarkable pictures, 'Beatrice
                  Cenci,' and 'Ulalume,' both which seemed absolutely and startlingly alive with
                  passion. The first of these was the representation of a magnificent woman,
                  trembling over the death-sentence, and in the proud consciousness that she has won
                  a nobler boon than life in another case had been: in the other was the very
                  intensest out-breathing of love, in its full devotedness, that I have ever seen or
                  dreamed—Ulalume dying to life, and to the life of life, to him! After
                  gazing without a word upon these pictures, my companion made a sudden motion
                  forward, but did not otherwise express a wish to escape the fascinating,
                  overpowering charm of the portraits; and so it was that we went into a farther
                  saloon. 'What a sweet picture, so quiet and peaceful!' was her exclamation,
                  stopping short before the mantel above which was suspended one of the most
                  exquisite portraits of childhood.
               "I recognised the work as the production of a young artist whose acquaintance I
                  had recently made: on my first visit to his studio this just-finished picture
                  formed its chief adornment; and I said to her, 'Theodore Young has a brilliant
                  future in store for him: he has only to exert himself, and he will win a high
                  prize.'
               "'Theodore Young!' she repeated, (and I confess she had listened to my last remark
                  with far more interest than she had previously shown;) 'is he really an
                  artist?'
               "'By their works ye shall know them,' answered I; 'do you think the painter of
                  that face deserving of the name?'
               "'Yes. Is the artist a slightly lame young man, with peculiar, bright-blue
                  eyes?"
               "'He is; and one of the handsomest men I have ever met.'
               
               "'And you say he is an artist by profession. Does he live in this city?'
               "'He has, since I knew him; but I have made his acquaintance very recently.'
               "'But, knowing him at all, you will be able to answer if I also am a
                  true artist. I can however copy only with words. I had a friend long ago whose
                  name was the same as your friend's. We were children together brought up in the
                  same village. I have not seen him in a great many years. He was a beautiful boy,
                  his manners most winning, and kind, and amiable; but not amiable from mental
                  weakness: I could never conceive how that should have been mistaken for merit; but
                  he had always the most passionate love for beautiful things, and his character was
                  most beautiful. I should have thought that he would have proved a poet rather than
                  an artist, but I suppose the gift is much the same. When I knew him, he was too
                  young to be professedly either; at least, he was neither in deed. His hair was
                  light and curling. He was slightly lame, as I said, but this was never an
                  impediment to his free movements; he was as agile as most boys who have the free
                  use of their limbs. Could such a boy, by any possibility, grow into the man you
                  know?'
               "'So possible that it is not probable Mr. Young is any other than your early
                  friend. You have drawn him to the life; but he is very much older than you.'
               "A hand rested lightly on my shoulder as I spoke thus, and a low voice said, 'How
                  came you in this den of lions, my Daniel, pray? Introduce me;' and turning, I saw
                  the young artist close beside me. Under the circumstances, I deemed myself
                  excusable for saying, without her previous assent, 'Miss Baltimore, the artist,
                  Mr. Young, craves an introduction.' She bowed; they exchanged a few words, as one
                  stranger with another; and when we were shortly after again alone, she said, 'I
                  would not speak of the past to him, not of my past here. Should we
                  meet again, and it seem desirable—But,' she said quickly, interrupting herself,
                  'you will do me a favor by not mentioning to Mr. Young what I have said of him.
                  Excuse me, but the professional relations we hold emboldens me to say what could
                  not be said to a stranger.'
               "I accompanied Miss Baltimore to her lodging-place, in one of the quietest streets
                  of the city; and I did so sincerely cherishing the hope of meeting her again. We
                  had both received invitations for the literary parties to be given weekly by Mrs.
                  Bey that winter, and I did not fail to express the wish that I might often meet my
                  valued contributor there. She was gifted—a genius. Was that the magnetic
                  attraction? For I felt irresistibly drawn toward her: she was poor, and without
                  beauty; what else could it be?
               "It was during the continuance of those winter soirees that the young artist, Mr.
                  Young, learned from her own lips of their childhood's friendship, and they became
                  again in manhood and womanhood the best of friends. They stood on equal footing
                  now; they both were laboring geniuses. Though as children they had been thrown
                  together, his station then in the world had been far higher than hers. They had
                  been educated at the same primary school, but with this difference: she as the
                  adopted, half-servant, half-what? of an excellent family; he the only son of a
                  gentleman of reputed wealth. That wealth had proved to be of a very shadowy
                  character, and Theodore had been early left an orphan, and only half-educated. In
                  this one respect the adopted had a little the advantage, for she was sent to
                  school from her fifth till her thirteenth year. Her benefactress, who was without
                  children, in dying had left her a sum of money, but it was not sufficient to keep
                  her above want, and the ambitious girl early resolved to be an authoress.
               "When Theodore Young left his native village he and Jane were very young;
                  recollection of her had quite, and but for seeming accident for ever, passed from
                  his mind; but now, and thus, they had met again, and very pleasantly, and perhaps
                  not a little proudly.
               "The romance which occasionally flowed from Miss Baltimore's pen convinced me that
                  she was capable of great things in the exercise of her imaginative powers, and I
                  felt as though the constant flow demanded by necessity of her intellect in
                  channels of politics, and still less inviting themes, was doing  injustice to one whom nature had evidently prepared
                  for a high and beautiful exercise of thought and fancy. My business connection
                  with her warranted, as the result proved, the suggestion on my part, that she
                  should exert her mind in producing articles of a less ephemeral nature than were
                  suited for the columns of a newspaper. She listened to the proposal with such
                  evident gratitude; that I lost no time in introducing her name to the editor of
                  one of the first-class magazines, and was happily successful in arranging for her
                  contributions to it.
               "The reserve and quiet of the young girl, which she wore as armor of defence in
                  her intercourse with the world, was laid partially aside, with that expression of
                  confidence which did me infinite honor, as well as herself. And as week by week my
                  acquaintance with her mind increased, I felt that I loved her well; that she was
                  becoming dearer, more precious than any other human being had ever been to me—than
                  even Thompson. Yet love with me was not a passion. As the inherent treasures of
                  her mind became unfolded to me, from admiration and respect, which bordered on to
                  reverence for the purity and artlessness of my friend, I rapidly acquired a warmer
                  regard, and bore about the thought of her in my daily life as of something
                  intrinsically precious. Education had not done much toward enriching Jane
                  Baltimore's mind; none knew this better than herself: it was all inborn genius
                  which she brought out to please, and enlighten, and charm others. Yet I never met
                  with one more fully alive to mental necessities than she; and it was her hope to
                  toil forward from her daily need to a resting-place, where she might sit down in
                  the shade of the tree of knowledge, and ceasing to teach others what GOD had told
                  her, learn in turn of them.
               "With my love came naturally the thought of marriage. I had nothing wherewith to
                  endow a wife but a toil-worn hand, a small purse, a true heart; but I might give
                  to this woman companionship, protection, and assistance toward that place and time
                  of needful rest for which she was striving. I did not believe that my suit would
                  prove unsuccessful. I knew indeed there was no friend in whom she placed a more
                  firm reliance than on me, yet on that consideration I did not base my hope. It
                  would have been sheer selfishness in me to so interpret the sisterly regard which
                  I knew she felt for me. I found myself at last penning this letter to her: it was
                  a true exposition of all that I felt for her in my inmost heart. My feelings were
                  as calm when I wrote it as the words themselves are. There was no
                     passion whatever in my regard:
               "MY DEAR MISS BALTIMORE: I am about to speak of what, in late days, has become
                  matter of engrossing importance and interest to me. You will not receive this as
                  an ordinary business letter, although, in reality, I would now transact an affair
                  of business with you that must affect us as long as we live. I do not ask now for
                  an article for my paper, but one of contract for my heart, which shall bind us for
                  all time. Our pursuits, our aims, our tastes are one. We are both alone in the
                  world. What do we need most? Does your heart answer you, as mine does, (it is on
                  this high hope I base my letter,) a sympathizing companion, a familiar and
                  constant friend, a heart that shall never deceive us, a voice that shall be ever
                  ready to answer our hearts' call, an ear that is never deaf? It is
                     not good for man to be alone—alone as I have been since I first
                  went out to struggle in the world. Tell me, is it good for you? Can we not at a
                     home fire kindle larger and brighter thoughts, and take to
                  ourselves in that holy retirement new hope and refreshed courage? I believe it. I
                  trust in HEAVEN that you do also; but, 
                     
                        'IF not by a dearer name
                        Yet than all other,
                     
                   then, as a brother, let me still continue what I have been, and am, your
                  admiring friend and sincere well-wisher.
               "I awaited the answer to this letter in some anxiety. It came speedily, and
                  thus:
               "DEAR WARREN: I have but just received your letter. I reply to it with such a
                  blessed, confident, fraternal feeling, as does away with all that embarrassment
                  which, but for your constant kindness in past days, might otherwise at this time
                  have attended the expression of my thoughts. My brother, we  are blest indeed! If it will satisfy you, hear
                  this: For all the solitude, and sorrow, and longing of the past, I have received a
                  full recompense, not of reward, but of infinite mercy. Because my eyes are clear
                  to see in you a man in whom I can wholly confide, (not with rapturous idolatry,
                  which I believe to be the falsest of image-worship,) I am proud to think that you
                  have asked me to bear your name. I will yet do honor to it, as you have done
                  already. You will see I do not wish, I have no thought indeed, of escaping labor.
                  I will bear my part on our future way, thanking GOD that we shall tread together.
                  May HE and HIS holy angels have you in their keeping."
               "Before assuming marriage vows, I determined to revisit my native place, which I
                  had not done since, when a child, I left it. Not a word had ever come to me of the
                  fortunes of my parents and brothers. Now that I was capacitated to help them,
                  though it was in the very smallest measure, I felt it my duty to see if they
                  needed such aid as was in my poor power to give. Heaven knows I had had a struggle
                  of it heretofore, but my affairs were every day brightening, and it might be that
                  if they needed it, even I could now advance the prospects of my younger brothers.
                  I had often thought of this, and as often, from sheer inability to help, even if
                  the distress at home was ever so great, had kept away from there—in a selfish
                  fear, I acknowledge.
               "I went home to a desolated hearth. My Mother's rest was in the grave: she had
                  died, on the birth of a daughter, not a great while after I left home. My poor
                  father, too, had long since gone the way of all the earth. I found their graves in
                  the old church-yard, marked by two white wooden crosses—meet emblems for them who,
                  all their lives, from birth to death, had borne a cross of poverty! From the
                  burial-place, I went to a little old public house, which stood, in its
                  insignificance, looking as though aghast at the staring brick building which had
                  of late been built at the junction of two railroads that passed through the town.
                  This mean, poor, wooden building had been, at the time of my recollections of the
                  place, the only tavern there. It was the only thing that appeared natural, and
                  what a miniature of its former self it looked now!
               "The instant my eyes caught sight of the landlord of this house, I recollected
                  him: the same florid, good-looking, cheerful personage who had bought the 'White
                  Swan' just before I went from home. He did not look ten years older. His work had
                  not been of a kind that wearies the brain, and marks the face and form. There was
                  no danger of his recognising me, and so entering into a conversation
                  with him about the village-folk, I drew this much from him: That Gilbert Brooks,
                  my poor, poor father, and his eldest son, had died inebriates; that of the second
                  boy, called Warren, nothing had been heard since his first leaving home long ago;
                  that as to the two youngest boys, they were serving on the ocean as common
                  sailors, and had been for some years. 'I've reason to remember the family,' said
                  the man when he had narrated thus far; 'there was a mighty stir here when the
                  little girl was born, and Mrs. Brooks died.' 'How?' I asked carelessly; and the
                  gossip needed no farther encouragement to speak. 'There was a woman staying at my
                  house at the time: her husband had got hurt on the railroad; and folks was talking
                  so much about these poor people, and the babe that was so unfortunate as to come
                  into this world of sin and misery—.' The man stopped short here, and offered me a
                  glass, which, I declining, he finished for himself, and continued: 'Old Brooks was
                  bad off, no mistake; and this here woman, she took an interest in the child, and
                  finally concluded she'd take it to bring up herself. We all thought she'd do her
                  duty by the poor thing, if any one; a piouser soul you never see.' 'How old would
                  the girl be now, if she were living?' I asked. The man fell to reckoning, and
                  finally said, 'In her nineteenth year.'
               "I walked off; a thought was getting too strong for my brain. I paced up and down
                  the old piazza, longing to ask one other question, and was too cowardly to dare
                  it. But at last I could endure the suspense no longer, and going up to the
                  inn-keeper, I said, 'Do you chance to remember the name of the woman who took the
                  child?' 'Yes, by this token,' he replied, starting up and leading me by the arm to
                  the window in the bar-room, which looked out upon a large yard that was graced by
                  one single, immense elm-tree. Pointing to it, he said: 'There was  a hanging-bird's nest built there the same year, by
                  the most splendid bird I ever see. It 'tracted attention. Nobody knew what kind of
                  bird it was. This woman said it was a Baltimore oriole, and she said that was
                     her name, and bid my little girl to watch over the pretty creature
                  for her sake. The bird lived in that same tree for years; and that's the reason I
                  remember Mrs. Baltimore's name so well.'
               "And they had called HER Jane, after my mother! . . . And in my sister I had lost
                  my wife! Was it enough? I could hardly answer myself then; I confess it would be a
                  less difficult matter now.
               "When I returned to—, I took no time to think the matter over: the dim likeness to
                  some thing or some one, I had loved long ago, which I had always traced in Jane,
                  took a new meaning now—did not mount any longer to an unknown sphere on my
                  transcendental faith in pre-existences. It was with the thought of a brother going
                  to a beloved sister, that I began to think of the Jane I was going home to. The
                     astonishment of discovery over, I felt that it was all right and
                  joyous. The Magnetic Influence was explained to me!
               "I had been gone little over a fortnight: my first motion on reaching the city was
                  to call upon my sister. When I sent my name to her, a card was returned, on which
                  was written, 'I am glad to hear of your return, but am not well to-day. Excuse me,
                  dear Warren.' 'Show me to Miss Baltimore's room,' I said to the waiter who brought
                  the message, and the moment after I stood in Jane's little parlor. I went there
                  with the freedom of a brother, but my friend was of course not able to look upon
                  my intrusion in that light, and I fancied her surprise had a little of indignation
                  in it. 'I could not help it,' I said, apologising to her look; 'I must see you
                  to-day.' She blushed as I spoke, half rose, then sat again, and finally buried her
                  face in her hands, without speaking. 'I must know the meaning of this; you
                  astonish me,' I said. She looked up, but every particle of color and had fled from
                  her face, and taking a letter which lay open on the table beside her, threw
                  herself on the floor beside me, and said, 'You shall know, read; but forgive me,
                  oh, forgive me, Warren!'
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "'TO ONE WHO IS THE THOUGHT OF MY THOUGHTS, THE BRIDE OF MY
                                 HEART—JANE BALTIMORE:
                           
                           "'I have reached a point, at last, which I have for two years past
                              been striving to gain. I have a home to offer her who has become the
                              object of my adoration. Regard for you alone, dear lady, has prevented
                              my saying what my own inclination has tempted me often and often to
                              speak. For myself, your love—I dreamed that I might win it—and
                              poverty, had been enough; but I must have ease and leisure to offer
                              you, beside my love, or nothing. I imposed this necessity on myself,
                              and feel that it is well to have done so, for all difficulties are
                              conquered at last! at last! and now—shall I plead for naught? Oh, I
                              have looked into your eyes, and through them gazed forward into such a
                              future as poets dream of, as laborers only realize! More than the
                              loveliest creations of renowned artists, have you been to me in your
                              divine humility, your patience, and your loveliness. The mere thought
                              of you has been inspiration—assurance. In your pursuits
                              have you ever looked forward to a pleasant place, a shelter quiet, and
                              peaceful, and holy, over which the good angels will love to guard? In
                              such a paradise have I centred my best hopes. I have no wish to stand
                              in the Temple of Fame, a dweller there; and you—oh, are
                              not you content to go from this noise, and strife, and confusion, to
                              the shade of our own vine and fig-tree, where we may find shelter and
                              rest? JANE, will you go with me thither?'
                           "A shudder passed over me, almost a pang, as I read this letter, and
                              saw her at my feet weeping so violently. I had never seen
                              her weep before. Surely, it was not such feeling that my
                              letter had aroused. But I conquered my selfish thought with a
                              recollection: she was my sister still! and by her conduct must I not
                              so judge it? She, too, had known of this magnetic
                                 influence! I said: 'If you could, you would
                              obey your heart's dictates, and write no sisterly answer to this
                              proposal; your whole soul would leap out in a blind passion, as his;
                              you would rush to his embrace, not take him calmly by the hand. Do I
                              not read your heart aright?' There was still no answer.
                           "'And in GOD'S name, go,' I said solemnly; 'there is no bar.
                           
                           Jane, dear, dear Jane, I have heard that we had one father, one
                              mother: you are my own dear sister! One who'—Never, never
                              shall I forget that look of love (a sister's!) and gratitude she cast
                              upon me as I spoke thus; the next instant she was fainting at my
                              feet.
                           "That I recovered with no serious injury from the shock which, I
                              confess, the conviction gave me, that before she knew our relationship
                              Jane had infinitely preferred another before me, let the statement
                              that I also humbly sued on my knees for the love of the dear little
                              woman who is now my wife, answer; and the reader will be assured that
                              I learned speedily to be satisfied with the solution of that mystery
                              of magnetic influence, when I declare that I can now, as I did long
                              ago, read Jane's answer (no matter how I chanced upon it) to him who
                              is her husband, without a sigh:—
                           "'I HAD thought it was mere admiration of your genius, a friendly
                              interest in your success, a passionate love for your profession; I had
                              deceived myself into anything but the thought that love
                              was in the secret of my regard for you. When you gave me the key to
                              your own heart—oh, it is my joy, my pride, my glory, to confess it—my
                              own opened at the sight! I needed not to ask myself,
                                 could I love? is this love which makes my
                              heart to throb so, and my tears to fall? Oh, when I knelt that night
                              to pray, and one name only was in my heart, one thought only in my
                              head; when all that I should have asked, grace to support me in this
                              time of joyful need, was forgotten, a blessing upon you
                              was all to which I could give utterance! Now am I satisfied! There is
                              no other good in this life for which I can ask—no more need for
                              supplications! You, you love me—I could crave no other
                              boon of earthly good: this comprehends all. To go with
                              you, heart joined to heart, and thought to thought, for life! Oh, life
                              is short; it is taking wings—it flies: but eternity is
                                 here! You have led me to the hill-tops of human happiness. I
                              am at peace: will you believe that, when I write so tumultuously? I
                              can look now—oh, God bless you!—not through mists of uncertainty, into
                              that future, which like a pleasant, shaded path spreads before me; for
                              as I go on, henceforth I may lean on your arm, and hear your voice, my
                              beloved, saying what was never said for me before. I have found now
                              all the fame, all the public for which I longed, in you, whose voice
                              is better than a thousand—in you, whose love is my crown of
                              glory.'
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               THE DEAD HEART.
               ON her twenty-ninth birth-day, Evelyn Clause bent over the body of her lifeless
                  son, and saw him, the eldest, the most beautiful, the last surviving of her four
                  bright boys, placed in the coffin for burial. She watched, and even assisted in
                  this sad duty, with a calmness that was almost frightful to behold; and the hearts
                  of those who witnessed the strange composure of the bereaved mother, trembled and
                  fluttered into quiet, even while their hands were busied with arranging the robes
                  of the dead; the tears which gathered in their eyes fell not; voices which had
                  faltered as they strove to utter consolation or sympathy, grew strong and calm,
                  suddenly; even the grief of the nurse who had watched over Frederick from his
                  infancy was hushed, and become voiceless, in the presence of the mother who stood
                  so calm and silent beside her lifeless child.
               When Clarence, the baby, died, it was far otherwise with her. Never was infant
                  mourned with such wild, such exceeding sorrow as he. Night and day, through his
                  illness, and after his death, the young mother clung to him, until at last they
                  were compelled, by force, to remove her from the corpse when the funeral hour was
                  come. It seemed then as though her tears would never cease to fall, and the
                  mourning in which her form was enrobed, was not comparable with that natural
                  mourning which enveloped her lovely face. Though three children still remained to
                  her, it was of him who was lost that she held most constant remembrance; it was of
                  him, the affectionate little one who had never learned to express his love in
                  words, who had never even once pronounced her name, that her stricken heart held
                  continual tinual thought; and she who had lived all of life—real life that had
                  been given her to live, in her children, trembled now, and looked with constant
                  fear on her future: in them she had fixed her hope, and all her love—and behold,
                  one already was taken!
               Evelyn Clause wedded in her youth a "merchant prince," who had already been twice
                  married. They stood together at the altar a strangely-matched pair—she a very
                  child in experience, and in beauty—and he worn in the world's service, his hair
                  already tinged with gray.
               There were some witnessing this bridal who envied the new-made wife of Jesse
                  Clause, for he was a man respected, and looked up to, in the world; yet, he was
                  one to whom it would seem the fancies or hearts of the youthful would not
                     naturally incline. But he had money—and to the young creature,
                  who, in the morning of her life, joyously consented to wed him, this was his sole
                  recommendation, the only reason why she for a moment thought
                  seriously of the offer. For Evelyn was the daughter of a poor family, (of a large
                  family moreover,) and it had been sheer madness in her, and profound selfishness
                  also, (so her generous heart assured her,) to decline so precious an opportunity
                  of aiding her beloved ones of home. With the sincere earnestness and heartiness of
                  youth, Evelyn strove to feel for her great benefactor more than mere gratitude,
                  more than respect—she tried to love him. Poor child! must she also
                  learn that bitter lesson which they, who bind Poverty and Wealth thus together,
                  must ever learn?
               As Evelyn came to know her husband's nature, as his departed companions had, a
                  wild suspicion would anon torture her that love, which she had vowed to maintain
                  for him, was not that which she must strive for:—to preserve the reverence which
                  she had for him, that respect, that friendliness, that gratitude, she
                  must struggle. Ah, reader, no task like this can be given the bewildered young
                  soul. It was then that Evelyn hushed, with an effort one must have made to fully
                  appreciate, the indignant voice which Nature prompted her to raise against many a
                  word he uttered, many a deed he wrought. She tried, and devoutly, with the charity
                  that thinketh no evil, to forget the evidence he daily forced upon
                  her of his ungenial and unworthy worthy
                  spirit; and had this been a possibility, she had certainly succeeded in an effort
                  so continuously and so faithfully made.
               It was only after years had passed that the truth, which slowly but surely
                  gathered its force, burst full upon her, and then the wife knew that the doom of
                  solitariness, in the midst of splendor, was upon her. Urged by the "strong
                  necessity of loving," from that time she folded her young children to her heart in
                  a more idolatrous passion, and she made gods of them.
               It was said by some, who inquisitively watched the fading of her face, and the
                  sadness that revealed itself in her eyes, and in her voice, that Evelyn Clause was
                  but reaping in bitter disappointment the fruit which she well deserved, for
                  wedding where her heart could not by possibility have chosen its home. But no word
                  from her lip ever added to the testimony of her face; and it was not truth they
                  spoke, who, looking on the apparent wreck of her happiness, told of the just
                  reward of the covetous. If it had been a self-immolating sense of duty to her
                  parents which led the young girl in her youth to wed with Jesse Clause, it was
                  likewise a sense of justice, lofty, and holy, and stern, that prompted and
                  constrained her to be to the husband all he should have been to her. The
                  consciousness of his utter uncongeniality was with her constantly, yet she
                  continued unweariedly faithful and devoted to him; still, how often, how very
                  often, her heart fainted and failed within her, need I tell? Let the mortal who
                  has looked for love and found only wealth—who has received a stone
                  when he craved for the bread of life—answer.
               But the reader has seen that entire bankruptcy was not forced upon the wife. In
                  the children given her, the craving spirit of life found consolation; in their
                  unfolding natures her resigned heart roused to act; the floods which had been fast
                  settling into a Dead Sea, were arrested, were stirred again; the clouds which were
                  growing dark and threatening, assumed a sun-brightness once more.
               Frederick, the first-born, was a lovely boy. In him the soul of his mother seemed
                  personified; and well might she look with joy on him who was the first in all the
                  world to love her as she had prayed one human being might. She was
                     satisfied when his eyes fixed upon her, when his voice called her,
                  when he followed in her footsteps like an attendant angel. She asked for no more
                  of earth's good things, when his merry laugh rung in her ear—when his smiling,
                  happy face was before her. With the other children born unto these parents, there
                  was a mother's love born—a twin with each, a protector to each. It sprung up with
                  them into such exultant life, that none who looked on Evelyn then could say, "she
                  is unhappy." She became more beautiful even than she had been in her girlhood; and
                  the peace, the continual harmony of her existence in those days proved that she
                  was satisfied. In those young beings her own vanished youth was beautifully
                  revived; in the sunshine that enveloped them she revelled; and the "light-joy" of
                  perfect innocence and contentment, which streamed round them, reflected itself in
                  and through her.
               How terrible, then, was the awakening from this security of happiness, to an
                  unimagined, an unthought-of sorrow! The immutability of her idols had seemed a
                  thing unquestioned; she had never borne to think they might be shattered, she had
                     never thought it. And, therefore, when death came and stood before
                  her, and clasped her infant in her arms, she was frantic in her grief.
               In her bereavement, the wife was indeed most lonely. During the several months in
                  which, one by one, the three younger boys successively sickened and died, it was
                  in Frederick's presence, in his voice alone, that she found any comfort. Her
                  husband's tears did indeed fall with hers over the lifeless children, and with a
                  heavy heart he followed them to their burial-place, but it seemed the loss of
                     heirs that he most mourned. The children had never been to him
                  what they had been to her. It was in the passionate, extravagant grief of the last
                  surviving son, that she could best sympathise, and with him clasping
                  her hand, when the third of her dead was laid in the grave, Evelyn felt that there
                  was yet left on earth a comfort, and an exceeding joy. How infinitely precious he
                  became, whoso has bound up all his hopes in this life, and all his deep affection,
                  in one human being, will fully comprehend. He was her future. The rainbow bow of promise circled his glorious
                  forehead, the sunlight of beauty was on his hair, and in his eyes, and in his
                  graceful figure. When he was merry she was a very child in her gladness; his
                  boyish grief made her as sorrowful; she seemed, indeed, an elder sister, rather
                  than the mother of the lad; a gentle, fond, and proud companion, rather than an
                  instructor or guide.
               As year by year passed on, and still the child was spared, the trembling
                  foreboding with which Evelyn had on every succeeding morrow clasped him to her
                  breast, passed, and a sweet conviction that He who is most merciful and just in
                  all his ways would grant long life to her darling, began to fill her mind. Then
                  she built up high hopes for his manhood, she saw him pressing on in the loftiest
                  paths of being, and how earnest was she in her endeavors to educate his heart! And
                  a bright reward was given the mother for this labor of love, in the honest and
                  noble spirit of the boy, in his virtue, in his filial reverence, and devotedness
                  to both parents. Looking into his clear eyes, she read a joyful truth in them
                  respecting the lofty character of her child.
               "That he should die!" No warning of a calamity so awful was given in the healthful
                  look, the ringing voice, and the winged footsteps of the boy; and indeed it was
                  without any warning that Frederick was called away. There were but a few brief
                  moments of solitary struggle in the night time that passed between the sleep of
                  life, and the breathless slumber of the dead. And she was not there
                  to hear his struggling, and his cry; to hear him, when the convulsion and the
                  agony were over, murmur her name with his dying breath!
               When the sunlight of morning streamed in at the window of his room, which was
                  close adjoining hers, Evelyn stood by his bedside as she was wont, to welcome him
                  back to day, and to her heart. But his greeting was for her ear no more: his smile
                  was no longer to rival that sunshine which flooded the little chamber. Long, long
                  continued was the vain effort to bring him back again, and frantic was the voice
                  that rung through the solemnly silent room whose walls alone echoed his dear name;
                  and all the while upon his young face was an expression inexpressibly pressibly
                  tranquil and soft, which, while it bitterly mocked her despair, seemed to rebuke
                  her sorrow.
               As I have said, when Frederick was arrayed for the grave, and placed in his
                  coffin, there was a wondrous calmness, a strange composure in the face, the voice,
                  the manner of the mother. Yes; for in her also there had been a sickness unto
                  death—she had wept the last tears, had passed the last agony. All indeed of
                     life was over to her, and whatsoever of misfortune or suffering
                  might yet befall her, would be without name, without reality to her. Of old, a
                  bright, bewildering light had danced in her large eyes, gloriously brilliant when
                  her heart was glad, mournfully sweet in the days of sorrow; that light was now
                  entirely vanished, and it was chilling to the heart when she fixed her gaze on the
                  things of earth which were now but chaos, or as void to her. Once, in her youth,
                  and after her marriage indeed, her voice vibrated like a rich-stringed instrument
                  with every emotion—but a cold, metallic ring was now in the calm cadence of her
                  words.
               Jesse Clause knew there was a change in his wife, but he could not understand it.
                  When, after two years of mourning she laid aside the dreary garments, and went
                  with him into the world to become like the mass with whom they mingled, only more
                  brilliant, more courteous, more enchanting than the syrens there found, he was
                  vastly proud of her, prouder than he had been when he wedded the timid, lovely
                  girl. Freely he laid before her the wealth which made their dwelling-place to
                  rival all others in splendor—and their magnificence became their fame. The life
                  which Evelyn Clause now led was the same as is vouchsafed to many—and is lived in
                  completeness by them; only her career as a fashionable woman was not marked or
                  marred by littleness in any shape; she had no faults, that any could discover; she
                  was generous and just, not only to the beggar at her gate, to the people in her
                  employ, but also to her daily companions, and to her husband. Her tongue spoke no
                  evil or malice; her counsel was never denied, when it was sought. But Evelyn
                     was without God, and without hope in the world. To Him who had taken
                  away the treasures that He gave, she never bowed her knee, or her soul; into His
                      earthly courts she never entered
                  from the day when that last funeral went forth from her home! There were a
                  multitude who admired, a multitude who envied her; but alas! she was of all about
                  her most miserable: not because sick at heart—her heart was dead—but
                  in that her affliction had driven her from Him who wounds us for His mercy's
                  sake.
               The life that she lived—what was it to her? It was all that she imagined she could
                  live as the wife of Jesse Clause; and when Evelyn saw that in this career she had
                  reached the standard that was perfection in her husband's eyes, she abated not one
                  jot; she suffered him to find his pride in her, because for herself she knew there
                  was nothing, nothing but an automaton existence, which, by reason of
                  its nature, could not find in the world anything to charm or interest or rejoice
                  it. To many there was something too cold in the supreme indifference,
                  the always perfect calmness of the lady: but the most about her saw only the
                  perfection of style in her manner and her raiment, and they labored hard to
                  imitate that, which, alas! in Evelyn, was but the natural expression of one whose
                  heart is dead; over whom the burial-service most solemn has been read, for whom,
                  there is in this world, no possible resurrection!
               So long as her husband lived, this was the wife's mode of life; but the old man
                  died at last, and left his fortune, without a single reservation, to Evelyn. Then
                  there was an instant change in her that might have betokened much to
                  the wondering world. Among her husband's relatives and her own, in charities wide
                  and almost numberless, that immense property was dispersed, and penniless the
                  widow went from the world where she had suffered uncounted agonies, where she had
                  shone a brilliant star, to the silence and obscurity of a convent.
               Oh, reader, could I unseal to thee those years of convent-life that dawned, and
                  passed over the head of Evelyn, could I tell thee of the prayers that day by day
                  went up from the heart of the holy sisterhood for her through all those many
                  years, a new fountain of tears would open in thy heart that could never be sealed
                  again; bearing her in mind, how humbly, henceforth, nay, how thankfully, wouldst
                  thou receive at thy Father's hand the cup of grief, knowing that these light
                  afflictions—bitter though they seem—are but for a moment!
               It was a dreary life that Evelyn led—I had almost said it was a hopeless death she
                  died—but that I may not say, that will I not believe; for they who entered her
                  cell late one Sabbath morning, found her on her knees—and she was dead! and so her
                  last breath may have been a prayer.
            
            
               
               LITTLE ALVAH.
               ONE stormy Saturday evening—"the last," some people said with an energetic
                  thankfulness (or impatience) which did them infinite credit, for one might well
                  have feared they had forgotten there was anything in their experience for which
                  they should be thankful—on this stormy Saturday evening, of a very
                  rainy week, a creature, whom one would never have taken for a man, at
                  least in the dubious light of that dripping night, slowly, and umbrella-less,
                  walked along the main street of a town that shall be "nameless here,
                  forever more."
               "He was a stranger in the place (in our place, I may as well state in
                  the beginning, it was,) he had only arrived that afternoon, and this was his first
                  perambulation. Lonely and disconsolate was he at heart, as he pursued that doleful
                  ramble, for doleful and disconsolate were the streets, and the few who went
                  hurrying "to and fro" through them, were still more mindless of him than it was in
                  his nature to be of them: for, through the eyes of faith he saw in all of them
                  neighbors, patrons, brothers, &c., and they, had they looked at
                  him, would doubtless to themselves have pronounced him in unqualified terms, a
                  contemptible vagabond. But his very insignificance spared them the committal of
                  such injustice. As he continued his walk, such a sense of utter loneness as none
                  but strangers in strange places on rainy days, ever dreamed of, settled upon the
                  heart of the forlorn little Alvah. He seemed to have not a thought of the storm,
                  that was, by dint of perseverance, soaking his garments—nor of the mud, through
                  which he ploughed his way. He could not rest, he must forever move
                  on—but for this necessity of his nature, we should have been able to introduce him
                  to the reader under far pleasanter, at least far less miserable circumstances, as
                  the inmate of the comfortable inn where he had left his worldly goods, with the
                  intention of spending the Sabbath there. This, his restlessness, was the reason he
                  went wandering, like an owl, through the increasing gloom, homesick, and heavy at
                  heart, as can be imagined.
               But his mental and bodily disquietude, roused this night to an unwonted degree,
                  were productive for once of the best results to Alvah, for suddenly a strain of
                  music burst upon his ear; he lifted his eyes, and saw that he was standing before
                  a church, and that lights were streaming from its windows. The opened doors seemed
                  inviting him to come in, and he needed no second invitation. He entered the outer
                  doors of the sanctuary, and his face lighted up with a glad smile, which, as he
                  passed within the place of prayer, was reverently subdued. Penniless as he was,
                  almost, and friendless, too, had any one taken advantage of his bright, happy
                  looks, and whispered reprovingly, "Stranger, what do you find to laugh at here?"
                  he might have replied at once, since it was the feeling of his breast, with the
                  great Stilling, "I have a very rich Father in Heaven." Let us leave him, for the
                  present in the church—it was his only home.
               At this time of his life, Alvah Coy was in his prime. His figure, what there was
                  of it, was perfectly erect when standing still, or when seated. His
                  enormous head was covered with a profusion of whity-brown hair, that, as yet,
                  showed no intention of turning gray; his face, though pale and wrinkled, was
                  evidently not indebted to length of days, or ill-health, for the pallor or the
                  furrows—and it was adorned with that keen, "smart" expression, so peculiar to
                  little men. Brief, limited as his bodily presentment was, he had an
                     up-look, a cordial air, as though it was in him to take every man
                  he met by the hand, and greet him in a kindly and neighborly way. There was no
                  bend to his back, no drooping, as though he were very weary, and yet despaired of
                  getting rest. One of his limbs was diseased: it was withering, or in some way
                  losing its vitality, for when he walked, it was at every step drawn up with a
                  sudden  jerk, which lent to his gait
                  the oddest expression imaginable; he did not limp, and never used a cane, but one
                  seeing him walk through the streets, had certainly fancied him an escaped figure
                  from the adornments of a musician's hand-organ, and that he had carried off the
                  secret of his movement with him. And so, without the music-power that heretofore
                  had explained his motions, he presented a strange spectacle indeed. Provided he
                     was an escaped image, suddenly, and in some unaccountable way
                  endued with vitality, may not this account for the perfect passion for music which
                  he always evinced? His soul was a soul of music, attuned to spiritual harmonies:
                  he was of those "pure in heart" who are "blessed" by inward peace; who, thinking
                  no evil, seem utterly incapable of producing it: who, loving all things, find in
                  their own expansive hearts, satisfaction and reward; though their love, save for
                  its influence on themselves, may be verily a vain sacrifice. He was, moreover, so
                  true a believer in God, that he could "trust him for his grace," that "behind a
                  frowning providence, He hides a smiling face:" and this was the
                     secret of Alvah's inward peace.
               His infirmity seemed to occasion the little man no bodily pain
                  whatever; or if it did, pain was one of those light afflictions, which he held of
                  small account. Such a man, and Christian, and philosopher, did Alvah prove himself
                  to really be at heart; and you must read this man from that. It would be unjust to
                  decide upon him, his nature, and habits, from the appearance of forlornness,
                  despondency, and outer, as well as mental wretchedness he presented previous to
                  entering the lighted church; the fact that music and light gushing from the house
                  consecrated to sacred purposes, could so transform him, gives the
                  needful key to his whole character.
               Mr. Coy was a bachelor when he established himself in our village, and his purse
                  being proportionate to his size, he contented himself with taking for lodgings a
                  small room in the very vicinage of fashionable shoe-shops almost numberless—and
                  there, to all intents and purposes, he lived. Of that one little apartment, he
                  made breakfast room, dining room, boudoir, sanctuary, study, work-shop, and
                  warehouse. Content, I said he was, with this arrangement! Once settled in his
                  home, no prince was ever happier in it, for Alvah was humblest of the humble, and
                  a purer-souled mortal never drew breath; never was there one more entirely
                  absolved, by nature, from ambition, and its promptings and persuasives, than he;
                  his sole aim, through all his industry, seemed to be to keep himself at a
                  distance, respectable, from the County Poor House, and to give to those poorer
                  than he was. Content? Yes, indeed! he was willing, even without a thought of
                  questioning about it, to take his stand as the very lowliest of the disciples of
                  St. Crispin. Yet humble as he was—for humility of one kind is not of itself a
                  remarkable, but on the contrary quite a common characteristic, our Alvah was one
                  of the extraordinarily few men I have chanced to know, who filled a place beneath
                  desert, and yet held to an exact conviction of his intrinsic worth which was not
                  to be moved. Like all truly great men, he grew neither servile in his
                  abasement, nor morose through mortified pride. He never, under the most adverse
                  circumstances, would have felt himself to be anything less than a man, and that is
                  what cannot be said of the great mass of worldly-unfortunate people. Therefore
                  might Alvah be counted among the true philosophers. Those great blue eyes of his,
                  peering forth so like an owl's from the darkness of the sunken sockets, over which
                  the heavy brows cast an unnatural shade, never acquired an expression, and
                  certainly nature had not endowed them with the power of expressing, a felt
                  meanness. Ah! he was nevertheless a noble man, because some, as cruel
                  as senseless, mocked him for his dwarfage, and his infirmity; or, because,
                  compelled, by the verdict of incapacity, rendered by the most
                  unscrupulous of all courts, that of "Public Opinion," to betake himself to the
                  very lowliest place among respectable cobblers.
               The little man's personal appearance, and his poverty, were fearful odds against
                  which to work, in a community appreciative as ours. But Alvah struggled on with
                  them, neither forsaking himself, nor blushing for his poverty's sake, and he met
                  his reward. Those who could not patronize him in the way of trade to the extent of
                  their kind hearts' desire, by reason of their own poverty, understanding his pure
                  and hearty Christianity, and seeing in him the elements which, in more
                     fortunate tunate men, are the
                  elements of truest respectability, resolved to serve him in their own way, and on
                  the approach of a certain election they took him into solemn consideration, and
                  then, all at once, Alvah found himself in office! No endeavor or ambition of his
                  own led to this good result, he did not attain to the honor by morally unlawful or
                  unjust trickery, and as was expected, his official service was fulfilled in a
                  manner worthy all acceptation and praise.
               But wherein was it, do you imagine, that Alvah was promoted?—it was to be a
                  doorkeeper in a house of God! And no other station on this earth could he have
                  entered with so much delight, and filled with so much satisfaction to himself and
                  others. One grand reason for his own joy, was, that in this circle he had found
                  his domestic circle, his brothers, and sisters, his home, and he had
                  found all this nowhere else. The congregation was not a rich one, and he loved it
                  for that reason, as he would otherwise have never dared to love it. Its service
                  was simple, and with both heart and understanding he could join in it—there was no
                  ostentation, or parade, or pride about it; he never knew anything of those
                  sensations, which, had it been any other sort of church than just that it was, he
                  would surely have felt—as though it were a fine place, a very grand place, and
                  beautiful, but no place for humbling the soul before God with undistracted
                  thought. It was no scene of pomp, and pride, and luxury, that simple little
                  church. And for this great reason he loved it. Laughed at as he might be in the
                  street, or even in the sanctum, his own shop,—he found in his church
                  all the respect due to a brother, yielded him. No one laughed at him there—no one
                  pushed him aside—no one said to him, or looked at him the idea,
                  "stand by"—"I am holier;" and for that he loved this humble place of prayer. He
                  loved it for its choir of fervent singers, for one sweet voice which had subdued,
                  and melted, and calmed his heart, the night when a stranger and lonely, he entered
                  the church, and for the first time heard it. That voice—I will not say how it
                  haunted him, and soothed, and encouraged him many a day, when no other outward
                  influence had such power!—And Alvah loved the pastor of the church, the good and
                  affectionate man, who faithfully taught to his people the Lord Jesus, and Him
                     crucified. He loved all connected with that house of Sabbath and
                  week-day prayer, with the love of a child for its mother, of the lonely, for his
                  one friend—that sanctuary contained within its borders all the objects of his
                  tenderest love—it was the great centre of attraction for his soul.
               There was no bell attached to the belfry of the little blue church; Alvah's duty
                  was therefore not to call the people together, but to prepare for
                  their reception. This work of sweeping, dusting, airing, arranging, &c., was
                  always admirably performed, with the most perfect quietude and diligence, and no
                  occasion for reproof or advice was ever found, during his whole, long term of
                  office. But it was as pew-opener, as the official of church hours, that his
                  virtues shone forth most brightly and conspicuously. Never shall I forget the
                  quiet happiness he evinced during the time of a great revival in his pastor's
                  congregation; never shall I forget him, in the fulfilling of his onerous duty of
                  seating the immense concourse, which in that particular time of excitement
                  gathered together as "anxious inquirers," or curious listeners and spectators, in
                  the place of prayer.
               The eager and intense watchfulness, which spoke from his remarkably solemn face,
                  as he took his stand in one of the aisles, to watch the opening of the doors, the
                  rapid and unintermitted examination of the features of those who entered, his
                  instant detection of new faces, the springing movement with which he would almost
                     leap forward to welcome the coming worshipper, or mere looker-on,
                  the quiet and easy manner in which, spite of his infirmity, he contrived to move
                  along, directing the way of strangers to the best seats possible—the reverential
                  manner in which he guided the aged, the kindness and sympathy with which he
                  pointed out places to the young, I well remember, but cannot fitly describe. Then
                  there was certainly no expression of the "human face divine" that could equal the
                  perplexity of his look, as when by degrees the small church became filled, he
                  would look about and around him, proving to his own heart's content, as well as
                  that of persons still more nearly concerned, the utmost capacity of each and every
                  pew.
               
               His solemnity and reverence, deep, and unaffected, and affecting too, as it must
                  surely have proved to those who could understand it, had for us young folks, I
                  remember, a resistlessly comic look. Ah! you should have seen the
                  little old figure, the parody of a man, as in prayer time he would take his stand
                  near the door, in the aisle, his great head bent low, his large and
                  work-discolored hands spread over his pale face, his bright, blue eyes peering
                  through the fingers constantly: and then, if the door at either hand gave but the
                  slightest token of an outsider, you should have seen his sudden start, as if he
                  had received a strong electric shock, and then with what imperturbable gravity he
                  would busy himself with finding a seat for the late comer;—the perplexed glances
                  he would cast around him, when to find a seat seemed a moral impossibility, was
                  one worth going far to meet! And worth a glance it was to see little Alvah, when
                  relieved from these duties he would finally enter his own slip near the pulpit,
                  and give himself up wholly to the religious exercises. With what devout ears,—and
                  because he listened in a frame of mind so thankful and glad, the hearing was no
                  less an act of service than that the singers rendered,—with what devout ears did
                  he listen to the singing choir and congregation, to that one voice of all others,
                  which was as the "voice of the charmer" to him, charming wisely: with what
                  attentive mind and heart he listened to the preacher's words—there was a spirit of
                  pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father, in the very way of his
                  listening!
               After entering on this office of public service, Mr. Coy, for many reasons, judged
                  it best, and his new and warm-hearted friends fully concurred with him in the
                  opinion, for him to change his place of residence to the basement of the church,
                  and there, in the shadow of the holy place, he pursued all his quiet
                  avocations.
               The curious spectacle afforded in that little, faded, old creature's life, a
                  bachelor too, keeping house all alone by himself, was a sight novel enough to
                  attract the curiosity of every child in that neighborhood, and many and many a
                  time did we haunt him with our presence and company, never once
                     realizing the idea, enough in itself to have sent the majority of
                  us off pell-mell mell in greatest confusion, could we have in true proportions
                  conceived of the fact, that Alvah was a man, and a regular
                     business man, and not a good natured little fellow, playing
                     work.
               
               I have never, since his day, encountered a man like him. He seemed to have the
                  very heart of a child. He entered into every thought, and curiosity, and desire of
                  childhood, just as thoroughly as though that cheerless, dismal basement, were
                  indeed his play-house; that lap-stone, and the tools with which he hammered away,
                  his toys, and himself nothing more than a make-believe worker. Yet we received
                  Alvah for our judge and jury—he was the counsel and defender for all the wronged;
                  not one of us, when in trouble, ever counted on his good advice and assistance, if
                  that was really needed, in vain. He was the most impartial judge—always ready to
                  be interested, to reprove or to praise, to defend or condemn, just as soon as he
                  was acquainted with the merits and points of a case. There was never a mortal more
                  generous in hearing, more upright in decisions, than he. His valor in making and
                  recording decisions was of the truly heroic kind, nothing could buy a
                  good opinion of him—yet his tender heart was ever open to conviction, and when he
                  had inadvertently wronged another, he was swift to make ample confession and
                  recompense.
               Sometimes he had unpleasant dealings with older, stronger, and (strange to say)
                  more perverse children than we, and I never shall forget the indignation to which
                  our hearts gave vent one morning, when a group of us, under pretence of a shoe to
                  mend, went to his shop.
               We found him silent and sad; he evidently looked on us with suspicion—and nothing
                  we could say was effectual in drawing him into a conversation, which we thought
                  very strange, for always heretofore he had been swift to join us in our talk. When
                  he had finished his slight task, he gave the shoe to the child who had brought it,
                  quietly received the few coppers of charge, and then turned away from us. We
                  looked at one another in astonishment, we could not understand it; as we turned to
                  go, quite crest-fallen at his "what are you waiting here for?" one of the boys
                  with us said,
               
               "Mr. Coy, what is the matter? are you mad at us?"
               We all turned back then with one consent, and another asked,
               "Yes, what makes you turn us off? we haven't done anything to hurt your—"
               "Feelings," said one of the girls, finishing the sentence for him.
               "Perhaps he's had bad news," quietly suggested a fourth.
               I think we must have shown by our looks, conclusively, that we were really
                  troubled, for when he had scanned our faces searchingly, one after the other, he
                  seemed relieved, and said,
               "No, children, I'm not mad at you"
               
               He spoke sadly, and though he tried his best to look up at us cheerfully, his
                  smile was not a happy one.
               "What is the matter?" asked the first boy, who had ventured to
                  speak.
               "Nothing," said Alvah, briefly.
               "Yes, there is!" we all exclaimed, in a breath. "Somebody's gone and done
                  something hateful to you; what is it?"
               "Don't you really know anything about it?" asked he, looking at us anxiously, and
                  as though he were going to cry.
               "No—no—we certainly don't know a word; has anybody done anything to
                  you?"
               "When I went to bed last night," he said, with a shudder, and hesitating, as
                  though afraid we would laugh, "I found somebody had thrown water into my bed—it
                  was perfectly soaked."
               "Oh, what an abominable shame!"
               "Outrageous!"
               "The beast!"
               "How cruel!"
               "The devil it must have been!" exclaimed we, and our indignation was not
                  feigned.
               What a perfect delight the poor little fellow was in as he heard these
                  exclamations, and saw the honest wrath depicted on the young faces around him!
               "I tell you what!" exclaimed the oldest among us, a boy of about twelve, "I'll
                  find out who it was that served you such a trick, and the person, the rascal!
                  shall pay dear for it."
               "Oh, no! it's of no consequence now," said Alvah, cheerfully, and
                  earnestly. "Don't think of doing anything about it. I'd rather you wouldn't speak
                  of it. Promise you'll keep shady. I was only afraid it was some of
                     you, and I didn't want to think so mean of you as that you'd
                  delight in tormenting me, that's a fact!"
               "No, indeed!" we said; and if our protestations of respect and love were somewhat
                  exaggerated, they were at least spoken in all sincerity, and we proved it to him
                  conclusively, for we did not leave him that day till the forlornly wet bedding was
                  completely dried, and every preparation made that could be made in such a room,
                  with such aids as there presented, for his comfortable rest in the coming
                  night.
               This trick was not the last, by a great many, that was cruelly played on poor
                  Alvah—he was a standing joke for more than one vicious idler—but our friend never
                  thought of suspecting us again, as indeed he had no need.
               Alvah never could discover who these active enemies, or perhaps not so much
                  enemies as thoughtless troublers, were, and this was strange, for with such eyes
                  as he had in his head, one would not have imagined that anything he wished to
                  discover would long remain a mystery to him. He had the keenest, and by far the
                  most penetrating eyes, I ever beheld—it seemed as though he could understand at a
                  glance what his audience was thinking of—yet, excepting in power of penetration,
                  and in judgment, which perhaps would have utterly failed him in dealing with
                  anything more powerful than a child's mind, he was exactly as a child. But, as the
                  child regenerate; in entering the kingdom of God on earth, by faith and prayer,
                  his child-nature had been perfected, purified, its faults of passion, hastiness,
                  its ignorance, gave place for the "life of God in the soul"—he was pure in
                  heart—meek—merciful—a peace-maker—and on all of whom thus much may be said, a
                  four-fold blessing was by our Lord pronounced: spiritually he did see
                  his Heavenly Father—in the highest sense he did inherit the earth, as a ransomed
                  child of Faith all things were his, and he was Christ's, who is God's! as a man
                  merciful,  and truly so, he rejoiced in
                  the hope of mercy at the hand of the All-merciful, whose favor is better than
                  life:—and in his capacity of peace-maker, ah! how much more was he than we even
                  dreamed, a child of God, and so the angels knew him!
               Poor Alvah! excepting in a spiritual sense, there was far more of the bitter than
                  the sweet mingled in his cup—the sorrow of love even was not spared him; the
                     sorrow, I say, for the only shadow of its joy which surrounded him
                  was proved a dark one, and the "noxious dew," instead of the heavenly sunlight of
                  love, was all that fell upon him.
               Ann White was a communicant in the church of which Alvah was sexton: she also was
                  an official there, a singer in the choir; indeed the very singer whose voice had
                  so charmed him—the "sweet singer" in this particular "Israel," whose song had
                  soothed him when he was in momentary darkness and gloom, with the thought of
                  "light in the dwelling." With those warm, cheering, and genial rays, which
                  streamed from the church windows that dismal, first night of his arrival in our
                  village, she was always associated—she was much in his thoughts—and thus was she
                  near, yes, and dear to him. This girl was young and pretty; and when Alvah heard
                  and looked upon her, he suffered himself to perceive the fact, that his eyes and
                  heart were not, as he had ever consoled himself with believing, stone-blind, and
                  totally unconscious to the beauty of woman. The calm, self-sustaining good sense
                  and innocence of his nature, had heretofore befriended him—he had always felt
                  conscious that his dealings with fair women must be strictly of a professional
                     nature—he must only deal with soles of leather;
                  though they to him were angels, he to them, of course, was nothing but a cobbler.
                  And it was so, also, that he had looked upon this young girl at first—she surely
                  was no more than all the rest of womankind had been; yet he felt more grateful to
                  her than he had ever before felt to any of her sex, and solely because she sang so
                  sweetly, for he counted it almost a condescension on her part to sing for him, as
                  it seemed to him she did expressly. Who is there that cannot enter into and
                  understand this feeling? Blessed be God for the sweet gift of song,
                  by which so many are able to effect a great work of salvation, sanctification, and
                  reconciliation!
               It was only by imperceptible degrees that Alvah's heart got the better of his
                  reason, at last. He knew not how or why it was that a new longing
                  came into his soul, a new sensation of loneliness, a new ambition to labor, and to
                  be known as a workman. He was not conscious that the longing and
                  desire had a meaning hidden. In his innocence he had no thought of escaping the
                  temptation that offered itself, indeed he knew not if it were a temptation.
               Though he never went into any sort of society, and so stood no chance of meeting
                  with her thus, a desire to be near her, to see and hear her, impelled him to be
                  always in the church, at every singing school or meeting she would be likely to
                  attend, even if his own duties did not require his presence; and there, unnoticed,
                  unseen even, he might listen to her, and lose himself in the melody of her voice,
                  and never dream that Love was mastering him. And so, with equal unconsciousness he
                  would sit in his gloomy workshop, sewing or hammering away from morning till
                  night, and one who did not know him thoroughly would never have suspected that
                  even those eyes, great as they were, had a double power of vision, which enabled
                  him to scan the face of every passer-by on his side of the street; but if those
                  orbs chanced to fix on her, the fact, to the initiated, would have sufficiently
                  announced itself by solely observing the changes in the expression of his face—his
                  hands and his tools would fly faster and faster, and the heart's bright sunshine
                  would illumine his countenance. She had then never spoken one word to him—had
                  never stood within the doors of his shop in the basement, and of course he could
                  not dream that Love was mastering him!
               But at last one day she did come, and alone too, bringing with her some work from
                  her mistress and herself for him to do, and while he was accomplishing the task,
                  she waited. The young girl was not in the least degree troubled with diffidence,
                  and the last thing in the world that would have "set her back," was the attempt at
                  conversation with her which Alvah made. They were members of one congregation, she
                  held a higher office than he—for he only prepared the place for worship, while  she assisted in the service—and
                     why should she be afraid to speak with that poor little wretch,
                  the halt sexton and cobbler?
               Alvah had long and most earnestly desired to speak with her; he wanted just to
                  relieve himself by telling her how much he liked her singing, and by thanking her
                  for singing so well and so faithfully in that choir, when many of the more
                  fashionable churches would be proud to have her for a singer. He found Ann so
                  agreeable, and withal so communicative, that it proved to his amazement the
                  easiest thing in the world for him to express his feelings of gratification and
                  interest in a gallant way. Then he spoke with her of the church and the minister,
                  and her pious expressions of attachment for these, his best friends,
                  delighted him. The cobbler worked with more difficulty than usual that day, her
                  voice seemed to act like a charm on his hands, imploring him to not make such
                  desperate haste, she was not eager to be gone.
               When the work was finally done, the girl would fain have paid him;
                  but this, save for the task performed for her mistress, he absolutely refused; he
                  would not take her wages, he said; she had paid him over and over a
                  hundred times, for all that he could do for her, in the pleasure derived from her
                  sweet voice, and he made her promise that he should have all her work in his line
                  to do. And Ann let him have his own way about it, and more than his own will,
                  truth to say!
               It was not long before the girl became well aware of the conquest she had
                  made—this happened before Alvah could have said as much. While he, week after
                  week, was rejoicing in the happy, self-deceiving idea that the interest he felt in
                  her was occasioned solely by her voice of sweet song, she knew he was
                  as much "in love" as man ever was. And when she knew it—to her shame
                  be it written—she made not one generous endeavor to disenchant him, or to make him
                  less the slave to his passion for music, as he would have called it, but to his
                  passion for herself, as she knew it was.
               And why?
               He knew, poor fellow, when called upon one day, some months after his personal
                  acquaintance with Ann White, for his accustomed contributions to the missions
                  abroad, and for the poor at home. Once he had joyfully contributed of his little
                  store to these charities; but now, alas! he was spoiled—next to ruined! He had
                  lavished his earthly all on a creature of clay, and had nothing, literally
                  nothing, but tears and a repentant heart to give to those who asked in the name of
                  God. She had asked in the name of love, by appeals his heart could
                  not withstand; she had virtually, in his own knowledge, robbed him.
               She had led him on step by step, how, I hardly know; but he was at last her ardent
                  and acknowledged lover—her betrothed. And then it was for her, first of all, that
                  he labored. He lavished his earnings on her. She was very fair, and was beautiful
                  when adorned with the fine things which for herself she could not buy, but which
                  her heart coveted. Many a gift of beauty and real value he had placed upon this
                  idol; but, alas! adorn her as he might, she had not a true heart within—she was
                  false, selfish, and vain, and it should therefore have been a surprise to none,
                  when she in the end suddenly dispelled his illusion, laughed at him in the face,
                  that he should have been so deluded, and mocked him when he desperately strove to
                  set off her heartless ridicule, by repeating the promise she had made to marry
                  him. She had deceived him far as she would—had accepted, extorted, and profited to
                  the utmost by his gifts, for another suitor, attracted by the beauty, so well
                  adorned by the fine garments bought with Alvah's hard earnings, in turn became her
                  accepted lover.
               The shock occasioned by this discovery, which she herself mockingly and
                  shamelessly made, was almost too much for the disappointed and deceived Alvah.
                  Indignant that such a swindling process should have been carried on against him,
                  he had at first but one desire, to punish the graceless, "gay deceiver" in the way
                  she surely deserved, by bringing her into a court of justice, and procuring for
                  her there a public condemnation, at least. But his charity, which was little less
                  than sublime, his pity for the mean soul that had rejoiced in its
                  deception and extortion, got the better of his wrath ere long, and the suit which
                  he had instituted was withdrawn. His anger went over as a  heavily-charged cloud; the storm was not permitted
                  to break on her; the fury of it recoiled, it fell back, spreading desolation and
                  anguish on his own heart only!
               He let her go her way almost without one reproach of bitterness. He suffered her
                  to shine in the raiment he had bought for his betrothed, with money earned in long
                  hours of hard toil. He permitted her to marry another, and neither hindered nor
                  molested her. And on earth our poor Alvah was never avenged. He died before
                  righteous judgment was visited on her—he would not rejoice, if he were living now,
                  to know what He has performed who promised, "I will repay." Vengeance
                     has overtaken her, while he, the tired and weary, sleeps. And it
                  is just this fact, of the unqualified misery, the poverty, sickness, and
                  multiplied misfortune, which has overtaken the girl, that suggested the record of
                  little Alvah. She has learned already, with what wisdom she worked evil, that good
                  might come—she has suffered more than he, diseased, forlorn, and poor, was
                  permitted to suffer in his forty years of life—and miserable as Ann is, she has
                  not yet drained the cup of bitterness!
               Alvah lived but a few years after his heart's great and cruel disappointment. I am
                  not aware, however, that his death was at all hastened by sorrow; yet it is not
                  improbable that the moral deformity hidden by that fair mask, gave his vital
                  energies, his spirit, and earth-nature a shock, from which, in this world, it
                  could never recover. I know that after her desertion he was a "sadder
                  man," and that the poor, ruined sexton went finally with weariness to the eternal
                  rest. But this I know, moreover, that one now standing by his grave, may say with
                  doubled emphasis, with holy hope and thankful gladness,— "Pax Vobiscum,
                  Alvah!"
            
            
               HEAD AND HEART WORSHIP.
               
                  
                     "Keep yourselves from idols."
                  
               
               PELEG OTTLEY had two children; Jonas and Rebecca, they were called.
               The man was a respectable farmer, in moderate circumstances—that is, he owned a
                  good wife and a well-stocked farm, a very fair reputation for honesty and decency,
                  and the two children above named: but he was, nevertheless, a disappointed man;
                  what he accomplished, ever fell short of his hopes, and so, in middle life, he was
                  about as far from the realization of his boyhood's dreams, as dreamer ever
                  was.
               When the rough, coarse-featured, "scrubby" farmer, found his castles proving, one
                  after another, of the most unsubstantial, unsatisfactory air, and he himself and
                  his wife remaining precisely the same hard-working, pains-taking, comfortable
                  farmers that they were twenty years before, barring the very
                  considerable increase of fortune, his hopes and desires (as he could not himself
                  find out the way to make a show in the world,) naturally turned towards his
                  children, and his great wish became, that they might be prosperous and happy, and
                  more honored and sought after, in and by the world, than their parents had been.
                  And so, after all, he would find a triumph in his children! Rebecca, the dear
                  little child, should be a lady, and Jonas should be a scholar and a gentleman.
                  Yes, that was it! people should have occasion to know something about his
                  children! And Peleg, as that "thought struck him," buried his hard hands in the
                  thick  locks where the gray was fast
                  conquering the ebon, and dreamed, and dreamed away.
               To this end, of world-progress, Jonas and Rebecca went regularly to school in the
                  winters, and at an early age, the boy was sent to a village academy, from which
                  Peleg's farm was but a few miles distant, and when he was sufficiently advanced in
                  his studies, Jonas went to college. And the daughter, Rebecca, it was not
                  necessary, Peleg said, for girls to learn so much and to study so hard as boys;
                  they could appear better at a less expense and trouble;
                  and so, in due time, she had a six months' schooling in a neighboring seminary, at
                  the end of which term she returned home to the old farm-house, for a wonder, quite
                  unspoiled and unwon by the glimpse of village gaiety she had caught. A very
                  pretty, and good, and reasonable young creature she was.
               Jonas was, from his childhood, what is commonly termed "a smart boy," quick at
                  learning, and of great promise, so the school-master said. And, oh, how proud the
                  old folks were of him, when he went home to spend his last vacation, after having
                  graduated honorably at college—it was his last vacation, for now it was decided
                  upon that he should soon depart for a city, not far distant, there to study law,
                  for Jonas must be a professional man. His mind had not been instructed and
                  educated so highly, merely that he might subside into a common farmer, a feeder of
                  cattle, a sower and reaper of grain, no indeed!
               The doting old grand-parents averred that Jonas would be an honor to the name of
                  Ottley, and hesitated not to proclaim in the boy's ear, a firm belief that he
                  would at least be president, some day—and the neighbors, they were very sure, for
                  the most part, that he might be anything he would; as for little Lucy Smith, she
                  seemed to think him about the most wonderful youth in the world as he was, and
                  from her innocent heart, she wondered why Jonas should want to go away from all
                  his friends, to strive to make himself heard of, when all the country-people round
                  about thought so well of him, and honored him so much already.
               There were a great many tears shed in Farmer Ottley's house, when the day for
                  Jonas' departure finally came round; for in three long years, the boy was not to
                  return home, and the thoughts which naturally arise, and sorrowfully intrude in
                  such moments, of death or sickness, of temptation and disappointment, troubled
                  every mind except that of the eager youth.
               "You must write to us every week, my boy," said the father, "we shall think of you
                     so often: try and be steady, and you'll have to
                  try—don't be led away by every breeze—whoever prospers in this world works
                  hard, and keeps steady at his business—you'll find that out when you go to lawing
                  it."
               "You'll be a man when you come back, Jonas," said the mother, trying to smile—"it
                  will seem a great while first—be sure you don't let us hear anything bad of you,
                  and as grandpa' says, you'll be one of their great ones yet."
               Rebecca, the young sister, the quiet, loving girl, was the only one who had bidden
                  the boy remember that there was something besides honor to win, and respectability
                  to maintain. She had said to him, when walking with him alone, the evening before
                  he left home, "I dread your going away this time, more than I ever did, Joe. You
                  will be so free to what you have been before, and I know there must
                  be danger when one goes into a city to live among wild young men. I know you're
                  not so wild as some—I don't think you're at all wild—but
                  it seems so dreadful when a young person sets out to seek his fortune in the
                  world. And, dear Joe, do listen with patience just while I say this—study, but
                  don't study too hard, thinking you are going to be famous, and all that. Grandpa'
                  calls you president, and I've seen your eyes flash sometimes, as much as to say,
                  'I will be great.' Just think how old and worn a man must be before he can have
                  power and great 
                     wordly
                     worldly
                   honor; don't forget yourself, and strive for fame more than
                  anything else: if you make that your idol, I shall fear for you,
                  because it's not right to seek first and always the good things of earth."
               And Jonas listened attentively to the words of the young girl, and he kissed her
                  when he answered, "Never fear, Becky, I'm not going to make a slave of myself for
                  ambition's sake, or anything else. If fame comes to me, well and good, but if
                  not—" and the sentence was ended with a careless snatch of a merry tune, that
                  quieted the sister's fears.
               
               Jonas Ottley went to the city, and was articled clerk in the office of two
                  distinguished practitioners. It was very fortunate for the young man, that there
                  was a vacancy at the time of his application—for they who thus became his
                  companions, were really gentlemen, who had the spirit, as well as the name of
                  gentlemanliness—and they set him an example of diligent, untiring activity.
               The great and important business entrusted to "the firm," the deserved celebrity
                  the lawyers had acquired, and the wealth and honorable station they had attained,
                  solely by their own exertions, aroused all the ambition of Jonas, and all the
                  hopes which the words of parents and grand-parents had helped to foster. Therefore
                  it was not in any way remarkable that Jonas Ottley should have resolved on plans
                  which it would take a lifetime to accomplish, ere he had been in the city one
                  month: before he was as old as his employers, he would be as honored and
                  well-known as they! Very few were the acquaintances he made, and they were
                  invariably among the studious, respectable, and moral class. To make a sensation
                  in society, to win the admiration and love of women, was not now his
                  desire, and there was no danger that Peleg's son would ruin himself by
                  dissipation, for temptation to all sensual indulgence was unheeded by him.
                  Ambition, and not a passion for self-gratification, was aroused; there was far
                  more need for fear that that spirit would prove the dangerous
                  Tempter.
               The three years of study passed rapidly away, and cheering were the tidings,
                  which, from time to time, reached the young aspirant's home in the country, of the
                  studious habits and respectable progress of dear Jonas. Some of the country people
                  had been occasionally to the city: they had seen how handsome and tall the young
                  man was grown, how gentlemanly his address was. Kindly had he greeted them, and
                  the old folks' eyes glistened when the returned travellers went on to say how
                  tenderly Jonas had asked after his father and mother, and little. Becky, and the
                  old grand-parents—though the youth had proved to them all, in his frequent
                  letters, how far he was from forgetting them, (but the loving can never too often
                  receive assurances of the affection of those they love, can they?) Yet, by far the
                  best of all tidings—yes, better to old Peleg, and Nancy, his wife, than the
                  thought of his beauty and affectionate remembrance—the son was coming up to their
                  high expectation in point of talent, and in progress! Approving words had been
                  spoken of him oftentimes by the older lawyers, he was held in high repute among
                  the young men of business and steady habits—all this fell like balm on the
                  dreaming old soul, Peleg; and he dreamed the faster, and he wished from his heart
                  that he had now some better, or more serviceable homage, to lay before his son,
                  Jonas, than mere love; and while the father dreamed, the mother blessed her boy,
                  and Becky prayed for him—and grandpa' hurra'd, with fresh impetuosity, for his
                  president.
               There was a family altar in Peleg Ottley's house. There, every morning and
                  evening, the parents and daughter went to yield their homage and best love to God!
                  Stay, should I say that? Could He, who will not receive homage that is not of the
                  heart, and undivided, could He have been satisfied with the offerings there made?
                  Why, they had no idols. Those smoke-stained images, which, ever since
                  Rebecca's childhood, had stood on the little parlor-mantel, were not images of
                  worship and gods! that household did not bow down to senseless forms of wood and
                  gold—they made no sacrifices to "stocks and stone!" they did not pretend to
                  Bhudhism, Lamaism, or any other such ism—their minds were very clear
                  of superstition, they acknowledged but one Lord; the Head Homage most assuredly
                  they gave, and the father and grandfather were deacons in the church, and had for
                  years and always acknowledged the eternal truth, "there is no god but
                     God." People, without a shadow of hesitation, called them good,
                  consistent Christians—far be it from me to say they were not, but do you think it
                  true that they had, and adored, "no god but God?"
               Rebecca Ottley was a fair young girl, amiable and loving, who lived more for
                  others than herself, or, rather, she found her highest enjoyment, her perfect
                  happiness in living for others, and in exerting herself to secure their comfort
                  and welfare, and such natures never fail to find, if in no other way than in their
                  own exertions, an abundant reward.
               
               Her education, though by no means so finished as that of her brother, was very
                  good, and her mind had been improved, strengthened, and refined, by much reading.
                  Vigorous, active, independent, in the popular sense of the words, she certainly
                  was not. But Rebecca was a quiet, sensible girl, who honored her parents, loved
                  nature, and thought her Jonas a king, yea, verily, a king among men.
                  Unsuspecting, cordial in her attachments, impressed with a firm conviction that
                  all people do to the very best of their ability, and also confident in the thought
                  that there is much more of good in the world than people are, for the most part,
                  disposed to acknowledge, she was as guileless and estimable a maiden, as one, in
                  this world of sin and abundant corruption, will often chance to see.
               It was no very great marvel, certainly, that a youth so susceptible as William
                  Mason, should think upon her with more than common interest. And what of William
                  Mason? Only this. A very rich old gentleman, heartily sick of the 
                     "Unceasing toil, and endeavor,"
                   of his city life, had purchased a splendid farm adjoining Peleg Ottley's, and
                  there with his wife and child, the said William had come to pass the remainder of
                  his days.
               An acquaintance was soon formed between the practical and amateur farmer, and ere
                  long between the wives and children of the two families, and before the first
                  winter of their acquaintance was nearly ended, it became evident that a very
                  intense kind of friendship had been contracted between Rebecca and William.
               It must surely have been the attraction of dissimilarity which united these two;
                  for William Mason was neither handsome, nor graceful, nor particularly amiable,
                  neither was the amount of his book-learning by any means amazing, and one
                  listening to the common-places which he usually made the vehicles for expressing
                  his thoughts, would not have called the young man astonishingly eloquent.
                  Nevertheless—all lovers will understand what that means—Rebecca loved
                  the man sincerely, devotedly; in as full, ay, in a fuller degree, than Scripture
                  commandeth, better than father or mother, or even brother, better, or
                  even as she loved life, for through him existence was made to her a
                  thousand times more beautiful. Of course the young girl was not, on
                     that account, a weak woman, but it was singular how forgetful she
                  became of the fact that she had eyes and ears of her own, and not
                  singular that this homage rendered to his visuals and tympanum, was just the
                  adoration most acceptable to the lover. In his estimation, "the beauty of wedded
                  life lies in the dependence of the wife upon the husband"—dependence not only for
                  the supply of all physical wants, but dependence also for the spiritual
                  sustenance!
               Oh, misery! if the wife find in a time of dire necessity, when wearied with a long
                  march through the desert of life, that she has depended for refreshment and
                  sustaining power on a broken cistern that holds no water! Oh, sorrow that "hath no
                  name," if, after long-continued hope, she is constrained to lie down of
                  exhaustion, and perish a very beggar, forced to feel that the only source from
                  whence she ever sought aid is utterly inadequate.
               William Mason and Rebecca Ottley were married, and Peleg and his wife remained at
                  home alone; but though both the lights were now removed from the old farm-house,
                  darkness was not there. The prosperity of their children was a great soother to
                  the parents, and a goodly comfort in their loneliness; their son-in-law pleased
                  them, and the prospects of Jonas brightened with every year. In due time he also
                  married. Not the little Lucy Smith whom he had always called his wife in the days
                  when he went with her and Rebecca to the district school, though Lucy was still
                  unmarried, and working like a slave in the farm-house where she lived with the
                  childless people who, by the way, had quite forgotten that they were
                  ever children.
               A city lady of high connections, poor, but beautiful, high-spirited, witty,
                  wilful, and brilliant, was the woman the young lawyer chose to share his rising
                  fortune. The course of Jonas was a naturally upward one; he met with
                  few impediments. Already he had a name in the city where he had made his home, for
                  being studious, careful, and attentive in business  habits; he had the confidence of the clients who
                  employed him, and it was exceedingly well placed.
               But with his success the young man's desire increased. The demands of fashion he
                  paid little heed to, yet to himself he acknowledged it would be fine to have a
                  splendid establishment, a dazzling wife, and to give as noble entertainments as
                  others. Wealth of itself he valued little; wealth as a means of advancement, was
                  quite another thing, so it was that the labors of his profession began to have a
                  twofold interest in his eyes. Fame and riches! ah, talk not of Moloch! Gold to buy
                  the homage of fools! Fame to buy the respect of the world—and for these 
                     
                        "To waste the light of day,
                        Night's better beauty, feeling, fancy, thought,
                        All that he had, and was, for these—for naught!"
                     
                  
               
               Indeed, for naught!
               Jonas had much changed since the time when he left his country-home to study in
                  the city. Constant endeavor, unceasing exertion had chilled his heart, and
                  contracted its generous impulses—he had learned to look with scornful eyes on the
                  little, humble joys of life. Week in and week out, he was constantly in his office
                  plodding, or in the court-room stirring all hearts by his eloquence—influencing
                  and swaying the opinions of men in cases where life and death were at issue. He
                  had it in his power to mould the wills of determined men, to convince the
                  stubborn, to subdue his opponents, and it was not strange that, as time went on,
                  the lust of power should have usurped the place of love, that strength of hard
                  will should have gained the mastery over tenderness, that Jonas, the great
                  advocate, should have become an ungenial husband, a stern, cold, forgetful
                  father.
               Agnes Ottley was very proud of her husband's great talents, she gloried in his
                  growing and high reputation—yet she did not make him the idol of her heart. She
                  was saved from this sin, however, not by her conviction of the moral wrong
                  attending such kind of worship—not because she acknowledged no earthly god—simply
                  because he had chilled her love, and stifled her devotional impulse towards him,
                  by his coldness—because he would not be the sunshine and glory of her
                  spirit's life—because he had forced upon her the conviction that there were things
                  he sought after more devoutly than her happiness, and his own, and their
                  children's; and because these very things to her seemed rightly of no worth, no
                  life, save what a false-guiding imagination had given them.
               The children of Jonas Ottley never approached him with that confidence which
                  constitutes the beauty and the abiding strength of the union between parent and
                  child. As they grew up they learned to seek in their mother a protector and shield
                  against their stern father, and she, as sadly wanting as they in the confidence
                  which springs from a mutual trust and affection, at last came to appear in their
                  eyes not only a mother, but a confidant in all their faults, and wrong-doings.
                  When they were suffering from their father's displeasure, the boys were furnished
                  by her with money and consolation, for she commiserated them, and thought their
                  punishment for offences oftentimes heavier than was just. When these son's demands
                  became too frequent and too great, as it is needless to say they speedily did,
                  there was one way in which they might always be checked and silenced, by
                  threatened exposure to the father. Thus between a fear for one parent, and an
                  almost disrespect for the leniency of the other, which was the natural consequence
                  of such domestic government, the misery of that household was not far from its
                  completion. When confidence, "the key-stone of the arch," is gone—when love, the
                  sustaining pillar, is broken, what ruin of domestic peace and confidence may not
                  be looked for? God have mercy on all such households!
               In his own childhood, the heart-affections of Jonas Ottley had been as tender and
                  as free from all that tends to corrode or harden the heart, as his sister's had
                  been. But their parents had never thought to incite her to ambitious
                  exertion—they had never thought of bidding her, as they had to all intents bidden
                  him, to labor above all things for wealth. She had been suffered to live chiefly
                  for love—her heart had never been closed with unseemly haste against all that
                  keeps the soul alive to the really lofty, good, and true.
               Mahometanism is doubtless preferable to Bhudism; the  worship Rebecca gave her husband was not so
                  soul-destroying, probably, as that her brother yielded to his idols, and yet—no
                  matter what!
               The youngest of Jonas Ottley's sons died in infancy, the remaining two grew up to
                  manhood, talented, but without an idea of cultivating or improving their
                  talents—dissolute and unprincipled. Their mother, by necessity, became a leader of
                  fashion—she was forced by her own miserable domestic life, and by her husband's
                  prominent position, into the gay world, and there her vanity and innate love of
                  display were all aroused, and so it came to pass that in her prime of life she
                  outshone all her compeers; there was not in the great city a woman so charming, so
                  brilliant, as the wife of Jonas Ottley.
               But, in the midst of those parents' honor and fashionable publicity, a wo, that
                  had been many years in gathering its strength, fell upon them; the fame of the
                  great lawyer could not avert it, nor could the uncommon spirit, grace, and beauty,
                  of Agnes Ottley, turn it aside. The sorrow did not come to them in the shape of
                  death—that, being the "common lot" of all born into the world, they could have
                  endured, either coldly or patiently—it did not come in the shape of loss of
                  fortune, that had not so deeply afflicted them, or dismayed them—for neither the
                  husband or wife were essentially sordid, mercenary beings. Poverty or death they
                  could have borne better than dishonor, and it was dishonor that was forced upon
                  them by their eldest son.
               He had rushed headlong in the career of licentiousness, and dissipation of every
                  kind—and at last had forged bills to a great amount on his father, not to pay his
                  debts, which were contracted everywhere, but to secure him the means to elope with
                  a woman who was both a wife and mother, an opera dancer! who, destitute of all
                  refinement or mental beauty, had fascinated the young man, and lured him towards
                  destruction.
               There was a sad scene in Mr. Ottley's beautiful dwelling that night, when the
                  father, having discovered the forgery and the shameful departure of his son,
                  returned to break the intelligence of his flight to his wife.
               He found Agnes alone. She was just returned from the opera, and never had she
                  appeared so dazzlingly beautiful to her husband as on that night, and he wondered
                  how he could have forgotten for so long that she was a splendid
                  woman. Astonished at his early return, for it was very rarely that Jonas left his
                  office till near midnight, his wife gladly welcomed him, and to amuse him, he
                  seemed so gloomy, she entered into a description of the brilliant scene of
                  amusement from which she was just come. But she was speedily silenced by his cold,
                  sharp voice, exclaiming,
               "For God's sake, madam, cease! I have not come home to hear about such trash and
                  stuff as that! I wonder if woman ever had a thought in her head, beside of dress
                  and gaiety?
               "Perhaps," was the indignant answer, "if you had chosen to find that out at an
                  earlier day, your curiosity might have been easily satisfied. I am not aware that
                  you ever attempted to find anything to care for, or love
                  in a woman. Our married life has not proved it, certainly."
               "Tell me, for Heaven's sake, what are we living for? What should man
                  and woman live for?" exclaimed the husband in his bewilderment and shame, scarcely
                  aware what he was asking.
               "If you wish to know, I can tell you readily, though it seems to me you have
                  wisdom enough to reply to the question yourself, if you would. Man should not
                  marry that he may have a settled home, and so secure his comfort, and then desert
                  a wife utterly, in every way save that the world would call desertion. He should
                  not dare vow to love, honor, and cherish, and then give only a
                  fortune and a name; if he does, he will soon enough find for what a woman of any
                  spirit is compelled to live, by the necessities of her nature. If you have wedded
                  yourself so wholly, as you know you have, to fame, what is left to me? Do you
                  think it satisfies me to be a partner of your fortune, the keeper of your house,
                  the bearer of your name? am I to glory in a life, the light of which
                  is to come so coldly through you? It seems to me you should be the
                  last to wonder that I have become, at my time of life, a leader of fashion,
                  virtually mocking at love, youth, and womanly duty, by my way of living.
                     You should not be the one to express astonishment that I do not
                  cling more devotedly to my home, when Heaven  knows beyond its beauty, and that
                  wealth has made, it has not for me one attraction!"
               The wife spoke nervously and bitterly, for she felt that she had been cheated of
                  love, and all that constancy of wedded devotion in which her heart was a fervent
                  believer when she became Jonas Ottley's wife
               "Agnes," he said, reluctantly, "I did not come home tonight—I have not spoken to
                  you so—to arouse your anger. I do not wish to offer, nor can I listen, willingly,
                  to such abusive words; I came to tell you of disgrace that has befallen us—to
                  speak words, the thought of whose truth burns my brain—oh, God! God!"
               In a moment she was beside him, all anger vanished from her face, and tears were
                  in her eyes. "Forgive me—forgive me that I have spoken so, and at such a time,"
                  she implored.
               "Our boy Herbert—he has gone," murmured the father, as though he feared the sound
                  of his own words: "he has married one of the opera corps— one of the dancers; I
                     hope he has married her, for he has gone with one of them—I cannot
                  tell where; and, Agnes, that is—" but he was speaking to one who no more heard
                  what he was saying than the sculptured images upon the mantel.
               In more than one home, at that very moment, people were marvelling at and
                  extolling the wonderful beauty, and superb dignity of that woman; they did not see
                  her, none but her alarmed husband saw her in her time of agony and humiliation—for
                  that oldest boy, despite his wild folly, and want of all respect, and reverence,
                  had been the mother's idol: in her inmost soul she had worshipped him, and it had
                  been the highest joy that had ever fallen to her superficial life, the power to
                  dream of what he might, and perhaps would yet be. Her first-born! her darling! she
                  had hoped for him with 
                     "Patient, vigilant, never-wearied love—"
                   had trusted to his high nature's soon wearying of the ignoble pleasures he
                  restlessly sought;—she had believed that the talents with which he was gifted,
                  would press so heavily upon him at last, that he would be compelled to arouse,
                  exert, and employ them. She had prayed for him who seldom prayed for herself—she
                  had consoled herself ever with the thought that he was not vicious, that the
                  temptations which beguiled him would soon lose their power—she had dreamed that
                  even if wild and gay, he was not evil-minded—and now he was dishonored, and had
                  fled with a guilty companion! Ah, indeed, Death is not the only Iconoclast!
               But the parents lived on through their grief and shame, and the time that elapsed
                  might not be counted by years when they had to all appearance totally forgotten
                  the dreadful hour when they, for the first time in their lives, heartily
                  sympathised with each other in their sorrows.
               With redoubled ardor, that he might forget his trouble, the father plunged deeper
                  into the mysteries of business, and won more of fame. Socially and politically,
                  what high station he had now, but who that has looked with understanding, and
                  watched the Drama of Life, will ask if he was content therewith? I never yet heard
                  any say, "I have enough," save one, and every day of his life that man's deeds
                  belied his words.
               Of the one remaining son, who was rapidly following in the footsteps of his elder
                  brother, but little remains to be said. His story was a brief, but an awful
                  one.
               That he might be far removed from the temptations and beguilements which
                  surrounded him in his city home, the father procured for him a lieutenancy in the
                  navy, and in a vessel bound for China, the young man went aboard. The parents
                  never beheld him again; for long before the years that were to elapse before his
                  return were passed, the stern heart and the proud head of Jonas Ottley was again
                  bent in shame, and agony, and the face of Agnes was withdrawn from the gay crowd,
                  for the tidings came to them that the boy in whom they had latterly suffered so
                  much of hope to centre, had for a fearful crime in a foreign land, paid the
                  death-penalty! Among strangers, where the authority of his father's name could not
                  avail to save, in a moment of passion he had shed blood—and "by man must his blood
                  be shed."
               It would seem that the father had been suffered to win power  and fame only that he might be punished a
                  hundred-fold in humiliation. Indeed, indeed he had paid dear for all that he had
                  attained in the eyes of the world! the best years of his life were given to the
                  drudgeries of a laborious profession, the love of his heart had been suffered,
                  from coldness, to languish into death—his parental duties had all been
                  sacrificed—and he had secured the triumph of a day! How purely selfish seemed his
                  life-labor, even to him, in the time of that last, and exceeding
                  great affliction! Himself, and his as miserable wife were left alone, robbed of
                  happiness, self-defrauded of peace, both bankrupts in a higher court than he had
                  ruled in yet.
               Agnes Ottley never again appeared in the gay world of fashion, where she had
                  reigned and administered laws, arbitrary as those of the Medes and Persians. The
                  last household joy she had counted on was removed, and with its removal the last
                  connecting link between her husband and herself was removed. It was not a sorrow
                  that had fallen on them which they could endure and "be silent," feeling that for
                  some wise purpose, Heaven had afflicted them. Such sorrows bring with them always
                  a God-sent consolation. But they, how could they escape the doubt as to where the
                  condemnation for the evil of their sons should fall? Had they in
                  pursuit of other things besides their children's spiritual good, been the direct
                  cause of their ruin? Had they ever been the parents they should have
                  been? Had they totally unfitted their sons for manhood, and tempted them to folly
                  and to sin, by their own example? Alas, for the parents who are forced to ask
                  themselves such questions, when the condemning answer their conscience forces will
                  not avail forever!
               Would you ask of the still later manhood of Jonas Ottley? I have seen an old man,
                  very, very old, though not because of the lapse of years since his natal hour. He
                  has not yet seen three-score and ten. But there are furrows in his cheek, and deep
                  lines on his forehead, and his hair is white as snow. And I have heard that in his
                  early youth that aged man gave the brightest promise for the future, for he was
                     ambitious, and gifted with a strong, and powerful intellect, and
                  how in his manhood older men looked reverently to him, and wise men prized him,
                  and his voice was potent in the halls of legislation, and that his legal fame went
                  abroad through all the land. And of his wealth they did not need to tell of that,
                  for I could see his broad possessions, and I knew that men held for him the
                  title-deeds of estates immense, and that towns and villages had been named with
                  his name. It seemed a mystery when I looked on the faded eyes, and saw their
                  meaningless glare. His lips would move incessantly, as his servants led him
                  through his beautiful grounds, but when the passer-by would pause, he knew no
                  intelligible words issued from them, and it seemed strange, for that voice was
                  like a clarion once, ringing out truths and principles which startled, and
                  delighted, and amazed the multitude!
               He was not near the age of that "old man eloquent," who, when his hair was
                  whitened by time, was still found laboring for the cause of civil freedom—who,
                  while his voice was uplifted in the honored halls where its echoings had been so
                  often heard, received even then his death-summons. I say he was not nearly so old
                  as that admirable, great old man—yet one would have thought Jonas
                  Ottley had outlived a century.
               When I asked, seeing him always attended by menials, if the man had no wife or
                  child to care for him in his miserable condition, they told me that his lady had
                  died of a broken heart— that she had once been beautiful as her husband was
                  gifted, that she had been beloved by many, and by those who but rarely looked on
                  her splendid form and face, with a better love than her husband cherished for her;
                  and when they spoke of her, they wept. And of the children of Jonas? alas, you
                  need not to hear more of them.
               Methinks it were a sight that might almost rouse old Peleg from his grave—this
                  miserable ending of the great hopes he dreamed when his boy first started in life.
                  At the time of his death, Jonas was in the height of his pride and prosperity, and
                  the thought surely never entered his head, when, with his dying breath he blessed
                  his children, that ere many years should pass, the son in whom he gloried would be
                  reduced to a state of childish helplessness—his fine mind shattered—his race to
                  all intents fully run!
            
            
               
               THE WITHERED FIG TREE.
               
                  
                     "Is there any thing whereof it may be said, see, this is new? It hath been
                        already of old time, which was before us."
                  
               
               
                  I.
                  "HELEN! Helen! Where the deuce is the girl? Forever wanting when she's wanted!
                     It is unaccountable, Emma, that you can't teach her to stop in one place two
                     minutes together. Helen! Helen!"
                  "Yes, papa!" was the instant reply of the frightened child, who from her
                     play-house in a distant corner of the mansion heard herself called so
                     impatiently—"I'm coming; I'll be there in just a moment," and the voice drew
                     nearer and nearer as the assurance was repeated; but it was succeeded by a
                     sharp, quick cry of fear and agony, and David and Emma Wise ran together from
                     the room where they waited the little delinquent's coming. But when they
                     reached the stairway both paused, and the child's shriek was echoed by them in
                     a tone of wilder horror, when they saw her lying motionless on the floor of the
                     hall, many feet below them. She had fallen from the top to the bottom of that
                     long flight of stairs. It was only for an instant that fear paralyzed them,
                     then Mrs. Wise was lifting Helen, and hurrying with her to her own chamber, and
                     the father was away in search of a physician.
                  Little Helen was pale and senseless as a corpse when she was laid upon her
                     mother's bed. Once while Mrs. Wise stood rubbing the cold hands in her own, she
                     faintly opened her eyes, but they had no expression of consciousness, and
                     closed immediately diately; and had it not been for the faint motion of the
                     pulse, which Emma felt as she clasped the tiny hands, she had thought her idol
                     a shattered one indeed, so like a corpse the still and pallid face did
                     look.
                  But Helen was not dead; she did not die. Yet an anguish scarcely less terrible
                     than bereavement fell upon the mother's heart, when the little one recovered
                     from the shock and the weakness attending that fall, and the physician told her
                     the dreadful truth that the child's spine was broken!
                  A fine opportunity for the study of character was afforded in the manner of the
                     afflicted father and mother, when they were coping with the severe trial which
                     they must bear.
                  Helen was just seven years old when the shocking accident occurred. During
                     those years of life she had been her mother's constant care, her joy and
                     consolation; and now when the fond woman looked forward, and compared the
                     probable future of her darling child with that which she had imagined and hoped
                     for, she was overwhelmed with grief. For a time sorrow mastered her reason; she
                     could not feel grateful that Helen's life was spared; it seemed to her then as
                     though no deeper affliction than this was possible. At the first, it was agony
                     for her to listen to the gentle tones of the child's voice—she could not bear
                     to meet the troubled, yet patient glances of the mild eyes, in which she had
                     once read the peaceful, happy fortunes of the little one.
                  Emma Wise had never been a vulgarly proud, vain mother—but she had so loved her
                     daughter, so adored her, had pictured for her, in imagination, so many bright
                     fortunes, that she was perfectly prostrated before the sorrowful reality of
                     pain, distress, and deformity which was now before her.
                  With the father it was otherwise. Yet it was neither religion nor philosophy
                     that supported him, simply calm indifference. Had it been a son,
                     their infant Jamie, on whom so sad a fate had fallen, Emma Wise would have had
                     no occasion to ask in wondering disgust if the man had, indeed, a heart; she
                     would have seen how his tears could fall like hers, in torrents—how his spirit
                     could, like hers, be crushed and broken. But—it was only little Helen who
                     suffered, and though she was his first-born born child, that name was not significant of
                     love, nor of devotion on his part.
                  The disappointment which he made no effort to hide, when his daughter was first
                     laid in his arms, had given place to no other emotion in regard to her. Helen
                     had never seemed to him a child, nor was he to her as a father. She obeyed, she
                     feared, but she loved him never! He gave her a name, a shelter, food and
                     raiment, and he gave no more!
               
               
                  II.
                  TO speak the sad and solemn truth, David and Emma Wise were as ill-matched a
                     pair as ever vowed to live together for better or for worse. Their union was a
                     mystery. No compulsion on the one side attended—no love on the other induced
                     it. The wealthy bachelor, after a short residence in Lynn, had proposed to the
                     pretty, amiable, portionless Emma Haynes—she had accepted him, and they were
                     married and removed at once to another town in Massachusetts, where the
                     bridegroom had purchased a beautiful place, called "Sunnyside"—which a now
                     bankrupt merchant had spent a fortune and sixteen years in beautifying. Here
                     the newly married pair found themselves surrounded by all the good things of
                     life—what at least, and with some reason, are usually accounted such: they were
                     in want of nothing in the wide world but capacity for enjoyment. It was a very
                     needful need!
                  To Emma Wise, even before the first year of their marriage had passed, it was a
                     perfect mystery how or why her husband had sought her for his wife. She was a
                     very lovely woman, and she knew that: she had been told the pleasant fact by
                     admiring friends sufficiently often to become well aware of it. But there were
                     lovelier women in the world than she, and Emma felt that David had not married
                     her for her beauty's sake. Nor for her intellect or her learning, had he sought
                     her to be his companion in life—he had never cared to discover how far she was
                     capacitated for study with him, he never spoke with her on subjects above or
                     beyond the common-place, though had he done so he would have found that she had
                     an inquiring, active mind, that was capable of great development.
                  As to herself, she was a woman made for love—to love. Not a wild, passionate,
                     absorbing adoration of another human being, but gentle, unobtrusive, constant
                     devotion. She thought, in sincerity, that it was quite possible for her to love
                     David Wise—that she could cheer his loneliness, that she could enliven his home
                     and his heart, that she could find in him, since he wished her for a wife, a
                     lover as well as husband. In this she had been bitterly disappointed.
                  Wed a woman of twenty summers with a groom of fifty winters; let the
                     affectionateness of the young nature be repulsed, refused
                     acceptance, scorned, indeed, by the old, and "the end of it" will in no case be
                     a problem difficult to solve. If the wife is a gay, life-full nature, she will
                     not suffer herself to be crushed in spirit—she will seek in the worldly what
                     she cannot find at home—will become a trifler, careless, unbelieving—miserable!
                     If she be of another mould, more quiet, gentle, hopeful, she will not easily be
                     repulsed. She will endeavor and strive against hope, and if she be finally
                     vanquished in her effort, she will die young, and of a broken heart. It is the
                     inevitable result.
                  There was something besides the stern gravity and dignity of age evident in the
                     cold, distant, disagreeable manner of David Wise. He was subject to fits of
                     moody thoughtfulness, which, at times led him to pass whole days alone in his
                     chamber, where he suffered none to intrude, except the servants who waited on
                     him; which were vented often in sudden journeys, undertaken without a moment's
                     warning, and from which he returned as suddenly and unannounced. He now had no
                     taste for books. His library was large and valuable, such as none but a
                     studious, learned man would have chosen; but after his marriage he never
                     entered it to read, or to touch the volumes that filled those long lines of
                     shelf, which reached from the floor to the ceiling of the handsome apartment.
                     He had no liking for society; conversation seemed to him almost always an
                     annoyance, and friendship with other men, he shunned of all things.
                  There was but one exception to this rule of isolation which he had laid down
                     for himself; it was made in favor of a young man who had come to Sunnyside soon
                     after David Wise was married, and remained there till Jamie was born, a
                     dependent,  no relative, yet dearly
                     beloved by his protector, who, unmindful of the great disparity in their years
                     and station, made Alfred Lord his chosen friend, and almost constant
                     companion.
                  This person was a youth of ordinary abilities, and in personal appearance
                     inferior; taciturn, self-possessed, always mild and respectful, he was, also,
                     but it was difficult to conceive the charm that bound his patron, or master, or
                     friend, to him, that made the old man so solicitous always for his
                     comfort, when that of persons who had, as one might suppose, a better claim on
                     his time and attention, was invariably neglected.
                  Whatever it may have been to other people, this intimate communion between
                     David Wise and Alfred Lord, was to Emma a perfect mystery, which was far enough
                     from being solved by any explanation which the husband vouchsafed.
               
               
                  III.
                  It was late one afternoon, in the September of that summer of Helen's accident,
                     that Mrs. Wise and her daughter walked together in the great garden, which was
                     the beauty of Sunny-side. They had wandered for an hour through the long walks,
                     gathering splendid autumn flowers, and conversing together in the low, subdued
                     tone of persons who have suffered much; not in the gay and joyous manner of the
                     young mother with her cherished child.
                  Their steps were now directed towards the house—they had reached the arbor at
                     the entrance gate, when Helen paused and said—
                  "Come to this path, please mamma, I want you to look at my tree."
                  And they retraced their steps to a remote corner of the garden, where, the
                     spring preceding, Helen had spent many hours in arranging a flower-bed that was
                     called her own. A friend had given her a root of the fig tree, and the child
                     had planted and watered it morning and night, till it had fairly made its home
                     in the ground and began to grow. From that happy day, when the green buds
                     peeped above the earth, she had watched it with unceasing devotion, lingering
                     about it as though it were a beloved friend whose life was in danger, and
                     watching, with the utmost anxiety, to see if it really would live
                     in that cold northern soil.
                  And, to her great joy, it had done well. Shoots had sprung from the main stem,
                     and had grown tall and luxuriantly, and the tree gave promise of a long and
                     healthful life. So it had flourished all the summer—but when, to-day, Helen
                     made her accustomed visit to the much-loved little garden, she had found its
                     leaves all yellow and drooping—it seemed to her a human thing, pining for its
                     native land—she believed that it was going to die.
                  So it was with a heavy heart that she went with her mother to look upon it, for
                     it seemed to the poor child as though a living sympathy were established
                     between herself and that senseless thing—she seemed to read her own destiny in
                     it.
                  "See, mamma, it is just like me," she said, when they stood looking on the
                     faded leaves—"it is all withered, and will die."
                  "Not like you, dear Helen. There is a long life before you, I believe. You grow
                     stronger every day; it is growing late in the season, and you know the change
                     of climate would affect this thing sooner than other vegetation—would give it
                     just the appearance it has now. We will have the root taken up, tonight, and
                     removed to the house for the winter. I am almost sure it will again come out
                     then."
                  "But see," persisted Helen, "feel the stems. How soft and withered
                        they are. That wouldn't be, even if the leaves changed
                     naturally, for we haven't had any frost yet."
                  "Never mind, you'll see in the spring. I am perfectly sure the leaves will come
                     out again then. Perhaps the poor thing is home-sick, who knows?"
                  "Oh," exclaimed Helen, with eager sadness, but she caught her mother's smile
                     and paused. "Soon," she added, thoughtfully, "I should be Heaven-sick, if you
                     were not always with me. Mamma, I shall die the very day you die."
                  "Hush! we are in the hand of the Lord, Helen. If He should take me from you,
                     there would be sufficient care laid upon you. It would be necessary that you
                     should live, dear child."
                  "I am just four years older than Jamie," the little girl said,
                     thoughtfully.
                  
                  "Yes, if ever anything should happen, if I should be taken away, I should feel
                     safe in leaving the little darling to your care, my precious child."
                  Helen clasped her mother's hand, and they turned away together from the fig
                     tree. She had forgotten her dear friend in sadder thoughts. But Mrs. Wise,
                     whose watchful love bore in mind all things that could at all affect the
                     happiness of those about her, sought out the gardener, and gave him directions
                     for carefully removing the tree at once to the root-house, where it should
                     remain for the winter.
               
               
                  IV.
                  The casual suggestion of the mother, that little Jamie might, one
                     day, be left to her charge, produced its impression and effect on the
                     daughter's mind. From that day, he was endowed with a new and touching interest
                     in her eyes; she became his second nurse, and suffered him to be rarely from
                     her sight. The child was strikingly plain in appearance, and, except to those
                     daily associated with him, destitute of all the winning graces and ways of
                     childhood. His eyes were large, and dark, and brilliant, like his father's, but
                     they were destitute of expression. The fixed, natural brightness was all. It
                     was a glitter like that of the serpent's eye: charming to the momentary
                     observer, but the gaze troubled and astonished the mother. Even little Helen
                     had observed it, for she one day said to her mother, "I never saw any one with
                     eyes like Jamie's; they look and look, and are so very bright, but they don't
                     seem to see anything."
                  Yet that he was not blind they knew.
                  Two years since Jamie's birthday had passed, when another son was added to the
                     household—but the father's pride, and affection, and interest, were centred all
                     in his oldest boy. He was an idol.
                  Edwin was a beauty—a bright, amiable child, who, in feature, and voice, and
                     manner, strongly resembled his mother. In his "mild blue eyes," was there
                     nothing that told powerfully on the heart of his father, as well as on hers,
                     who, morning and evening, uttered her grateful thanks to Him who had given the
                     blessed child? Was there nothing in the quiet affectionateness of the boy's
                     words and acts, that won for him involuntary embraces from the grave old man?
                     Was there nothing in his graceful motions, in his generous acts, which
                     sometimes won a fervent kiss, an earnest blessing? Never. All that his parent's
                     heart could feel, was concentred in and lavished on James, the
                     first-born son. And of him?
                  The last few months preceding his third birthday, had been to both these
                     parents months of lingering suspense and agony. A dark and dreadful suspicion
                     had been, during this time, finding for itself lodgment in their thought, and
                     the bare idea made them tremble.
                  At first, in their own breasts they tried to hush the fear which forced itself
                     upon them, that all was not well with the child; but when the months went on,
                     and no spark of that intelligence which the parent is ever the first to see and
                     glory in, was perceivable in him—when no other emotion than of simple affection
                     or of passionate anger was ever aroused in him, they began to believe what it
                     was almost death for them to imagine. Neither David nor Emma Wise had spoken
                     this suspicion to the other, they kept it a dreadful guest in their own mind.
                     How should the mother dare to speak to that husband, who so adored the boy, of
                     idiocy! How should the father mourn with her, whom he was ready to curse in his
                     heart, over this awful chastisement?
                  For himself, he could not long endure uncertainty. Any assurance was preferable
                     to that hope-blasting doubt, and he sought the physician, Dr. Sympson, one day,
                     demanding of him the truth. And then the fear received its assurance, there was
                     no hope, no help for Jamie—he was an idiot!
                  
                  It was enough. To "curse God and die," seemed from that day the only thought or
                     inclination in the soul of the wretched man. Thenceforth, Helen and Edwin,
                     whose chief interest in his eyes had been, that they were the brother and
                     sister, the companions of Jamie, were as nothing to him—and now the boy who had
                     been his pride, his thought for all the future, was also to the father as one
                     dead.
                  But, to depart when he was wearied and sick of life—this was not granted him.
                     David's bodily strength failed not—he was full of vitality. The stern
                     disappointment and trial he was 
                     forced to bear, broke his spirit—but his health kept firm, and he presented
                     then that loveless, mournful sight, a wretched, dissatisfied, tempted, and
                     falling man. Then he never smiled save when he looked on the wine cup, and his
                     merriment in those hours of unnatural gaiety, was such as brought a pallor to
                     his young wife's face, and increased heaviness to her heart.
                  Upon Emma the blow fell startlingly, cruelly; but it produced another effect
                     than it had on her husband. It chilled and terrified her loving heart, it bowed
                     her lovely head, yet she had no wish for death. To herself it had, indeed, been
                     a relief, could she have died the day when the truth was told her, and she met
                     that look of David Wise. The spirit of gladness and joy had long been grieved
                     away from her, and she was prepared for the last change—she longed for the
                     silence and freedom of the grave. But for Helen, the weak, frail girl, who
                     seemed to live through, and joy only in her mother, for Jamie, the now more
                     than ever dear, the unfortunate child, for little helpless Edwin, for these
                     life seemed to her an almost absolute necessity—a something she could not
                     relinquish—which must not be taken away!
                  The thought of Providence, however, was not as her thought. While the father,
                     who seemed but a dread to his children, daily strengthened in health, the
                     mother faded and faded away; her strength vanished, and the few who knew her,
                     (well did these love her)—when they looked on her white face, and watched her
                     feeble motion, and heard her voice, knew that she was passing from earth. And
                     Helen knew it also.
                  Going one day into her mother's chamber, she found her on her knees in prayer.
                     Her first impulse was to retreat softly from the sanctuary, but in another
                     moment she entered and threw herself beside her parent, and bowed her head
                     likewise.
                  When Mrs. Wise rose again, she said tenderly,
                  "My child, all I can do is to pray. Oh, when you stand in my place, pray
                     without ceasing. You are born to a troublous lot, Helen; God help you."
                  Helen could not speak—could only look with troubled, questioning eyes upon her
                     mother, who also for a moment was silent. She was gathering strength to speak
                     the saddest words to which a mother can give utterance.
                  "I said, Nelly, when you stand in my place, pray without ceasing. I trust that
                     your devotions are never neglected; but when I am gone you will learn, if you
                     have not yet, what a precious privilege prayer is. Never forget, however dark
                     the earthly lot is, there is One in Heaven who regards all His children with
                     mercy. Helen, you are a strong-minded girl, though so weak physically. I want
                     you from this day to exert all the powers of your mind. I must speak to you of
                     these things while I can, that you may be accustomed to the thought of my
                     approaching death, for I would spare you the pain of a sudden shock. It is
                     better to talk of these things than to increase the sorrow by stifling it in
                     our hearts."
                  "Oh, mother! mother! you must not speak of dying. I can bear anything but that
                        you should die—only live! Speak, say you will live
                        for me!"
                  She looked up into her mother's face, while she made that despairing appeal of
                     devotion, but her eyes fell—a mortal chill passed over her, and her countenance
                     grew white as her mother's while she waited for the reply.
                  "Nelly, I do not fear death, for I know that I am going home. It is this
                     parting with my dear, precious children, that makes me grieve. All these
                     thirteen years of your life, you have been a blessing to me—my comfort and my
                     hope: and yet—yet I must lay a dreadful burden on you, whom, O! that you might
                     be spared such trial!—God's will be done!—will you, Nelly, be to your brothers
                     a mother? Will you keep them always safe under your care? Poor, dear child,
                     what do I ask?"
                  The pallor fled from Helen's face. It glowed with light—she actually smiled as
                     she knelt before her mother, and said—
                  "Hear me; I would gladly die if that could save you, dear mamma. Now, I will
                     live for you—Heaven hear me! I will be a mother to Jamie and Edwin—I will do
                     what I promise. Do not fear me—but you, you, I—" The light and the glow faded
                     from her face, and she fell fainting to the floor.
               
               
                  
                  V.
                  IT was the first time the mother and daughter had spoken together on this
                     subject; but it was not the last. It was a relief to them to speak much of that
                     which so constantly preyed on their thoughts—to encourage each other, as they
                     were about to part for ever.
                  During the weeks preceding their dreaded final separation, many were the
                     communings, tender and solemn, that were held between them. They gained
                     strength in this sad converse to speak composedly of the great change about to
                     befall the household. To Helen the very idea of that parting was torture the
                     most dreadful; but she had schooled herself to outward calmness, for the girl's
                     high soul was aroused, and her frailty was proved to be, as her mother had
                     said, only of a physical nature. She had a moral strength and capacity to
                     endure, which her father had not.
                  To him the wife had never spoken of her probable early death. She could not
                     nerve herself to that. Why was it that when she had revealed all that was in
                     her heart to her young daughter, she could not do so much to him who might have
                     claimed her confidence as well? If he had ever in a day of sorrow or rejoicing,
                     sought her counsel, or companionship, or sympathy—if he had ever by one single
                     act or word since their marriage day, proved to her that he loved her, this
                     might have been a possibility, but to a nature so cold, so foreign as his, she
                     could not speak of sickness, or suffering, or death. She feared to do it. She
                     shrunk from meeting the cold look of his searching eyes, the monosyllabic
                     wonder that she should dream of dying—or—or the lighting of feature and voice,
                     that would tell it was no grief for him to part with her. She was not the woman
                     to live with such a man. She was too easily crushed, a flower too lovely, too
                     drooping, too frail. A long life might have been hers, had a kindly arm
                     supported her, and a strong, loving heart shielded her—as it was, now in her
                     thirty-second year, it was appointed for her to die!
                  Even Helen had never but once said to her father any thing respecting the great
                     loss they were about to meet.
                  Astonished at his apparent blindness, and grieved because of his inattention,
                     the timid girl at last resolved to talk with him about it. Perhaps, she
                     thought, he did see and feel it all, but for the mother's sake
                     maintained that calm serenity—and O! what a joy for her, could she find that he
                     had tears of grief to shed with her!—to feel that he too loved the dying as she
                     loved her!
                  It required a desperate effort on Helen's part to speak to him with whom she
                     should so soon be left alone of this. Her words were uttered in a flood of
                     tears. It was the awful truth of what she tried to speak, which he
                     received with that unsympathizing glance and impatient gesture, that so
                     completely unnerved her when she had tried desperately to be calm, which wrung
                     from her the bitter appeal—
                  "Papa, don't you know she is dying?"
                  The sharp interrogation, "Know what? Who is dying?" quickly brought her to
                     herself, and with surprising self-command, that was forced upon her by the
                     great revulsion in her feeling, she replied—
                  "My mother."
                  "Fudge, child! she has been in just that state always. She has a cold, and
                     worries about it too much. Besides, she spends too much time altogether shut up
                     in that room with James and Edwin. You should take that care off her hands, if
                     she is not well. But don't be frightened about your mother. She never complains
                     to me."
                  "She never complains, papa. But she is very, very ill."
                  "I'll speak with Doctor Sympson about it. If any thing has gone wrong with her,
                     or she is really ill, I can get at the real truth of the matter better by
                     asking him than I should speaking with her. It would, besides, alarm her."
                  "But it don't alarm her. And she would be so happy if you could come to her
                     sometimes. She speaks to me of her death every day. I know she isn't afraid to
                     die."
                  "If your mother has been so sick as you say, it would have been impossible for
                     her to appear so constantly at table, and to go about the house and grounds so
                     much. It's only a womanish  whim, so
                     don't talk any more about it. Have you seen Jamie this morning?"
                  "I left him with mamma. She was playing with him."
                  "Well, do you go and take her place. You ought to do more towards amusing the
                     boy, and not leave it to her. Did she send you here to have this talk with
                     me?"
                  "Oh, papa, no!" was the faint exclamation, which sounded very like a reproach,
                     as the child went hastily from the room.
               
               
                  VI.
                  MR. WISE did consult the physician who was in his wife's
                     attendance, but it happened that he delayed doing so till the very day she
                     died. To the last he had neglected her—and not a word in those final days
                     passed between them of communion, or counsel, or of love. To the last Emma had
                     hoped that it would not end thus—to the last she had supplicated for him—and to
                     the very last he had remained far from her, blind and deaf to her unspoken
                     call.
                  The morning she died she was sitting in a large arm-chair in the nursery. She
                     had been trying to amuse poor Jamie, and had walked with him several times
                     about the room, but she soon became very weary, and when she sat down again,
                     the imitative little creature seated himself on the cushioned bench at her
                     feet, turning over the pages of gayly-colored picture books. Shortly after the
                     nurse came into the room, leading Edwin, and the mother dismissed her, saying
                     she would look after the children herself a little.
                  From that moment when she gathered the three around her, an increased
                     expression of solemn earnestness had lighted her pale face, which, it seemed to
                     Helen, was growing more deathly every instant.
                  There was a dead silence in that chamber. Helen sat close beside her mother,
                     holding Edwin, so that the fond parent's eyes might be constantly upon him;
                     there were thoughts with the dying woman which could not be spoken, which she
                     must depart without uttering, even to that eldest child. By an effort she
                     roused herself at last, and said—
                  "I want you to kneel down with Edwin, close beside Jamie. I will pray
                        with you the last time—but I shall pray for you
                     for ever."
                  Helen obeyed, and her mother's soul was poured forth in such fervent, solemn
                     supplication, that she felt it was indeed for the last time. When the whispered
                     "amen" was said, she waited till the hand that rested in blessing on her head
                     was withdrawn, but the silence that followed frightened her—she stood up and
                     looked upon her mother.
                  And as she looked, she knew that the last change was near, and for a moment,
                     though she had striven long and hard to be prepared for this, she was wildly
                     startled; but that fear passed, and she said—
                  "Shall I call him, mamma? Shall I speak to papa for you?"
                  "Do not leave me," was the reply, uttered with astonishing energy: "these
                     children are yours, Helen; do not desert them, for your mother's
                     sake. Kiss me, Helen."
                  She was dead when the young girl lifted her face from the face of her mother,
                     after that long embrace.
               
               
                  VII.
                  IN the garden at Sunnyside every spring had been planted in a remote corner in
                     Helen's garden, a beautiful fig-tree, which every autumn saw removed to the
                     cellar of the house for protection against frosts and storms, which its nature
                     could not endure. It was a singularly formed tree. The stem was large, but
                     ill-shaped; it looked as though it had been blasted in its growth, for it was
                     only two feet in height, while from every part of it had sprung fresh and
                     luxuriant stems, each adorned with the most beautiful foliage. It was true the
                     early and scarcely perceptible frost, which had fallen upon it in that first
                     year of its exile, had in a measure blighted the tree; but the sunshine, the
                     dew, and the tender care bestowed upon it another year, had saved it. So had it
                     been with Helen Wise. The tree, as she once said to her mother,
                        was like her. A calamity had come upon her, and, in a measure,
                     dwarfed and withered her physical energy—but the mother's love had been like
                     dew  and sunshine on her heart: it
                     had developed in that shrinking frame, that timid nature, powers which, under a
                     less genial influence, had never made themselves manifest; had evolved her
                     moral courage, her power to act and think.
                  "You are like that tree, Helen," her mother had repeated, when she
                     saw it, as she had prophesied, recovering from the first year's exposure.
                  Helen would not then have thought of comparing herself with it—the
                     simile to her imagination only held good so long as the withered shrub was at
                     the point of death.
                  "Though you, my daughter, will never be a beautiful woman, save to those who
                     know you, to them you will be all you could wish. Your mind and the affections
                     of your heart, thank God, have not been dwarfed. Be what you will, Helen, I
                     have no fear in trusting you. You have never been a child, as children are—you
                     are a woman in thought and in motive."
                  A sad truth was that. The tiny girl was a woman. She had never
                     been a child from the day when that deformity overshadowed her. In her
                     sympathizing mother she had lived, and known what it was to be happy—but when
                     left with the children alone with her father, there was a contraction of the
                     nature which to the mother was open as the rose is to sunlight.
                  There was none in the wide world then to assist her with loving counsel, to
                     assure her with confidence, to love her with appreciating fondness. Between
                     thirteen and sixty-three there is a difference; but a greater dissimilarity
                     than that of age existed between David Wise and his eldest child—a wider gulf
                     than that of years spread between them.
               
               
                  VIII.
                  ONLY a few weeks had passed, after his wife's death, when Mr. Wise acquainted
                     Helen with his intention of making an immediate change in his family affairs.
                     He had, he said, determined upon placing her in a boarding-school near Boston;
                     the boys he should send to the South, where they could be under the safe charge
                     of one of his relatives. It was high time, he thought, that the children's
                     education should be attended to.
                  When Helen heard this resolution, she knew not what to do. Of herself, though
                     she shrunk from the presence and companionship of strangers, she thought not
                     now. The injunction of her mother that she should always remain with, and be
                     all to her brothers, seemed one she must fulfil. Yet how to oppose the will of
                     that father? Not by tears, she answered herself—and by words, had she thus been
                     ever able to influence him?
                  She saw the preparations for departure going on day after day at Sunnyside, but
                     could not bring herself to act concerning it till the appointed
                     time drew evidently very near. Then every word that Edwin spoke fell with such
                     a pang upon her heart, every caress of Jamie was so powerful to strengthen her
                     resolution, that she at last one day sought her father. The boys were both with
                     her, and she nerved herself for the dreaded encounter by looking upon them—and
                     a mere look was enough. She promised herself to speak calmly and to entreat
                     humbly, if need be, that he would not separate them, that he would entrust to
                     her care the children their mother, in dying, had desired might be left to her
                     guidance. But when she came to him her soul could find no utterance but in the
                     earnest petition—
                  "Oh, father, do not take the children away from me!"
                  "The deuce! What could you do with them?" was the answer. "I said
                     it was the best way for them to go to their older relatives, and you must
                     certainly go off to school. Don't you think it time you should be
                     learning?"
                  "Only let them go with me! I want to learn—but I could not live away from them.
                     Mother wished that we should be kept together. I will not trouble any body with
                     the care of them; there are so few of us, let us grow up together. Oh, father,
                     do, do let it be so!"
                  "But—I can't understand you. What would you do with such things in a
                     boarding-school? Jamie, what could you do with him?—and Edwin,
                     he's little better than a baby."
                  "It was mother's wish that we should be kept together. I know about Jamie
                     better than any body else, and can manage him better—and as for Edwin, oh, I
                     cannot part with him. Don't part us, father,—do not!"
                  The old man looked down on the little bent figure whose pale  face was so earnestly watching him—and a throb
                     of pity, I do not say of affection, moved his heart. He paused at last in his
                     pacing through the parlor, and simply said—it was in a tone less harsh than
                     usual,
                  "I'll make the arrangements, and it shall be as you wish; but you must be able
                     to give me a good account of your charge, Helen, when I return."
                  "Are you going away, too, father?"
                  Perhaps the old man noticed the great difference in the calm tone with which
                     the question was asked, and the fervent manner in which she had pleaded a
                     moment before—he looked at her with close scrutiny as he answered—
                  "Yes, I am going to Europe. I shall sail from Boston next month."
                  The intelligence was received in silence.
                  For, indeed, it was no occasion for grief to either of these children.
                  To Jamie the father was a perfect abhorrence—no fear of parental authority, no
                     awe, or love, held him in check; in the spirit of opposition, malice, and
                     folly, he met all rebuke, chastisement, or attempt to control, which proceeded
                     from that parent. He had been meek, submissive as a lamb, to the gentle Emma
                     Wise, his pitying mother. By stern measures, by force, by threats or frowns,
                     the poor creature was not to be subdued—and the mere fact that his father had
                     attempted such governance was enough to arouse his unfortunate child's blind
                     fury and ungovernable hate.
                  Edwin, gay as a bird, easily affected by all magnetic influences,
                     loving, and fearing, and hating with a warm-hearted, petted child's enthusiasm,
                     Helen, meek, long suffering, careful, patient, full of reverence, to these
                     young creatures who adored each other, the day of parting with their sire was
                     not an evil day. They had not in his presence the freedom of their poor
                     brother, who was restrained in mirth or in wrath by no mental, moral suasion,
                     they could not conquer the intense consciousness, the unnatural dread, with
                     which his presence inspired them—his removal from them, therefore was only the
                     removal of a bugbear.
               
               
                  IX.
                  MONEY will purchase all sorts of favor; (what a truism have I proclaimed!) it
                     secured the uncommon accommodation which Mr. Wise sought in—school, Boston,
                     rooms for his children, and the nurse-woman—a rare privilege, which people less
                     used to domination, would scarcely have thought of asking—and which, on no
                     account, had been granted, but for a compensation commensurate with the
                     favor.
                  The brothers and sisters formed a group which much interested the principal,
                     Mrs. Hughes. They appealed silently, but forcibly, to her better nature, (for
                     she, in common with the great majority, had two natures.) The lady
                     was a widow, she had been a mother, but her children all died young; the
                     silent, unobtrusive, but very evident sorrows, and the rich mental grace of
                     Helen Wise, made an ineffaceable impression upon her mother heart. She was a
                     true woman, and she saw in the sister of those boys, one whom it was her duty
                     to strengthen in every way, that she might not be crushed in the trials which
                     it was very apparent she had to bear.
                  But while to herself the lady was making this resolution, Helen, in her own
                     heart, was awed by the dignified manner of the principal—was striving by equal
                     reserve to guard herself against all, that in her new position, might, if
                        suffered to come in near enough contact, dishearten and
                     afflict. Mrs. Hughes was unfortunate in the impression which she conveyed to
                     her new pupil's mind—for even when she smiled her kindliest on Helen, the young
                     girl had no other thought but to thank God that her own were with
                     her—that she might see in Edwin's sunny face a reflection of her mother's
                     smile, and hear in his voice an echo of those dear tones which were hushed
                     forever.
                  Helen was perhaps too keenly alive to the fact, that the sense of beauty is by
                     no means an unselfish sense—and that, of the many thoughtless young creatures
                     who surrounded her, very few would care or think to penetrate beyond the
                     unattractive "outward, visible form." She was too gentle, as well as quite too
                     proud to wish their pity, and she would have suffered all things from
                     loneliness, rather than ask the friendship or love of  strangers. The curious glances of scholars she
                     could bear, for her mother had long ago schooled her in the knowledge, and her
                     own sensitiveness assured her, that she would never attract the attention of
                     strangers by her beauty—but, unavoidably, by her deformity.
                  When the school duties were over, (it was a happy thing for her,) she had
                     sufficient occupations to draw her thoughts from self, and from the young
                     creatures around her. It was in these hours that she relieved the nurse from
                     her cares, and either walked with the children, or amused them in her room.
                  The youngest boy was now seven years old. As yet, he had only found a playmate
                     and companion, an equal brother, in Jamie. He had never yet been told that his
                     elder brother's words were only echoings, which had no meaning to him who
                     uttered them. He knew not that the passions, before which he sometimes shrunk
                     in terror, were only those of a fiercely animal nature. He had yet to learn the
                     dreadful truth, that God, in his Providence, had sent the child into the world
                     shorn of intellect—a creature in human form, with human voice and faculties,
                     but without mind. And Helen dreaded the day when Edwin should feel the shock
                     which had so troubled her, when they told her that Jamie was an idiot.
                  Edwin was small in stature for his years, but a very beautiful child. His noble
                     head was his crown of glory—his large, clear, blue eyes, beamed with
                     intelligence—and even in his sleep there was a smile upon his features, that
                     had led one to imagine he held in those hours of abstraction, converse with
                     angels. Helen felt almost a mother's pride thrilling her heart when she looked
                     on him, and every day she remembered to bow down in her thankfulness before the
                     high God, to bless Him, that he had suffered those children to remain with her.
                     She never permitted them to go out and play among the other children. A
                     constant fear for Jamie, a dread lest the thoughtless might acquaint Edwin with
                     what she could not bear that he should yet learn, prevented this. She played
                     with them, she amused them, and the youngest boy's lessons were always attended
                     to under her own supervision.
                  That the sister was repaid for her devotion a thousand fold, I need not say.
                     Affectionate obedience and respect were always yielded by Edwin; and that she
                     was encouraged to ceaseless effort by the control she had already been able to
                     exercise over Jamie, in the maddest bursts of passion, could easily be seen. He
                     would become silent and calm in an instant, when she spoke, though none others
                     could subdue him.
                  But it was not after a day's or a month's exertion that Helen Wise was thus
                     rewarded.
                  Many a time, after a futile effort to subdue a temper, that, without reason or
                     sense, was wild as the whirlwind, she could only weep over her inefficiency.
                     Could only weep, I said; it had been a sad case, then, indeed; oh, she did
                     more! She remembered her mother's counsel, and she prayed—and, at last, learned
                     the quiet, easy way, in which to master him. Then his will, ever after, was
                     only a slave to hers. Yet Helen never tyrannized; she was never angry with him.
                     Was she perfect, therefore? I said not that. But there was a constant
                     recollection, a constant grief in her heart for him, and to have been vexed, or
                     annoyed with one who lived with such a frightful deprivation, without a
                     thinking mind, she had considered it nothing less than absolute sin.
               
               
                  X.
                  HUMAN sympathy and investigation had not, at the time of which this is written,
                     made a study of the wants and capacities of the idiot nature. But the sympathy
                     and investigation of Helen Wise, was often turned towards the subject, and she
                     sought and prayed that she might discover how a little light might be thrown in
                     her brother's rudderless sense; for to contribute very much to his
                     happiness, she believed was possible.
                  In a moment of rage, because of some trifling opposition which Edwin one day
                     made to Jamie, when he would have endangered his life, the boy struck his
                     younger brother a blow, which left a mark on his forehead that was never to be
                     erased. That scar was to Helen Wise a sign of warning, a lesson of patience, a
                     constant incentive. To break that seemingly chainless will, became her serious
                     effort, and so she gave her leisure moments ments to the slow and difficult task of teaching
                     him to work—so she hoped he might at last learn, in a mechanical sort of way,
                     to think!
                  She had often wondered at his extraordinary passion for gay colors, a taste
                     that was easily gratified, and it became a serious question with the thoughtful
                     child, if this passion might not be a blessing in disguise to her brother.
                     Alone and unaided, she set about the solution of that difficult question.
                     Procuring the most brilliant patterns, she painted flowers for him while he
                     stood by and watched her—and then, when he manifested his unmeasured delight as
                     he looked at her work, she undertook to teach him. But it seemed at first an
                     almost fruitless effort; still, it was begun with a hope that was too great to
                     admit of speedy demolition. For months she continued that labor, and at last it
                     began to be successful, Jamie's attention was secured, and what seemed almost
                     like an intelligent interest and desire to learn was aroused. He would sit and
                     listen with his eyes to her voiceless teachings, and work as Helen worked,
                     until his gay copies almost rivalled her not very skilful painting.
                  Still Helen was not with this conquest content. Knowing that Jamie's rambling,
                     unsettled nature, would never for hours together content itself with one
                     occupation, she bought the gayest wools, and showed him how to hold the needle,
                     and to work with these in patterns his own fancy suggested. Then she learned
                     how to make baskets, that she might teach him again, and to dress dolls, that
                     he might do the same. And in not one of these pious efforts did the sister
                     fail. An unlooked-for joy was this, for not only was the poor boy's time now
                     fully occupied with tasks that delighted him, his passions seemed chained as by
                     some spell: it was a spell of music—the music of Helen's gentle,
                     quiet, loving ways! The language of her sad, sweet eyes was as intelligible to
                     him as was that of her words to Edwin—he learned to know when she was grieved,
                     when glad—he seemed, also, to feel with her in her sorrows and her
                     triumphs.
               
               
                  XI.
                  IT was not possible that Helen Wise should live in Boston for the four
                     appointed years (it was thus long her father had decided cided they should
                     remain at—school,) without finding among the many who in that time made their
                     home for months together at the seminary, some who became very near and dear to
                     her.
                  Though the care of her brothers awakened all the tenderness of her heart, as
                     well as the thoughts and exertions of her mind, she needed another interest and
                     affection yet, and for this she found exercise and life in two young girls,
                     twin sisters. The love for these which sprung to active life, was not that
                     flower of sudden birth, that youthful friendship, whose death is as speedy and
                     certain; it followed the interest which their beauty and mutual devotion to
                     each other had awakened. Helen knew that they were also in sorrow. They were
                     orphans, a few years older than herself, who, on their mother's death, had been
                     placed in Mrs. Hughes' charge, for the completion of their education.
                  It was many months before Helen had interchanged more than a mere casual word
                     with these girls, and they might have finished the prescribed course without
                     forming more than a mere formal acquaintance with her, had it not been that
                     they, attracted by the shining virtues of the little deformed Helen, took
                     advantage of a moment in which they performed towards her an act of humanity,
                     and the advances which they made, were gladly received by her.
                  There was an astonishing resemblance between Julia and Anna Saxe—more thorough,
                     indeed, than that of their minds. Though in these there was also a great
                     similarity, the one being, as it were, an echo or copy of the other. Not an
                     echo either, for it had much of individuality—but Julia was stronger in
                     constitution, of firmer will, and her intellectual power was greater than that
                     of her sister.
                  To Helen Wise they were dear alike, and after she had learned them thoroughly,
                     necessary alike. In the warm-heartedness, generous, enthusiastic, chivalrous
                     temperament of Anna, there was something that acted on the not chilled, but
                     worn and saddened nature of Helen, like a charm; it was as a cool breath of
                     wind on a sultry August day. And in thoughtful, courageous, and sympathizing
                     Julia, she found that other friend which she  so needed; a friend whose experience in the
                     world had been more varied and extensive, whose perception was keener than her
                     own, whose ambition was of another sort. There was such an elevating,
                     self-sustaining tendency in her character—her mind was of so pure and high an
                     order, and she was one to mightily influence feebler or more timid persons. If
                     Helen did look up to, and heartily admire this new friend, in turn Julia Saxe
                     reverenced her gentle companion.
                  In all her varied and long experience and observation of school-girl
                     friendships, Mrs. Hughes had never seen anything to resemble this, formed
                     between these pupils. And she encouraged its development in every way, for it
                     rejoiced her to see to what sort of minds the heart of her little pet opened
                     itself. Though there were but a few years difference in their ages, the young
                     Southerners were far in advance of Helen—almost all their years had been passed
                     in schools, and they had improved their talents well. Helen's abilities were
                     solid, but by no means brilliant; she moved at a slow pace through her tasks,
                     but all she mastered was well understood, and not to be put away under the lock
                     and key of memory, but to be used and put to advantage; therefore, though not
                     the most promising laborer, because after putting her hand to the plough she
                     never looked back, her teachers knew that the field of mind she worked would be
                     fruitful and abundant.
                  During school hours the three friends did not once meet in recitation rooms,
                     their tasks were all dissimilar, but when these duties were over, Julia and
                     Anna sought for none so speedily as for plain and quiet Helen. And for their
                     leisure hours they asked no pleasanter occupation than helping her amuse and
                     care for her brothers.
                  As months passed on, they became like children of one loving family, bearing
                     each other constantly in mind—thoughtful for each other's comfort, assisting,
                     encouraging, and tenderly loving. That was a circle into which none were
                     suffered to intrude, whose perfect harmony another entrance had broken. They
                     were a company of orphans, for David Wise was as one dead to his children—the
                     beautiful bright southerners, the mild, quiet, and altogether spiritual, loving
                     Helen Wise, poor Jamie, and Edwin the darling, and amusement, the pupil of them
                     all.
                  It was a circle which, to the great grief of each member, was, at the end of
                     two years, broken. Not, however, by love-destroying or love-chilling words or
                     deeds on the part of either; other frosts effected the separation, the frosts
                     and storms of a New England winter. Anna's health became broken; the efforts
                     she was making to graduate with her sister the succeeding year were too much
                     for her. She inherited from her mother a disposition to consumption, and as she
                     grew older, especially since residing in the North, this became more
                     manifest.
                  The watchful love of Julia was the first to take alarm, and she did not delay
                     acting on her affectionate fears for a moment. Quite forgetful of all ambitious
                     exertion, which had influenced her so much in the past months, she procured
                     permission of their guardian, and at once set out for their native city,
                     Charleston, in South Carolina.
                  The separation between Helen and her friends was very grievous to them all.
                     That for those beautiful girls a happy destiny was in store, she could not
                     doubt. Possessed of wealth and talents, and inclination that capacitated them
                     to be and to do all things in the right way, the prospect opening before them
                     was a bright one. If life and health were given them, their genial dispositions
                     would be sure to find all things joyous in this fair world. They themselves,
                     though they stood alone in the world, knew that they were richly blest when
                     they parted with Helen Wise, thinking of the continual care and sorrow that
                     must press upon her always. Yet they could not find it in their hearts to pity
                     her. They admired and loved her, for they saw a heroine in that frail maiden,
                     who, bearing a heavy cross, could yet look up smiling and reverently to the
                     face of Heaven, and say, without a sigh, "Even so, Father." They had called her
                     their dear sister—and they felt that she was, indeed, so much, when they kissed
                     her for the last time ere their long journey.
                  What an episode was that friendship in the solemn, noble poem of the deformed
                     girl's life!
               
               
                  
                  XII.
                  LONG after they were gone, one thought of wonder and of doubt, was lingering in
                     Helen's mind. While she assisted them in packing their things away, the day
                     before their departure, they had shown her the likeness of their mother, saying
                     as they did so, that they had once meant it should never be seen by other than
                     their eyes—it was too sacred, too precious.
                  It had evidently been taken many years before, when the lady was of her
                     children's present age—a beautiful and finely finished miniature of an elegant
                     woman. It seemed to Helen when she looked upon the face, as though she had
                     looked upon it before; but where, and when, and how? At first she thought among
                     the living, and the happy, but as the bewilderment passed, and she still gazed
                     upon the pictured face, remembrances of a circumstance that long ago
                     transpired, at home, when she was a little girl, came back freshly to her
                     mind.
                  In the library, in a drawer of their father's writing desk, which stood wide
                     open as though inviting her curiosity, she had found the likeness of a woman
                     which she had thought then beautiful beyond all things. She held it carefully
                     in her hands, and was going out from the room in search of her mother to show
                     the splendid lady to her, when, lifting her eyes, she saw her father standing
                     mute before her, and gazing on her with a look which terrified her, and the
                     little painting dropped from her hand. The old man stooped and lifted it up,
                     and with a word so harsh, so cruelly bitter, and of such inhuman anger as made
                     her almost faint with fear, he sent her from the room; no persuasion could
                     induce her, even after years were passed, to enter that library again.
                  The severe punishment attending this little act of childish curiosity had fixed
                     the lady's likeness on Helen's mind in indelible colors. When, therefore, Julia
                     showed this likeness to her, though she spoke no words save of admiration, a
                     mortal chill overspread her frame, and the terror and grief of that distant day
                     of humiliation seemed for a moment to overpower her.
                  Her emotion did not escape the sisters' notice, and when they said to her, "was
                     she not lovely, Helen, our darling mother?" the poor girl roused herself and
                     said merely, "yes, most beautiful. So was my mother; but she was not of this
                     proud style. I should know your mamma was a Southern lady by those magnificent
                     eyes. I have no likeness of my sweet mother. What a joy this must be to
                     you."
                  Long after, the remembrance of this lady was troubling the thought of Helen
                     Wise. But at last, in the pressure of present duty and active exertion, it
                     passed away.
                  If now, Helen, every day and every hour missed and mourned the absence of those
                     bright creatures, in the letters which each week laid before her, she found a
                     new comfort, a new source of joy. Anna wrote of her affection and interest with
                     such words as she could never have spoken—cheering, and hoping and rejoicing
                     with her. And Julia's correspondence girded her heart, a perfect wall of
                     strength.
                  Return to the South, and release from that ambitious endeavor, had been in the
                     highest degree beneficial to Anna Saxe. Her cough had disappeared, she was
                     strong again; but they dared not return to the school and its duties, to the
                     north and its winters again, and so their settled home was made in the family
                     of one of the executors of their mother's will.
               
               
                  XIII.
                  WHEN Helen was eighteen years old, and the appointed time for her stay at —
                     school had nearly passed, a new trial was put upon her.
                  The deformity which friends had hoped might be outgrown with years, had on the
                     contrary increased with time, and great physical weakness attended it. Once she
                     had been confined to a sick bed for weeks together, and her life was despaired
                     of by those who attended her. If it had not been that so much anxiety was
                     constantly on her mind—if the consciousness of her great duties had not so
                     heavily pressed upon her, she had doubtless died; but when her breath had from
                     exhaustion become scarcely perceptible, and her heart beat faintly as a dying
                     infant's, and the physician could give no more hope, while Mrs. Hughes hung
                     over the young girl with the sorrowing heart and  the grief of a mother, they brought Edwin, who
                     would not be kept back, to her bed; they held him close to her that he might
                     kiss her for the last time, and the embrace had been to her like an electric
                     shock. It seemed as though this alone had power to call back the departing
                     spirit to the mortal body of Helen Wise. She rallied from that moment and arose
                     from the sick bed, whence none had thought to see her removed, save for
                     burial.
                  The second time of attack happened on the occasion of her receiving a letter
                     from one her father had appointed to watch over his children during his
                     absence. It told her that the old man was no more. This was accompanied by a
                     letter from a physician; it was dated and post-marked Naples, stating that Mr.
                     Wise had died in that city of cholera, and had bidden him in his last sickness,
                     in case the disease proved fatal, to acquaint his friends in America with the
                     particulars of the fact.
                  Aside from the natural grief, which, strange as this may seem, was sincere, the
                     daughter felt, on receiving this intelligence, the fact that she
                     was now to be recognised, for what she had, indeed, ever virtually been, the
                     only protector; in short, the parent of her brothers, was enough to distress
                     and trouble her. Though she had been all in all to those children, it was a
                     relief for her to fall back at times on the thought that they had a father. If
                     she should die, (and the idea of death was not to that frail creature an
                     abstraction,) he would be with them. If they should ever aspire or grow beyond
                     her mild control, (it was a hard, unpleasant thought, yet she thought it,)
                        he had an authority they would not dare to question. Now that
                     he was dead, this stay, the ever-comforting recollection was gone, and the
                     prospect of all that was before her, though at one point of view, his death
                     might seem a relief, was at first too much—the sudden shock of weightiest
                     recollection overpowered her.
                  From this prostrating sickness however, she again recovered; and then it was
                     thought best that Helen should return with her brothers at once to Sunnyside;
                     and it was her earnest wish to do so. There, it was appointed, the will was to
                     be read, and in the preparatory school of the place, Edwin's education was to
                     be particularly attended to.
               
               
                  XIV.
                  IT was a sad going home. The nurse-woman, Margaret, who had accompanied the
                     children from Sunnyside, returned with them; yet it was not the same household
                     that had gone thence four years before. Margaret's hair was growing gray, and
                     Helen looked full ten years older. Jamie was grown tail, well-shaped, and full
                     of animal health; and Edwin, the love of every body, had increased in beauty as
                     he had in stature. They came back, clad in mourning garments, to a desolate
                     home.
                  It was so arranged that they should reach home by daylight, but it was growing
                     late in the afternoon when they drove up the avenue to the house. An old woman
                     who had been left in charge of the mansion, and who had lived in the family
                     ever since the day David Wise brought his young bride home, and that was nearly
                     twenty years ago,—this old woman met them at the door, and it was heartfelt
                     pleasure to her when she took the footman's place and helped her young mistress
                     from the carriage, that, though Helen looked very, very pale and sad, she
                     neither wept nor fainted. And oh! what a joy and surprise it was to all. Jamie
                     recognised old Agnes as well as the rest of them, and he suffered her to kiss
                     him, which she did heartily over and over again, till her kind heart gave way
                     as she had feared Helen would, and she who never wept, for one moment wept
                     aloud.
                  There was nothing changed about this noble habitation. It seemed to Helen, as
                     she passed through the neat, cheerful, handsomely furnished rooms, as though
                     scarcely a day had passed since she went weeping from the place where her
                     mother had lived and died. The gardens were never in finer order—even the
                     birds, the pet canaries, sang the very notes they used to sing, and a globe,
                     tenanted by gold-fish, occupied the same place that it had long ago.
                  But Helen knew that a change had come over all things, though at first it might
                     not be perceptible. Years had done their work. The shade trees had waxed great
                     and strong, the vines had hardened and spread far and wide in fruitful
                        luxuriance riance, and tiny
                     bushes were transformed into great flowering shrubs. The canaries were not
                     those that sang so sweetly when Helen went away—there was a new generation of
                     gold-fish in the globe—another order of change had taken place in Helen and
                     Edwin, a change of which the spreading vines and heightened trees were but a
                     type.
                  Before dark, the very night of their return, Helen walked in that portion of
                     the garden, which her mother had been the first to call after her name. Her
                     brothers were with her, but Helen looked, without speaking, on the fig tree,
                     which still stood in the centre of that little bed; its branches overshadowed
                     all the ground where she had worked in childish sport and earnestness. For the
                     first time since her coming home, though her heart had been every moment about
                     to run over, she wept—for she remembered her mother's prophecy—and yet, despite
                     her tears, an assurance of hope spoke to her from that tree. The withered,
                     blighted trunk was now quite hid from sight—the deformity was not perceivable,
                     neither had an observer been at all aware of its existence as he looked on the
                     luxuriant foliage of the foreign tree.
                  Even thus might it be with her, as years passed on, so in spiritual strength
                     and beauty might she continue to grow, so from her excellency might a pleasant
                     shadow fall, in which the weary and the weak might repose. She read a gospel
                     that night as she stood beside that tree—and she breathed a prayer there that
                     was heard in heaven.
               
               
                  XV.
                  IT was appointed that their father's will should be read to the children the
                     morning after their arrival at Sunnyside, and at an early hour of the day, Mr.
                     Warner, the legal friend of David Wise, accompanied by two elderly gentlemen,
                     old acquaintances of the deceased, presented himself at the mansion.
                  The document was read from beginning to end without an interruption. That duty
                     over, the gentlemen shortly after retired, and Helen was alone again. Alone—it
                     was well that this was possible; for the astonishment that had silenced could
                     not long be powerful to control, and she had been more than a young, solitary,
                     helpless girl, to have borne up calmly, and, at the same time, wittingly, under
                     the wrong that was done her.
                  By this will of David Wise, his estate was to pass into his daughter's hands,
                     but conditionally, and not in her own right. If, in accordance with his
                     command, she wedded with Alfred Lord before her twentieth birthday, Sunnyside
                     was theirs conjointly, forever; if for any reason Helen should refuse the
                     union, which had been agreed upon between said Alfred and David Wise years
                     before, the property of the said David was to go to the said Lord, and the sons
                     of David; and to his care these children were to be intrusted until Edwin was
                     of age!
                  When he had finished reading the will, Mr. Warner, the lawyer, said to Helen,
                     "I have made inquiries respecting the Alfred Lord here mentioned in this will;
                     it appears that since he left your late father's house, he has resided in New
                     York. For the few past years he has been a very successful shipping merchant.
                     Six months ago he sailed for Asia; it was not then his intention to return
                     until a year from now. Probably it would be advisable to acquaint him with the
                     contents of this will at once."
                  "As you please," was Helen's sole reply; and how securely those coldly uttered
                     words hid from the inquiring thoughts of her listeners the wail of anguish with
                     which they were echoed through her soul.
                  The surprise that could not be spoken, the sorrow that found no words, the
                     thought that did not hate, that could not love or revere the dead old man, how
                     can I tell of it, or of that "wrestling with hidden pain!"
                  Prayer was not, at first, even a possibility—consolation in no form presented
                     itself—death was the only thought, the only longing—for death, immediate and
                     forever, seemed better than that life her father had apportioned. An awful
                     sacrifice in either case of her decision must she offer up—her children, or
                     herself, and which?
                  But this state of fear, and torture, and uncertainty, could not continue long.
                     The spirit that had been so crushed and trodden upon, began at last to rise
                     again, to give voice, but, reader, only in the ear of heaven, to its cry for
                     mercy—and that cry at  last was
                     answered in returning peace, and even hope, in recollection of the duties which
                     were before her unperformed, in strength to bear, in courage to go onward.
               
               
                  XVI.
                  THE advancement Edwin made in his studies after he entered the preparatory
                     school, was what might have been anticipated by those who knew how thorough a
                     foundation had been laid while he studied with Helen.
                  He mastered his tasks not with a parrot-like celerity, nor with the plodding
                     toil of the book-worm, but by the rapid and bold flights of true genius and
                     real industry.
                  His tutor, young Dr. Harry Gray, was the son of poor parents. By dint of
                     unceasing application he had risen high in the respect of his superiors; his
                     perseverance and ability secured for him an honorable place at last in the very
                     school which he had entered, possessed of nothing but talents and determination
                     to succeed. He was in person, elegant; nature had done every thing for him, and
                     he had not proved so ungracious as to neglect her gifts. He had improved them
                     to the utmost by cultivating his mind, the only chivalrous act a man can do for
                     nature. That he did not become a vain, proud man, when he stood thus even in
                     his poverty, self-elevated above his fellows, was perhaps, because his ambition
                     could not stop to trifle with vanity, nor be satisfied with the miserable
                     delusions of vulgar pride. He had come out of the ranks of obscurity, self-sent
                     by force of character and of mind; he knew that he stood on the earth for a
                     purpose, and he worked to accomplish that.
                  Helen went not at all into society after her return to —, but there were some,
                     both old and young, who for love's sake, sought her in her own home at
                     Sunnyside. That fate which was before her, robbed all the present of its
                     happiness, and the future of its hope. The society of the young was not that
                     which she needed; for in their thoughtless joys and gay lives, it was not given
                     her to share; there was a thought omnipotent that obscured all peace—all that
                     was given her to do, as she believed, was to hide herself away from the
                     world—to die if she "might be so blessed"—believing that there was never sorrow
                     like unto her sorrow.
                  Yet very precious to her affectionate heart was the love of Edwin, her fair
                     young brother. Into all his thoughts and hopes she could penetrate; he laid
                     them before her in his perfect confidence, and to him she was every thing, more
                     than he could be to her. The depth of her sufferings he could not even
                     understand, and could not share. Her bitterest thoughts, her loneliness, her
                     grief, she could keep all this from him—but her joy, such as it was, she made
                     his joy also.
                  Dr. Gray had been long desirous to pay his respects to the sister of Edwin, his
                     favorite pupil—for the boy, acting the proverb that, "out of the fulness of the
                     heart the mouth speaketh," had awakened in the dreaming, secluded scholar, a
                     curiosity and real desire to see and know this paragon.
                  It was natural that he should associate an idea of external loveliness with so
                     much perfection, as seemed from Edwin's words embodied in Helen Wise. When he
                     broke in upon the self-prescribed, rigid lines of duty, and divorced himself an
                     hour from his books, it was by no means strange that he received a shock that
                     was almost revulsion, when he was shown into her presence, so unlike was the
                     being he saw to the beauty he had imagined.
                  It was long before the impression, produced in that moment when the vision of
                     imagination fell before reality, passed away. Yet Dr. Gray did not (for Edwin's
                     sake) discontinue his visits at Sunnyside. He also went not into the gay world,
                     but was wasting—ah, I meant not that—keenly enjoying his life, in the busy
                     pursuit of knowledge; and it was pleasant for him sometimes to listen to the
                     soft tones of Helen's voice, to enrich himself by converse with her always
                     suggestive mind.
                  And all insensibly the gentleman was attracted, charmed and enchained, by
                     another order of beauty, of which he became by degrees fully cognizant, for he
                     discovered that Helen's moral and intellectual loveliness surpassed all that
                     form and coloring, of which, in dreaming hours, he had mused; but which, it
                     must be confessed, he had never in his little intercourse with the world seen
                     embodied.
               
               
                  
                  XVII.
                  THAT he did not love Helen at once, nor at last, in the way that romancing men
                     and maidens in the story books love, was, I acknowledge, a substantial fact. He
                     admired and respected her, (it had been impossible for any person to have
                     otherwise regarded her,) that he did, devoutly. But Harry Gray was a man who
                     lived by sight, as well as faith.
                  Faith, I said, he had in Helen's merits in full abundance, but another love, a
                     love of the imagination for beautiful women, had been with him from his
                     boyhood, and though it had never been a frequent thought with him that he
                     should one day follow the fashion of the world, and take to himself a wife, he
                     had not, it must be confessed, been always without fancies personal, respecting
                     such matters. That he never looked on Helen Wise in the light of a speculation,
                     was most certain; though it was equally certain that the secluded Doctor had
                     never heard of that strange proviso in the will of David Wise. He had reason to
                     believe that her fortune was large, but the accumulation of money had never
                     been his object in life, it had always been a third rate consideration with
                     him, and the idea of taking a wife that he might fill his purse, was one that
                     he could never have entertained. It was foreign to his whole nature.
                  With a deeper scorn than another could have felt for him, he would have looked
                     on himself, had it been possible for him to think of marriage other than as a
                     sacred thing. He never thought of worldly interests when he thought of her. He
                     would have considered it profanation to associate such desires. Oh! God be
                     thanked, there are still remaining on earth such noblemen!
                  Neither at the first, nor ever really (that is, in other than a dream-like
                     way,) did Helen Wise dare to think of the learned young Doctor, save as her
                     brother's instructor. He was, for this very office he held, a man fraught with
                     uncommon interest to her—he was in her eyes more than a mere agreeable,
                     accomplished gentleman.
                  By degrees, but unconsciously to herself, Harry Gray became far more to her.
                     Though, when she herself began to suspect this, she laid a double restraint on
                     her heart—though, when she knew that he was day by day acquiring with her a
                     deeper interest, she solemnly vowed that, for his sake, she would, come what
                     might, live alone in the world, though her earnest and frequent prayers were
                     offered that she might have strength to put away the beautiful idea which began
                     to encroach so boldly that it terrified her—she was after all conquered—she
                     loved!
                  And he to whom this pure, earnest devotion was given, knew it—he could not read
                     amiss the happy truth that spoke from her innocent eyes, and her pure heart.
                     But, he did not know it, reader, till he had gained power to interpret her
                     thoughts and her words, by his own. What to him, then, was beauty, when his
                     soul fell down before her soul, and recognised and loved it? What was any thing
                     in the wide world to him then, but her heart, when he had given
                     her his own! Floated no longer then through his fancy an image of rare
                     loveliness, of perfect form and feature. He had reached a higher ground of
                     vision—far more to him than this perishing beauty of earth, became the
                     surpassing loveliness of her mind. When, from her own words he gathered that
                     she loved him, there was not another desire in the world that he could have
                     named. He had all in her that he panted for. Recognization of his genius; her
                     pure, high intellect dreamed his worthy of association; riches, her love was as
                     a sea of gold that could flow around him in perpetual light; honor, she
                     reverenced him! Happiness, he found the full answer in her name!
                  But this was to him a short-lived joy. Helen only heard his declaration, and
                     then forced to her lips utterances, which, while they assured him of her love,
                     made him dumb.
                  The confession of his regard was what she had striven to not hear from his
                     lips. She had continued deaf to his words, and blind to his gray eyes'
                     questioning so long as it was possible, and when the words were at last spoken,
                     which in another case had made her glad beyond all imagination, she had only to
                     speak the truth, and even the entreaty of devout love must then forever be
                     over, for nothing on this earth could have induced Helen to give the children
                     of her mother to the tender  mercies
                     of a stranger—of Alfred Lord. Her love for them, and her sense of duty,
                     conquered that other passion; then she was free.
                  Did she, therefore, put away her love? No! a thousand times, no! And what a joy
                     was it to Helen to feel that this affection need not be
                     resigned—dissociated from the thought of marriage it must for ever remain, but
                     it was—it could never be less than 
                        "A thing of beauty and a joy for ever."
                     
                  
               
               
                  XVIII.
                  AS though, while He suffered her to be so tried, the Father of Mercy graciously
                     regarded His child, seemed the next incident in her life's history.
                  Once only had Harry Gray's declaration of love been permitted—once only could
                     it be answered. The sore disappointment endured, and its freshest sting
                     removed, the young man dared to trust himself again in her companionship, and
                     Helen, strong in her righteous will, dared receive him. They were thus
                     together, when Helen received the following letter from Julia Saxe:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "I had hoped, when I next wrote you, dear, dear Nelly, to surprise
                                 and please you with the news of my letter. And now I
                                    must surprise, but it is with tears of grief. My
                                 sister, our beautiful Anna, is no longer with me—she is gone to the
                                 'far country'—Helen, she is dead. And to you I will say what I
                                 could not speak to another—she perished in her youthful loveliness
                                 and gentleness, of that most sad disease which God ever puts on
                                 woman's nature—of a broken heart. She was never, you well know, so
                                 strong as I, but she had, of late years, been more healthful than
                                 her childhood promised, and was so well in spirits, so exceeding
                                 beautiful! We had a friend—he was the hope of her life—how well all
                                 went with her in those happy days! But he was taken away—and all
                                 was over with her. I would have brought her to the North, to you,
                                 dear Helen. Or I would have gone anywhere in the wide world to have
                                 averted from her that doom of melancholy, which, if it
                                 overshadowed, would, I knew, destroy her. She struggled with her
                                 sorrow when she saw how it troubled me, but could not hear to my
                                 proposition of leaving Charleston, where he died—it was a struggle
                                 that could not last—she died in it.
                              "I cannot live here any longer, Helen. The place is consecrated by
                                 the saddest remembrances. I have seen all that was nearest to me
                                 perish here. I cannot bear it longer, and there is not a friend in
                                 the wide world whom, in this loneliness and bereavement, I can so
                                 gladly, so trustingly seek, as you. Helen, dear Helen, we are
                                 without father or mother, or sister, in this world. We know and
                                 love each other—let us be always the sisters that we
                                 are in spirit—let my home only be with your home—I would give all
                                 my fortune for a friend. It has seemed to me always as though I had
                                 a right to call you by another name than friend. I have never felt
                                 attracted towards others as towards you from the first day I saw
                                 you at school—and that was long before we knew each other, you will
                                 recollect. That impulse which drew me then so irresistibly towards
                                 you, draws me now: but for you I should be, indeed, desolate.
                                 Tomorrow, or it may not be till the next week's to-morrow, I shall
                                 be with you, for I leave this place at once, never, I believe, to
                                 return to it.
                              
                                 Adieu,
                                 JULIA."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  When Helen had finished the letter, she turned to Dr. Gray, saying:
                  "You must come to Sunnyside the next time, to welcome my friend, Julia Saxe. I
                     have told you so often about her that she will not seem a stranger. But you
                     have no idea of her after all. She is the most beautiful woman I ever beheld.
                     You are an admirer of beauty—you will be astonished when you see her, for
                     peerless as she is in person, her mind is the fit occupant of such a casket. It
                     seemed to me, when I parted with those twin-sisters, that they were the only
                     really perfect creatures in the world. I should have prophesied them the most
                     happy destiny. How true that saying is, Harry, 'what we are we know, but not
                     what we shall be."'
                  
                  "Are you sure, Helen, that there is in the world such a thing as
                     happiness?"
                  "Yes, I am sure of it—but I believe it is not to be found till we have
                     conquered our own wills, and perfectly submitted ourselves to the will of
                     Heaven. Until that happens we are looking, and longing, and striving, but when
                     we have a living faith in Him, we are at peace."
                  "But the decrees of Heaven, Helen, seem so passing strange. From my youth up I
                     have striven and labored, and done what was right, as far as I knew how—and I
                     assure you I have not followed my own counsel in discovering and striving to do
                     my duty. And you, what a care has been on you always! You, too, have suffered,
                     and have nobly borne—you have devoted yourself to others, and now, when we
                     might find our earthly reward in each other's affection, see what a barrier
                     rises before us! Oh, it is strange."
                  "Yes, dear Harry, 'passing strange,' if there were not life in the fact, that
                     we are proved through suffering. Strange, if we did not remember or know that
                     our home is not in the earth, that we are all, all strangers and pilgrims here.
                     In another way than we think of now, God may yet smile upon and be merciful
                     unto us, while we remain on earth. You may find another love—it is by no means
                     improbable—and I in my brothers may yet be sufficiently blest."
                  "Helen! You have not loved as I have loved, or you could not speak thus
                     calmly."
                  "Harry," she answered, in a solemn, earnest voice, that haunted him long after,
                     "I have sealed up, and can never bring to light the happy dreams I've had. I
                     have struggled with, and conquered a passion that was idolatry—but
                     I love you yet. I shall always love you; and I think it no sin, for spirits may
                     so love. Think how much I could confide in you, when I dare speak thus. God
                     knows how I have wrestled—how my heart has been crushed in the wrestling. He
                     gave me strength at last—do not take that strength away by speaking another
                     word of this. There is such utter hopelessness in the idea of our union, that
                     it is best to never advert to it in any way. We are friends for ever—it must
                     suffice us. Let us submit without a murmur."
                  "Amen, then, in God's name! But it is a fearful baptism into suffering, Helen,"
                     he said, and went away.
               
               
                  XIX.
                  A FEW evenings after this, Dr. Gray was again at Sunnyside. There had been an
                     arrival—Julia Saxe had come.
                  A splendid woman was she, indeed, as Helen had foretold; tall and majestic as a
                     young monarch—of perfect figure and a perfect face. The harmony existing
                     between her personal and mental loveliness was exquisite, and most indifferent
                     and preoccupied must the heart have been that did not throb with pleasure, (if
                     not with a deeper emotion,) on beholding her.
                  Julia's coming was a great joy to Helen, and Heaven knows her sad heart needed
                     a human comforter and support in those days. She needed a household friend—a
                     living, understanding, conscious friendship, such as Julia alone could give;
                     and in her thankfulness that this was vouchsafed, she bent down more humbly and
                     submissively in her surpassing meekness, to her destiny. And Julia was more
                     than a companion for Helen's leisure hours. Jealous people, who called her
                     proud and haughty, would have been astonished could they have seen the graceful
                     bending of her lofty figure, as she joined Jamie in his sports, striving in
                     every way, for hours together, to amuse him. At the first he was stubborn—proof
                     against all her advances—but she conquered him with kindness, and he loved her,
                     then, as he did Helen; she painted, and sketched, and wrote, and sang in his
                     room, thus almost usurping her friend's place, and when Jamie wearied of all
                     in-door amusements, she would walk or drive with him; and between them both,
                     these self-elected sisters rarely suffered him from their sight, for they knew
                     if he passed beyond their control, what the result would inevitably be.
                  No, no, Julia Saxe was no garden rose—no idle ornament, no useless drone in the
                     hive; though all who looked upon her must have felt, for the first time, 
                        
                           "How perfect and divine a thing,
                           A woman can be made."
                        
                     
                      She was a missionary in Helen's
                     house, and she did a missionary's work!
                  Harry Gray spoke from the fulness of his heart, from the very height of his
                     hope, when he asked the hand of Helen Wise in marriage. He could say from his
                     soul that he had never seen one who could compare with her. But when he looked
                     at these two friends together, though he did not wonder at and condemn his
                     first love, he was conscious, as time passed on, of a change therein. And then,
                     oh, reader, it became to him a fact almost joyous, that fate kept his hand
                     still free, himself unbound!
                  But condemn not, friend, in haste. That joy was only felt at a time when Helen
                     was not near; there was no gayety in his heart when he saw that frail, bending
                     creature, and looked on the pleading earnestness, the meekness, and sadness of
                     her pale, expressive countenance.
                  When he had sought her for his wife, there was a struggle to be made, that
                     rendered him at first less ardent in his protestations. There was nothing to
                     excite, nothing to bring words to his lips, that a calm, reasonable man would
                     not utter to a calm, sensible woman. Passionless and pure was his love, and had
                     it been successful in its pleading, it would have remained steadfast, deep and
                     pure forever. Now he had not to overcome a fault of sight, in order to fall
                     irrevocably in love with mind. Peerless in her loveliness. Harry could only
                     confess to himself that Julia Saxe was grander than his ideal, more beautiful
                     than his boyhood's dream of womanly loveliness.
                  But there were others who thought much the same thoughts, and more than one
                     aspired to her hand, but the lady kept her heart closely shut against all
                     these. She was accustomed to admiration, to words of flattery, to the vows of
                     men; never but once had these made an impression on her mind, and then the
                     impression had been reversed by the discovery of unworthiness in the person
                     with whom she had nearly allied herself. It was not likely, therefore, that she
                     would be easily charmed or beguiled by honeyed words. If, from the first, she
                     felt interested in the friend and tutor of a boy so promising as Edwin Wise, it
                     was only because Helen spoke to her so warmly of his excellence cellence and
                     his talents. If she put aside, in a measure, the reserve and dignity which so
                     distinguished her, when none but he and the loved inmates of Sunnyside were by,
                     it was certainly for no other reason than respect for his abilities and
                     confidence in his virtue. His coming aroused no other emotion than that of
                     friendliness, but his going never saw him lessened in her respect or
                     admiration.
                  It was not thus with Harry. Her presence was a fascination to him. It aroused
                     all his powers — he could lead no half life, could think no half thoughts when
                     she was by. In conversation with her, his powers were all aroused, and his
                     words were never more eloquent or earnest than when she was near.
                  When Helen Wise perceived this, she did not imagine the depth of Harry's
                     interest in her friend, though to any other than herself it had proclaimed
                     itself in his exclamation—"Miss Saxe is certainly the most perfect work in
                     creation; she is transcendent—a perfect wonder to me, Helen."
                  "She is all that and more, Harry," was the fervent response, and Helen looked
                     upon her companion with a clear look, that he interpreted—"She knows and is
                     satisfied with it, that I am now madly and irretrievably in love!"
                  "Edwin's teacher is a real nobleman, and he is a genius, too —where did he come
                     from, Helen?" was Julia's exclamation, when Harry had left the house one
                     evening with more of hopelessness and humility than had ever entered his heart
                     before.
                  There was a proud thrilling of Helen's soul as she replied, "his father was a
                     common sailor, but he had a sort of pride in his fine boy, and gave him as much
                     education as he could afford, which was just enough to prove a stimulant to
                     such a lad. He persevered through all the difficulties which beset him. You see
                     what he is, Julia—what he will be, it is not difficult to imagine."
                  "That is noble! he has a right to be proud. I think he is very proud, don't
                     you?" was the answering exclamation—and a faint color was perceptible on her
                     cheek, which showed she felt her words. And Julia thought, as she uttered them,
                     "Helen will believe I'm surely in love! Heigho! perhaps—hum—um."
                  "She will rejoice, the angel," murmured Harry, when he  pondered on sweet words that rung in his ear
                     through all one night—"she will be thankful that she kept so firm."
                  "I wish that Helen knew what I am thinking of," thought Julia Saxe, in those
                     same hours. "Thank Heaven, that I have yet faith enough left in man to—to—to
                     love Harry Gray?"
                  And in those same still hours, Helen knelt and said, "Oh, Father in Heaven,
                     give me light! Let thy smile beam in that way I must tread—and give me strength
                     to tread therein." And a light came out from Heaven, it glowed over a stern and
                     rugged path, but, as she looked upon the thorny way, Helen grew strong and
                     calm, and she blessed God for the guidance.
               
               
                  XX.
                  THEY were together, one evening, alone, the scholar and the beauty. Helen was
                     away in a sick chamber; for, during many days, poor Jamie had been very ill. He
                     was now past all danger, but Helen rarely left him for a moment—indeed, with
                     all his fondness for Julia, he would endure no other nurse but his sister.
                  Harry had brought with him his sketch-book, according to promise, to show his
                     drawings to the fair critic. They consisted mostly of scenery sketches, taken
                     from many parts of the country through which he had travelled, chiefly on foot,
                     during vacations; of women, which certainly were ideals, for there was a glory
                     and beauty not of earth imparted to them, and glorifying them, and of flowers.
                     Among these, not the ideals, but paintings of real women, was a head of Helen
                     Wise. It was finely executed, and true to the life. Separated from the deformed
                     body, as it was, a casual acquaintance might not have recognised it—and even
                     Julia was astonished when she observed the perfect semblance, yet the
                     surpassing beauty and grace in the shape of the noble head, and in the
                     profile.
                  "I must have this," she said, when she had exhausted her praise. I want it for
                     a miniature. Will you give it to me!"
                  Harry hesitated a moment, but then said—"Take all the rest, I cannot spare
                     that, Miss Saxe," for he remembered when the picture was taken, and what
                     different thoughts were in his mind then—very different, indeed, were they from
                     those which now made such tumult in his heart. Julia raised her eyes, but they
                     drooped before his gaze, and she began hurriedly to turn over the remaining
                     papers.
                  There was a picture of Niagara: under the exquisitely colored sketch Harry had
                     written "Eternity." As he handed this to his companion, he said—
                  "The sketch is worth all the rest—all, I mean, except that head of Helen. That,
                     of course, surpasses the others inasmuch as humanity takes precedence of all
                     insensate things. I could never paint another picture with such wild tumult of
                     thought as oppressed me when this was made. I had but just come from 'within
                     the veil' of Niagara, and my soul was drenched with the awful majesty of
                     nature."
                  "This artistic power you have is beautiful," responded Julia, "it is unrhymed
                     poetry—an artist must be a poet."
                  "Yes, necessarily; though he is often only a silent poet. But Niagara chants
                     its own divine hymns. They have no need of human interpretation—they do not
                     admit it. Books cannot go out from that college. The student must himself stand
                     in that divine presence in order to learn. It is a subject on which words which
                     approach the truth sound too like rhapsody to be spoken. You have been at
                     Niagara?"
                  "Not as yet."
                  "Then you cannot understand how I should have written Eternity underneath the
                     picture. You should stand on the island that divides the two falls at a point
                     where nearly all of each is visible. You should see the unchanging beauty, and
                     hear the everlasting paean, to understand it. You will not know how much there
                     is in life till you go there, but depend upon it, you will feel all your senses
                     to be opened then anew, as though you had just entered, as it were, into
                     life."
                  "Yet so many speak of their disappointment at the falls. How can it be that
                     people look so differently on such a scene? I do not comprehend it."
                  "Don't look to see the waters gushing from the clouds, and I know you will not
                     be disappointed. What new visions of  beauty you will have! I almost envy you the first visit. One of the days
                     that I was at Niagara, a strong wind swept the continually rising
                     incense-clouds far down the river, and I could only think, as I looked on the
                     ghost-like procession, of the resurrection of the Last Day. Troop after troop
                     then came up from that roaring cavern beneath the precipice—the sun was high in
                     the heavens, and it seemed the very power that pronounced eternal banishment
                     upon them. As the day drew near its close, and the sun came nearer earth, it
                     appeared as though the mighty monarch were drawing nigh to the other hosts of
                     spirits, he called them up to his embrace and they were glorified. Oh! it was
                     like a vision of Judgment! Then, the next morning, there was a most brilliant
                     rainbow, springing from the dazzling whiteness of the American fall, and
                     arching halfway across the great river. And then the harmony and sublimity of
                     sound! Do not talk of disappointment and Niagara in one breath, Miss Saxe. You
                     will wonder, when you see for yourself, that the words could ever have been
                     joined together. I'm sure the match wasn't made in Heaven."
                  As he spoke so fervently, Harry turned another picture—he paused abruptly as he
                     looked upon it, but in a moment mastered his embarrassment, and laid it before
                     his companion. It was a likeness of herself—as perfect a semblance as could be
                     imagined—it was named "Light."
                  "You are partial to symbols," said Julia, as she cast her eyes upon it. "But
                     you have erred in naming this. Let me suggest another name."
                  "I would not change it for the world—your suggestion in this matter, pardon me,
                     would be of very little worth."
                  "But I insist—call it a weed, rather. If Niagara and disappointment must not be
                     spoken together, neither shall this desecration be permitted. We both judge
                     from knowledge; have a care, or I shall call you an enthusiast, Dr. Gray."
                  "Any thing you will—but this is Light; because light beams from
                     it, speaks in it, lives with it! Light! light! it is all we need in this
                     world—and how little of it we have! Oh, angel of light, if I tell you that I am
                     in darkness, thick darkness if you do not smile upon me, will you
                     feel any pity?"
                  "Most assuredly I should deplore such a woful mishap—that is, if I could
                     conceive of its reality. But I cannot—you speak of darkness when God's world is
                     full of glory."
                  "To the loving, yes—if the one who is all to them does not bring a cloud over
                     the heaven to obscure the sun."
                  "You believe in this sympathetic power—this ability of one person to affect the
                        life-long happiness of another?"
                  "Yes, and you believe it, too! You know it, lady! Teach me to woo
                     you that I shall not offend—I knew not how to speak."
                  "Harry!"
                  "I say teach me to speak as you would have a man speak who loves you devotedly,
                     madly—who will be undone if you will not be all to him!"
                  "Harry Gray!"
                  "Yes—I, even I dare entreat—teach me—"
                  He paused, he looked, in doubt, in astonishment. He saw her smile, saw her
                     tears, and then he kissed her hands, and flung himself at her feet, and he too
                     wept, for he was beside himself with joy.
                  Not so had he sued for the love of Helen Wise. Not to this measure had he been
                     moved when he asked her love; not thus, in his gratitude, did he bow down
                     before her and bless and almost worship her!
                  True, indeed—"we know what we are, but not what we shall be." In the placid,
                     tranquil, diligent, retiring scholar, who had dreamed that such a pent-up
                     fountain of passion existed! He himself, till he knew Julia Saxe, did not
                     suspect it—but how it did burst into glowing life that blessed day when she
                     promised to be his!
               
               
                  XXI.
                  WHEN Julia told Helen of her betrothal, a sudden surprise might have been
                     betrayed by her listener. Schooled as she was in trial, Helen Wise had not yet
                     acquired positive control over the emotions of her heart, or the 
                        featurers
                        features
                      of her face—and though she had altogether put away every thought of
                     Harry  save as a friend, it was no
                     trifling thing for her to hear that he had so soon wooed another, and that
                     Julia was his promised bride. It was no little thing for her to say so tenderly
                     as she did—"God bless you." It was no little matter for her to stand up in her
                     weakness, with but Jamie and Edwin for her own, and that dark phantom of future
                     wretchedness before her. But she did so, without paling, without trembling,
                     without tears; though a fiercer struggle never went on for a few moments in any
                     woman's breast.
                  Afterwards the time came when she could think, and Helen had not then one hard
                     thought of Harry Gray. The surprise she really felt gave way to earnest joy,
                     for she loved him too sincerely not to rejoice in the rich treasure he had
                     gained. Her love for Harry was still as great as—Julia's! Yet she could cherish
                     it without sin, though she and he were both bound now by other ties. Individual
                     and intense that love was, but it was such as an angel might have cherished—and
                     she never had for him any other.
                  Julia's intention of making the North her future home was now, of course,
                     become a fixed one. New England, Harry's native home, must henceforth be her
                     adopted country, and if its storms and snows were but symbols of their united
                     fate, it seemed to the noble woman as still the best of all fortunes, because
                     it was to be shared with him.
                  Until her marriage day, which was appointed the first day of June—that being
                     the month of vacation—she continued to reside with Helen. To have seen the
                     busy, cheerful way in which Helen assisted in those preparations for marriage,
                     none would have imagined all that had been in her heart.
                  It was with infinite embarrassment, and real pain, that Harry Gray spoke to her
                     of the change in his hopes, and in his plans. He did not speak a word on the
                     subject, till she congratulated him upon his brilliant conquest, and wished him
                     every blessing. And he wept while she did so, but her voice was firm, and her
                     eyes undimmed by tears. Talk of heroism! Could the voice of woman gather
                     strength and courage to speak of woman's victories, her endurance, her sorrows,
                     her genuine valor and courage, in moments when she sees the hope of her life
                     fading away, never, never, never to return again, it would speak of that
                     to which the world would listen in an almost unbelieving wonder.
                  In the beautiful parlor at Sunny side the bridal ceremony was performed. A
                     bright and glorious morning it was on which to register a marriage vow, but to
                     Helen it seemed, as she saw her two dearest friends on earth going from her in
                     their joy, as though the heavens so intensely blue, so clear, were never before
                     so distant.
                  Oh, our days of sorrow should be the cloudy, stormy, winter days, for the
                     Spirit of Mercy seems then nearer and more accessible. Nature in her gloom
                     appears to sympathize with us in our trouble—there is no mocking voice in the
                     moaning wind, no scornful laugh at our weakness and helplessness echoing
                     through the dull and dreary clouds.
               
               
                  XXII.
                  THE bridal party had hardly gone from Sunnyside, when a letter bearing a
                     foreign post-mark was handed Helen, and she read therefrom as follows:—
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "To MISS HELEN WISE:
                              
                              "Dear Madam—I have recently received, through your
                                 legal adviser, John Warner, a copy of your late father's will, in
                                 which I find he has made good the promise given me when I was a
                                 youth under his protection; you were an infant then. In the thought
                                 and hope that this agreement might be carried out when you were of
                                 age, I have never sought another companion, in what has at times
                                 seemed to me a very lonely pilgrimage. I remember your mother,
                                 beautiful and gentle, and always most kind—I long to know the
                                 daughter, whom I am sure she loved so well. I shall sail from
                                 Liverpool for Boston in a short time. I scarcely need say to you
                                 that my return is hastened by the receipt of the letter above
                                 mentioned. Please speak kindly of me to your brothers, and believe
                                 me, dear madam,
                              
                                 "Yours, with sincere respect,
                                 "ALFRED LORD."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                  That it was not ignorance which prompted this cruelly civil note, Helen was
                     well aware If, therefore, she flung it from her, and trampled it, and for that
                     day at least forgot all things save her own miserable prospects, would you
                     wonder? Or, if she wept alone, and hid herself from all human beings, that none
                     might see or guess her sorrow, would that have been a strange procedure? Yet
                     she did not this. She folded the letter, she laid it away, she conversed calmly
                     with the visitors who came that day to the mansion, and then at twilight went
                     with her brothers to the river a fishing.
                  And at night when Jamie slept, and Edwin read with her, she listened
                     attentively to him; but when she was at last alone, she surely gave up then?
                     She could not any longer have exercised control over herself? Ay, but she did,
                     my reader. She prayed as she was wont—she slept through all the night, and the
                     morning saw her as composed as ever. You will think, then, that she was
                     cold-hearted; resigned, because she had no spirit to be otherwise. It was so;
                        resigned, because she had no spirit to be otherwise. She had
                     wrestled, and won that peace of God which passes all understanding, and it was
                     enough.
               
               
                  XXIII.
                  EDWIN had already entered on his collegiate course, and in his mind had fully
                     decided on his future profession—had, indeed, made his wish known to old Dr.
                     Sympson, who was almost as a father to him, of entering his office as a student
                     as soon as he had graduated. Very frequently the youth found himself in the old
                     physician's surgery, and an observer might have smiled or wondered to hear the
                     gray-headed man entering into the dry details of his business, or lecturing the
                     lad on the elements of his profession so earnestly.
                  More than once, Edwin had driven out with the Doctor, making professional
                     visits with him, and so it was nothing very wonderful that the chatty old man
                     should one day make a tax on his young friend's time, by begging him to
                     accompany him to Salem, to attend a patient there. Regularly for a week he had
                     driven to that town, and it had become such a weary old story, he said, that he
                     wanted some one to speak with by the way.
                  There was an unusually thoughtful expression in the Doctor's eyes, as he fixed
                     them on Edwin, and made this simple request; and the lad, who had listened with
                     considerable interest to the account which his friend had given of the patient,
                     gladly made ready for the drive.
                  All the way to Salem the Doctor seemed to be in a most strange, unusual mood.
                     Twice he began speaking with Edwin, but paused again abruptly as he had
                     commenced—and finally, he drove on in silence, without further attempting a
                     conversation, to the lodging of his patient.
                  Him they found in a much better condition than had been anticipated; the fever
                     was abated, the distressing pains in the head and limbs were passed—and his
                     mind, which for several days had been delirious, was now quite calm and
                     rational. He recognised the physician, and thanked him for his kind attendance,
                     begging that he would now continue alone in his service. He was quite cheerful,
                     and spoke pleasantly of his speedy recovery, and of the necessity he was under
                     of continuing his journey soon as possible, for he was a stranger in a strange
                     land. The Doctor remained for an hour with his patient, enlivening him with his
                     cheerful conversation, and making all things comfortable about him, then
                     promising to return the following day, he withdrew with Edwin.
                  "It is one of the severest cases of that kind of fever I ever had," said he
                     when he turned his horse's head homewards—and he proceeded to detail more fully
                     to his attentive listener the state in which he found the patient at first, the
                     medicines he had used, and the effect they had produced.
                  But this loquacity did not last long—the greater part of the homeward drive was
                     pursued in silence, till at last, as they came in sight of Sunnyside, the old
                     man suddenly looked up, and full in Edwin's face, exclaiming—"I have discovered
                     a secret, boy."
                  The lad returned a surprised and questioning glance, which was at once answered
                     with the abrupt and startling announcement—
                  
                  "Your father is not dead. If he was ever a living man, he is sick at Salem
                     now—him we have visited."
                  The poor young fellow was struck dumb with astonishment as he heard this. He
                     looked upon his informant, not with the glad, bright look of one who has heard
                     joyous tidings, but in a bewildered, fixed amaze, to which the Doctor
                     immediately answered—"I heard it all from his own lips while he was delirious,
                     else I should never have recognised him—now, since I have heard him speak of
                     things which establish his identity, I know that it is he."
                  It was to the boy a bitter, grievous, as well as most unanticipated
                     announcement, reader. To find in that miserable, diseased wretch, a FATHER! The
                     remembrance of all that David Wise had been as a parent in the days when he
                     lived at Sunnyside with his family, was not pleasant to Edwin; young as he was
                     when the last separation had taken place between them, the recollection of what
                     he had been was most vivid still, and the bare mention of the father's name had
                     aroused thoughts which the youth would much rather have left slumbering for
                     ever.
                  "Wait a moment," said Dr. Sympson, kindly, as Edwin was about to leap from the
                     carriage, for they had reached his house. "Wait a moment. You must go to Salem
                     again with me before you say a word of this to any human being. I may
                     mistake—at all events, it is better to wait. Will you go again with me
                     to-morrow? I think it would be safe to speak with him then on the subject—if it
                     does not seem to be, we can then wait longer."
                  "I will," was the scarcely audible answer of the youth; and he walked slowly
                     towards his home.
                  He went at once into his own apartment. He dared not look on Helen—he had no
                     heart to devote the evening, as he was wont to do, to Jamie. But, imagine if he
                     slept all night! What an unspeakable relief it was to him when the daylight at
                     last penetrated his room! As that constant thought, his father
                        living, pressed upon him, it took never for an instant a hue of joy.
                     It was no gratification to think that he who had never been a
                     father to his children, who had wilfully clouded, the life of his idolized
                     sister with that binding injunction of marriage with a stranger—who had
                     deserted his young children, leaving them in the care of others for good or
                     ill, as it might chance, it was no joy to him to think of such a return—and no
                     great marvel this! Natural affection is by no means instinct. For a thinking
                     mind there is no such thing as love for a tyrant—a hard, loveless, unsocial,
                     oppressive man, though he be a father; there may be interest close and
                     constant, there must be while the tie continues to exist; whether
                     this interest is of the most humiliating, bitter, peace-destroying kind, or,
                     beyond all things, pleasant and sustaining, it must depend upon the human,
                     active agency of spirit communing with spirit—the affection between parent and
                     child is always intelligent, sentient—it is and must be of the heart and mind,
                     and of no other character.
               
               
                  XXIV.
                  WHEN Dr. Sympson, accompanied by Edwin, again saw his patient, he thought that
                     it would be quite safe for him to convince himself of that which he so much
                     suspected. After his professional visit was over, he remained by the old man's
                     bedside, watching him quietly, for a few moments. At last he said—
                  "Mr. Wise, I have brought Edwin to visit you."
                  It was so simply said, that the sick man looked up, and was scarcely startled
                     at hearing himself called by name. His gaze fixed a moment on Edwin, then his
                     eyes closed, and he spoke, but so confusedly and low, that his words were
                     undistinguishable.
                  "Mr. Wise," said the Doctor, again, "do you not remember Edwin, your son? This
                     is he. I have brought him from Sunnyside to visit you"
                  These words, slowly and distinctly enounced, roused him completely—he sat up in
                     the bed and fixed his bloodshot eyes again on his son, and long and anxiously
                     scanned his features A mortal paleness overspread the youth's face as he met
                     that gaze; a hundred emotions were struggling in his breast, as he looked on
                     that age-worn face—at last, mightily struggling with  his own spirit, he murmured "Father," and the
                     tears began to gather in his eyes.
                  "Yes—it must be," was the answer to that word. "You are very like Emma. I did
                     not think to see you so much grown. You are almost a man. How long the time has
                     been!"
                  "They told us you were dead, father, said Edwin.
                  "Dead, dead!" exclaimed he. "Yes, I have been dead! I died years ago. I'm not a
                     living man—my soul is in the torments of hell. Nothing can chain it! Don't look
                     at me so—away! I didn't come here to seek you—off—off!" He attempted, in the
                     delirium that now possessed him, to leap from the bed, but the Doctor, who had
                     attentively watched the change in his patient, was swifter than he, and
                     prevented.
                  The excitement and conflicting emotions aroused in the sick man brought on a
                     relapse; for a week little thought of his recovery was entertained—but, at
                     last, owing to the unremitted attention of those about him, the disease was
                     conquered—but the patient was left weak as an infant.
                  It was during his slow recovery that Edwin, who was become a constant watcher
                     beside his bed, for the first time proposed his parent's removal to Sunnyside.
                     But of this the old man would not hear a word. He expressed, however, now, and
                     for the first time, a wish to see his other children.
                  Helen, who had been acquainted with his most unlooked-for return to the living,
                     had waited expectantly and anxiously for many reasons for this summons, and it
                     was with a satisfaction that, after all, was greater than the painful thoughts
                     which would suggest themselves, that she set out for Salem to visit him.
                  Most strange it was—of his children, Jamie, the idiot-born, was the only one
                     who recognised his father in the sick man who awaited their coming. When, with
                     his arm locked in the trembling Helen's, they went up to David Wise, and the
                     poor girl, remembering that she was his child, bent over the ghost of a man and
                     kissed him, the poor fellow's eyes fixed with wild and startled gaze upon the
                     features of the father; a change came over his countenance, it lost its placid
                     calmness, and rage, and hate, alone were visible. With wild and threatening
                     gestures, and wrathful voice, he exclaimed against the invalid, until his
                     watchful sister, who had not for years seen him so excited, led him gently
                     away, and returned again alone to the sick chamber.
                  "Helen, they tell me you are not married," was his salutation, when she came
                     once more and sat down beside him.
                  "It is true, father," she replied. "We heard that you were not living; when the
                     will was opened, Mr. Warren made its contents known to—to the man they chiefly
                     concerned. He was away then, and has not yet returned."
                  "Was it your intention to marry him?"
                  "Yes; for I could not bear that my mother's children, her dear
                     Jamie and Edwin, should be left to the care of a stranger. Poor Jamie, I could
                     have done far more than that you required for his sake."
                  "When is Alfred Lord coming back?"
                  "He wrote that he should come this month."
                  "Then you can be married here, and I will see it done before I die," he said,
                     in a tone that was almost exultant.
                  "It's a great match for you. I couldn't do too much for Alfred
                     Lord, either; though it's doing no great things to give him—you,
                     to be sure. He has rendered me great services—it was only just that I should
                     through you give my property to him. I knew, of course, that you would comply
                     with my desire."
                  There was only a gentle inclination of the head in answer to this speech, for
                     Helen could not trust herself to answer a word.
                  "I was carried among the dead from the hospital in Naples," resumed the old
                     man. "The cholera was raging there. The person I made my agent for transacting
                     business matters, was also dead when I recovered. He had doubtless written your
                     lawyer as directed. But I have written since—at least think I did—I meant
                     it—perhaps the letter miscarried."
                  "Father," said Helen, resolved, in spite of all he had said, to make one more
                     appeal before she left him that day. "Father, must that will be
                     carried into effect? When you recover, how will it be?"
                  
                  "I have set my heart on your marrying him. I shall not get well."
                  "If your life is spared, dear father, and I cannot promise to be
                        his wife, how will it be?"
                  "I tell you the marriage must go on—I have sworn it—and, besides, you would
                     otherwise be left a beggar."
                  Helen made no reply to this, she merely took his hand in hers an instant, and
                     went from him without uttering a word; but, if ever a beggar's life was
                     coveted, it was by that daughter, as, joining her brothers, she returned home
                     again.
               
               
                  XXV.
                  THE second visit Helen made her father, was after a lapse of many days.
                  Harry and Julia Gray had returned from their bridal tour—those four eventful
                     weeks had been full of happy days for them, had opened to the vision of each
                     such pure, bright depths of soul, as gave them confidence and perfect faith
                     forever in each other.
                  When Helen told her friend the story of her father's most unlooked for return,
                     and his unalterable determination of remaining in Salem while he lived, and of
                     the unflinching will with which he pronounced her doom of marriage, Julia
                     expressed her determination of at once proceeding to see the old man. She would
                     argue with him herself, she said, and she would make him die as a Christian man
                     should, at peace, and in love with his children.
                  Thus it was that Julia and Helen went alone one day to visit David Wise.
                  When they went into his apartment they found him alone and sleeping, and they
                     went softly back to the ante-chamber to wait till he should waken.
                  They sate conversing there in an under tone, when suddenly Julia's voice was
                     raised in a cry of terror. The old man had risen unheard, and before they were
                     aware, he stood in the doorway, gazing full upon them with those bright eyes,
                     in which a serpent-like power of fascination lurked. Julia smiled at her own
                     cry, even as she uttered it, though, in truth, there was something terrific in
                     the emaciated, wild appearance David Wise presented.
                  He entered the room, after a moment's hesitation, and sat down directly facing
                     Julia, looking upon her cautiously and earnestly, as though he were afraid of
                     her. Soon he arose and drew nearer to her, while she, striving to shake off
                     that disagreeable feeling which oppressed her, as she returned his gaze,
                     endeavored to enter into conversation with him, but the old man would neither
                     answer nor take his gaze from her. At last he seemed satisfied, and turning
                     from the beautiful woman to his own poor child, he exclaimed with a horrid
                     oath—
                  "Tell me that woman's name!"
                  "Yes, papa," said Helen quickly. "Her name is, was, Julia Saxe—she is my very
                     dearest friend."
                  "Get out then—away with you—are you fiends that you come here to make me
                     mad?"
                  "Why, we only came to visit you a little while, dear papa," said Helen,
                     soothingly.
                  "Do you want to kill me?" he added, unmindful of her interruption. "Go off, I
                     say! you—you—what are you here for? Did I ever seek you out? Did I
                     ever claim you?"—pointing to Julia—"for my child? Tell me, did
                     your mother send you here?"
                  "My mother is an angel in heaven," was the answer made to this outbreak.
                  "Well, I tell you—I will tell you!—hush! there—I'm going to swear
                     it. I say, I swear it. Does it content you to know that? She was
                     my wife once, and there was you, and other she called Anna. It was twenty years
                     ago I came from there, and if I left her to marry another woman, poor fool she
                     was indeed to marry me—wasn't it enough that I did it? Haven't I
                     been paid for it over a hundred times?"
                  Poor creature! he was speaking to dumb witnesses and listeners. To that
                     shameful confession of sin, wrung from a tortured conscience, they could make
                     no answer. Though conviction of the truth of his declaration flashed like
                     lightning upon them—though to Helen the mystery of that portrait of the  mother of—her sister
                     was now made clear as by a lightning flash—though to Julia the deep grief that
                     had bowed her beautiful mother, after years of suffering, to the grave, was all
                     explained; it was to neither of them a moment of rejoicing, when they knew that
                     the fond name by which they had loved to call each other, was indeed a name
                     that they were entitled to use. They could have wept their lives away as they
                     hearkened to the acknowledgment of guilt which that white-haired man, standing
                     on the verge of the grave, found himself compelled to make to his innocent,
                     guileless children.
                  They left him that day quite forgetful of the object of their visit, and
                     without speaking, without a parting embrace; utterly voiceless they returned to
                     their homes; but when they parted, Julia clasped the little
                     trembling form of Helen in her arms for one moment, whispering, "Nelly, my own
                     dear, sweet sister, kiss me once more;" and they separated, bearing each
                     other's kisses with them; separated in sorrow, but in love as deep as that
                     sorrow, to keep that secret with them to their dying day —to bear it with them
                     to the grave!
               
               
                  XXVI.
                  ON the morning of the next day, when Helen entered James' room, as was her
                     custom, to awaken him, she was startled and alarmed to find it vacant, for it
                     was some time before his usual hour of waking. Turning to the screened corner
                     where his bed stood, she saw that it had not been at all used in the night; yet
                     was Helen sure that she had seen him go into his chamber when she went to her
                     own. What could it mean? Nothing of the kind had ever occurred before—no infant
                     was ever guarded with more watchful, constant care than Jamie Wise had been, by
                     the sister who was as a mother to him. What could this strange and most unusual
                     occurrence mean?
                  Through the house and the gardens and the grove Helen went, at first alone, and
                     then with the rest of the alarmed household, but she found no trace of him.
                     Then they began a search for him through the town, while Helen awaited the
                     result of their seeking in a state of agonized suspense indescribable.
                  Let us look into the silence and the shadow of the awful night that had
                     passed.
                  Jamie had, as Helen felt persuaded, gone to his room a little time before she
                     retired, but, buried in her own thoughts, she had forgotten to see if he slept,
                     ere she herself closed her eyes in slumbering.
                  When all was still at Sunnyside, the idiot boy went out with stealthy step from
                     his chamber, and through the house unheard. He was armed, and mounted on the
                     fleet horse which a neighbor had turned out to pasture, in little time, and
                     away he went with lightning speed, on that road which he had once before taken,
                     when he went with Helen and Edwin on a visit, which had haunted him ever since
                     it was made."
                  It was 
                        nidnight
                        midnight
                     ; night without a visible star, when Jamie reached the house he sought
                     in Salem. As he approached the dwelling on foot, a man came from thence—a
                     person who had been staying with the invalid till that late hour. The boy saw
                     him close the door, and a moment after, with a short, bitter laugh, his hand
                     was laid upon the lock, his feet were on the stairs, and he stood alone in the
                     room with his father!
                  The physician, or whoever the person was, had remained with the invalid till he
                     slept. Had his first-born son come to maintain like watch?
                  If the aged slumberer had awakened, then, he had seen a youthful form bend
                     close above him, had felt the warm, quick breath of Jamie on his cheek—had seen
                     two brilliant, savage eyes fixed, peering through the night-gloom, upon him!
                     Had he listened, his ear would have caught the repeated, low, and half-demoniac
                     laugh. There!—there! if his eyes had just opened, then, they would have seen
                     the uplifted hand of the once idolized boy hovering, only for a moment, over
                     his devoted head.
                  But—the poor old man, he did not waken, did not hear—he knew nothing of it. His
                     life went out, when the small, slender hands, which Helen had oft-times clasped
                     in her own, wound round his neck! There was only a momentary resistance, then
                     all was over.
                  When the morning came, they who had the sick man in their charge, found that
                     their aid was no longer to be sought—for  none were needed then to guard and
                     nurse old David Wise. The idiot son had usurped their place—they found him
                     chuckling in joy by the bedside of his murdered father.
                  It was near noonday before the tidings of this dreadful tragedy reached
                     Sunnyside; and it was poor Edwin's lot to speak of the awful facts to Helen.
                     When she saw him coming home, at last, she went out to meet him, for her heart
                     was breaking with fear for Jamie. The brother and sister met, but neither
                     spoke. There was something in the troubled, wretched expression of Edwin's
                     eyes, as he looked on her, that choked the words Helen would fain have spoken,
                     in their utterance. When they had entered the house again, Edwin, vainly
                     striving to speak, calmly, said—
                  "Helen, could you bear it, if you knew that you were never to see our poor,
                     dear Jamie, again?"
                  "Tell me! what is it?" she answered, with such earnestness that it had sounded
                     in any but Helen Wise, a harsh command, "My Jamie, is he dead? speak,
                     Edwin."
                  "He is not dead; but they have removed him to another place. They think it
                     better that he should live now in an asylum where such poor unfortunates are
                     cared for, dear Helen."
                  "How dared they do it?" was the angry exclamation, forced, in bitter anguish,
                     from lips which, till that day, had never uttered a word in wrath. "Is this
                        your work, Edwin?"
                  "No! no! Helen, I have had nothing to do with it. I knew nothing of it," was
                     the mild answer. "You wrong me by the thought; he was out, last night, and the
                     doctor found him, and said that it was not safe he should be left free any
                     longer."
                  "It is the first time he was ever out so! I've made him my care since he was a
                     child! Edwin, I had the best and only right to take charge of him—no one on
                     earth had such a right. How many years have I labored to save him from this
                     fate. I must have him back again."
                  "Have they told you of our father, to-day?"asked Edwin, anxious, at any cost,
                     to change the current of her thoughts.
                  "No," was the answer, and Helen looked, inquiringly, in her brother's face, for
                     the solemn tone of his voice told her had he yet more to say.
                  "Dear Helen, he is dead."
                  "God's will be done," she calmly answered; and, shortly after, she added, "he
                     must be brought home for burial, Edwin.
                  "Yes," was the choked utterance, and the boy turned from Helen; he could not
                     tell her all.
                  Helen Wise never saw her Jamie again. It was from Julia's lips, in after days,
                     that she learned the dreadful story of his unconquerable hate for the father
                     who had senselessly and brutishly sought to govern him years before, and when
                     she heard that, she dared not make one single plea that he might be given back
                     to her fond keeping. Her work with him she now knew was over; oh, what a work
                     it had been! but if the prayers which bore his dear name, and the thoughts
                     which held him in faithful remembrance, if the tears she shed, if the love,
                     which, till her death-day, she kept for him, might be spoken in my words, an
                     affection, such as only the heart of a woman can bear, would be revealed; and
                     you would wonder but to hear of it!"
                  The afternoon on which her father's death was made known to Helen, a hearse,
                     followed by two mourning carriages, was driven up to the avenue of Sunnyside,
                     and Helen and Edwin Wise met their parent on his final return, in the great
                     hall of the silent mansion. He came voiceless and sightless now—there was no
                     uttered word of welcome—few tears—very little lamentation, and the grave closed
                     over him and his sins. His children prayed to God, but not for strength to bear
                        his loss. They needed not that, other griefs and fears pressed
                     too heavily upon them to admit of lamentation over the clay that was now
                     returned to its nobler dust. For Helen there was yet a future on
                     earth—dark, cheerless, and dreadful. The thought of it was what
                     made her droop so wearily when she stood by the grave of David Wise, listening
                     to the burial service for the dead; and the remembrance of the injustice of the
                     lifeless man; oh, was it not most mournful, was that which lingered longest
                     after his funeral day!
               
               
                  XXVII.
                  JULY, August, and September passed, and Alfred Lord had not yet made his
                     appearance at —, to claim his promised  bride; but the idea of his probable coming had
                     ceased to trouble Helen Wise.
                  As time passed on, and she gained power to survey her own position from every
                     point of view, it seemed nothing to her if Sunnyside did fall to
                     the appointed bridegroom. For Edwin, there was now no manner of reason to
                     fear—for herself, no cause to hope. Jamie was gone beyond her care forever. The
                     sweetest dream of woman had passed even as she dreamed it. Now the world, the
                     wide world, was all alike to her. Since the child of her care was hers no
                     longer, she was fully resolved to resign all claim to her old, beautiful home,
                     the moment Alfred Lord appeared. Edwin would, very soon, with his fine
                     abilities, be able to care for himself; and she, at the worst, among strangers,
                     and in obscurity, there was no danger, could provide for her own few wants. So
                     was her spirit calm.
                  On the first of October, another letter from Mr. Lord reached Helen; it was
                     post-marked New York! The letter was opened without the least emotion, for her
                     mind was so quiet now in its resolves, that all the powers of earth could not
                     have shaken it. Therefore it was that she read with perfect calmness:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "I have heard so much, since my recent arrival in New York, from
                                 one whom you do not number among your personal
                                 friends, of the true heroism of your nature, that glad and proud as
                                 I should be to call you my wife, I have determined not to do so
                                 without I can win your full, unbiased consent. Will you permit me
                                 to visit you for the purpose of making an acquaintance, which, in
                                 any event, I shall be proud to have formed?"
                              
                                 "ALFRED LORD."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  To this letter, Helen thus immediately replied:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "I thank you for the courtesy with which you have written me; I
                                 would earnestly beg you to maintain your charitable and most
                                 honorable resolution. The property which my father left you,
                                 unconditionally, I am ready, at any moment, to resign in your
                                 favor; but, if you value your own self-respect, and my respect and
                                 life-long gratitude, acquaint me with your decision by letter, and
                                 do not come hither until I am gone.
                              
                                 "HELEN WISE."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  There came an unlooked-for answer to this letter, in the shape of a legal
                     document, transferring Sunnyside unreservedly to Helen and Edwin Wise, and this
                     was the manly greeting that came with it:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Heaven has blest my life of labor, and I cannot take from the
                                 orphan that to which God has given me no title. Your father was, as
                                 he has told me, vastly indebted to my father years ago; he
                                 cancelled that debt in his kindness and care when I was a penniless
                                 orphan. I remember him with gratitude, and I have far too much
                                 regard for his children to ever wilfully cause them an instant's
                                 pain. May He, from whom all blessings come, bless you, my
                                 friends."
                              
                                 "ALFRED LORD.
                                 
                                    "To Helen and Edwin Wise."
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  That man did well in this—that is, he did his duty. But people, in his day,
                     made too much of the act of justice, they magnified his generous deed, and, in
                     the glory of it, forgot the simple merit of the case. Alas, for
                     human nature!
               
               
                  XXVIII.
                  HELEN WISE lived long after the trial-times of her life were over. She lived to
                     see the brown hair silvering on the temples of the lover of her youth—to see
                     the children who bore his name growing up the honor and the beauty of his
                     house. She lived to see her Edwin high in the ranks of his useful and honorable
                     profession, while he sought no other hearth or companionship than that she had
                     made so pleasant and so cheerful. And, oh, for still in those calm
                     days, the grief, though chastened, was mingled sometimes with the quiet joy,
                     she lived to receive another, the most precious of the dead, back to her heart
                     again, to give her Jamie a funeral and a burial place. Long before she passed
                     from earth he died—and, long before she sought the heavenly home, there was
                     another death for which Helen wept, that of the Withered Fig Tree; the emblem
                     of her blighted life, her blighted heart—the symbol of her spiritual  power, that could conquer deformity
                     and weakness—that could spread beauty over desolation—that could, from its
                     crushed bosom, send out loveliness of life, pure sympathy, and beautiful
                     strength.
               
            
            
               THE SEXTON OF THE OLD BRICK CHURCH.
               IT seemed to me the strangest thing in the world when some one suggested, "he is
                  growing old." The idea of age, with its concomitants, such as come naturally upon
                  a mortal, when many years have gone over him—age with lameness, deafness,
                  blindness, would not associate with him, the careful, steadfast creature, whom we
                  had always called old. It did not appear a natural suggestion, that
                  his slow step, as he moved through galleries and aisles, across the chancel, and
                  up the pulpit stairs, could ever be occasioned by anything but reverence; that the
                  long lines and wrinkles in his face should stand in people's eyes the token of
                  aught but a habitual, natural expression of solemn thought; that the heavy,
                  downward sweeping of his eyelid, should tell of the weariness of nature, rather
                  than the awe of one who was a doorkeeper in the house of God.
               Yet when one said to me "our friend is growing old," I saw at once, and really for
                  the first time, that the years which for him had gone on so quietly, had after all
                  left their mark on him, and straightway I fell to wondering, if he had grown old
                  as other people do, if as he mounts up day after day, and night after night, to
                  the high belfry of the old Brick Church—if, as Sabbath after Sabbath he moves with
                  ghost-like solemnity and noiselessness about the sanctuary, any more of weariness
                  could be perceptible in his movements, or in himself in the performance of these
                  lowly services, than there was twenty years ago?
               Old man indeed! as a school-child he is associated with my very earliest
                  recollections. I cannot call to mind the time when he was dissociated in thought,
                  with the dread and the penalty of being "late." How often has he befriended us
                  poor laggards! I make no extra tax on memory when I would recall the brown and
                  wrinkled visage, as it used to look when it  would relax into a kind and gracious smile, as we
                  came panting up the street (criminal lingerers over fairy books, and around
                  play-houses,) and petitioned him, as only children can, to wait just one moment
                  before he rung the bell, starting on as we asked it at a break-neck speed, and
                  reaching the school-room gate (even his mercifulness could not in
                  conscience delay an instant longer,) just as the "iron tongue" proclaimed that it
                  was nine o'clock. Many a time I warrant might complaints lodged against luckless
                  watchmakers in the thoughts of time keepers, have fallen with more justice on him,
                  in whose heart was a more than woman-tenderness for the young children. For more
                  than this did we count him in an especial manner worthy of our blessing. The
                  welcome twelve o'clock! no awe or fear for teachers could stifle our glad hearts
                  when he told us —for it always seemed as though the old man did work for us
                  particularly—that the time to forget all we had learned that morning,
                  was come!
               We had no town clock in those days, and the children of now can hardly cherish
                  such a lively thought as we, or be bound by such a tie as ours to the sexton of
                  the old Brick Church. We had no railroad, with its whistling, ringing engines,
                  then; no district schools with bells—and the sole public chronicler of time in our
                  village, spoke from that fish-crowned belfry.
               The sexton and the church seemed then, and until lately I may say, one and
                  indivisible in thought. I cannot for the life of me so associate them now.
                  Improvement may tear down, and build up, and renovate with brick and mortar, but
                  it cannot lay its bands on the human—it could not at least in this instance,
                  without desecrating it, without committing sacrilege! The old church, with its
                  formal, high, square ceiling, its elevated pulpit, with the antiquated lamps, its
                  choir, ornamented only with a great BASE base viol, and its chancel with a
                  stove—ah! you should see it now with its granite paper hangings, its gracefully
                  arched ceilings, its sky-light, and the splendid chandeliers, the pulpit with its
                  luxurious sofa and velvet hangings, (no "blue"-light lingers round them!) the
                  gilded Bible, the Brussels covered stairs, the glittering white paint, the
                  glorious organ, (shade of Roger Williams!) and the rich and soft aisle-carpeting
                  ing! They have indeed beautified His temple; but I wonder if it seems home-like to
                  the old man, who was an official in the church when it was young and poor? It may
                  be that he is quite equal to the progress of 
                     "The wondrous, wondrous age,"
                   but I wonder if, as he treads about those courts, he feels really, in the
                  same sense as of old, part and parcel of the building? I wonder if, as he lights
                  the gilded chandeliers and pulpit-lamps with their pendant glasses, which chime so
                  musically in the touch of his rough hand, (they are scarcely equal to the dealing
                  with such finery,) he does not look about and sigh for the old simple temple,
                  wherein the tables of money-changers stood not! I wonder if, as he looks down from
                  his seat upon the gaily robed audience, he does not sigh for those devout ones who
                  used to gather there to worship Heaven, for those who used to pray for him before
                  he was converted, who hailed him on that happy day as their Christian friend and
                  brother. I wonder if, as his eyes move about and fix on us who were children but
                  yesterday, (so it must seem to him,) taking the places of the vanished sires and
                  fathers of the Church, he does not sigh heavily for the days that are gone!
               I remember when a pillar (figuratively speaking) of the old Brick Church gave
                  way—it fell—it could bear its part no longer. Never before was seen such
                  gentleness in the old man's bearing as he walked about the temple on that sad, sad
                  day; never did grief speak more loudly even in sobbing voices or in tear-filled
                  eyes, than that day, in the increased paleness and meekness of the old sexton, as
                  he moved about so noiselessly. His hands trembled when he arranged the Bible and
                  hymn-book in their places for the pastor's use, and when he tolled that funeral
                  bell there was a sob in every tone that he rung out from the iron—it was as the
                  audible and mournful beating of his own heart, and we knew how every stroke as it
                  rang through the bereaved and sorrowing village, echoed back heavily in his inmost
                  soul. Full many a time has he tolled that loud-voiced, powerful bell, over those
                  who, from long association, were dear as brother or as child to him; but never was
                  his voice so faint with grief, his form so bowed with sorrow, as on that day when
                  the loved one  of the church was
                  carried out from the midst of the mourning congregation for burial.
               There is somewhat of the real spirit of Christianity in the alternate ringing of
                  village church bells on a Sabbath; when those who worship diversely are content to
                  receive one common call, "come unto me." In the deferential waiting which I have
                  observed in his manner, when standing by the old man in the belfry, as, his work
                  for the moment done, he paused solemnly, till the sexton of another church had
                  spoken to the people, I saw another working of his kind and noble heart. God bless
                  him! if he loves his own church and his own people beyond all other, there is a
                  worse form of bigotry on earth than that, and he is willing that all mankind
                  should love their own, as he does his.
               The dear old man! his hair grows grayer every day, and his poor, patched garments
                  tell that he has labored, and grown not rich in the service. Not
                  rich—but the Lord has blessed him. Fair young daughters who know how
                  to labor and ease his daily tasks, and sons—may they prove worthy of their
                  sire!—are growing up about him. He goes about in coarse and homely garments; the
                  riches, the fashion, ay, and the pride of those he calls together to worship in
                  the old Brick Church, have fallen not on him—and never till he dies, and
                  another—may it be no careless and unskilful hand!—shall knell his departure will
                  he be clothed in beautiful apparel, and his brown face lose its furrowed proof of
                  care!
               I have often wondered when he stands up there alone in the high belfry in the
                  lonely nights, whether he ever thinks of the time when he, who has so often roused
                  the slumbering, shall himself sleep, and another hand rest on the knotted rope,
                  and tell the people of the flight of time. And when I have thus wondered, the
                  thought has come to me that from no elevation in this life, not from throne or
                  pulpit could a soul ascend more readily or freely to its true home, than his, who
                  "up aloft" there, has in patience and humility proclaimed Time's thrilling
                  messages—who from his wind-shaken tower, has told, not of the flight of time
                  alone, but much from his own brave heart's history.
            
            
               THE BLACK FROST.
               
                  
                     
                        "Methinks
                        This word of love is fit for all the world,
                        And that for gentle hearts another name
                        Would speak of gentler thoughts than the world owns."
                     
                  
               
               IT was a clear, calm night. Brightly shone the innumerable stars: the fixed orbs
                  of giant magnitude, the little twinkling points of light, the glorious
                  constellations—in their imperial beauty stood they, gazing upon the mysterious
                  face of darkness —a clear, calm, terribly cold night.
               Winter had not as yet fairly set in. There had been no snow, but it was very late
                  in the autumn, and the grass, and the flowering shrubs and 'trees, looked as
                  though they had each and all felt the cruel breath of the Destroyer, as he
                  pronounced the doom upon them.
               People rubbed their hands, and talked with quivering lips of the hard winter
                  coming, as they hastened, in the increasing shadows of the night, to their homes.
                  The children, warmed and gladdened by the bright fires that were kindled on the
                  hearth-stones, romped and frolicked, and prophesied, with knowing looks, about
                  snow-balling, sleigh-rides, skating, and all manner of fun. The young girls met
                  together, and talked merrily of coming gaieties; the old man wondered whether he
                  should see another spring-time; and the poor crept to their beds at nightfall,
                  glad to forget everything—cold, hunger, and misery—in sleep.
               Midnight came. More and more brightly shone the stars— they glowed, they trembled,
                  and smiled on one another. The cold became intense—in the deep silence how
                  strangely looked  the branches of the
                  leafless trees! how desolate the gardens and the forest—how very
                     still the night did seem!
               Close beside an humble cottage, under a huge bush of flowering-currant, had
                  flourished all the autumn a tiny violet-root. And still, during the increasing
                  cold of the latter days, the leaves had continued green and vigorous, and the
                  flowers opened.
               There had been an arrival at the cottage that day. Late in the afternoon, a father
                  and mother, with their child, had returned from long wandering in foreign
                  lands.
               A student had watched their coming. In the morning, he had gathered a flower from
                  that little root in their garden, and now, as he sat in the long hours of night,
                  poring over his books, he kept the violet still beside him, in a vase which held
                  the treasures of a green-house, and his eyes rested often on the pale blue modest
                  flower.
               At nightfall, a youthful form had stood for a moment at the cottage-door, and the
                  young invalid's eyes, which so eagerly sought all familiar things, at last rested
                  on those still living flowers—flowers, where she had thought to find all dead,
                  even as were those buds which once gave fair promise of glorious opening in her
                  girl-heart! Unmindful of the cold and dampness, she stepped from the house, and
                  passed to the violet-root, and, gathering all the flowers but one, she placed them
                  in her hair, and then hastened with a shiver back to the cottage.
               In the fast-increasing cold, the leaves that were left bowed down close to the
                  earth, and the delicate flowers crowning the pale, slender stem, trembled under
                  the influence of the frost.
               The little chamber where Mary laid down to rest, was that which, from her
                  childhood, had been set apart for her occupation; a pleasant room, endeared to her
                  by a thousand joyful dreams dreamed within its shade—solemnized to her, also, by
                  that terrible wakening to sorrow which she had known.
               She reclined now on her bed in the silentness, the darkness; but she rested not,
                  she slept not. The young girl's eyes, fixed on the far-off stars, on the glorious
                  heavens, her thoughts wandered wild and free, but her body was circled by the arm
                  of Death.
               She had not yet slept at all that night; she had not slept for many nights. Winter
                  was reigning in Mary's heart—it had long reigned there. She was remembering now,
                  while others nestled in the arms of forgetfulness, those days that were gone, when
                  she had looked with such trust and joy upon the years to be—how that she had
                  longed for the slowly-unfolding future to develop itself fully, completely! how
                  she had wholly given herself to the fancies and the hopes of the untried. Alas!
                  she had reached, she had passed, too soon, that crisis of life which unfolds next
                  to the expectant the season of winter—she had seen the gay flowers fading, the
                  leaves withering, the glory of summer pass. And yet how young, how very young she
                  was!
               They who saw the shadow brooding over her, out of which she could not move, they
                  who loved, who almost worshipped her, the father and the mother, had in every
                  manner sought, how vainly! to stop the course of that disease which fastened upon
                  her—they could not dispel the sorrow which had blighted her life. She, also, for a
                  moment, desperately as they, had striven with her grief, but, now, in the
                  cheerless autumn time, she was come back to her home, feeling that it would be
                  easier there to die.
               Gazing from her couch out upon the "steadfast skies"—thinking on the past, and the
                  to-come—the to-come of the dying! Yet the thought of death and judgment terrified
                  her not. Surely she would find mercy and heart's ease in the Heaven over which the
                  merciful is king!
               But suddenly, in the night's stillness, in the coldness and the darkness, she
                  arose; and steadfastly gazed, for an instant, upward, far upward, where a star
                  shot from the zenith, down, down, to the very horizon. She fell back at the sight,
                  her spirit sped away with that swift glory flash—Mary was dead!
               
               Iu that moment, the student, also, stood beside his window. The fire in the grate
                  had died away, the lamp was nearly exhausted; wearied with his long-continued
                  work, he had risen, and now, for an instant, stood looking upon the heavens. There
                  was sadness and weariness in his heart. The little violet, and the travellers'
                  return, had strangely affected him: for once he found not in his books the
                  satisfaction which he sought: he felt 
                  that another life than that of a plodding book-worm, might be led by him. His
                  dreams, in the morning hour, were not pleasant as he slept. They were solely of
                  one whose love he had set at naught for the smiles of a sterner love; of one whom
                  he now thought of, as in the spring time of his life, when she was all the world
                  to him. And now that she was come again, and he should see her once more! ah, he
                  would bow before her as he once had, and she, who was ever so gentle, so loving,
                  so good, would not spurn him: she would forget his forgetfulness, she would yet
                  give to him that peace, that joy which he had never quaffed at the fountains of
                  learning!
               Up rose the sun, and people saw how the Black Frost was over the earth, binding
                  all things in its hard, close, cold embrace. Later in the morning, a little child,
                  passing by the cottage, paused and peeped through the bars upon the violet-root.
                  Yesternight, when she went home from school, she saw the flowers blooming there,
                  the pale, blue, faint-hearted looking flowers—and now she remembered to look if
                  they were there still. But though she looked long and steadfastly where the
                  sunlight fell beneath the currant-bush, she could not see that she sought for; so
                  passing quietly through the gate, she stooped down where the violets had been, and
                  felt the leaves, and knew that they were frozen; and it was only by an effort that
                  she kept back the fast-gathering tears, when she looked on the one flower Mary had
                  left, and saw how it was drooped and dead.
               But a sadder sight, and one more full of meaning, was presented in the pleasant
                  chamber, whose window opened on the yard where the blossoming bushes grew. For
                  there a woman bent over the bed whereon another frost-killed flower lay moaning in
                  the bitterness of grief, the death of her one treasure!
               Still later in the day, another mourner stood in that silent place, thinking of
                  the meteor and the violet. It was the student, he who in remorse and anguish came,
                  bemoaning the frost-blighted. Too late, too late, he came to tell his love—too
                  late to crave forgiveness, too late to soothe the broken-hearted! Now stood he
                  himself in the valley of the shadow of wo.
               And the snow and the storms abounded. Winter was come!
            
            
               THE HAUNTED.
               THE career of the prodigal received a sudden check; his purpose was thwarted by a
                  startling and peremptory call to his father's house, for old Gaspar Rewardin was
                  about to die.
               Many years had gone by since summons or message of any kind had sought out the
                  youth in the midst of his miserable ways; it was long since a voice from within or
                  without had spoken in warning; long since a friendly hand had been outstretched to
                  prevent or to guide him. In his early youth, Lloyd Rewardin, more in the spirit of
                  defiant pride than from real love of sin, had, in his doings, declared "evil to be
                  good, and good evil," and the assertion once made, there was for him no probable
                  returning—to all entreaty, to all remonstrance, to all warning, his reply was
                  manifestly, not in words, but in deeds, "Nay, but I have chosen other gods, and
                  after them will I go."
               His repeated transgressions and sins fell with the keenest force on the
                  disappointed father's heart—fell, alas! so often, in such quick, undeceiving
                  succession, that the parent, long before his intercourse with Lloyd had come to an
                  end, ceased, in his utter despair, to look for any good thing to come from the
                  life of that only, that erring, that still beloved child.
               Old Gaspar had sadly failed in his duty respecting the boy. Because it had been a
                  hard task, one of the very hardest, to train a headstrong, passionate, selfish
                  child in the paths of patience, love, and reverence, he abandoned the work—he was
                  not indeed equal to the task, and the quick-witted son was not long in discovering
                  and taking advantage of that. So, from early childhood, till he had put away all
                  childish things but his  evil heart,
                  his violent temper, and his irreverence, Lloyd went on from bad to worse, making
                  most shocking havoc of all his capabilities—wronging his moral nature, and
                  endangering his physical life.
               When the summons came to him that led him back to his father's house, he had
                  trodden apparently to the last extremity of sin—he stood at the last possible
                  point, from which a return could be made. The tidings of his father's illness, and
                  desire to look upon his son once more before he died, came to him late in the
                  night; a night which had been given to vile revelry, to drunken sports, and it was
                  with fear and trembling that the son heard the call, with fear and trembling that
                  he obeyed it. It was a thought awful, even to him, that his father had been
                  waiting and longing for his coming, while he had been stifling and drowning the
                  thought of death, in the cup of folly.
               With a completely sobered, but most troubled mind, Lloyd Rewardin set out on that
                  return. He dreaded to face sorrow, such as he knew he should find in his old home;
                  he was terrified at the idea of the final meeting, and the final parting with the
                  dying; and how could he look on the face of his mother; she whom he had defied,
                  insulted and wronged so unpardonably, a thousand times? He could not call to his
                  aid one strengthening or supporting thought, he was nerveless, and wholly forsaken
                  by all spirits, good and bad; he was going alone to his father's
                  house, to hold last council with the dying! He would have neglected the
                  call—disobeyed it, had he dared; but he did not dare; he had now no power but to
                  go on, to receive, he knew not what; perhaps, and reason told him it would be a
                  gift most meet, the curse of his father, and the curse of God.
               He persevered in his journey till he entered the town which was his birth-place;
                  till he had passed even the portals of that house, from which he had gone forth,
                  only not driven, by those on whom he had delighted to bring shame and sorrow. A
                  change, strange and sudden as Saul of Tarsus experienced, had come over the
                  prodigal in the progress of his homeward journey, but it was not so significant,
                  not so decisive as that which made a Paul the Apostle, out of the great
                  persecutor; for though the prodigal went with softened heart, and full of regret,
                  seeking his father; he was not repentant to that degree which was
                  needful in one who had so sinned, in order that full forgiveness might be his.
               It was true to the letter—old Gaspar Rewardin was dying. Not five
                  minutes after his son entered the sick room, the father breathed his last. The
                  dead man and Lloyd were together, in those last seconds, quite alone; for the
                  young man did not find his mother there, where he had thought to find her,
                  watching and weeping over her husband. She had died, months before that day.
               Yearning with the deepest paternal affection over his erring child, Gaspar had in
                  his will forgiven the dark, unholy past of the poor youth, and had left a more
                  than ample proof of his forgiveness and confidence in the power of Lloyd to do
                  good, in making him heir to nearly all his estate. He left also, in words that
                  could have come from no other than a heart broken with disappointment, and in
                  entreaties that spoke of a hope that still remained to the last, what, if he would
                  only allow it, might prove a richer bequest than all those lands and all that
                  gold, to Lloyd Rewardin.
               The old man's mind wandered in his last hours—he did not recognise his son, when
                  the young man stood by his bed. But the conscious, the living one,
                  did not understand that. He had conjured up a harrowing scene of salutation and
                  farewell; and it did not enter his head, that his father was dying without knowing
                  who stood there in such terror—such actual grief, waiting for a pardon and a
                  blessing. When he caught the startled, wild look Gaspar turned on him, he thought
                  it was a reproach for delay in coming; and when the old man said, "When I come
                  again, I will tell you: I shall come, Lloyd," the youth fell weeping
                  upon his knees, and, clasping the cold hands of the dead, cried in an
                  agony, which alas! was not atonement, "Father, father, speak! Do you know me?—me,
                  Lloyd! Father! forgive!" The words which were shrieked so wildly found no answer:
                  those fixed eyes could not see; those hands could not lift in blessing—the spirit
                  of Gaspar was not there to say, pardon! Death only was there, and a greater than
                  Death—God! And it was with that Greater, and not the  body of the suffering and the wronged, that the
                  returned prodigal had now to do.
               Lloyd Rewardin was the sole mourner at the funeral—he alone was clad in funereal
                  garments, when his father was laid in the vault, which was already consecrated to
                  the dead by the body of the wife who had preceded him. That he stood an earnest
                  and sincere mourner by the grave, none could doubt—not even the harshest and most
                  indignant of those judges, who knew that the father and mother had gone each,
                  gladly, from a world where their only child had made their name such a disgraceful
                  notoriety.
               The name of Lloyd Rewardin was taken on many a lip, that day; but it was spoken
                  with a sigh, and often with a curse; and children were warned, and parents thought
                  with trembling, when that name was syllabled.
               It became, after those first days of his return, a wonder with many, as to how
                  long the solemn impressions made by death would remain with binding force on the
                  mind of the prodigal: few expressed faith in even the reality of his grief—few
                  would have trusted him, had he pledged his word to lead henceforth a reputable
                  life—few gave him credence when, Sabbath after Sabbath, he went, with thoughtful
                  look and sad, to the house of God; and they who did give him credence were
                     only women. Men, for the most part, had small faith in the outward
                  show of good, in one whose ways had been evil continually. The humility and
                  evident self-distrust, with which he endeavored to make acquaintance among his
                  father's old friends, would not assure them—the forbearance with which he heard,
                  more than once, the personal, taunting expressions of children, which told him
                  plainly what they had heard at home, could not convince. Cases too frequent were
                  in the minds of those unbelievers of the transitory nature of sudden conversions.
                  Excitement, they said, had produced a reaction—then, that shame took the place of
                  excitement, when that had died away; and, when he ceased to be
                     ashamed of his past, what would happen then?
               It might have been excitement—it might have been chance, that tended, in a
                     degree, to produce the good result which really was produced, by the
                  death of the father, in the mind and life of the son; but excitement and shame
                  were not all.
               That might have continued influencing him, till the effects following his sudden
                  abandonment of a dissolute life were over and done away; but what was it that made
                  him persevere in soberness, in morality, in Sabbath-keeping, in industry, in
                     quiet, during the months that followed? What was it that induced
                  him to go on restoring the old place, which had, in a few years, become a "Castle
                  Rackrent," to its original beauty? Wherefore did he remain there, lonely and
                  solitary, when, every day, every hour, all about him must have recalled scenes,
                  events, words, things, which, if he had any feeling or any consciousness, must
                  have been remembered with agony?
               Among women, I said, a gentler judgment was passed on the wanderer. Even among
                  those who were aware of the whole of his career, there was charity
                  for him; and they had kind words and kinder hopes for him, when men passed hard
                  sentence on his past, and even on his present. They rejoiced in the seeming
                  repentance, if it was, indeed, no more; for they thought, perhaps the paths of
                  peace may lure him yet—he may be led, if he will not of his own will
                     go, in the ways of duty. They gave all credence when
                  his knees were bowed in prayer—they felt, who had seen tears falling from his
                  eyes, that all must be well with him, if he could weep. Especially in
                  one young heart, were such kind thoughts, and such good hopes, entertained for
                  him. Yes, and in one old heart, too! May old Judge Paul and little
                  Elsie have a rich reward, one day, for their staunch faith in the intrinsic
                  ability for good in human nature!
               Judge Paul and Gaspar Rewardin had been acquaintance, neighbors, friends, for the
                  last thirty years; and his father's best-beloved and most honored companion, had
                  been associated with many recollections of the earliest years of Lloyd's life. It
                  was for this reason that the young man at first shrunk, with nervous dread and
                  apprehension, from making any advances towards resuming acquaintance with a man of
                  such high probity, and almost stern morality, as Judge Paul was known to be: it
                  was for this reason, too, that, as time passed on, the young man and the old
                  became the best of friends. This happy state of  affairs, for Rewardin, was brought about by an
                  accident: it was maintained with more than common vigilance by both parties.
               Elsie Paul was the youngest of a large family of sons and daughters, which had
                  grown up in excellence and beauty, under the fostering care and constant guidance
                  of Mr. and Mrs. Judge. She was a pretty child, and intelligent—petted, but not
                  quite spoiled; yet a lighter rein had certainly been held over her than over any
                  of the rest of the little mortals who had been trained at that fireside. Lovely
                  and dear she was to all who had to do with her; and it was her parents' constant
                  prayer that she might live to be a blessing to herself and to others in the world.
                  It was a noble prayer, and, every day that it was offered, it seemed as though an
                  answer, in token of the existence of a prayer-hearing God, were given—her life was
                  so bright, and she was such a joy to all. But none who made that prayer had dared
                  to hope for such a full, such a glorious answer, as was given at last; for,
                  through the darling little Elsie, a soul was brought out from the torments!
               That, notwithstanding all his confessions, something was yet kept back, which
                  weighed heavily on his mind, Judge Paul had no manner of doubt, when he saw Lloyd
                  Rewardin resolutely persevering in performance of every duty, without finding
                  peace. That he did not find peace, was evident enough in the very
                  expression of the young man's face—in the nervous zeal with which he kept himself
                  constantly occupied in conversation with others, or in planning work for those in
                  his employ, or in busying himself with active labor. He was doing all he could,
                  the Judge well knew, to preserve himself from some thought, some recollection,
                  that was not merely grievous. As months went on, the discerning eyes
                  of the old man saw that the trouble, whatever it was, did not remove itself, with
                  the strenuous exertions Lloyd was continually making to live up to the full
                  stature of manhood: he was struggling with some conviction all the while, which
                  would press itself upon his mind—he was laboring under some delusion—or else was
                  fighting still against God, through ignorance or willfully—in either case, to his
                  misery. Certainly to his own misery, or he could not have grown so pale and
                  haggard, so care-worn and desponding: certainly to his own misery, for steadfast
                  pursuance of duties is known, universally, to be productive of something besides
                  nervous melancholy and habitual unrest.
               One night, Judge Paul and Lloyd Rewardin were conversing in the study, where the
                  old man often pursued his professional avocations. Little Elsie was with them;
                  for, when her father was at home, his room was her chosen play-house. She had been
                  remarkably quiet while the two men were conversing—had remained there, indeed, a
                  whole hour without speaking; and yet she was not asleep.
               Early in the evening the judge was called from the room; he had no sooner closed
                  the door after him, than the child arose, and, carrying her little chair with her,
                  went and sat down close beside the guest, and then she said, "You've been talking
                  about that funny dream-book; don't you think, Mr. Rewardin, I saw a
                  ghost once!"
               "Possible!" was the answer, spoken as earnestly as Elsie could wish of a true
                  believer. "Do tell me how it looked, and what it said to you."
               "Oh, it didn't say anything—but what a look it had! it was just as
                  white as snow—and it moved about just as if it had wings. Wouldn't it be funny,
                  Mr. Rewardin, if we could move about so easy, just like spirits? oh,
                  I wish we could!"
               "Well, but what did you tell the ghost?" was asked with an interest far from
                  assumed.
               "I saw it after I was in bed—it was just as dark! in the room—and I was all alone;
                  I shut up my eyes when I saw it, but it would keep moving about, and I couldn't
                  help thinking, what if we don't see with our eyes after all?"
               "Did the ghost frighten you?"
               "No—it didn't frighten me—but it made me feel queer; I held my breath, and then I
                  thought I should have choked—only bad people see ghosts, nurse says; but I
                     should like to see that ghost again—I'd speak to it. Do you
                  believe in houses being haunted, and in people being haunted, Mr.
                  Rewardin?"
               "Tell me first, do you?"
               "Yes."
               "So do I."
               
               "Oh, isn't that nice!—then if we both believe in it, we can be
                  haunted—but I should never sleep a wink in such a house, it would be such sport to
                  watch the ghosts."
               "Why, Elsie, I never heard of a child before that wasn't afraid of ghosts—you talk
                  of them as if they were playthings. Pray what would you do if you were
                  haunted?"
               "If the thing troubled me, I'd get rid of it."
               "How."
               "Oh—I don't know, but I would get rid of it—I'd say my prayers! and
                  if it was a bad spirit that haunted me, it would go off; if it was good, it could
                  not hurt, when I prayed."
               "But Elsie, what if it tormented you, though you prayed all the time?"
               "Then I would look around me, and see if something were not to be
                     driven away—if something were not to be done, in
                  order that I might drive the evil away!" exclaimed the earnest voice
                  of the Judge, who had listened with all his heart to the eager questioning, the
                  ardent zeal, with which his young friend was seeking to learn of the child.
               Lloyd stood up when he heard that answer, but his eyes did not shrink before the
                  searching glance of the Judge; he went close up to him and said, in a low voice,
                     "I have been a Haunted Man since I stood by that death-bed, Judge
                  Paul. My father's spirit has been constantly with me, and about me, but it has
                  been no kind, forgiving companion! It has tormented me—it has repeated my father's
                  dying words in my hearing, till the only wonder is, I am not a madman. I have
                  fought that spirit—I will struggle with it in another way now. I am going at last
                  to make reparation. Will you countenance me in seeking a bridal to which a sense
                  of right, but no impulse of love, leads me? Will you give me your support, in
                  approving a course which can bring peace, and peace alone, to two miserable
                  mortals?"
               "Yes—if duty leads you that way, go; and do not for a moment
                  delay."
               If repentance such as is productive of faith, and hope, and charity, in their
                  noble significations, has aught to do with making ing the happiness of mortals,
                  then the future of an erring man and woman, who have taken the place of old Gaspar
                  Rewardin and his wife in the world, will not be wholly miserable;—if mutual
                  forbearance, self-control, and a hearty desire to find virtues, where each found
                  passions once, have aught to do with the real life of love, then that
                  erring man and woman, inasmuch as they have pitied, will are long love, even as
                  "the angels apprehend." But if they be not happy, if they be not
                  loving here, they will at least hereafter be found worthy of both
                  happiness and love.
               They may have found their cross of suffering in one another, but Lloyd at least is
                  a haunted man no longer, and the wife who bears his name, is now
                  certainly, nothing less than an honor to that name, and to the name of woman!
            
            
               
               GROUND BIRDS AND EAGLES.
               (INSCRIBED TO OUR YOUNGEST.)
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "God be with thee, my beloved! God be with thee!
                           Else alone thou goest forth
                           Thy face unto the North,
                           Moor and pleasance, all around thee and beneath thee
                           Looking equal in one snow!"
                        
                     
                     —MISS BARRETT.
                  
               
               HOW pleasant is the field that stretches over a hill-side, (in a village not a
                  thousand miles either to the west or east of this,) where the blue and fragrant
                  wild flowers blossomed once! Blossomed once! oh, desecrating hand of utility! the
                  field is ploughed up now, and where the merry little children wandered, gathering
                  favors at the generous hand of spring, in harvest-time the reapers may be seen,
                  gathering in the heavy sheaves of "bearded grain."
               My dearest, how few of the haunts our childhood loved are there that have not
                  undergone changes most woful to look upon! The time-honored Arsenal hill—it looks
                  less of a mountain than it did of yore—the pleasant grove, the healthful spring of
                  fragrant sulphur—to all intents they are gone. True, the hill
                  remains, in reality, in all its legitimate proportions— but the grove of forest
                  trees is thinned by the hand of man—the pole-swing has disappeared—and the spring!
                  that too is broken —dried up. The old thorn-tree, near by, so often subject to my
                  visitations in the autumn-time, when I was accompanied always by one, my dearest
                  friend in childhood, that too is dead, and she, alas! has also departed from the
                  earth! The sod which, for centuries had remained unbroken, even that has
                  disappeared, and—and—they have planted potatoes there! Would it not be surprising
                  if the disease failed to manifest itself in the fruits perfected in a soil, which
                     should have remained consecrate for ever to the sports of little
                  children?
               Alack, my friend, and the brook! It would be shameful neglect in me could I forget
                  to make one moan over its decrepit old age. You remember how through the loveliest
                  of valleys, of yore, it took its winding way—how every returning spring beheld it
                  in full and mad career, intent on fertilizing all the neighboring fields with its
                  superabundant waters. Now, during the greater part of the year, it
                  concentrates its languid force in two or three poor, forlorn, stagnant pools, in
                  which neither the eye of man or beast can take delight!
               But, hold! my vagabond thoughts are strangely wandering from the
                     field of contemplation I had chosen to occupy myself with to-day.
                  Let us believe, you and I, (aged and worn-out veterans in the world's service, as
                  we are, you know,) that we are young again! We will fancy that we are children
                  once more, and so stand as playmates with these little ones now on the green bank
                  which overlooks so complacently the lovely lake and the graceful hills beyond. We
                  will gather, ah, were it not only in imagination! the star-shaped blue flowers,
                  and the geranium red; we will come up close behind the group of young creatures
                  gazing so intently into the depths of yonder bush, and harken! what is it they are
                  discussing so earnestly?
               "Hush, Allan, don't talk so loud; you'll frighten the little birds!"
               "Poh! they're only ground birds: what's the use of you girls making such a fuss?
                  if they were eagles—"
               And the boy who was holding the bush open for the accommodation of the curious
                  little gazers, let the branches go—they fell together again, and he turned away
                  again in half scorn of his companions, one of whom knelt down in awed and
                  breathless delight, watching silently the birdlings who lay so helpless in their
                  infancy there, in the beautiful shade.
               One by one the little folks, who had gratified their idle curiosity, (which, when
                  the nest was first discovered, raged to an alarming extent,) turned away, resuming
                  their search of wild  flowers, until,
                  at last, Amy Nelson was left quite alone. Soon the parent bird came back; she had
                  been gathering food for her young ones, and the little girl moved cautiously away,
                  but not beyond seeing distance, and then sat down to watch the movements of the
                  feathered family.
               And, as she waited there and watched, other thoughts, which sprung up from
                  observance of the mutual affection of the mother and her brood, came into Amy's
                  mind; they spread a sadness over her young face, and filled her eyes with
                  tears—for she was an orphan girl—a child gifted with no promising beauty or
                  brilliant talents, such as would make her protectors proud of her, and her heart
                  wanted confidence to expand and to clasp in a warm embrace those whose kindness
                  chilled—whose counsel warped the unfoldings of her spirit.
               "Here Amy, I've brought you some flowers, with the rain drops of last night still
                  on them, to pay for disturbing the birds," said Allan Ross, suddenly interrupting
                  her sad meditation, as he approached with deliberate measured step, which
                  betokened the pride and conceit of the boy, and flung himself upon the grass
                  beside her.
               "But what made you say 'if they were only eagles,' Allan? Did you ever see an
                  eagle? they are great, strong birds, that don't want us to love them. The ground
                  birds are a great deal prettier, I should think."
               "I never saw an eagle," answered the lad, "only in pictures. I know they can fly
                  up higher than any bird, and they can look right in the face of the sun, too."
               "But then they don't seem so near the people. You can't see them so well, and they
                  don't sing as sweetly as these birds. They have great big wings, and they scream
                  and shriek, so I've read."
               "Well, well, you may love the ground birds, Amy, it's your nature to, I suppose;
                  but I think you don't see how much greater eagles are—you can't
                  reason of things."
               "Don't speak so, Allan. It sounds as though you were proud, and think you know
                  everything. Greatest isn't always best, I'm sure; and you can't say eagles are any
                  better than these sweet little creatures."
               "Why isn't greatest best? If a man is a great man, and people say he is, I should
                  think that was better than for him to be an old drudge like Enos Brooks. You
                  wouldn't call him very great, would you, though he's
                     good enough?"
               "It depends—"
               "No, it don't depend on anything. I know very well what you'll say, just what
                  father has a hundred times, that it's better to be what people call a good man
                  than to be a great man."
               "But a good man is a great man, Allan, and great men ar'nt always
                  good, you know that well enough."
               The boy laughed in reply, and held up his head, saying Amy would know more about
                  such things some day, and so the young philosophers set out on their return
                  home.
               Allan Ross was the son of a man whose worldly goods were by no means superlatively
                  abundant—the fortune which the future held in store for the boy must be won by his
                  own exertions, and a brilliant one he was already determined it should be.
               The children who were his companions on this afternoon, of his introduction to the
                  reader, were all poor—the scholars of a free school; they had come out to enjoy a
                  holiday in the woods and fields, and Allan had come with them, because he was at a
                  loss to know what to do with himself during the long, dreamy hours of the day—and
                  secondly, he knew that Amy Nelson would be there, and for some reason a sort of
                  magnet seemed to have attached itself to her footsteps which had the power to draw
                  him on.
               For certainly there was nothing in the mere gathering of flowers that could
                  satisfy him—neither was there elsewhere any thing that seemed capacitated to
                  satisfy him. "If they were eagles," were words expressive of a longing which had a
                  deeper source than any who heard them, suspected; they jarred unpleasantly on the
                  mind of Amy Nelson, but she was not yet learned in the lore of character, and
                  could not therefore tell why Allan never seemed to take pleasure in anything that
                  was merely beautiful, simple and pure.
               But that exclamation was the burden of his cry from childhood. "If I were rich—if
                  I were great—if I could only be honored
                  ored in the world!" It was this foolish ambitious aspiring which made his youth
                  anxious and unhappy—his after years slavish; which made him despise "the day of
                  small things;" which induced him to look with envy on all whom fortune had placed
                  in better or more easy circumstances than himself.
               It was this spirit which, in later years, tempted him to rebel against the counsel
                  of his wise father, who, perceiving what was in the son, and cherishing a strong
                  desire for his happiness, strove to turn the bent of his aspiration, endeavoring
                  to place in more alluring light the life of calm enjoyment and healthful labor,
                  which in his sight was far preferable to a more conspicuous, but (as
                  too often it proves) more miserable and troublous station in the world.
               "It is not to any little, or humble, or inferior position of greatness to which I
                  aspire," was the invariable reply. "I scorn the mediocre eminence which the great
                  mass may with a little effort reach. And father, did I not feel quite assured that
                  all I hope for I shall accomplish, I would at once obey you—or— make way with
                  myself."
               And an energetic earnestness of voice and look always accompanied such answer,
                  which convinced the father that it was vain to argue with a will so headstrong and
                  obstinate. Proud he was, we will not deny, of the great personal beauty and manly
                  figure of his son—proud he was of the boy's talents also, but the old man was one
                  of that small class of people who, holding that the lives of those who are bent
                  upon attaining and holding power, lose in happiness, and contentment, and peace,
                  what they gain in a so-called greatness, are content to remain unknown on the
                  great stage of the world's action—to exert personal influence in the limited
                  sphere they are born in—one of those few intrinsically wise men, who,
                  looking on the show of society as merely a vain show, find their life-happiness in
                  fulfilling the duties devolving on them with unshrinking fidelity— honest,
                  forgiving, benevolent toward humanity, and faithfully obedient and loving toward
                  God.
               To such a man, the station, for which the son evidently longed, the power, to
                  attain which, his thoughts, even in boyhood aimed, was a sorrowful end of foolish
                  ambition. To him the show of paint, and the glitter of tinsel, seemed unworthy
                  objects for which to strive; and rather than Allan should in such an
                  arena be esteemed a great man, he had much preferred that a private life should
                  bear witness to his being irreproachably good and honest.
               But the youth had a will, which, as he approached manhood, would not endure to be
                  shackled. Scorning all rule himself, he aspired to rule
                  others—scoffing at all attempts which others, wiser and older than himself, made
                  to guide him, he would, had it been possible, have taken into his own hands the
                  government of the universe!
               And it was thus confident of success, but little skilled in the so difficult
                  science of self-government, that Allan Ross went into the world. His school
                  education was in a most unfinished state, but his intellect was brilliant, and if
                  he never exhibited patience in listening to the teachings of moral suasion, he had
                  proved himself to be a patient student of human nature, for the not-easily
                  deciphered pages of the minds of men had been attentively conned by him; therefore
                  he went into the world with a stock of such knowledge, unusual in one
                  so young.
               Little Amy Nelson was, as has before been stated, an orphan girl. Very early in
                  life she had been entrusted by a dying mother to the care of a distant relative,
                  who had signified his desire to receive the helpless child into his own family. It
                  so happened that this relative was a "well-to-do-in-the-world" sort of man, and
                  his wife had a mind and heart which were evidently cast in the same mould with his
                  own. But though they were regarded by their poorer neighbors as prosperous people,
                  they were remarkably poor in spirit. Having on both sides, previous and subsequent
                  to their marriage, devoted themselves to the accumulation of riches, they had
                  finally, late in life, emerged from their labors, shorn of all wealth of intellect
                  or heart, essentially vulgar people, destitute of much principle, filled with the
                  low ambition to shine brighter stars than their neighbors in the social
                  firmament.
               In her earliest years, Amy diligently shared in the labors of her friends, and was
                  brought up in the belief that there was a superhuman value in gold and silver. But
                  though educated in  this school, it
                  does not follow that Amy became a convert to such absurd doctrines, though the
                  escape from imbibing them might seem really little less than miraculous.
               An affectionate, generous-hearted girl she grew, cherishing a love for all the
                  grand and beautiful in nature, and reverencing with a depth of religious
                  earnestness, her protectors had not been able to comprehend, the Creator of all
                  the earth.
               When she first sought her new home, Amy was a sincere and confiding child, and
                  though the education she had received tended to make her a reserved and seemingly
                  passionate woman, it had never succeeded in quite chilling the pure and ardent
                  love her soul cherished for all things pure and beautiful. The ground-birds and
                  the humblest field-flowers, spoke to her a language that her soul had no
                  difficulty in comprehending; and they were treasured friends, ever welcomed with
                  smiles of rejoicing, whose departure and absence were mourned over with a sorrow
                  which was yet fraught with hope.
               With all her affection for simple, truthful things, was it not strange that when
                  years had transformed Amy Nelson into a beautiful woman, she should cherish for a
                  youth of so complex a nature as Allan Ross, a love deep and strong as life itself!
                  Through all their childhood they were friends, and the strong minds of each in
                  maturer years were sensible of a mutual attraction. The one was all eagerness to
                  teach—to arouse—to inspire with ambitious desire; the other cherished an abiding
                  hope to purify, and to truly exalt. They were friends the sincerest, ay, more than
                  that; but Amy had sorrowed many a time over the fiery impetuosity of the wrongly
                  ambitious youth; and he had laughed, and too often in no pretence of
                  scorn, at the pleadings and the simplicity of the gentle-hearted girl.
               
               Allan Ross was called one of the most popular young men of his county—a "rising
                  man," one destined to make a figure among his compeers.
               But Amy Nelson was almost entirely unknown beyond the limits of her native
                  village—known little there among the many, save as a very upright, proper, candid,
                  and over-scrupulous girl, whose presence was most frequently considered a check on
                  the 
                     sprits
                     spirits
                   of revellers and the tongues of busy-bodies. But there was never a heart
                  capable of stronger and more enduring affection than was hers; and it was with a
                  love surpassing the love of ordinary woman, that she regarded Allan. Not because
                  he was esteemed by men a genius, did she treasure a thought of him in her heart of
                  hearts—not because he had written a book which aroused the attention, the
                  amazement, and the admiration of aged statesmen—not because he was sacrificing
                  time, health, talents, and hope, to striving with his fellows for honor in the
                  political arena! For none of these. She saw deeper into his soul than
                  even he had ever penetrated. Saw how he was wronging, and had wronged, every day
                  of his life, the spirit within him that was nobler than ambition—the spirit,
                  which, from its height in the realms of purity, looked with scorn on the poor
                  reward, popular applause—the mighty, but chained spirit, human love.
               It had been a joy unutterable to her—might she have loosened the bonds of the
                  captive—might she have helped dethrone the power which had mastered heart and
                  intellect. She saw what was by himself unheeded, that at every end attained, every
                  point reached, there was dissatisfaction felt, and a longing for nobler
                  achievement. She saw to the end of life it would continue so to be, if it were not
                  in the power as well as the will of some hand to restrain him from
                  striving for greatness in the world. Not because she saw in such striving anything
                  degrading and sinful in itself; but Amy felt that for one constituted as was Allan
                  Ross, it were infinitely better that he should never learn or attempt learning the
                  game of politics.
               As well as he knew how to love anything, beside his grand idea of personal
                  elevation and advancement, Allan loved Amy Nelson. And, as time passed on, this
                  preferment increased, and the young man did not want the resolution to reveal this
                  state of things to her—and I should make a very willful misstatement if I said
                  that Amy heard his declaration unmoved. Nay, reader, it was not so. For even when
                  he whispered to her his proud prophetic visions of the future, she was a woman,
                  and, for a moment, dazzled by the brilliant prospect unfolding before  him, she gave herself up to the delight
                  of indulging with him in his dreams; when he vowed to her his life-long love, she
                  was a loving woman, and would fain believe that love was, indeed, the passion
                  paramount in his breast.
               But a day came when the glittering pageant of thought, and fancy, and hope, stood
                  out in the broad sunlight, and she saw it all in its true proportions. Saw it with
                  sorrow, and with eyes that were blinded with tears. Reason and conscience, and a
                  sense of duty toward herself and toward him, aroused her, and half-confident,
                  half-fearful of the effect of her own power, she resolved to plead with Allan that
                  he would turn from the bewildering, distracting path he had entered.
               Such hour of pleading was delayed. Filled with sorrowful foreboding, whenever the
                  subject crossed her mind, she resolved again and again and again on speaking,
                  until events, at last, transpired, which nerved her to her purpose, for they
                  showed that if it were possible for her ever to speak effectually, that time was
                  the present. And prayerfully the young girl prepared for a struggle, in which she
                  knew his defeat would ensure his peace on earth, while it would remove,
                  effectually, what was rearing itself in her mind, a strong barrier against their
                  union.
               Flushed with a victory, to obtain which Amy felt, from all her past acquaintance
                  with her lover, means which had in another case won his unqualified disapproval,
                  had been used, Allan appeared, one night, before her, and when Amy heard him then
                  boldly upholding a principle, which she knew to be morally wrong, she could no
                  longer maintain silence.
               "You take a strangely confined view of the case, Allan," she said, mildly, "and
                  with a professed statesman, or rather with one who is educating himself for such a
                  position, should that be allowed? You have opposed a measure, I am convinced, from
                  all I know of you, solely because it has become a party question, which, I am very
                  sure, were you to decide upon at another time, independent of party, you would
                  uphold with all your might. Tell me, my friend, truly, have you regarded this
                  question solely, or at all, in a moral light?"
               "Your queries are quite too refined, too absurd, Amy! Is a man to be a political
                  weathercock? You, of all others, are wont to be an upholder of consistency."
               "And it is consistency which I uphold now. You are a moral man,
                  Allan, and as such I want you to say why you have aided in the defeat
                  of a measure which every christian, every freeman, should advocate. You make too
                  much of politics, dear friend. You elevate them above their true position. You
                  make what is only a means, an end-triumph. Is it not that which you and all your
                  party men seek chiefly for? Are you not bending your time and your energies, for
                  the most part, to the attainment of trivial things? Is there happiness ever to be
                  found in such constant excitement as your days and nights are sacrificed to? I
                  fear you are deceiving yourself—that you will find you have, when you reach the
                  goal you seek!"
               "Nay, it is you who talk foolishly, who are deceived! What science is there nobler
                  than that of national government? One cannot be expected to give up more than his
                  whole time and himself for the good of the people, and a man should certainly not
                  be called selfish, who is willing to so devote himself."
               "If it is really for their good, my friend, that he so devotes
                  himself. If there be not behind that apparent cause, another far-reaching,
                  undreamed of by the world, and perhaps scarcely defined to his own mind, a motive
                  that is selfish in its nature, and in its every aspiration. In that case he
                     is devoting himself—but whether for their interest or not, is
                  quite another thing."
               "You reason like a woman, Amy. Are there to be no statesmen? Is there to be no
                  machinery of government? Trust me, one who has made politics his study, should be
                  able to judge of the right and the wrong in such things. How would a nation's
                  affairs be carried on if there were not some to earnestly interest themselves
                  about them?"
               "Allan, there never will be found wanting in a nation, calm, and pure, and
                  resolute souls, who, by education, by nature, and by habitual
                  self-government, are prepared for any emergency—who stand on a
                  foundation of principle, and reason, that is not to be shaken by the bolts of
                  faction, who can battle for the right unflinchingly—who can stand unmoved by the
                  jeers and the scoffing of partizans and demagogues. You seem never to have  calculated the strength of prejudices
                  with the mass of mind—are you quite certain that they have never influenced
                  yourself? At the early age, when you became a voter, do you think that it was with
                  an entirely calm, unprejudiced mind you had decided upon all the manifold
                  questions involved under the name, and head of one party?"
               "Of the mass of men to whom your remarks seem to apply as well as to me, I am
                  unable to judge. But, as for myself, I fancy that my eyes were open even at the
                  age you speak of, that I was neither the idiot or the knave you seem to think one
                  must be who votes on attaining his majority. I assure you, Amy, I had
                     studied the principles and tenets of the opposing parties, before I
                  advocated either."
               "I have only one thing more to say, Allan," said Amy, in a conciliatory tone of
                  voice. "I know that I run the risk of displeasing you still further than I already
                  have—but say it I must, for my conscience reproaches me that I have kept silence
                  so long. Every day you live, you are certainly making a still further and more
                  desperate risk of your happiness, and I dare to warn you, for in this I can see
                  clearer than it is possible for you—the public life on which you have embarked,
                  will shipwreck your peace in this life, if you continue to venture on its
                  treacherous waters. I implore you, Allan, to turn now, before it is too late, to
                  quieter paths; they will, in the end, prove far more satisfying. For your own sake
                  chiefly, but for my sake, also, I entreat you to risk no more time and talent in
                  this hazardous game. I do not present this wish to have you regard it merely as a
                  vain woman's whim, that I may prove to myself I hold some little power or
                  influence over you. Heaven knows, it is not that which has induced me to speak. Do
                  not answer me now—wait and think on what I urge. You will think,
                  Allan, will you not? Nay, you shall not tell me now!"
               He arose to depart, and, taking Amy's hand, gravely said: "You have proposed
                  questions to me which I shall, indeed, need to consider. And if, Amy, when I have
                  so considered—if my sense of duty, and honor, and good faith, lead me
                  in a path different from that which you have pointed out?"
               "Oh, it will not—it cannot. Pray for light, Allan, on this subject—human reason
                  and wisdom are so prone to lead us in paths our inclinations point out!"
               "But if, when I have thought and prayed, if the light shall not dawn
                  and instruct me as you require, what then?"
               "Go, Allan," she said, rising and withdrawing her hand, "I fear for you—your words
                  tell me that you will seek the light with eyes blinded—but I pray you may not, it
                  is all that I can do. What I have said, has caused me more sorrow than it can
                  possibly occasion you. God teach you the right."
               A week, after this conversation, passed, and the young politician, in that time,
                  had not presented himself before Amy. But the unwonted absenting of himself was
                  not occasioned by long halting between two opinions. Allan had chosen, and,
                  apparently, irrevocably, the god whom he would serve.
               At the end of this time, Amy received from him a note, hurriedly written, which
                  read thus:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "You will have seen, ere this, dear friend, that the choice which you
                              proposed to me in our last interview, has been somewhat peremptorily
                              decided for me by my colleagues, with never a 'by your leave.' They
                              have nominated me as a 'representative in Congress,' and it was
                              impossible, for reasons which I may not explain just now, for me to
                              decline the honor they intend me—and to be nominated by such men as
                              constitute the majority of voters in this district, is an
                              honor. You will assuredly admit that. It is a time when the aid of
                              every man of strength in our party is particularly needed, and it
                              would be base and dishonorable in me to retreat from public life at a
                              time when the cause of some of the dearest rights of men, needs to be
                              strenuously advocated by every one who can lift his voice in behalf of
                              human rights. Do you blame me for the part I have chosen? Knowing your
                              wishes on this point, it had been a source of high gratification to
                              have resigned my will to yours; but, I appeal to you, was it possible?
                              I find myself in a position where I cannot retreat—cannot even promise
                              that the future shall see me ever freed from what you would call the
                              toils of party or politics. For the present, my choice has, as I have
                              stated, been made for me, however it may effect those who are  very dear to my heart, who
                              are held in memory, affection and reverence, next to my
                              country, I must abide by it. You have spoken of the inevitable ruin of
                              my happiness by so doing. It was a selfish argument, Amy. Shall a man
                              who is a man be willing to retain happiness
                              at the expense of a nation's interests, which even one single, earnest
                              voice, may unspeakably promote?
                           
                              ALLAN."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The reply of Amy Nelson was not written in the first moment of grievous
                  disappointment, when she saw by what plausible arguments Allan had learned to
                  deceive himself. Deliberately as his choice was made, her answer was given.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MY DEAR FRIEND,—I have received your letter, and have delayed
                              answering it till the conflict in my heart was over. It is past now,
                              and in the quiet of this night, when the seal is set for ever to a
                              prospect once unspeakably bright, I reply. You have made your choice,
                              for despite your words it is you who have decided on your
                              destiny, and not the men who have nominated you for
                              Congress. You are willing to abide by that choice. God help me to echo
                              your words as sincerely as they were spoken in the first instance.
                              But, Allan, I will not shrink to say to you in this last moment, when
                              the right to so speak is passing away, you have always, you are still
                              deceiving yourself. But that you do not mean to deceive
                                 others, I as firmly believe—the shrine to which I have
                              elevated you in my mind is far too lofty to admit of such a thought
                              respecting you. But—do you remember that day in our childhood when we
                              found the ground birds' nest, how your sympathies were all avowed in
                              favor of the soaring eagle? Do you remember, dear friend, the
                              admiration then so loudly expressed for the aspiring bird who could
                              look right in the face of the sun. And do you think, Allan, that the
                              sympathies and thoughts of childhood have no share in the formation of
                              the man's character? I foresee in the future no end to your political
                              ambition. Heaven grant that it may be only the good of
                              our dear country you seek—that if such good may call you to the
                              performance of deeds which shall subject you for a season even to
                              apparent disgrace, you may be able to endure it. May a happy and an
                              honorable career be in store for you.
                           "Fare you well, Allan. Cold and impassable as I have seemed to the
                              most of those who know me, you will be generous enough to attribute my
                              motives, in wishing the separation that exists henceforth
                              between us, to another cause than want of affection for you. I feel
                              that I should not always be able to resist the
                              temptations which ever assail the wife of a successful politician; and
                              as I would avoid contamination, would I shrink from the stains of
                              party strife. God forgive me if I have wronged either you or myself in
                              making this decision! It has been done with the full, the almost
                              overwhelming knowledge of all I sacrifice in giving up your love. I
                              shall watch with an interest which you, I feel, can conceive but may
                              never reciprocate, the future steps of your life. If I have been
                              deceived, if happiness is to be found in such paths, may
                              you be unspeakably happy and blessed. If I have been selfish in the
                              desire, so often expressed, that you would retire from public
                              life—political life—if it be true that the cause, as
                              advocated by you, is the true one, and may, if successful, conduce to
                              our country's welfare, prosperity and honor—if a voice within you, not
                              to be resisted, has urged you onward, forgive the words of
                              discouragement, so often spoken, and persevere, though the path may
                              lead to fiery trial, sorrow and death; because then there will be
                              within yourself found all that can support and cheer. Farewell, dear
                              Allan! may you never find cause to regret the choice you have made.
                              God bless and guard you—it shall be ever the prayer of
                           
                              "AMY NELSON."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               No persuasion or entreaty on the part of Allan—no arguments of interested and
                  disappointed relatives—no wondering surmises and curiosity-prompted hints of
                  neighbors, could induce the young girl to change the decree which had now gone
                  forth. Allan had chosen his path, and it was not obstinate determination to carry
                  out her own will which induced Amy to persevere in hers. She knew, for she had
                  long watched him with the jealous eyes of love, that he was fast merging into a
                      demagogue; and soaring on
                     such wings, though they might bear to the highest height of
                  political renown, was what she would not and could not bring herself to
                  countenance. Looking with a steadfast eye that was not to be deceived by the show
                  of appearances into the future, she saw how the carking cares of political life,
                  would, if persevered in, encroach further and with continually increasing power on
                  the peace and tranquillity of his heart, and in the end leave him a slave, who was
                  born a freeman.
               In the last interview Allan sought as a lover, he said, in reply to Amy's
                  words:
               "It is in vain that you bid me seek another wife who will aspire as ambitiously as
                  you assert that I do. I shall certainly never wed another woman. You, of course,
                  are free, but even should you marry, Amy, I never shall consider
                  myself released from the bonds with which love has bound my heart and soul to
                  yours. It is in vain that you urge this separation—it cannot endure; and I must
                  think that it is as sinful as it is unnatural. I know that it has occasioned you
                  much sorrow, but your conduct is still more unjust toward me than it is to
                  yourself."
               "I would not of all things believe," answered Amy, "that my welfare or happiness
                  in this world could ever be nothing to you. And I know that it will
                  never be possible for me to hear of, or to mark your career, with other feelings
                  than those of deepest interest. I shall rejoice to hear that you always remain
                  faithful to virtue, to your country, and to God. Any other possibility I will not
                  think of. But you err, Allan, in supposing that you can go through
                  life shorn of the devoted love and sympathy of woman, such as only a wife can
                  give. I would counsel you earnestly, to early seek one, whose tastes are congenial
                  with your own; a woman who can gaze with an eye clear as your own on the dazzling
                  future which spreads before your imagination, and which you will surely
                  accomplish. Depend upon it, such a companion is what you will need. I do not mean
                  that it is my hope you will seek one whose ambition it is to occupy prominent
                  station, but a woman who can see, and bear, with the keenness, and endurance, of
                  those who are accustomed to scan the political horizon; one whose morals will not
                  succumb to the narrow desire of outshining others—who will be a comforter, an
                  adviser, a consoler on your life journey. You will feel the need of such a
                  companion every step you advance on your journey. Will you not promise me to seek
                  such an one?"
               "I have sought her with a momentary prospect of success, but you know
                  how delusive that hope has proved to me. And shall I seek further when you, Amy,
                  of all others might be the friend you have painted? I tell you, you are resisting
                  the call of duty so long as you have withdrawn your consent to be
                  mine. Can I not convince you that your fancy has aggravated the perils and misery,
                  you attach to the career of the politician?"
               "It is not possible that I have thought so much and so earnestly on this subject
                  in vain—to be deceived at last. If I am deceived, let the burden of
                  folly rest with me."
               "Hear me, my friend!" he exclaimed, interrupting her, "will you not at least give
                  me a fair trial? Let all things remain as they now are between us, if you
                     will have it so. In the course of a few years we shall both be
                  wiser than we are now. We will be able to look on life with a zealous interest,
                  which will savor more strongly of knowledge, and if, at the end of such time, I
                  prove myself unworthy of your hand, then dearest, without a murmur I will resign
                  it."
               "For the steadfastness of my own affection, Allan," was the earnest, honest reply,
                  "I am not afraid to answer. You do not need a voucher to it other than your own
                  heart will give. But for yourself—duty may call you to other portions of the
                  world, and you will see to what an humble little ground bird you have chained down
                  your eagle heart and wings. And if you shall ever, under such circumstances,
                  repent the words uttered to-day, think of them as though they had never been said,
                  as though they had never passed the secret chambers of your mind. Free as the
                  eagle I would have you go forth to work out what you have determined to consider
                  your destiny—and if your nest shall at last be built on the
                  mountain's summit, I will hope you may not mourn then for a sheltered home  in the humble valley—for myself, I
                  shall only then charge you to cherish a friendly remembrance of
                  me."
               "More than a friend, Amy—more than a friend for ever. The exigency
                  you suggest, I declare to you is impossible. Depend upon it, I shall come to claim
                  you with a proud heart and lofty look some day, and you will not refuse me then,
                  Amy. I can read your fortune clearly. Do you see those twin stars for ever
                  treading through the heavens side by side? so inseparable are our souls. The
                  frosts of winter, the storms, and blasts, and tempests, shall not
                  divide them—neither can the enticements of summer beauty, or blind passion,
                  beguile one from the other. Farewell!"
               Truth, nothing but earnest truth, was in the breast of Allan Ross, when he uttered
                  these words—and hope, whose presence and power she would not to herself deny,
                  filled the heart of Amy, even when she had resolved to resign the love of the
                  young would-be Congressman.
               His party was successful—Allan was elected; and full of hope and exultant, cheered
                  on by the congratulations of his friends, he went from his native place to the
                  seat of national government, there to enter on the scene of his new labors.
               It is needless to follow him through the events of his public life, during the
                  term for which he held his office. The plaudits which his brilliant eloquence
                  gained him from his own party, added but fuel to the fires of ambition—while the
                  attacks upon his honor, his morals, and political honesty, made by the opposition,
                  instead of meeting from him with that calm contempt which such attacks deserved,
                  only goaded him, aroused him to new effort, and opened a fountain of bitterness
                  within his soul. And all unconsciously to the man, the great changes which
                  certainly took place in him were brought about. He knew not that he was becoming
                  cold-hearted, callous, and self-interested—that he was chiefly striving to build
                  up for himself, insensibly perhaps, a pedestal on which he might stand
                     alone. In his new and delightful consciousness of power, Allan
                  dreamed himself to be beyond the necessity of heeding the warnings of Amy Nelson;
                  he had quite forgotten them, or thought of them only as the foolish fears of
                  woman, worthy only to be told in the ears of children.
               During the first winter, however, a question was mooted whose consideration by
                  himself, proved the justice of the fears and arguments of "the lady of his love."
                  A point, whose advocacy his moral nature, and the sense of justice he entertained,
                  shrunk from—but! his party advocated it, and the great majority of his
                  constituents were in favor of it! How could he then evade it—how avoid doing as
                  others did—as it would be for his own interest to do? He could not and did not
                  evade it. Allan knew that the eyes of many would be directed toward him in this
                  emergency—and the young man was compelled to survey well and thoughtfully his
                  position.
               The contested point was one of absorbing interest to "all those in Congress
                  assembled;" and the people, whose well-being it so intimately concerned, dwelt
                  upon the theme in a manner which convinced the men in office that their power must
                  not be betrayed. At this time, when his mind was conflicting between a sense of
                  justice and a sense of self-interest, two letters reached Allan from people
                  residing in his district, which made the conflict in his mind for a moment sharp
                  and unpleasant, but then for ever decided it.
               One, from an influential, wealthy townsman, urged him by every consideration, in
                  which that of self-interest did not figure least or last, to support the measure
                  which would secure the good of the few, against the welfare of the many. Broad
                  hints, which would have disgusted a private individual, were thrown out of
                  brilliant prospects in the future of the young statesman, and the favor of the
                  great—the smiles of increased prosperity in after days.
               Now, bearing in mind the moral lessons Amy Nelson had taught him, and regarding
                  with contempt the covert bribe, as he did, it was with a will almost decided in
                  favor of the appeal first made, that Allan turned to the perusal of the other
                  epistle, which presented still more potent reasoning than the former, why the
                  opposite vote should be given in by him. This letter was admirably written, and it
                  did not appeal in vain to the principles of Allan Ross, though, in the intention's
                  fulfilment,  it did meet
                  with signal defeat. As well as the writer of the epistle, he knew to which side
                  duty would lead him, but the appealant was unknown to him—he gave no signature—he
                  merely sent his voice, urging the young statesman, by all those arguments an
                  honest man holds sacred, that the rights of the mass of the people, should, by the
                  people's chosen officers, be upheld and sustained.
               But to Allan the risk he should incur in complying with the wishes of his unknown
                  correspondent, seemed altogether too great. He could not endure the thought of
                  knowingly taking a mis-step which should end that career at once; therefore, when
                  the decisive time came, he voted with the majority, and betrayed the spirit of
                  moral integrity within him! It was indeed an important movement for him—it stamped
                  his career with success—the rich and the powerful applauded, and the majority of
                  humbler voters were orationed into the belief, that the promising, gifted youth,
                  deserved their support—that he was true to his professions—a friend of the people
                  and of the rights of man.
               
               Behold now our young adventurer, during the second winter spent in Washington,
                  bowing for a moment at another shrine—that of beauty, giving up his heart, and for
                  a time, his will, to a bright and talented Southern lady, whose plantations spread
                  far and wide, whose riches were almost beyond the estimation. And the "rising man"
                  was successful in that attempt also, for the genius and promise and personal
                  attractions of the Northerner were thought well worthy of the prize. Secure of
                  this, Allan thus wrote to Amy Nelson:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "It is as you predicted, my best friend! I have found
                              myself unable to bear the loneliness and the want of sympathy my
                              present way of life induces. The love of woman, a warm, true love,
                              that shall fling its arms about me in a never-ending embrace of
                              truthful purity, is what I cannot live without. There are
                              circumstances which forbid my cherishing for a moment the hope of a
                              release from political duties; and, knowing the inflexibility of your
                              will where a conceived duty is concerned, I have forborne appealing
                              again to your generous and confiding love, which I once hoped, would,
                              notwithstanding the pursuits, see still in the man no
                              cause for rejection. This conclusion which I have at last brought
                              myself to entertain, I feel the less difficulty in communicating to
                              you, when I remember that it was your suggestion which
                              first called to mind the freedom of my position—a suggestion without
                              which I should have never taken the step I am about to. It is not
                              without pain—I beg to assure you of this now, at this, the last time
                              when such a confession would be permitted by you—it is not without
                              much pain I bid adieu to you to-day. The words of farewell assume a
                              deeper significance than they have ever before, and I feel, in
                              speaking them now, that one of the brightest dreams a mortal ever
                              cherished, is departing—and it is you who have made a
                              dream of what might have proved a rejoicing reality. It is passed now,
                              and I can only add, my prayer is, that the satisfaction arising from
                              the performance of duty may never desert you. Peace be
                              within your heart for ever.
                           
                              ALLAN."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               And it was thus that Amy answered this last conclusive missive:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I have just received your letter, dear Allan, and it is with sincere
                              pleasure that I hasten to reply. With all my heart do I congratulate
                              you. The stirring times in the political world have, during the past
                              winter, served to convince me, more and more every day, that you have
                              indeed plunged into a vortex from which it will be scarcely possible
                              for you ever to extricate yourself. May she, whom you have chosen to
                              bear your fortune, (very gifted, and beautiful, and good, I have
                              fancied her,) may she through life prove a blessing to you, cheering,
                              if she may not guide, and lessening your self-imposed burden, inasmuch
                              as she may. The ground bird will watch the soarings of the eagle with
                              a never diminished affection and interest, and it will be her prayer,
                              breathed forth in the silent night and in the busy, toiling day, that
                              he may no more be blinded 'in the face of the sun!' God and conscience
                              be ever with you, to guide and bless.
                           
                              AMY."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
               
               I saw in a vision (perhaps—do you think it, my dearest?) two beings
                  moving through the quiet walks of life, loving and beloved.—Beings whom the world
                  had pronounced worthy to wear the crown of highest honor; eagles who might look
                  unfaltering and unshrinking on the strongest blaze of sunlight—who,
                  notwithstanding, shunned the broad paths, the marketplaces, and chief seats of the
                  synagogues.
               Age had fallen on them both, and peace had added her solemn, angelic
                  benediction—and love had flooded their hearts with genial light, and hallowed
                  them, and consecrated them to one another with a holy kiss. There were furrows on
                  the brow of one—his hair was gray—he was an old man who was done for ever with the
                  busy toil, the restless striving, and the mad endeavor of life.
               And the lady by his side, she also was "well stricken in years,"—but there were no
                  traces visible in her of the care which had entered deep into his heart, which had
                  furrowed brow and cheek with many and heavy lines. That she had lived humbly
                  before God, and justly and lovingly with all the world, was plainly to be gathered
                  from the calm, open, and generous expression of her face.
               Would you have guessed that they were Amy Nelson and Allan Ross? They were—for the
                  eagle had at last in a joyful and eager haste descended from his position in the
                  clouds, (won with untiring labor,) to seek a shelter in the lonely, humble ground
                  bird's nest!
               Honors had thickened upon Allan in his youth. That one sacrifice he made to
                  principle in his early manhood, had not been lost upon the world, which knows full
                  well how to repay such offerings made to the god of ambition—it was the immediate
                  cause of a great and a speedy increase of honor and dazzling notoriety. Allan went
                  abroad, a minister to one of the proudest courts of Europe, and maintaining there
                  with fidelity and ability the honor of his country, on a return home he was
                  rewarded with a higher office that was "in the gift of the free people."
               And was the bride he had chosen such as Amy Nelson in the loneliness of her home
                  prayed she might be? Not exactly. Allan had not found a perfect woman
                  in the Southern belle. As fully as he could have wished, the desire for
                  distinction, for honor, for place in the upper room, was developed in his wife—but
                  she was wanting in all that nobler self-respect, all that higher principle of
                  action which marked little Amy. She proved independent. Yes—in a way—not the best
                  way, however; for she was not so independent of the world, that she could live
                  without its approbation, its plaudits, its poor gifts. The ambition of the husband
                  found in the wife too fruitful soil; it sprung up and bore fruit a thousand fold!
                  It was now she who was never satisfied. Her quick thought spied out a multiplicity
                  of honors which it was possible for him to win, and the natural false pride of her
                  soul sought in him its gratification. And, alas, that I should write it! it was
                  through her instrumentality that Allan Ross suddenly dampened the high hopes some
                  of his friends had dared to form of him, by basely pandering to the men in power,
                  and becoming more perfectly the demagogue, which Amy had foreseen he might and
                  probably would prove.
               It was a dazzling height of glory to which finally the eagle soared, but he chose
                  the wrong path, and his wings became scorched in the high flight, and when he
                  stood in the purity of the sunlight, there were glaring imperfections too clearly
                  discernible in the "idol of the people," whose existence had never been suspected
                  before.
               While he was aiming at that greatness, that height of power, his beautiful
                  wife—died; leaving to him the guidance and the care of the young children Heaven
                  had given to their keeping. Often during the widowed years that followed,
                  wondering thoughts as to the fortune of Amy Nelson would cross his mind—but shame
                  and sorrow for the past prevented his seeking her home, in which he well knew she
                  was living still, and in loneliness. Perhaps, he thought, that when a few more
                  years had come and gone, and he was in the occupancy of the great position he
                  coveted, that then he would seek her out, and lay at her feet all his honor, and
                  claim only in return the love she had borne him in her youth.
               
               But Allan's dream was broken to fragments—brilliant fragments they were, worthless
                  without comeliness.
               The life of anxiety which he had led had shattered his health, robbed him of his
                  most efficient energy, and in the very time when he was preparing for a final race
                  after greatness and power, disease prostrated him—left him weak and helpless as a
                  child.
               It was the time for the triumph of his foes—and he had many—the prize for which
                  the exertions of years had been unweariedly made floated beyond his reach, and in
                  the valley of shadows he found himself at last, wearied with struggle, disgusted
                  with his life-long toil, longing for death. But in that moment a ministering angel
                  came and stood beside him. It was her voice which aroused him to life and to hope
                  again. To life which spread before him in all the radiant beauty which it wore in
                  his youth—to hope which could never more bind itself blindly to the interests of
                  party or to slavish ambition.
               They are one—the parted for years. The name of the great politician has yet a
                  sound on the earth, but never again has he been tempted, (since his eyes have
                  opened to the beauty of contentment and peace,) to enter those lists where once he
                  sought for glory, as though it were man's highest good. And blessed is he now in
                  the children of his early manhood—the wife of his old age! Ask him! All honor to
                  the ground-birds, the joyous singers of the lowly nests! Their power surpasses
                  that of the eagle in his mountain nest, or in his sunward flight!
            
            
               HEARTS OF OAK.
               
                  IN a little cottage that stood in the shadow of the great Foundling Hospital,
                     in the town of Wells, a school for a few blind children was opened, and Miss
                     Florence Swaine was announced as an instructress. For several months this lady
                     had been engaged in teaching a few unfortunates within the walls of the
                     hospital, and it was the tact, ingenuity, and patience, displayed by her, which
                     suggested to Mrs. Hammel the idea of opening a school for her under more
                     favorable auspices; for it was thought that if such were started for her, and
                     disconnected in the minds of the people from a place of public charity, its
                     prosperity would be greatly increased.
                  Florence Swaine was deemed particularly competent to manage this humble
                     establishment, not because of her long experience in the concerns of life—she
                     was not quite twenty years of age when the trial was first ventured—but because
                     she was gentle-hearted and patient, and had herself been educated among
                     foundlings, and, that she had been all her life in some degree a teacher as
                     well as playmate for the little ones who were sheltered under that roof with
                     herself.
                  One needed not to see Florence in any particular light, or under any
                     extraordinary circumstances, needed not to see her face animated with any
                     peculiar expression, in order to satisfy himself as to whether she were
                     beautiful. She was at all times lovely and lovable, yet by no means a perfect
                     creature, in any sense of the word. Her figure was of ordinary height, slight,
                     but not fragile, at least not indicative of weakness, though perhaps the
                     impression of strength conveyed to others by her appearance resulted chiefly
                     from the fact that weakness was something thing wholly foreign to her mental and spiritual
                     nature. Her brown, glossy hair, had a peculiar beauty, and her light, dazzling
                     blue eyes shone with the glory of sapphires; they looked a purity which her
                     life outlived. She was very fair—she was very beautiful. Was her moving,
                     breathing, human form, a tabernacle fit, think you, for a heart of oak? Perhaps
                     it is your opinion that bone and sinew, length, and breadth, and flesh, are the
                     out-going, or the embodiment of strength?
                  Nay, it had been quite impossible for any one to think of weakness and Florence
                     Swaine together. That was not the word to apply to her, nor the idea. The
                     expression of her face was very sweet and benevolent, but it told more than
                     that she was a mere kind and just mortal; yea, even so much, as that she could
                     do without the love of men and women, that she could exist solitary and
                     isolated, should occasion demand; and if you had chanced to see her at her
                     prayers, you would know why. She knew what nature had done for
                     her, yet she wanted no admiration—she, a foundling! She had no wish to attract
                     attention, but she was well prepared to stand in her own defence, and that of
                     her little foster-sister, against the world. Her lot was cast in no pleasant
                     place. She was a child given to reflection, and she beheld in herself one of
                     that class whose lives are too frequently illustrated with martyr-tears and
                     martyr-blood; that class whose moral power is their only glory, whose good and
                     honest name, whatever befalls their heart, must always stand unimpeachable.
                  When the teacher went from the hospital to open her school and home in the
                     cottage, she was accompanied by a widow-woman who had lived many years in the
                     employ of the matron, Mrs. Hammel, and by a young girl who had always stood in
                     the relationship of sister to Florence, though none could tell if there was any
                     natural connection between them. All that was known of the origin of either was
                     this: One evening, in the winter of 1815, a child, to whom was appended the
                     name Florence Ida Swaine, was found at the door of the hospital; and three
                     years later another infant, named Clara Swaine, was discovered in the same
                     place, and received into the same fostering care. Several particulars relating
                     to the manner in which they were left, and their names, induced the suspicion
                     that they might be near of kin, sisters perhaps, and as sisters they grew up,
                     in their beautiful affection. If there was no real relationship existing
                     between them, it still seemed a providential matter that they were thus brought
                     together, for they needed, each of them, and Clara in an especial degree, a
                     friend who should be bound to them in another way than by a mere ordinary tie
                     of acquaintance.
                  The love of Florence for Clara knew no bound; it strengthened her ability to
                     penetrate into the very nature of her sister; it enabled her to discern clearly
                     the feeble mind that looked to hers with a reverential regard little short of
                     worship. For counsel and guidance and affection, Clara turned to Florence as a
                     weak, frail, timid child, to a parent; but it was in vain that the elder sister
                     looked to the younger for a reciprocity of more than affection:
                     Clara could impart no strength, she could never give light when the mind of
                     Florence was in doubt or darkness. When she said, "I love you,"
                     all had gone out from her that could bless another; there was no other word of
                     power that she knew. But that word, how sweet, how precious it was!
                  The younger of these sisters had not the exquisite beauty of the elder; she was
                     frailer, bodily, as well as mentally; but her surpassing grace, her charming
                     manner, natural as that light in the eyes of Florence, supplied the want of
                     real beauty; or rather, it was another form of beauty. There was a pleasing and
                     entire unconsciousness in the expression of that singular fascination; it
                     lurked in her every movement and word, and bound hearts most strongly to her,
                     and bound them because in the simplest out-going of the life of Clara Swaine
                     was a visible manifestation of the fact that she could only live in and through
                     love.
                  Those children looked astray in the hospital among other foundlings. A voice
                     seemed speaking from their lives telling of grievous wrongs done them. That
                     place, where the offspring of want and guilt and shame were gathered, seemed no
                     place for them. They would have looked at home in a palace, dwelling in
                     sunshine and splendor, fondled and petted; but not there,  where they seemed like flowers transplanted from
                     a green-house to the care of cold and unappreciative hearts: they reminded one
                     of too harsh contrasts, too diverse experiences.
                  In bitter sorrow many years of the life of Florence Swaine had passed, and she
                     had never conquered that sorrow, nor found any solace save in Clara's fondness,
                     till the idea of self-reliance began to unfold itself to her understanding. She
                     had no faith in the common presumption that she was, (or if they were sisters,
                     that they were) orphaned, parentless. But they were unrecognised
                     and unclaimed; they had been left to the disposal of fate for years, and
                     whether guilt, or shame, or misfortune, or despair, had given them over to the
                     tender mercies of a public, was left a roving thought, suspicion, fear, that
                     could in one way alone be quieted: by a patient, prayerful hope. Years passed
                     after she had become a thinking being, and had learned all of her history that
                     was known to her protectors, before she could at all reconcile herself even to
                     the thought of orphanage. Early in life, she had been a gay, light-hearted
                     thing; there were few brighter or more bird-like spirits tabernacled among the
                     little foundlings; but life and the world were saddened to her mind from the
                     moment she learned all that could be learned of the doubts attending their
                     parentage. It was a source of murmuring discontent to her, in the first years
                     of an intelligent girlhood, to feel how entirely they (for it was always 'they'
                     in her thought,) had been shut out from the fairer social world, the victims of
                     she scarcely knew what, but helpless in that victimage, and utterly weak to
                     master circumstance. In those years of darkness, when her indignant and
                     rebellious thoughts and tears could not avail her, nor her own longings help,
                     she gave lamentably little evidence of a strong mind, or great heart, or lofty
                     will. Tears and melancholy and repining were her friends, for Clara had not yet
                     attained to her stature of dreary knowledge; and it was not till
                     years marked by conflict, and soul-struggling, vain hope, and vainer despair
                     had gone by, that, at last, "knowing her weakness" by a grievous experience,
                     Florence turned, and sought for strength where it can alone be found. Then she
                     knew that she was saved; knew from what the great DELIVERER saved her. The star
                     of love, the light of heaven, the grace of GOD shone for her; and in the
                     brightness of that light her soul trode over Jordan, and through the pride of
                     Jerusalem and the shades of Gethsemane, until it reached Olivet, and there she
                     bowed to ask anew, and to receive. And though now even she could not banish
                     from her thoughts its absorbing idea, she was rescued from the miseries of its
                     power. The philosophy of the Christian had come to her aid; a hope that
                     transcended the mortal hope had grown up within her; and for the working out of
                     this new faith, she looked to HIM as its Finisher, who was its Author.
               
               
                  II.
                  FLORENCE SWAINE was by no means the most imaginative person in the world, and
                     she became less a dreamer when she had acquired a steadfast, religious faith;
                     but as she awakened to a fuller life of perception, and thought, and knowledge,
                     she was persuaded, to an absolute certainty evidence could hardly have
                     deepened, that the position of poverty and illegitimacy, which she and Clara
                     were doomed to hold before the world, was not theirs by right. Her conviction
                     would scarcely have availed her in making good such claim in a court of law,
                     but it was a comforting thought that they might, one day, be
                     recognised and claimed. The assurance would have been of little worth, coming
                     as it did through such a mere shadowy vista of faith in the ultimates of
                     justice, had it not shown its power in strengthening and comforting the heart
                     of Florence. The faith was not vain, in that she was prepared by it for earnest
                     working, and in that she was thus calmed to the conviction that even if her
                     life was given by the retributive wrath of GOD, HE would, nevertheless, not
                     fail to be her FATHER, if she would be His child.
                  There was nothing of this high, religious faith, nor of the noble transparency
                     of earnest truth, in the character of Clara Swaine. The dreamer, more than the
                     worker, was unfolded in her; real truth had not made so searching and grievous
                     a revelation for her, and her heart satisfied itself with looking for help,
                     encouragement, guidance, and strength, to her human friends. She was thoroughly
                     amiable and lovely, and that, it seemed,  was all. Her trustings went far; they were given
                     in entire self-distrust; and it was apparent, to any clear-sighted observer of
                     character, that though safe while loving wills shielded her, if by chance or
                     fate she should be left to herself or to evil temptations, there was nothing of
                     mental or spiritual nature that she could bring from within to oppose such
                     influences.
                  After the removal of the sisters and the widow (who was to act in the capacity
                     of house-keeper for them) to their new home, Clara began to busy herself with
                     her needle in fancy workings, her taste and ingenuity inclining her to such
                     labors: by such pursuits she was to furnish her share toward the support of the
                     household. The trustees of the hospital required a mere nominal rent of their
                     new tenants for the first year, and little fear was entertained in any quarter,
                     that the experiment of the young girls toward personal independence would fail,
                     aided as they were by the counsel and good word of Mrs. Hammel, and the clear
                     brain and warm heart of Florence.
                  In the course of a few weeks, twelve children assembled to receive the daily
                     attention and instruction of the new teacher. Some, but not all of these little
                     ones, were blind; and the most of the unfortunates belonged to the hospital;
                     two only were from independent families living in the town. The patience and
                     wisdom which Florence displayed in conducting the education of these infant
                     minds and hearts, and the simple, earnest good-will with which she pursued her
                     calling, inspired great respect for her in the minds of the good people of
                     Wells, as she became known to them; and, moreover, the influence of Mrs.
                     Hammel—for she was a woman extensively known and admired—conspired to increase
                     the general confidence in the new school; and, as time passed on, many pupils
                     were secured for it, besides the blind.
                  Among the first of the children sent from the town to Florence for instruction,
                     was a little half-blind girl, named Rose Percy. She became a pupil because of
                     her mother's charitable regard for two young girls just setting out in life,
                     rather than for any great benefit that she herself might derive; for all little
                     Rose could learn must be taught her by sound, not sight. On her first
                     attendance at school, the child was always accompanied by a boy cousin, of
                     about her own age; but when he afterward went from Wells, the brother of Rose
                     assumed the office of guide and protector.
                  Willis Percy was at that time little more than twenty-two years of age. He was
                     a student of theology, preparing to embrace that profession to which his father
                     during his life-time had done honor. This profession had not been chosen by the
                     son for the purpose of getting a living among men. Various bequests to the
                     family from time to time, together with the mother's patrimony, made the Percys
                     independent, and there was no need for exertion on the part of the eldest son,
                     beyond his own soul's need. That soul had been tossed for years on the sea of
                     doubt; it had been driven over the sea of despair, also. In philosophic dreams,
                     in the pleasures of the gay, and ambition of the worldly, he had sought for a
                     guide, a comforter, a rest, but had not found it until at last he looked
                     upward: then he saw the heavens open, and heard a voice from the eternal deep
                     proclaiming, while a light dawned for him, "This is the way: walk ye in it;"
                     and from that day he was decided as to whom he should serve. His abilities were
                     of a common order; he would be known, if known at all, probably by his
                     goodness, his sterling honesty, faith, and consistency. Distinguishing
                     characteristics enough in this day, some might assert, taking certain known
                     facts into consideration. No; his temptation would doubtless not present itself
                     in the way of popular applause.
                  Florence Swaine perceived all this from the first, and her appreciation for the
                     brother of little Rose was greatly heightened by the conviction that his only
                     ambition, if the word may be thus used, was to be known among men as a devout
                     and faithful servant of the MASTER he confessed before them. And on his part,
                     the brief moments in which he by degrees formed an acquaintance with Florence,
                     had given as free an insight into her character. The few snatches of
                     conversation held with her, when he came daily as his sister's guardian,
                     bringing her, and sometimes accompanying her from school, induced an urgent
                     wish for fuller intercourse; and this was accomplished when Florence became his
                     pupil, and studied the languages. In these  studies, proposed by Mr. Percy, and gladly
                     entered into by both sisters, a progress was made as flattering to the
                     instructor as to themselves; but the teacher was also learning a lesson, one
                     other, and by far the sweetest version of the primal word of the "grand credo"
                     he had ever yet met. Power to lead a life of such purity, consistency, and
                     perseverance, as he saw that elder sister leading, was just what he needed to
                     have brought before him, in order that his idea of true moral beauty in action
                     might be filled out and exalted. Young though he was, he had begun to turn, and
                     with longing, too, from the hard strength, the cold
                        intellect, the stern defiance and restless impulse, which
                     had seemed to him once the sublimest manifestations of human power; and as he
                     was thus turning away, most fortunately for himself, he met with her in whom
                     were an intellect, a resolution, and an impulse, that were all glorified with
                     light from the heart. In the child-like innocence and purity of Florence
                     Swaine; in her beauty and religion; in her constancy and steadfastness,
                     manifested in the pursuit of what he knew must be wearying tasks;
                     in the hope, clear, but not glowing with the joyous brightness of the hopes of
                     youth, with which she went on in her appointed path; in all she said and did,
                     which marked her so peculiarly and beautifully feminine, even among women, he
                     found more than enough to admire, full enough to love.
                  The impression made by these two mortals was thus an equal and mutual one. Her
                     love for the good, the exalted, the truthful, which had never found its
                     satisfaction before, because she had not chanced to see it associated with the
                     enhancing charm of youth and enthusiasm, found an abiding-place now in her
                     thought of Willis Percy. The most absorbing passion Florence had known
                     heretofore was affection for her young sister. That was a "passion of
                     sympathy," which seemed destined to never grow beyond sympathy, and there was
                     danger, because of powerlessness to grow, that it would end in disappointment.
                     This new affection differed not so much in kind as in degree, from the other.
                     And it differed very much in degree. The sympathy, when it appeared
                     consciously, for him, could not take the form of pitying love, as it did where
                     Clara was concerned; for him it was appreciative, and uplifted by a
                     consciousness of equality, and went out from her seeking a blessing. In his
                     strong and healthful life she found the encouragement and exalting tendency
                     which acted on her charm-like, as her own words and courage had always on her
                     sister; and it was with much the same confidence Clara had known, that
                        she turned and found what she most needed in him.
                  If this friendship could have continued for ever in its tranquil and perfect
                     state, she would have been satisfied with it—would neither have asked nor
                     wished for more. It would have made the pride and blessing of her life; she
                     would have found in it comfort, and strength, and peace; and this, though
                     absence and separation, in all but spirit, followed. But such a union was not
                     what would content him.
                  It was long after the beginning of their acquaintance before he acknowledged
                     this; and it would be difficult to say whether his disappointment or pleasure
                     exceeded, when he listened to the answer she made to his confession. It is
                     certain, however, that he pleaded in vain when she thus expressed her firm
                     determination: "Until the doubt respecting my parentage is removed, I will be
                     the wife of no man. If it be that disgrace attaches to my appearance in this
                     world, I can bear that better if alone. A day might come when you
                     would wish that no tie united us; and—it must not come." When he
                     replied with expostulation, "I am not looking to the past, nor to its secrets,
                     for happiness, but only to the future and to you; is not that enough?" she
                     answered: "Whatever seems to me wrong-doing, and so much opposes itself to my
                     own sense of justice and duty, I will abide by. Would it be wise to bid me seek
                     another standard whereby to judge my actions, than that law of conscience which
                     God has given me?" And from this determination she was not to be moved. It was
                     no new subject of thought with Florence. She had contemplated the effects of
                     such a decision before his love gave life to the idea; she had
                     decided, long before meeting with him, that she would never, while
                        that mystery was unrevealed, assume any new ties with the
                     world. This resolution was made only for and to herself; she neither took Clara
                     into counsel, nor had a wish to influence her in any like way.
               
               
                  
                  III.
                  THE office of instructor was not resigned by young Percy after the conscience
                     of Florence had placed him almost in the position of a rejected
                     lover. She could at first have wished this otherwise; but when she saw what a
                     restraint he placed on every thought and expression that tended Florence-ward,
                     content to appear only as her friend and teacher, and Clara's friend and
                     teacher as well, she could but be satisfied.
                  But in the second year of the school-keeping, Mr. Percy was ordered south by
                     his physicians, for his health suddenly failed him. Undue application to study
                     was assigned as the cause, and a cessation from all close confinement was
                     enjoined upon him. On his departure he wrote to Florence:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "I could find it in my heart to bitterly reproach you, if I did not
                                 hold you far too dear for that; because it is your fault that I go
                                 alone on this pilgrimage in search of health. I could find it in me
                                 to reproach you for mistaking pride for duty. You need to repent of
                                 that pride, dear Florence. Heaven send you grace that you may
                                 quickly do so. Do not think of me as having gone on a pleasure
                                 trip. I leave my happiness behind me, though peace goes with me,
                                 for I carry a conviction of which you must not deprive me, that I
                                 shall one day revisit the beautiful world to which I am now going,
                                 with her who can make all things in this life good and fair to me.
                                 God bless you, noble-hearted Florence, and for your sake (for I
                                 know it would make you happier; and for my sake too, because from
                                 your stern resolution I have otherwise no hope) enlighten the
                                 darkness that obscures your past. Do I err in imagining that it is
                                 not wholly for yourself that you wish the mystery cleared? Am I far
                                 wrong in indulging the precious hope that the longing on your part
                                 has a fuller significance than it once had? Is not something more
                                 than your own pride involved? Forgive my asking it. We are selfish
                                 creatures, and can never enough tell our love, can never often
                                 enough be assured that others care for us. I have no gloomy
                                 forebodings respecting the results of this voyage; do not let my
                                 physician's mistake alarm you. Perhaps I have applied somewhat too
                                 diligently of late, for a more than worldly ambition has been
                                 inspiring me; nevertheless I feel as strong as a lion, and a few
                                 weeks of rest at home would be as beneficial doubtless as this act
                                 of vagrancy. I go for quite another reason than is imagined; but
                                 perhaps you have guessed it? I have an inclination to
                                 try life—to know what it would be without you, Florence; but I have
                                 a prophetic idea of the very spirit in which I shall return: how
                                 the distance, as it lessens, will seem the more intolerable; how as
                                 I come I shall long for wings of the eagle, for the wings of the
                                 wind and steam will seem to flag and fail. I would that you could
                                 speak to me now and assure my heart of a welcome home,
                                 dear, dear Florence. God be with you, and aid you in every time of
                                 need.
                              
                                 "WILLIS PERCY."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Not long after the departure of the student from Wells, a gentleman who had a
                     slight acquaintance with Mrs. Hammel came, attended by her, to the cottage,
                     bringing with him a child of one of his tenants, a precocious girl in whom he
                     had taken some interest, and whose education he was determined now to
                     superintend. It was by the advice of Mrs. Hammel that he sought shelter and
                     primary instruction for the girl in the house of Florence Swaine.
                  Giles Gerard, Esq., was a childless widower, a man of great wealth, whose
                     castle-like residence stood on the banks of the river D—, in a most romantic
                     region of country, distant about ten miles from Wells. So little of this
                     gentleman's time, since the death of his wife, which occurred in his and her
                     youth, had been spent in his own home or its neighborhood, that Mr. Gerard was
                     scarcely known personally, in the town to which he brought his protege. Mrs.
                     Hammel's acquaintance with him however was not confined wholly to his
                     reputation as a man of great wealth: she was the daughter of the housekeeper
                     who had long lived in the employ of the elder Mr. Gerard, and many of her
                     earliest recollections were associated with his son, the present owner of one
                     of the noblest estates in the country. Yet as a man she knew little of him: had
                     she  known more than that he was
                     rich, and immensely so, and gentlemanly in appearance, and of high standing in
                     the world, she would hardly have introduced him into the house of the two young
                     creatures she loved so well.
                  The impression left on the mind of Florence after her first interview with this
                     man, was, that he was the most elegant person she had ever beheld. One whose
                     circle of acquaintance was far more extensive than her own, might, with equal
                     truth, have said the same thing. His stately figure seemed the very type of
                     natural nobility, and his handsome face and fascinating manner had been a theme
                     of praise in prouder scenes than she had ever imagined; and it was not possible
                     that he should come strengthened with the experience of forty years, and all
                     outward advantages, to persons like those orphaned sisters, whose whole nature
                     and thought was a romance, without producing an unusual effect on imagination,
                     and in heart.
                  The elder sister's fancy was sufficiently excited to hold him a fixed subject
                     of thought for hours after their first meeting. The mysteries which his
                     fathomless eyes suggested, but revealed not, the inner tone of his subdued, yet
                     commanding and thrilling voice, the mingling of grace with a sovereign dignity
                     that she had never seen assumed by mortal man before, enchanted, while it
                     failed to please her. The subject of these unwonted meditations had been as
                     sensibly impressed by the loveliness of Florence Swaine, as she had been by his
                     appearance; but it did not impress him in the way that "the grace, the more
                     than beauty," the shrinking womanliness, the manifestly dependent spirit of
                     Clara afterwards did. Towards her he was irresistibly attracted, and acted
                     upon, magnetically it must have been, certainly with an entire unconsciousness
                     on her part, and in a way and to a degree that perfectly astonished himself.
                     Gerard had won many, and broken some hearts in his day, but he had never
                     pursued his conquests among weak women, for weakness had never till now been
                     invested in a charm so irresistible to him. In Clara, weakness did not bear the
                     superscription of either vanity, or ignorance, or puerility; it was the
                     weakness and beauty and charm of a thorough child, (not of a child-wonder,)
                     united with the sense, and thought, and action, of ordinary womanhood. It was
                     by her trustfulness, innocence and artlessness that he was captivated; there
                     was such a reverential deference and confidence in her manner toward those
                     merely older than herself, as made him quite long to be worshipped by her, as
                     he knew she would worship if she loved at all. He never on occasion of his
                     visits (frequently and ostensibly made on his protégé's account), held much
                     conversation with Clara, unless it may have been with his eyes, which were for
                     ever seeking hers while he spoke with Florence; yet consciousness was long in
                     making that gaze uncomfortable or unbearable to her. When it finally did one
                     day accomplish this, his voice went flying with a new emphasis through her
                     heart like a flash of lightning, and she felt the blood violently rushing to
                     her face. Almost at that same moment came an imagining that she believed was a
                     blessing: perhaps he was thinking of her then as she of him! who could
                     tell?
                  Every Saturday without fail Mr. Gerard drove over to Wells to visit the little
                     scholar, sometimes bringing her parents in his carriage, and sometimes
                     conveying her back to them for a Sunday visit. On such occasions he never lost
                     the opportunity for an hour's conversation with the young instructress, and he
                     often materially benefited her by his kind and valuable suggestions. At these
                     times Clara was usually present, and occasionally she held a part in the
                     conversations; and so week by week went on.
                  He must early have been aware that love was growing to be a passion in her
                     soul, and that her love was for him. He had lived full long enough in the world
                     to learn the signs and symbols of character and feeling. Thus, when he
                     recollected how she was in those days when he first met her, how unconcerned
                     and unconstrained she had been, meeting him always with mere calm and simple
                     courtesy, and thought of the gradual change, the change of which he imagined
                     she herself was not yet aware, but which to him betokened all that was going on
                     within her heart, he was, he could not avoid being, certain that she loved him.
                     The extent of that predilection he resolved to prove.
                  When Christmas came, it brought a splendid gift for Clara, in the shape of a
                     bracelet of diamonds, with a very flattering,  and merely flattering, note, that for one moment
                     almost turned the head of the surprised and delighted girl. In that moment her
                     face glowed with delight, and her heart beat fast to a tune of joy. But then
                     she thought of Florence, and the remembrance of her led to a re-perusal of the
                     note. A painful expression usurped the place of that bright smile when she
                     thought of her sister, and for an instant she could have wished herself alone,
                     that none other than her own will might be consulted; but in a moment more the
                     regret vanished, leaving not a trace; and she felt it was indeed a great
                     blessing to have one near, wise to counsel her. Thinking thus, with the gift
                     and the note in her hand, she arose, and passed to the door of her chamber; but
                     she paused when that was reached, and looked around as though half frightened.
                     In that glance her eyes fell on the little table heaped with work furnished by
                     many friends, and she broke into an uncontrollable fit of weeping.
                  It was only because she was so excited, so bewildered, so overcome with the
                     tumult of her thoughts. That he should have sent her
                     such a gift! She had taken up her burden of work that Christmas morning with a
                     very grateful heart, and unconsciously, "while plying her needle and thread,"
                     she had dreamed of him. She felt very happy, for she was not aspiring, she
                     built no air-castles; and Florence was so kind, and life around her so
                     peaceful, so pleasant! Clara never indulged in bitter thoughts or speculations
                     relating to her past, as Florence often did. That idea had no polarity for the
                     sensitiveness of her soul. She was happy in the just-gone minutes, and now she
                     wept and was wretched! How could a gift have power to so change the hue of all
                     things?
                  More than an hour passed before she again arose for the purpose of seeking
                     Florence. When she did so, all traces of grief were gone from her face; and her
                     sister did not even guess at the tumult which had been raging so recently in
                     her darling's heart when they two stood together.
                  Going up to Florence with nervous rapidity, Clara uncovered the gift, held it
                     in all its wondrous splendor before her eyes, and said, gayly:
                  "Mr. Gerard's Christmas gift! Imagine what I'm going to do with it, mon amie?"
                  "What, pray?" was the simple interrogation of Florence; but there was eager
                     anxiety in her face as she asked it.
                  "Return the bauble at once, and tell the giver that Miss Clara Swaine has many
                     thanks for the generous donor, but his gift is quite too grand for a
                     seamstress."
                  "Well done, my sweet sister! I was half fearful."
                  "That I would accept it?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Possible? Then you do not half know me yet, it seems."
                  "But you say the gift is too much. Would you accept any gift from
                     him, Clara?"
                  "I am not at all sure that I would."
                  "Then let your answer express as much, dearest. Let him know that we, that
                        you need no remembrances from your friends. Such
                     as are worth bearing in mind need not buy a place."
                  "But, Florence, you would not call it buying? I presume the idea
                     would strike Mr. Gerard as utterly ridiculous."
                  "Why return his gift, then, if it does not appear to you in some such light, as
                     an impertinence on his part almost, for even proffering it? He knows enough of
                     the world's ways to be aware of that; and that it would be something worse than
                     ignorance on your part that allowed you to accept it."
                  "I think just as you do. What is your opinion of Mr. Gerard, after all?"
                  "What is yours, Clara?"
                  "Nay, that's not fair. But I'll answer, notwithstanding, in one word:
                        Magnificent."
                  "It's the very word. A great pity that these magnificent things rarely possess
                     the searching power that can find the way into hearts, isn't it?" And Florence
                     fixed her brilliant eyes on Clara as she asked; while she busied
                     herself in wrapping the bracelet in its tissue foldings, and restoring it to
                     its case, arose when that was done, and, with a careless "Yes," went to write
                     the proposed note.
               
               
                  
                  IV.
                  THE attention of Florence was now immediately drawn from Clara by a new
                     unfolding of her own "heart-history." This was occasioned by the sudden and
                     unanticipated death of Mrs. Percy, the mother of Willis and little Rose. Her
                     disease was of the heart, and she was withdrawn from the life of earth to the
                     life of heaven, bearing no traces of long wanderings through the valley of
                     Shadow. When the physicians, who had been hastily called to her aid, acquainted
                     her with the result of their consultation, she at once dismissed them and every
                     hope of life, and with all speed sent for Florence Swaine.
                  Though her son had never confided his love for the young teacher to his mother,
                     she had more than guessed at it; and by putting various facts that came to her
                     knowledge together, she had arrived at nearly the whole truth of the matter.
                     She saw Willis go from home, his lips still sealed to that story which her
                     tender mother-heart longed to know, and did not herself speak, because her soul
                     paid deference to his soul's secret; but now, when she knew she was dying, it
                     was to Florence, the woman whom he loved, that she turned with
                     yearning: she could not depart without blessing her.
                  When Florence obeyed the call, which she did at once, Mrs. Percy was not
                     satisfied till they and Rose were alone together; and when the young girl had
                     seated herself close beside the sufferer's bed, with voice almost inaudible,
                     but wholly satisfied look, she said:
                  "Miss Swaine, you see, it is true, in such an hour as we think
                     not, the Son of man cometh. Be ready, prepare; you may be surprised. Florence,
                     child, can you take my Rose under your charge, as a sister, till
                     Willis comes back?" Seeing she hesitated for a moment, Mrs. Percy added: "Do
                     not delay the answer. Are you afraid to promise? Tell me, child, will you not
                     receive my blessing as a mother? May Rose find an elder sister in you? or am I
                     deceived? Is there no engagement, no union of any kind between you and my dear
                     son? I should be proud and happy to think there was."
                  "Rose shall indeed be a sister to me. If a day ever comes when I
                        can answer Mr. Percy's love as he desires, it will be a joy to
                     think that you were willing to bless me as your child, dear Mrs. Percy."
                  Florence knelt as she spoke, for her friend motioned her to do so, and the
                     hands of the dying woman pressed softly on her head. What a thrill of joy was
                     that sweeping through her soul, then, even though she knew it to be a mother's
                     love that was being withdrawn from earth; for it was his mother
                     who was blessing her!
                  
                  Florence remained with Mrs. Percy till she had breathed her last; and that
                     night, when her parent's eyes were closed forever, little Rose was taken home
                     with her new sister, consecrated to that relationship by the words and blessing
                     of one dying, and from that time, she shared the bed, and the substance, and
                     the love of Florence Swaine. It seemed not strange to any (most fortunately was
                     this true,) that the child should be committed to the teacher's care until her
                     brother should return; for the thorough moral independence and good sense of
                     their former pastor's widow, had inspired the people of Wells with a great
                     affection and respect for her. The confidence Mrs. Percy displayed in the
                     teacher by this act, was very beneficial to Florence, for it increased the
                     confidence of others. She was aided thus in a pecuniary way in the increase of
                     scholars, and by the residence of Rose in the family, according to the mind of
                     Clara and Mrs. Hammel and many of the townspeople; but what hue did the fact
                     take in her mind? Ah, there how far the thought of worldly prosperity fell
                     below the rich addition that was made to the joy of her struggling heart! To
                     that had been added a consolation unspeakable and full of hope.
                  Giles Gerard was not, after all, so much offended by the return of his gift as
                     Clara had—yes—feared he might be. She dreaded more than she would
                     confess, even to herself, the results which might follow this step. But she
                     needed not to fear. A difficulty in the way to accomplishing an object, was
                     never known to discourage him; and when he met Clara, the following week, it
                     was with more cordiality and deference than ever, yet with an apparent
                     embarrassment; and he said, frankly,  looking straight into her eyes, with an expression that told he would say it
                     on his knees before her, if he thought she would allow it:
                  "You have taught me a lesson I needed to learn; no woman had ever the goodness
                     to teach it me before. Pardon the ignorance that presumed so boldly on your
                     kindness."
                  He spoke the flattering words in a tone so really humble, that Clara felt, in
                     turn, almost humiliated, and with a feeling of self-reproach, that also
                     extended toward Florence, she said, falteringly: "Pardon me, and the
                     circumstances which compelled me to—to—perhaps wound. I was—." Her voice
                     completely failed here; and however "ignorant" Giles Gerard may have been in
                     the lore of gift-giving, he was sufficiently well versed in the language of
                     love, to feel sure he had guessed in those broken words a secret, which, for
                     her part, the poor girl would not, unasked and voluntarily, have revealed for
                     the world.
                  He offered no more gifts. He needed only to seek her society often as his own
                     inclination demanded; to converse in her hearing with Florence, and the work
                     was done. Clara Swaine loved him devoutly as the most exacting lover could have
                     wished. She loved as I imagine women of her nature do always. Her very being
                     became absorbed into his; her will, her mind, her heart, her entire spiritual
                     life. Love proclaimed himself her master; there was nothing else to be looked
                     for; he looked for nothing but a total self-abnegation on her
                     part. Before his passion for her was an avowed reality, she felt the witch-work
                     going on in her heart; all the torturing changes, the torment, the bliss, the
                     joy, the despair, of an unassured love. She was sick, she was glowing with
                     brilliant and gay hopes: the thought had been with her that he was only
                     trifling; the conviction had been with her that the passion was a mutual
                     one.
                  The manifest change that had taken place in Clara, the state of tumult in which
                     her mind and heart were thrown from the ominous Christmas-day, did not escape
                     the notice of Florence; and it troubled and grieved her more than she would
                     acknowledge to herself, and the more because she saw and felt keenly that Clara
                     was no longer so trustful and confiding with her as she had been.
                  The indignant idea that Gerard was trifling with her sister, at one time
                     prevailing, and then the doubt as to whether, in another case, she could be
                     happy with a man like him, if fortune united them, cast continual shadows over
                     the daily life of the elder sister; and when she saw how his repeated and
                     lengthened visits produced no other results than disturbance of Clara's
                     spirits, and an unfavorable mental excitement, she resolved to bring the affair
                     to a climax at once.
                  Florence accordingly took occasion, one day, when Mr. Gerard was leaving the
                     house, after a second visit that week, to say to him, in the most courteous,
                     yet firmest manner possible, that, if his visits were made so frequently for
                     his own gratification, merely, she would greatly prefer that they were
                     discontinued, even if the removal of his protégé should necessarily follow. Her
                     listener quickly banished his look of astonishment when he met that just
                     rebuke, and, after a moment's hesitation, said:
                  "Forgive me. With your permission I will at once speak with Clara. I have done
                     wrong in delaying. But, believe me, I ought not to be subject to your
                     censure."
                  "Nay," she answered, embarrassed and surprised in turn, though she knew herself
                     justified in taking that stand, "far be from me even the appearance of forcing
                     you to an expression of feeling that may really not exist on your part. I only
                     feel that it would be better for you to visit my sister less often, if you have
                     not a much more than ordinary interest in her; indeed, it were better for all
                     of us."
                  "And I say, dear madam, that, with your permission, I will this instant seek
                     her for my wife. She is more to me than I can acknowledge to any but her."
                  Florence made no further opposition, for she saw—as far as she could see, and
                     believed he was in earnest, as he was. And before Mr. Gerard left Wells that
                     day, he and Clara were betrothed.
               
               
                  V.
                  THERE was an obviously bright future spreading before Clara Swaine. Her mind
                     was troubled by none of those thoughts  which held Florence in bondage when her heart
                     longed to utter its glad reply to Willis Percy's love. But the high and proud
                     place she seemed destined in coming time to hold as the wife of the great man
                     of the county was not, brilliant as it appeared, the most glorious or welcome
                     idea that presented itself. It was enough for her to have won the love of such
                     a man; his wealth and social place were nothing compared with that idea; and
                     there was no need that he should draw on his credulity in order to believe
                     it.
                  So was it proved that, with all her sensitiveness and delicacy, Clara's
                     womanliness did not approach to that unfolded in the gentle but
                     heroic nature of Florence Swaine. It was not in her to put away a
                     blessing, or what seemed such, with a crushing, humbling, and abiding sense of
                     inherited unworthiness. She was not strong enough to make such a sacrifice; and
                     even had a "spasmodic" strength enabled her to do it, in the grief that would
                     have followed, in the regret and self-desertion, she would have perished.
                  The all-absorbing nature of this passion was soon put to the test. A malignant
                     disease broke out in Wells, and on its appearance among her scholars, Florence
                     was compelled to disband them for a time.
                  The contagion had, however, been communicated before the school broke up, and
                     Clara was among the first infected with it. Owing to precautions which Mrs.
                     Percy had taken, Rose was in no danger from the disease, and during the dreary
                     and anxious time of Clara's awful sickness, she remained with Florence; and
                     while others shrank from the house of pestilence, those two sisterly watchers
                     were constantly nursing Clara by day and by night; and when her recovery was
                     made certain, it was by their united endeavors, Rose learning to exercise these
                     by the example Florence set her. that the poor patient was strengthened to meet
                     her further, and exceeding grievous trial. What that trial was Clara knew full
                     well, yet for days she shrank from more than contemplation of its mere shadow.
                     But at last her wish was expressed, and once expressed, she persisted in it,
                     that the mirror should be placed before her. Poor child! it was only truth as
                     she felt it, that she expressed then: it had been better for her, far better,
                     if she had been left to die in the "desolate horror of the disease."
                  Yet, even in that bitterness of self-loathing and disgust, her chief, almost
                     her only thought, was for Mr. Gerard. Florence, the blessed, brave Florence,
                     did not shrink from her, that was true; her caressings and gentle
                     words were not withheld; but that, Clara said to herself, was because her
                     sister was so full of kindness and pity for all the suffering.
                     What would bind him, who, she felt, might have loved her for something beside
                     her real nature? She had now left—to her honor be it told—no wish to bind him
                     to his vows; but what a sickening, dreadful thought it was, he might eagerly
                     seek to release himself from her, and from those vows!
                  Mr. Gerard had been prepared for the change wrought by disease in his
                     betrothed; for, in his frequent visits at the house during her convalescence,
                     Florence had told him all, and endeavored to prepare his mind for the shock,
                     which she was determined neither should dare till Clara was beyond all danger.
                     Those tears of Florence could flow now for all griefs but her own, and they
                     would not be controlled when, as the trial of an interview was about to be
                     made, she saw that man struggling so strongly with himself and striving to hide
                     his uncontrollable grief; and she almost loved him when he
                     conquered his emotion and told her, with such apparent honesty, that his
                     affection for Clara could not do other than come off conquerer over all
                     disappointment. But for Clara a day so dark had never opened as that on which
                     she granted him the first interview after her sickness.
               
               
                  VI.
                  THERE was a most solemn silence, it was so fraught with meaning, when Mr.
                     Gerard entered the room where Clara, in terrified anguish, awaited him. But
                     when he was fairly there before her, looking upon her, she was first to recover
                     herself sufficiently to be able to speak; and it was painful to see the effort
                     she made to address him calmly, and observe his struggle to listen, as
                        she thought (justly?) his compassion only constrained strained him to listen. But
                     evidently the change in her was greater than he had even thought to see.
                  "We did not look to meet so," she said. Her soft, sweet voice!
                     that was not lost, and with a thrill of joy he heard it. "Is it as grievous, as
                     dreadful a meeting for you, as it is for me, Giles?"
                  Had he spoken his thoughts in answer, his words had been of another sort; but
                     he conquered that impulse by a violent effort, and said, soothingly:
                  "We parted as dear friends and plighted: we meet as such, dearest. But indeed I
                     am grieved you have been so very ill."
                  "You are kinder than I even dared hope; for I have been selfish enough to hope!
                     But my hope has, truly, not gone beyond this, that you would not turn away from
                     me in disgust. Your words make you even more precious than you were to me;" and
                     she turned her face away, and her voice sank to a whisper as she added: "In all
                     sincerity, can you find it in your heart to love me still?"
                  "My Clara!" exclaimed he, and his voice was full of the fondest reproach. He
                     folded her in his arms, and kissed her tenderly as she had been an infant. An
                     instant after she released herself, and said, though her voice was hardly
                     audible:
                  "I shall take a thought of you and of this moment with me through life; it will
                     be a blessing to feel that you loved me to the last, that something more than
                     externals found acceptance with you. I would not be nearer or other to you than
                     dear at this moment. Of yourself, I say, you are inexpressibly precious. I love
                     you better than when we parted last; and that I had not thought possible. But I
                     shall not put your generosity to a severer test. You will bear kind thoughts of
                     me wherever you go, and always, will you not? And in heaven—all is beauty
                     there."
                  "Child! what is this you're talking about?" was his half-angry, half-tearful
                     exclamation. "Why do you banish your hopes, as you call them, to heaven? Have I
                     no power to detain them here? Are you not recovering? Have we not a beautiful
                     world to live in? Do we not love each other? You, dear child! did you think I
                     loved you because I thought you the most beautiful and graceful creature I ever
                     met? Clara, disease has done its worst for you; now imagine what it was I loved
                     when I swear, by all that is true, you are at this moment dearer than ever
                     before. You and you only, Clara, shall I ever marry."
                  "No," was the feebly-uttered reply. "I shall hide myself from the world. The
                     remembrance of your words will be enough for me to live on. God has cursed me,
                     Giles, as he cursed those of old with whom he was displeased. Let the leper
                     live apart from love and the world."
                  "It is sheer nonsense. Have I fallen in your esteem? Do not hesitate to tell
                     me. Forget all the past, think of the now: do you really care for
                     me?"
                  "I love you."
                  "Well, I love you," he rejoined. "In the name of heaven, what more is wanted?
                     You are not going to wed the world, if that is what you are
                     thinking of now; nor is the world's opinion your breath of life. You are to
                     marry me, whom you have honored with your favor till I feel almost
                     too proud to live on this earth as ordinary mortals do. As soon as your
                     strength is sufficiently recovered to allow, you must fix on our
                     marriage-day."
                  She believed him; she believed the many, many tender and loving words he
                     uttered in that trying, yet blessed interview.
               
               
                  VII.
                  NEARLY a year from the time of Willis Percy's going passed, ere he returned to
                     Wells. On the sudden death of his mother, letters were forwarded to him, but
                     they were months in finding their way to him; and when they were at last
                     received, his departure for home was not delayed one day.
                  And gladly was he welcomed on his return, he came so full of life, and health,
                     and vigor, by Florence and the little Rose. For his part, nothing could so much
                     have rejoiced the heart of the mourning son, as did the finding his
                     child-sister under the guardianship of the woman of his love; nothing, at
                     least, but the recital Florence made of his mother's last triumphs, and of  the blessing wherewith she, dying,
                     had blessed her. And when he saw how tender and entire an affection existed
                     between Florence and Rose, and thought of his mother's words, he fancied that
                     all difficulty was now removed in the way to the fruition of his best hope: he
                     looked, but did not speak the expectation, for even as he looked it, she said,
                     "I cannot tell you how happy I was, even at such a moment, though Rose was
                     sobbing so bitterly, for I could only think, 'A mother has blessed me!' If GOD
                     shall bless us in the way we most hope before we die, Willis, think of it!
                        I have had a mother's blessing, too. Oh, how thankful I should
                     be! I am thankful."
                  It would have been no less vain than unmanly to struggle for conquest with
                     Florence in a matter which had become so essentially one of conscience; and as
                     he now prepared to apply himself with fresh ardor to study, he was greatly
                     enabled to do so; and the conviction became an abiding one, that in no other
                     way could he so well grow in grace and strength, as by trusting patiently to
                     GOD, to time, and to her, for the future's brightness.
                  He did not often visit at the cottage school-house, after his return. It was
                     not necessary that he should, in order that the mutual confidence between
                     himself and Florence should be kept alive; and both felt that frequent
                     intercourse, during the continuance of their present relations, would distract
                     their thoughts too much, when they needed to be kept in calmness for the
                     successful pursuit of daily labors. But Willis had taken for his motto, "Hope
                     on," and its actings were revealed in his cheerfulness and true piety; and so,
                     whenever he and Florence were together, by reason of their resolves, and the
                     discipline to which they subjected themselves, each felt, as they parted again,
                     that it had been good for them to be together: their hearts had grown stronger,
                     meanwhile, their souls had caught another note of the jubilant hymn of
                     Cheerfulness.
                  But there was a day that came, at last, when they met in sorrow, and conferred
                     in sorrow, and parted with heavy grief. Since the time when he heard of the
                     relations existing between Clara and Giles Gerard, of Clara's illness and its
                     shocking effects, there had been a fear and a doubt in Percy's mind, to which
                     he longed, yet hesitated, to give utterance. For days he struggled between a
                     sense of urgent duty, and a fear of misconstruction, and a gentle dread, which
                     those who have suffered most know the most of, the dread of giving pain. He
                     longed to say that which might be utterly misunderstood, or altogether
                     disbelieved; that which doubt might turn, a double-edged weapon, against
                     himself. But at last he determined to speak with Florence, come what might, of
                     what she herself had determined to ask him; and it so happened, that at the
                     very time when he was laboring to find words for his communication, she took
                     occasion to say:
                  "Am I wrong in supposing that you have some particular and pressing thought
                     which you wish to make known to me, and don't know how?"
                  "No; you are right," he answered, resolutely. 'I did wish to speak with you,
                     yet did not dare, for fear my words might be misconstrued. From the relations
                     which you know I should be so proud to form with you, it might be
                     suspected—I mean," he said, more solemnly, "any one but you might suspect there
                     were some other than right motives influencing me to say what I must say to
                     you. You will, I feel convinced, understand the purity of my motives. The fact
                     that Mr. Gerard is still betrothed to Clara, and that, as common report goes,
                     they will shortly be married, impels me to tell you the truth, and it cannot be
                     gainsaid. He is not a man with whom your sister can be happy, if she loves
                     truth, or cares for virtue, or if she despises loathsome sin!"
                  He arose as he said this, his face pale with emotion, and his eyes filled with
                     tears. Florence also arose, and said, hurriedly, "You speak in such a way, that
                     had you said this of another, yet nearer than he, I could but believe you. I am
                     as sure that you tell the truth, as that I live. You would certainly not come
                     here with a mere report—and such a report. But mere words would
                     fail to convince Clara. They ought not to. Oh! it would be too awful to take
                     this comfort from her, Percy."
                  "I would certainly not have dared come to you with the story, had
                     I not feared to keep it from you. I declare, as most solemn truth, in all parts
                     of this land, among the great people who consider sider him an equal, he is well known as a
                     gambler and a dissolute man. I know, too, that there are many very proud ladies
                     of his acquaintance who would be glad to assume the relations your sister bears
                     toward him. But if I know Clara Swaine and you, I am convinced you would both
                     shrink, as from pollution, from a man like him, whatever the world might think
                     of him."
                  A momentary silence followed his words. It was broken by Florence, saying: "I
                     thank you for the courage you have shown in coming with this story to me. I
                     have already persuaded them to defer the marriage for the present. I will prove
                     my perfect faith in you by speaking of this to Clara."
                  They parted immediately after.
                  Florence was leaning against the mantel, her head bent in deep thought. She was
                     pondering Percy's words, and she could not hide from herself the fact that the
                     words had only given form to the fears, which, in many ways, had been suggested
                     to her. As she stood thus and thought, a door opposite to that through which
                     her friend had gone out, opened, and Clara entered. She only stood within the
                     door of the room, and when her sister's raised eyes fixed upon her with most
                     earnest sorrow, she returned the glance with an almost fierce indignation,
                     exclaiming:
                  "Is it possible that you have tamely listened to, and meekly promised to use
                     the mean weapons of slander against him and me? Shame on you, Florence! Could
                     you not defend an absent friend against calumny?"
                  "You have heard it all, Clara?"
                  "Yes; I could not avoid listening. It is certain that listeners never hear any
                     good of themselves."
                  "Oh! do not say so. It seems a comfort to me even that I have not to tell you
                     that. I do not see how I should ever have found strength to."
                  "Then you believe what Percy says? I never heard any thing so utterly
                     contemptible."
                  "At least," said Florence after a moment's pause—and in that moment she had
                     conquered a deal of indignation—"at least you are sufficiently sane and wise to
                     see the necessity to wish to wait a little, before irrevocably
                     deciding about such a matter ter as this. A man like Willis Percy, let me tell
                     you, Clara—oh! my dear, dear Clara!—would not breathe such things to me, a
                     woman, your sister, if there were not something in the story."
                  "I tell you he has some secret motive; or if not that," she added, self-rebuked
                     by her words, "he has been astonishingly credulous. O my God! have I not been
                     tried enough already? You should have ordered him from the house, Florence. It
                     was an insult to us, as well as to Mr. Gerard, that he should
                     presume to come here with such slanderous gossip as that!"
                  "You are talking far more like a child than a sane woman should. I hope—you
                     will not, I fear, for you seem wofully beside yourself—but I hope you will see
                     that it could but be my most fervent prayer that Mr. Percy has been
                     misinformed. I only charge you, dearest Clara, do not in a blind confidence
                     trust too far; do not, in a romantic confidence, make yourself liable to a long
                     future of regret. I hope as devoutly as you can, that I am unjust in this. If
                        I wrong Mr. Gerard, it is unconsciously, and you ought to know
                     it. If you do not know it, we have lived together to little purpose."
                  "Yes, I do know it!"
                  "Then I charge you, be patient. You can learn no lesson so important as that,
                     Clara, in this life."
               
               
                  VIII.
                  THE penetrative powers of Mr. Gerard told him that some unhappy influence was
                     working in the mind of Clara, when he again visited her. And the confidence she
                     had in him would have prevented her, in case of his clear questioning, from
                     withholding the truth of the matter; but he did not choose to work thus, and
                     instead, drew the secret from her almost involuntarily, till she found that he
                     had possessed himself of it entirely.
                  The question he asked then was, "What has Florence said to this, or does she
                     not know of it?" And it was thus answered, and with as much eagerness as though
                     Clara were defending her sister against some wronging thought: "She repeats peats the advice which you remember
                     she gave at first, long before I heard this; for she says it is always better
                     to wait and bear patiently, than do in haste what might cause the repentance of
                     years."
                  "Excellent advice! if it were needed. Tell me, does she believe
                     this story?"
                  "She may not believe it, Giles, yet she advises us on each other's account, to
                     delay. She says prudence demands it."
                  "We will not delay," was the decided answer. "Choose between her
                     and me."
                  Clara's face was bent upon her hands: she could not, she dared not answer. At
                     last he grew impatient at her silence, and fell upon his knees before her,
                     whispering:
                  "Have you not perfect faith in me? If I thought you had not, I would spurn
                     you!" He said it with all the indignant emphasis of a wronged and virtuous man.
                     "You have faith," he continued, in answer to the gentle pressure of her hand.
                     "Well, then, you shall prove it, and at once. I scorn my accusers, but I will
                     show them the glorious faith of a woman. You shall be mine; and then, when we
                     stand side by side together, one, in that world which has dared impugn my
                     honor, you will see, Clara, how they will come fawning around us, and you will
                     learn from what a vile, insignificant source—it could be none
                     other—that voice came to distress you." He kissed her fervently, and then asked
                     with bewilderingly sweet voice. "Are you afraid?"
                  "No," was the instant answer: she might well have been! "But Florence? Oh! dear
                     as you are, think what she has been to me, what she has done for me! How could
                     I act in opposition to her will, and grieve her, as the least deception on my
                     part would, past all help? How could I even be at peace with myself? For I know
                     how much she is in earnest when she counsels this delay."
                  "She need not know it. Go with me alone from hence, as if we should go to-day
                     in secret, and come back openly and in triumph to-morrow. The world, be you
                     sure, child, for I know more of that world than you do, will glorify you for
                     the courageous act. And how much you will honor me by such confidence dence!
                     You will make me doubly your slave. I cannot brook to have another directing
                     us. I must have you by my side always. I cannot endure this parting with you
                     day after day. I do not want, I cannot longer permit those to come between us
                     who would postpone our union indefinitely, for the mere gratification of their
                     own whim or selfishness."
                  "But, dear Giles," was the faltering argument put forth when the girl's soul
                     was all a-flame with his words, "I cannot charge Florence with selfishness. You
                     do not know her as I do. She has been all to me heretofore. I assure you it is
                     not without reason that I look up to her as though she were more than a mere
                     elder sister."
                  "Well, then, honestly, I believe you: she is not selfish. But you acknowledge
                     she is over-careful in this endeavor to put you on your guard
                     against me. Dear Clara, we are not children. There is not a mortal
                     existing to whom you are so bound as to me; or, tell me, is there
                     another?"
                  "You know there is not one," was the answer.
                  "Yes, I know it, by this feeling I have for you. There is perfect sympathy
                     between us. Then why should you listen to the suggestions of others, rather
                     than to me? Go with me to my house: we will be married there. It will then and
                     thus be in your power to aid Florence, to give to her entire rest and ease,
                     should she desire it; for if she will, our home shall be hers. She shall be
                     freed from that wearying life she leads; for she will permit you
                     to aid her, when I could not even offer to do so. We will all go abroad: you
                     shall learn life, and enjoy it to the full, dearest."
                  That suggestion relating to Florence was well put. It made the idea of flying
                     for a moment from her protection seem less dreadful: for Clara had fancied many
                     times how glorious and pleasant a thing it would be to give her noble sister
                     rest, and station, and riches, such as she deserved; and since the engagement
                     with Mr. Gerard, this fancying had transformed itself into a good within her
                     grasp. He had before this used the promise as an assurance; he produced it now,
                     a temptation. Should she put it away for ever, in the weak fear of doing that
                     which should make people talk and wonder for a day?
                  
                  Days passed after this important interview before Mr. Gerard came again to see
                     Clara. He stayed away only for the purpose of exciting her wonder and fear at
                     his absence, that when he should again present himself, her feeble will might
                     be completely subdued to his. He had not studied the poor child in vain; he had
                     made no miscalculation in regard to her character. By that very policy was she
                     placed wholly at his mercy; for before he appeared again, Clara had resolved
                     that she would go with him wherever he chose to lead her. But it was in vain
                     that she strove to hush the voice within, by the deceiving idea that she should
                     benefit Florence, and repay her long devotion thus; she could not
                     satisfy herself with the sophism that the end justified the means. It was with
                     her a struggle of thought to the last, and when the struggle ended in her
                     resolution, Florence and Gerard were all she really thought of. Her own
                     happiness was not at that time the grand idea. Her own? It was the last she
                     could reason about then. A love for him that amounted to entire abnegation of
                     self had been her heart's offering since that day during her recovery when he
                     avowed his faithful and entire love for her. Had it not been so, she would
                     yet—oh! in the name of human nature do not doubt it!—have hesitated,
                     re-thought, and, perhaps, have prayed over that temptation.
                  "in a day, or at very farthest a week, they would come back. Did she dare fear
                     or doubt him?" He asked it that bright morning when she went out from Wells and
                     joined him, and left with him the paths of duty, peace, and holiness. He asked
                     it; and the sun shone so joyously, and the birds sang so sweetly, the flowers
                     bloomed so purely, everything seemed so merry and so fair, that she answered,
                     "No;" but the answer had less of sincerity in it than when uttered while under
                     the care and protection of Florence.
               
               
                  IX.
                  NOT only that one day which Clara had appointed in her own mind for time of
                     absence, but many days, so many that they began to be numbered for months,
                     passed by, while the unavailing vailing search and watching for her return
                     continued. No doubts existed as to with whom she had departed; but
                        how she had gone was a tormenting and dreadful thought for the
                     grieved and disappointed Florence. The deception practised against her by one
                     whom she had loved and tenderly watched over through her life-time, fell with
                     awfully enlightening force upon her. She could not rally; she was almost
                     blinded by it. Through the loneliness and gloom and grief, which settled like a
                     steadfast cloud upon the house after Clara's going, but one ray of brightness
                     and comfort streamed; the joyous, half-blind, merry, and affectionate little
                     Rose Percy. It seemed to her teacher, her sister, Florence, in those days, that
                     the blessing of the child's mother had indeed taken a tangible form in the
                     person of Rose; and in the girl's constant presence, her true innocence and
                     childliness, she felt that she was finding her real earthly comfort and
                     sustainer. The more sentient companionship of Willis even did not equal that of
                     the guilelessness and dependence of the little one.
                  After a search of many weeks, which was continued in every imaginable way, the
                     idea of its being crowned with success was abandoned in despair; and then
                     Florence, looking to ONE mighty, and to herself, again turned her attention to
                     her daily tasks, as strong really but still more grave and silent than before
                     that day of dreadful visitation. Was there no other way for her to do than to
                     still toil on? Could she find no safe shelter and retirement from the curious?
                     Yes! Willis Percy had again opened the doors of his home, and entreated her to
                     enter, as its mistress; he had besought her to take his honorable name for her
                     own; he had implored her to accept his protection from the shame and disgrace
                     brought on her own house; and she put away the cup of blessing, and said,
                     "Though I should die, will I be true to myself!"
                  The close of the year of Clara's absence found Florence receiving the erring,
                     lost sister of her heart, to her lowly home again, with tearless eyes, but
                     prayerful, and therefore not despairing calmness; found her in a consciousness
                     of new need, and still sterner duty, that filled heart and brain with terrific
                         light, seeking and finding
                     strength to not only labor diligently—she had done that always—but
                     in addition, to watch and guard the broken, shattered mind, the feeble life of
                     the poor wanderer. And succeeding days, and months, and years, saw her growing
                     up to the performance of that necessity; and when parted at last from her great
                     human comfort, little Rose, whose mind she had prepared for other instruction
                     than she could give, Florence was compelled to look for relief from her school
                     toils only to the more distressing, because hopeless tasks devolving on her as
                     Clara's guardian.
                  Of what those months of absence had been to Clara in the proving, Florence
                     never knew; and it was well that she could not know. The name of Gerard never
                     escaped her sister's lips after the time of her return. All energy, all sense,
                     all affection and interest, seemed to have been left behind in the outer world
                     of horror from which she had escaped on that night, that wild and dreadful
                     midnight of her return home; that night when Florence heard her beseeching
                     voice above the voice of the storm, and knowing what and whose it was, hastened
                     to receive the loved and lost one back.
                  During the five following years of Clara's life, at regular intervals, letters
                     came to her address, (he had not given her even another name!) containing
                     drafts, which, if made use of in the way directed, would have enabled the
                     sisters to live in entire ease, in luxury, had they so chosen. But, though the
                     support of the household now depended on her unaided efforts, for Clara had
                     lost all ability for and knowledge of her former pursuits, those drafts were
                     never "dishonored" by Florence in making use of them; and they had no other
                     "sight" than that of fire. She would have perished herself from want, and would
                     have suffered Clara to know the same fate, rather than accept relief from him
                     who had worked them such intolerable wrong.
                  Those five years passed, and Florence was alone: her sister had gone with the
                     dead. She went not obeying the call of the Almighty, but at her own bidding.
                     Her insanity or imbecility had taken in the last days of her life a new form:
                     she became utterly mute, as one deaf and dumb, and no word, or sign, or taken
                     of understanding could be drawn from her; and it was while this change was
                     causing an increase of dread in the mind of Florence, that all cause for
                     farther watching and sorrow for Clara was removed for ever. She was found
                     drowned. The life of the gentle, and trusting, and deceived, and erring Clara
                     ended with a tragedy.
                  The teacher had been out with her pupils for a half-day's ramble in the woods,
                     leaving her sister in the house-keeper's charge. The return of Florence and the
                     children to the town led over a bridge which spanned the river D—; and when at
                     night-fall they crossed it, they found themselves awed and trembling amidst a
                     crowd which had gathered at the magic words, "a woman drowned!" and
                        her eyes were among those gazing with pitying eagerness to
                     distinguish the form and half-hid features of the suicide, and her voice was
                     the faintest of those which broke forth with such grief and horror, when the
                     name of Clara Swaine was once again taken on the lips of a wondering people;
                     and her form was the first to bend, with forgiveness and faithful, fearless
                     love, over the dead.
                  When it was discovered that life was quite extinct, a litter was hastily
                     procured by the sympathizing multitude; the body was placed upon it, and then
                     for a moment Florence stooped over it, smoothing the drenched and tangled hair
                     and closing the eyelids. As they paused thus in deep silence ere the bier was
                     lifted, the people were compelled to stand hastily back; for a coach with fiery
                     horses came dashing rapidly over the bridge, and one who rode therein had much
                     to do with that poor dead creature's history. The dust his proud steeds raised
                     fell on the face of Clara. Poor Clara! more pitiable Gerard! She had gone to
                     the judgment: he, in the strength of his pride, and wealth, and years, was
                     going on into the world, whose smiles and cordial greeting would, he well knew,
                     await him wherever he might turn; where his example was to be spread, and where
                     the frown of woman would surely be not raised against him, nor the scorn and
                     scoff of men!
                  The courage, strength and ability which had, during all Clara's life, and more
                     especially in its last years, increased with every new trial and
                     discouragement, seemed for a time after  that death to fail Florence totally. For a while
                     with high heart she struggled against nature's encroaching self-distrust,
                     weakness and despondency, but then the over-taxed heart failed utterly. The
                     courage, not earth-born, nor earth-sustained, had been long the comfort and
                     sustainer of her soul. Where was it? why had it vanished? Even in the "patient,
                     never-wearying love" of Percy, which never revealed itself more clearly and
                     generously than now, Florence found no consoler, no sustainer. It was even at
                     one time a source of bitter thought, for it seemed to her as though this love
                     had been given merely to aggravate and to tantalize; proffered as it was to a
                     sense of justice so strict and stern as nature and circumstances had fostered
                     in her soul. But, praise to the Grace that did not then desert her! the
                     wrongful thought was wrestled with and overcome. Religion had been long the
                     great comfort of her soul, and it was not to prove a broken cistern in the time
                     of her great need! And now again her soul put off its sackcloth, and she went
                     on her way willing to live, and thankful that she could live, by faith and not
                     by sight.
                  For some time Percy and she had been separated by distance, he having gone to
                     take the pastoral charge of a church in Brunswick. On hearing of Clara's death
                     he came at once to Florence, feeling that she had a right to look for him, and
                     a hope that he had cherished for years stood out full in the light as he sought
                     her, to speak consoling and holy words. But stricken as he found her, she would
                     accept no more from him than his Christian sympathy. It would have been no
                     marvel if, when he parted with her again, and stood once more among his people,
                     he had preached to them with a new force, and in a new sense, concerning the
                     Saviour's "Be ye perfect," he carried with him from Florence such an entire
                     conviction that it was possible for mortals to obey the very letter and spirit
                     of the far-reaching injunction.
                  Percy's last visit to Florence, and the few and brief letters she wrote him,
                     did much for him; the breath of resignation was transmitted from her soul into
                     his, and he began to learn much of that divine patience from her, the patience
                     that could endure even till time was no more, looking for its measure sure of
                     happiness, denied on earth, to another state of existence. After all the
                     impatience of youth, the love-longing and expectance, peace, calm peace and
                     true submission came, and dwelt within him, comforting him, and precious to him
                     beyond all things, because he knew it was a twin-spirit of the quiet that was
                     in her. That peace! it was the good Samaritan to him! His early hopes went by
                     all on the other side, and he saw them going, while he lay wounded to the
                     heart, weak and powerless; and then peace, that very peace which Florence knew,
                     came to him, bound up his wounds, and left him in the care of the great
                     Physician, and He restored and blessed him.
                  When the Samaritan's good offices were abiding in the soul, and proving
                     themselves in the daily life which he pursued; while he was receiving calmly,
                     and with intelligent-consciousness, the conviction that he was indeed a
                     stranger and a pilgrim on earth, ordained to toil, and grow not weary in his
                     journeying, he was compelled to test his strength, to prove the genuineness of
                     his peace. Tidings came to him, but not through Florence, that an envoy
                        extraordinary had come, seeking her, from England, bearing a
                     recognition and a will from her father, by which she was made heir to an
                     immense fortune. The story was communicated to Percy through a friend whose
                     word he could not doubt; and acting on the instant suggestion of a thankful
                     heart, he wrote to Florence:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Why are you silent? I have waited all this day—it seems a
                                 century—for words from you. I have had such joyful news
                                    of you as I cannot believe you would willingly keep
                                 from me. Are you ill? May I come to you? Oh! tell me what you
                                    wish me, what I may do. I have no mind
                                 of my own left; for I write, Florence, in the overwhelming
                                 consciousness that you are happy now beyond all you have dared or
                                 allowed yourself to hope. The longing, the intense desire of your
                                 life appears before you in the shape of a full blessing. I dare not
                                 think of the way in which you may remember me. It will be your
                                 place, power, necessity, to think of me as for the first time in
                                 the light of a petitioning lover, for I know all things must now
                                 become as it were new to you. You must say to-day to your  heart, whether you can
                                 love me. I plead nothing; my heart leaves itself wholly to your
                                 heart's judgment. You have tried and proved the things of this
                                 world; you have a more than ordinary knowledge of life as it is
                                 really. If, looking into the inmost recesses of your heart, you
                                 find no image of me remaining, do not hesitate to tell me of it.
                                 Even in that happening I would not have you forget, unless the
                                 assurance is worthless, that I rejoice in your present cause for
                                 rejoicing as thoroughly as I have in past times sorrowed in your
                                 sorrows.
                              
                                 "Your friend in truth,
                                 W. PERCY."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  A letter and an envoy had indeed come; they had been received by Florence.
                     Judge Browning, one of the most distinguished of England's lawyers, had on his
                     death-bed dispatched this person with a word of recognition and a will, by
                     which his daughter was left a millionaire, and Florence received them. It
                     seemed indeed, in the experience of that day, as though no sorrow were to be
                     spared her, no pang of disappointment. After others had announced to her the
                     glad tidings of the bright fulfilment of her whole life's hope, the stranger
                     came into her presence, satisfied that it was she to whom he bore the
                     acknowledgment of one whom the great men of England reverenced. He laid the
                     letter before her, and with her own eyes Florence read what Judge Browning had
                     written on his death-bed. She read the story of his youth and poverty; of his
                     wife, and of her sufferings and early death; of his child, his only
                        one, whom before her mother died they, in their destitution and
                     misery, left to the care of strangers. No attempt was made in the epistle to
                     palliate the neglect which had continued in his after-years' prosperity.
                     Compensation was made, or the dying man had evidently endeavored
                     to suppose it was made, in giving at the last wealth and name to his child. It
                     was not the thought of this long desertion that spread darkness over the eyes
                     of her who read, that sent sickness into her very soul, that cast a shadow like
                     the shadow of death over her for a moment, when she thought of the child to
                     whom that letter was addressed; of Clara, to whom another hand had been
                     extended, for whom another voice than that of her proud, vain-glorious, earthly
                     parent, had said the recognising words: "My child!"
                  Refolding the letter—for with that what had she to do?—she returned it to the
                     envoy, and said, "The recognition is made many years too late. I am not Clara
                     Swaine, to whom you will see this letter is addressed. She was the only child
                     of Judge Browning, if I read aright? She is dead."
                  "He had never but one child; but is it possible I do not see that daughter
                     before me? What a dreadful mistake!"
                  "I must refer you to Mrs. Hammel, the matron of our Foundling Hospital, sir:
                     she is the one with whom you could most profitably confer now. If the disposal
                     of this property is in your power, do not forget her, and the house of refuge
                     in which she has spent herself. It was a home for Clara many years, as you are
                     probably aware."
                  The messenger bowed himself out in silence: he could not find words wherewith
                     to address the woman who had gone down from the sun-light into the darkness of
                     disappointment, even while his eyes were upon her, in such calm submission.
               
               
                  X.
                  DAYS passed on, and Percy's letter was unanswered. Those days were marked for
                     him by wonder, anxiety, and impatience; but for her they were recorded as the
                     witnesses of a victory over the last great temptation of Florence Swaine.
                  But at last, at last she wrote to him. Without and around her, in that hour,
                     were signs and tokens of an approaching departure, noise and confusion: the
                     little cottage, the home of years, was nearly dismantled; one room only was as
                     yet untouched, that in which she had lived long alone with her tried and
                     purified soul. The widowed house-keeper had gone back to the friendly
                     protection of the hospital, and the matron there was bethinking and wondering
                     over a romance she had known in real life. In other dwelling-places beside that
                     of Florence there were evidences of leave-taking, of sundering ties, of sorrow
                     and hope battling together. But there were no homes so desolate as that where
                     she sat alone, writing to Willis Percy, while the  soft summer wind was filling the sails of a
                     vessel lying in the harbor, waiting its passengers; a vessel which was that
                     night to go forth on a far voyage to heathendom.
                  There was a deathly pallor on the face of Florence as she wrote, dimness in her
                     brilliant eyes, but the gathering tears did not fall; and though her hand
                     trembled so violently when she began to write that she could hardly guide her
                     pen, yet was she going forth conquering and to conquer!
                  
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "You would have folded me safely in the shelter of your name,
                                 WILLIS, while disgrace was on mine. Should you take me now, you
                                 would not find the disgrace of doubt removed. You
                                 would have defended me, when the harsh judgment of the world had
                                 gone forth against mine—mine no longer, by tie of life or of blood!
                                 You would have saved me from labor, have shielded me from sorrow,
                                 had it been in your power; and now, when, if I dared or could I
                                 would cry, 'Take me!' you fold your arms, you look on
                                 me distrustfully, fearing for the constancy, the trueness of my
                                 heart's love for you, because you think I am in prosperity! Give me
                                 back your old confidence; indeed, indeed I deserve it, if I ever
                                 did. Do I not need it! Oh! noblest heart! believe me,
                                 it is my joy and consolation in this hour, the last, the very last
                                 spent in my native land, to think that I have been permitted to
                                 love you.
                              "You have learned probably by this time that it was on Clara the
                                 too-late blessing felt; that I have always been unconnected by
                                 natural ties with her, with any whom I know. From me you will learn
                                 that I am going now, at once, to give my future years,
                                 my strength—I have strength yet, dear WILLIS—my years, my strength
                                 and talents, to the service of our MAKER. It matters little whether
                                 that service be rendered here or afar. Do not call it weakness that
                                 leads me hence. I might fail here. I must free myself
                                 from the recollections which are so closely associated with this
                                 place. I should have asked your counsel, had I not seen my duty to
                                 myself and my GOD so clearly pointed out, that I dare not shrink
                                 from its performance—I cannot shrink. You know of this party of
                                 Christians about to sail for India. Some of them are our own
                                 personal friends; and I know that did I consult you merely as a
                                 Christian pastor might be consulted, you would say to me, 'Listen
                                 to that voice within you; pray to GOD; and then act as your
                                 judgment shall decide.' This I have done, and nothing
                                 remains for me but to say to you, Farewell. Farewell! We are not
                                 parting for ever. I know we shall not meet again in this life; I
                                 shall never hear your voice; you will not see my face again. Had I
                                 thought that we were equal to a calm parting, I would have called
                                 you to me. Farewell! 'Our help is in the name of the LORD;' we are
                                 His servants. Let us be faithful: He will not disown
                                    us.
                              
                              "In the bonds of faith, and fellowship, and love, yes, by the grace
                                 of GOD, your
                              
                                 F. S."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  The vessel had sailed ere this letter reached its destination. Florence looked
                     her last upon her native land. Thenceforth was she no more to Willis Percy, but
                     as much as an angel-thought, a guardian, soothing and sustaining angel-thought.
                     Her going left him in one sense peculiarly and sadly alone; and yet, could he
                     have done so, he would not have called her back. In his imagination he saw her
                     going, as she really did, calmly, resolutely, holily, and his spirit would not
                     even whisper, "Return, and bless me." She had blessed him in that
                     very act of departing. So were his hands made free, and his heart purified; so
                     was his soul in its entireness drawn upward in adoration, and between heaven
                     and earth it vibrated, in every movement worshipping, and rendering service
                     acceptable to GOD.
                  Years went by before he answered that letter of farewell; and he had not
                     meanwhile heard from Florence, save through others. When he did write to her,
                     he also was on the eve of a departure; he had "set his house in order;" he was
                     going "home." And he knew, for friends had told him, that her feet had entered
                     the same path, that she too would soon enter her FATHER'S house. Percy died in
                     the very prime of life and usefulness; he was cut down in the midst of apparent
                     vigor, and energy, and watchful labor; he had fought a good fight; he had kept
                     the faith. THEN, as he had desired, his letter was sent over the great oceans,
                     to the land whose darkness Florence had  striven to enlighten, whose people she had
                     toiled to bless, with a patience, and hope, and ardor too, which, if
                     individually exhausting and destroying, were, as an example, life-giving and
                     glorious. And that letter she read for the first time on her death-day. Had she
                     not reason to fold it THEN, as she did, closely upon her breast? Had she not
                     cause, when her heart was groping no longer "blindly in the dark" for an
                     earthly father's love and benediction, to say, triumphantly as she did, while
                     her spirit was being caught up to meet HIM:
                  "My SAVIOUR, not deserted!"
               
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
               A NEW AND CHARMING WORK,
               NOW PUBLISHING BY J. S. REDFIELD, CLINTON HALL, NEW-YORK, ENTITLED
                  EPISODES OF INSECT LIFE BY ACHETA DOMESTICA, M. E. S.
               
                  In three series:
                  First Series INSECTS OF SPRING Now ready.
                  Second Series INSECTS OF SUMMER Now ready.
                  Third Series INSECTS OF 
                        AUTUMM
                        AUTUMN
                      Now ready.
               
               
                  EXTRACTS FROM EDITORIAL NOTICES.
                  The First Part of "Episodes of Insect Life," from the press of
                     J. S. Redfield, is now ready—amply illustrated, a fac-simile of the English
                     edition: a more charming book, fresh with the fragrance of the country air, and
                     musical with the rustle of insect wings, is not likely to be seen often. In the
                     clearness of its type, the beauty of the illustrations, and the whole manner of
                     its presentment, the "Episodes" fairly gives the laurel to its tasteful and
                     enterprising publisher.—Literary World.
                  
                  "* * * * * Now that we have introduced you, good reader, be plain with us, on
                     your soul, if you know a circle of friends with whom you would rather spend a
                     day than with these notable, gifted, companionable, and most charming
                     insect-folks! You see there is no lack of variety: there are grandfathers and
                     grandmothers, brothers and sisters, grave judges and fops—though of better
                     sort, and dressed in far purer taste than our humans—patricians and plebeians,
                     subterranean and parlor aristocracy in the tree tops.
                  "For a pure summer's day, when old Sol hath warmed his next friend, the Earth,
                     to the heart's core, grant, oh! Beneficence of all things! that we may lie in
                     some gentle locust shadow, hard by a fragrant bower, with a smooth-flowing
                     stream, our only human companion this Redfield with his Episodes; and shall we
                     not be happier than the scourer of Waterloo, sailer on the Rhine, climber of
                     the Alps, with his Eustace or Murray? Believe us, a bee's wing is a mightier
                     wonder than St. Peter's, and the wild fowl standing on one leg by a water-pool,
                     more contemplative than the pyramids of the desert!"—Do.
                  
                  
                  "In the beginning of the eighteenth century, the will of an English lady was
                     attempted to be set aside on the ground of lunacy, and the sole basis of the
                     attempt was her fondness for collecting insects. It was thought to be an
                     evidence of insanity to devote so much time to such a trivial pursuit. Since
                     that period, the science of entomology has been labored upon and developed by
                     some of the greatest and wisest men, and we have all been taught to see in the
                     minutest forms of insect life further proofs of the existence and goodness of
                     God. If the cultivation of this science had no other object than to manifest
                     the Deity, it would deserve our utmost commendation. Medicine and the arts,
                     however, are indebted to the study of entomology for many valuable discoveries.
                     The book under notice is one of especial beauty and utility, and we heartily
                     thank the publisher for his enterprise in putting it within the reach of
                     American readers. It is worthy of a place in every family library. Elegantly
                     illustrated and humorously yet chastely written, it is calculated to amuse and
                     instruct all classes of readers."—Commercial Advertiser.
                  
                  "An elegant republication of a recent elegant English work. The author whom we
                     might, perhaps, infer from the feminine designation on the title-page to be a
                     lady, says, in the preface, that the work was not written with a view of
                     teaching Entomology as a science, but of affording such a measure of
                     acquaintance with the habits of the insect world as might awaken the desire for
                     more exact and systematic knowledge. Several of the more commonly known
                     insects—the cricket, the fly, the ant, the spider, the wasp, the bee, &c.,
                     are taken as examples of the large class of living things to which they belong,
                     and accounts of their habits are given, illustrated with drawings representing
                     them in the different stages of existence. The author is a zealous friend of
                     some of these little creatures—in one part of the book is a chapter on the uses
                     of flies, and another is entitled the Defence of Wasps. The book is pleasingly
                     written, and will form an agreeable companion for a vacant hour in the ensuing
                        summer."—Evening Post.
                  
                  "This is the title of one of the most beautiful American publications that we
                     have ever seen. The paper and print are of the nicest, whilst the crowds of
                     illustrations are 'even about' the daintiest possible. The binding, also, is
                     all right, and the cover is blazoned over with golden spiders, and beetles, and
                     butterflies. The contents are rambling and spirited sketches, ostensibly of
                     Entomology, but really on matters and things in general, combining a good deal
                     of amusement with a fair amount of instruction. Each chapter is headed with a
                     correct engraving of some noted insect in its various stages of being, while at
                     the conclusion of each is a grotesque embellishment, finely executed, of
                     insects arrayed in armor, or in fashionable rig, in a style similar to that of
                     the illustrations to Wright's La Fontaine. The letter-press is not of value to
                     the scientific reader, but it contains much that will add to the knowledge of
                     people in general. It is written easily and gracefully, and accords well with
                     the delicate beauty of the binding, print, and engravings of the volume."
                  
                     Morning Post.
                  
                  "Episodes of Insect Life. This is an elegantly printed and
                     illustrated volume, containing 'authentic records' of the insect world,
                     wreathed about with the flowers of imagination and fancy, admirably adapted to
                     popularise the subject.
                  "We conceive that there is a peculiar appropriateness in thus ornamenting the
                     science of Entomology. The rich fancy of the author of this beautiful book may
                     be fitly likened to the luxuriant verdure of leaves and flowers, among which
                     live and sport so many of the tribes described. These inhabitants of the world
                     of verdure and of the by-places and crannies of creation, with their tiny toils
                     and pleasures—could they have a more appropriate historian?
                  "The getting up of the book is a really splendid specimen of taste. Mr.
                     Redfield should be exempted from the bite of a — bug, or the sting of a
                     mosquito, for the term of his natural life."—Whig Review
                  
                  "Episodes of Insect Life," just published by Redfield, is the
                     prettiest book we remember to have seen since our advent among books:
                     butterflies, ladybirds, gnats, moths, and beetles, are most exquisitely
                     pictured, with all sorts of quaint vignettes. The descriptions are charming
                     'Episodes,' and the paper, printing, and binding, have never been excelled in
                     this country. If you have ever chased a butterfly, reader, go and buy this
                        book."—Knickerbocker.
                  
                  "A pleasing novelty is this volume, both in its conception and in its
                     execution. The author personates the House Cricket, (Acheta Domestica,) and chirps as musically and
                     domestically as does 'the Cricket on the Hearth' in the melodious 'Christmas
                     Chimes.' A more tasteful and attractive book has never been issued from the
                     American press. Its exquisite wood-cuts, representing by most ingenious devices
                     the developments and peculiarities of various insect tribes, its fine-textured
                     lily leaves, its clear, bold letter-press, the charming vivacity of its style,
                     its scientific information conveyed under the type of anecdote and
                     illustration, its allegorical decorations, its keen satire and droll Esop-like
                     moralizing—these all chain the eye to the volume, and make one quite enamored,
                     not of the cricket only, but of his numerous compeers of the insect world.
                     Indeed we are almost disposed to regard our friend Lyon, with his magnetic
                     powder, as a sort of wholesale murderer of innocence and beauty, and to upbraid
                     ourselves for having, by recommendation, become auxiliary to the extermination
                     of any species of 'varmint.' Hereafter the lady—reader of this volume when in
                     her garden walks she shall encounter the spider spinning himself down upon her
                     hood or cape, instead of screaming 'Ugh! John, William, come kill this ugly
                     creature!' will fondly say, 'Come hither, my Epeira
                        diadema, spin for me thy pretty gossamer.' The stroller in the
                     summer fields, instead of flying before the wasp, will pause to
                     admire the graceful evolutions of the golden-winged but short-lived Vespa the builder of palace-tombs. And through the
                     livelong summer night how shall we welcome the sharp violin-twang of the
                     mosquito, and yield our veins to this phlebotomizing practitioner of the old
                     school.
                  "What a world of wonders is thrown open to us in these mere episodes of insect
                     life. Welcome, cricket, to our home! In summer we will give thee whatever of
                     garden space the sepulchred enclosure of city walls allows, and in winter a
                     deserted oven or whatever kitchen-range or cellar-furnace have left of that
                     ancient realm of domestic joy, the hearth-stone and the chimney-corner.
                  "This volume, following the order of the months, closes with April. We hope
                     therefore that there are others in store. The subject presents a delightful
                     field of contemplation to the devout and inquiring mind."—N. Y.
                        Ind.
                  
                  
                  "In scope, style, and execution, this is a most tastefully elegant, and
                     usefully entertaining book. It is a graphic, sprightly portraiture of the
                     natural history of insects, written for popular reading, free from scientific
                     terms, and abounding with curious facts, elegant descriptions, humorous
                     anecdotes, and enthusiastic interest, relative to the habits, appearance, uses,
                     troubles, &c., of all the multitude of ephemera. The work is comprised in
                     three volumes, one relating to the Insects of Spring, another to those of
                     Summer, and the third to those of Autumn. Mr. Redfield has issued the first;
                     and in a style of typography and illustration of remarkable taste and beauty.
                     The engravings are exquisitely fine, printed in letter-press, yet with an
                     elegance and finish which was never attained on wood. Some new art has been
                     applied here, evidently, producing extraordinary effects. These plates are
                     numerous, ingenious, and tastefully disposed. It is a work which will give
                     delight to all classes of readers, mingling science and romance, anecdote, and
                     fact, taste and knowledge, with such skill and sprightliness, that, whether
                     taken up as a book of learning or a book of leisure, it will be equally sure to
                     please. The English journals and reviews have been for some time praising it,
                     and we are very glad to see it in this elegant form, so well adapted to win its
                     way where the same useful knowledge, in a more homely garb, would find but
                     little welcome."—N. Y. Evangelist.
                  
                  "A volume of essays, sketches, and stories illustrative of the habits of Insect
                     Life. Its poetic and imaginative style will attract all who can appreciate wit
                     and humor, made subsidiary to the diffusion of interesting and valuable
                     information. The general appearance of the book is quite in harmony with its
                     literary excellence, presenting a model of typography, &c."—Journal
                        of Com.
                  
                  "Episodes of Insect Life, by Acheta Domestica, M. E. S.: Is the
                     title of a beautiful volume, illustrated in the most admirable and artistic
                     style. This work is a specimen of typographical neatness, and its contents
                     unfold the wonders of the insect world in the most pleasing and fanciful
                     manner. It is the volume of all others, which our readers will take with them
                     during the summer months to the sea shore or the bush. The author, in a single
                     line, provokes one to laughter and thought, and concludes every sentence by
                     imparting some useful little bit of information."—Boston Evening
                        Gazette.
                  
                  "This splendid volume is a reprint of an English work which has attained a well
                     deserved celebrity abroad, and is now introduced in a beautiful form to
                     American readers. Its author is an enthusiastic entomologist, and gives every
                     desirable evidence of belonging to that very small class, the true lovers of
                     nature. Of pretenders to the simple taste which is exhibited in these pages,
                     multitudes may be found, any where, but Walton, and White, and Davy, are as far
                     removed from such sentimentalists, as angels are above men. This book has
                     points of affinity with the complete Angler, the Natural History of Shelborne
                     and Salmonia. There is much poetry in it—not a little of rare and curious
                     matter, and a great deal of scientific knowledge. It is written in an easy and
                     elegant style, and is destined to live.
                  "The style in which this volume is issued, is an honor to the American press.
                     The head and tail pieces to the chapters, are in a high style of art; and are
                     favorable specimens of the perfection to which wood-engraving has attained
                     among us. There are few American works which will compare with it in
                     appearance. Nobody will repent buying it."—Old Colony Memorial.
                  
                  "We have read this work and felt our interest and admiration rising, and
                     strengthening, with every page. The authoress, for we are told, 'Acheta' is a
                     lady, deserves all praise for her work, and may well be proud of what she has
                     accomplished. In the words of one whose opinion is worth having, on account of
                     his natural and cultivated capacity of discernment of things essentially
                     meritorious, and beautiful, we can say, that if the publications of the last
                     twenty years were gathered together, we doubt if a work more charming and
                     delightful could be found, than this. We are lured into pleasant knowledge out
                     of 'blissful ignorance,' by the tempting fictions, and 'thin veils' of fancy,
                     Acheta presents—her style too is the most agreeable, sprightly, and spicy
                     imaginable. She is a chatty, charming author, 'and no mistake.'
                  "This volume, (we have seen and read) is the first of the three which form the
                     complete series. All sorts of insects, their appearance, personal, and habits
                     individual, are well discussed, and the illustrations given, are perfect gems.
                     Eyes that love to feast on things fanciful, and most beautiful, and thoughts
                     willing to be beguiled into useful and intellectual amusements, will be
                     attracted and enchained by the work, without a doubt.
                  MR. REDFIELD deserves all praise too, for re-publishing this graceful book in a
                     style so worthy of its prototype, and we are confident that the appreciative
                     will not rest satisfied with paying him merely in thanks."—Rochester
                        Democrat.
                  
                  "This book, which Mr. Redfield has done himself great honor in publishing in
                     such exquisite style, is a fit annual for the summer holidays. We have no
                     where, in late time, met a work so every way charming—the binding is
                     beautiful—the paper and type perfect, and the illustrations admirably executed
                     after the most original of all original designs. But this dress would be an
                     aggravation after all, and a despicable one too, if the reader of this first
                     volume of three, which are given to the nature, habits, and 'outward
                     manifestation' of the Insects of Spring, Summer and Autumn, did not feel
                     charmed, interested and much instructed, by the perusal. The style is graceful,
                     full of humor, and faultlessly beautiful; and of all books, in which lovers of
                     fiction are charmed into the bondage and study of facts, of all at least which
                     we have met, we pronounce this the very best. The authoress, 'Acheta' is a
                     woman, so the Reviews tell us—says that "the following essays have been
                     written, not with a view of teaching Entomology as a science, but of affording
                     such a measure of acquaintance with the habits of the Insect world, as may
                     serve to promote the ulterior and more useful design of cultivating the
                     rudimental seeds of systematic investigation." We do not quote this opening
                     sentence of the preface as a specimen of the style of the writer; the reader
                     who would not read the preface through, perhaps, could not, we venture to say,
                     lay the work aside without expressing, as we do, our hearty admiration; nor
                     without the hope that our people may prove in the judgment they pass upon it, a
                     love for a range of light and useful literature, a little exalted above the
                     'Milliner line.'"—Ontario Repository.
                  
                  "This is a book for drawing-rooms and watering-places, and certainly highly
                     novel and entertaining. While mingling the pleasant with the useful, it
                     presents many facts which, however well known to naturalists, will leave
                     something worthy of remembrance in the minds of the class for which it is
                     evidently designed—the votaries of fashion and people of leisure, who rarely
                     trouble the sciences, and when they do so, limit themselves to the regular ten
                     minutes of a morning call."—Sartain's Magazine.
                  
                  
                  "This is one of the most interesting works that we ever perused. It is truly
                     original in its conception. The habits and pursuits of various tribes of the
                     insect race are described, in such a manner as to give it the interest of a
                     romance, and yet it is a thorough scientific work. The author has recorded
                     their habits as we might suppose one of their own class of beings would do,
                     substituting reason for instinct, and clothing the insects described, with the
                     attributes of mankind, of various classes of which they are made the type. The
                     essays, says the author, 'were written not with a view of teaching entomology
                     as a science, but of affording such a measure of acquaintance with the habits
                     of the insect world, as may serve to promote the ulterior and more useful
                     design of cultivating the rudimental seeds of systematic investigation.' The
                     book is illustrated with numerous beautiful engravings of different insects,
                     and its mechanical execution is superior."—Christian Freeman.
                  
                  "One of the most charming books of this or any other day; conveying a store of
                     entomological knowledge, in a style the most amusing and delightful. It is
                     embellished with etchings on steel in the best style of art. The printing,
                     paper, typography, and whole mechanical appearance, is most creditable to Mr.
                     Redfield. We have marked some passages from the book, that will give our
                     readers a taste of its quality. But in Harpers' Magazine, the Living Age, and
                     other periodicals, the author's playful pages have already been made free with
                     to a considerable extent; and all who have read an extract will desire to
                     possess the entire volume."—Boston Transcript.
                  
                  "This is an elegant reprint of a very charming London book, the first of a
                     series, embracing the Insects of Spring. It will be followed successively by
                     the Insects of Summer, and the Insects of Autumn. The English press extol the
                     work in very high terms; and from a hasty perusal, we are inclined to think the
                     book can hardly be overpraised. It treats the subject scientifically, and yet
                     familiarly; so that all classes of readers, who have any taste for the wonders
                     and beauties of Nature, will be equally interested in its pages.
                  The style in which Mr. Redfield has issued this work has hardly been surpassed,
                     in the typography and illustrations, by any work got up in this country. It is
                     as elegant as an annual, and vastly more instructive and
                        entertaining."—Evening Mirror.
                  
                  "The volume is beautifully printed, illustrated with exquisite taste and humor,
                     and written in a style which gives to the results of much observation and
                     study, and to a subject repulsive to many, all the charms of a fairy tale. The
                     mysteries of instinct, as developed in the myriad forms of insect life, form a
                     theme of inexhaustible variety; and the author has brought the inspiration of a
                     poetic genius to its illustration.
                  We do not venture to conjecture who the author or authoress may be. We suppose
                     this will be revealed with the subsequent numbers of the series, for the
                     subject is one that will so tempt the writer and the public, that neither will
                     be content with a single volume."—Albany Atlas.
                  
                  "This is a remarkable work. It treats of the most interesting peculiarities of
                     insect life, but mixes with its sketches poetic, romantic and didactic
                     discourses in abundance. The style of the writer is elegant, and the mechanical
                     execution of the book especially fine. It abounds in quaint plates, which adds
                     much to the interest of the text."—Zion's Herald.
                  
                  "A rare and very beautiful book upon bugs: the poetry of insect life: a new
                     subject for the fancy, but well treated, so as to furnish instruction with
                     entertainment, and being embellished with numerous engravings, and elegantly
                     printed, it forms a handsome volume for the parlor."—N. Y.
                        Observer.
                  
                  "A book for young and old, of more than usual interest, is 'Episodes of Insect
                     Life,' published by J. S. Redfield, New York. The plan of this familiar
                     entomological treatise, if so grave a word as treatise may be used, is novel
                     and attractive; and the reader is led on from page to page, and from chapter to
                     chapter, almost as if he were poring over a romance. The charms of poetic
                     association, allegoric fable, and moral analogy, are all brought into
                     requisition by the author, who has succeeded in the production of a most
                     delightful work, which the publisher has profusely embellished. Some of the
                     illustrations are quaint enough. We heartily recommend 'Episodes of Insect
                     Life,' as a book from which all readers may gain amusement and instruction."
                        Arthur's Gazette.
                  
                  "The lovers of Natural History will find a rich treat in this beautiful volume.
                     Avoiding the dry details of a technical nomenclature, the genial writer
                     describes the curious phenomena of insect life with the delightful simplicity
                     and unction of an enthusiast for nature. Even if the work were not recommended
                     by the extent and fullness of its information, it would still derive a
                     perpetual charm from the quaint humor and delicate beauty of its style. The
                     embellishments, with which it is profusely illustrated, are engraved with great
                     softness and fidelity. No book has recently been issued from the New York press
                     which presents a more creditable specimen of elegant typography."—N. Y.
                        Tribune.
                  
                  "A new work, published by J. S. Redfield, of this city, on the 'Episodes of
                     Insect Life,' is one of the most interesting and beautiful books of the present
                     season. It is an 8vo. volume of 320 pages, profusely illustrated with
                     engravings, executed with great beauty and fidelity. The genial writer
                     describes the curious phenomena of insect life with the delightful simplicity
                     and unction of an enthusiast for nature. The value of the work, for the extent
                     and fullness of its information, is far beyond its mere price, and its interest
                     is greatly enhanced by the delicacy and quaintness of its style. Its
                     typographical execution is in the highest style of the art."—Sears'
                        Family Visitor.
                  
                  "This work is playfully written, and contains much that is interesting, and
                     will be new to most readers on the subject of which it treats. It is very
                     prettily illustrated with well executed engravings."—Boston Daily
                        Advertiser.
                  
                  "This is a very agreeable book, which has attracted considerable attention in
                     England. It is not intended as a scientific work, but rather as a popular
                     treatise, showing the nature, the habits, and the life of the insect tribes
                     which crowd the earth and swarm the air. The author defends the order of nature
                     in the insect creation, and shows their uses in the great economy of nature.
                     The various kinds of insects are arranged in the order of the months in which
                     they make their appearance, and as the four first months only are exhausted, we
                     infer that the volume before us will be followed by others upon the same
                     subject. If they are as well written as this, they will find many readers. The
                     book is beautifully printed, and is illustrated with numerous
                        engravings."—Providence Journal.
                  
                  
                  "This is a very interesting volume, and will be found a most attractive work to
                     all ages, for, while it is amusing and playful in its language, it is replete
                     with valuable information. It is an account of the habits of those insects
                     which appear with us in the spring. It describes their various transformations,
                     their changeable states and conditions, without the use of hard technical
                     language, but most intelligibly to the general reader. It might be called
                     Science made pleasure, or Fact made fanciful. The work is embellished by
                     numerous engravings, but at the present time, the air and ground is full, and
                     the whole face of nature teems with illustrations to this agreeable work. A
                     finer specimen of typography is rarely seen, and we commend it to all those who
                     would see in nature constant illustrations of the power and goodness of its
                     great Creator, whose every work doth praise Him.—Newark Daily
                        Advertiser.
                  
                  "This beautifully printed and illustrated work is not indebted to its
                     mechanical execution, solely, for its attractiveness. It is written in a style
                     singularly fascinating, and abounds with facts regarding the Insect tribes,
                     which would rivet the wondering attention of the reader, were they presented
                     through the medium of a less attractive style. It is evident that the author
                     has not written this work merely for name of the thing—nor was he prompted to
                     the task solely for the good it might do—for there is a genial feeling
                     pervading the book, which evidences that he has a love for his subject that
                     renders it a pleasant pastime for him to prepare such a volume. The volume was
                     written for popular circulation, and will not therefore perplex the minds of
                     the uninitiated by the use of scientific terms of definition. No reader can
                     fail of entering with hearty sympathy into the soliloquy of the author as he is
                     roused from his revery by the chirp of the cricket on the hearth, whom he
                     captures, and this familiar manner will insure readers who would be repelled
                     from a work of more dignity.
                  "A knowledge of the phenomena which the science of Entomology exhibits, is
                     useful to the heart as well as the head. The wonderful instinct of many of
                     these insects, is a demonstration of the existence of a Creator who has gifted
                     them with the faculty of adapting means to ends which secure their highest
                     usefulness and happiness. That this instinct is a faculty specially imparted,
                     and not the result of the creature's own thought or reasoning power, is evident
                     from the fact that he has no faculty of overcoming any obstacle which may
                     interfere with the uniform operation of that instinct, even though it might be
                     overcome by a far less exercise of contrivance and foresight, than is displayed
                     in that instinct itself. The intent of this volume is not to teach Natural
                     Theology, but it nevertheless does so, and, like many works of similar
                     character, is valuable not only for what it imparts, but what it
                        suggests."Waverley Magazine.
                  
                  "A beauty of a book! As the Irish say when hungry, a broth of a book! It does
                     not teach entomology as a science; but, in a manner, steals it unto you, while
                     you are only unbending your mind by watching the habits of the insect world.
                     Here you have a delightful mixture of natural history, observation, anecdote,
                     poetry, and moralizing, which it will be well worth your while to make your
                     own. The getting-up of the volume is exceedingly handsome, with lovely paper
                     and print, and full of illustrations. Children would devour it, and eat it over
                     and over again for the fiftieth time. Every copy sold, is sure to be worn out
                     with constant use."—Puritan Recorder.
                  
               
            
            
               For Schools, Academies, and Self-Instruction
               THE AMERICAN DRAWING-BOOK.
               BY JOHN G. CHAPMAN, N. A.
               THIS WORK will be published in PARTS; in the course of which— 
                     PRIMARY INSTRUCTIONS AND RUDIMENTS OF DRAWING:
                     DRAWING FROM NATURE—MATERIALS AND METHODS:
                     PERSPECTIVE—COMPOSITION—LANDSCAPE—FIGURES, ETC:
                     DRAWING, AS APPLICABLE TO THE MECHANIC ARTS:
                     PAINTING IN OIL AND WATER COLORS:
                     THE PRINCIPLES OF LIGHT AND SHADE;
                     EXTERNAL ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN FORM, AND COMPARATIVE ANATOMY:
                     THE VARIOUS METHODS OF ETCHING, ENGRAVING, MODELLING, Etc.
                   Will be severally treated, separately; so that, as far as practicable,
                  each Part will be complete in itself, and form, in the whole, "a
                  Manual of Information sufficient for all the purposes of the Amateur, and Basis of
                  Study for the Professional Artist, as well as a valuable Assistant to Teachers in
                  Public and Private Schools;" to whom it is especially recommended, as a work
                  destined to produce a revolution in the system of popular education, by making the
                  Arts of Design accessible and familiar to all, from the concise and intelligible
                  manner in which the subject is treated throughout.
               The want of such a work, has been the great cause of neglect in this important
                  branch of education; and this want is at once and fully supplied by the—
               AMERICAN DRAWING-BOOK:
               upon which Mr. CHAPMAN has been for years engaged; and it is now produced, without
                  regard to expense, in all its details, and published at a price to place it within
                  the means of every one.
               The Work will be published in large quarto form, put up in substantial covers, and
                  issued as rapidly as the careful execution of the numerous engravings, and the
                  mechanical perfection of the whole, will allow
               Any one PART may be had separately
               Price 50 Cents each Part.
               The DRAWING COPY-BOOKS, intended as auxiliary to the Work, in assisting Teachers
                  to carry out the system of instruction, especially in the Primary and Elementary
                  parts, form a new and valuable addition to the means of instruction. They will be
                  sold at a cost little beyond that of ordinary blank-books.
            
         
            
               
               CHAPMAN ON PERSPECTIVE
               BEING PART III. OF THE AMERICAN DRAWING-BOOK.
               NOTICES OF THE PRESS.
               "The nation may well be proud of this admirable work. In design and execution, the
                  artist has been singularly felicitous; and nothing can surpass the beauty,
                  correctness, and finish of style, in which the publisher has presented it to his
                  countrymen. The book is strictly what it claims to be—a teacher of the art of
                  Drawing. The method is so thorough, comprehensive, and progressive; its rules so
                  wise, exact, and clearly laid down; and its classic illustrations are so skilfully
                  adapted to train the eye and hand, that no pupil who faithfully follows its
                  guidance, can fail to become, at least, a correct draughtsman. We have been
                  especially pleased with the treatise on Perspective, which entirely surpasses
                  anything that we have ever met with upon that difficult branch of
                     art."—Spirit of the Age.
               
               "Perspective, is one of the most difficult branches of drawing, and one the least
                  susceptible of verbal explanation. But so clearly are its principles developed in
                  the beautiful letter—press, and so exquisitely are they illustrated by the
                  engravings, that the pupil's way is opened most invitingly to a thorough knowledge
                  of both the elements and application of Perspective."—Home Journal.
               
               "It treats of Perspective with a masterly hand. The engravings are superb, and the
                  typography unsurpassed by any book with which we are acquainted. It is an honor to
                  the author and publisher, and a credit to our common country."—Scientific
                     American.
               
               "This number is devoted to the explanation of Perspective, and treats that
                  difficult subject with admirable clearness, precision, and completeness. The
                  plates and letter-press of this work are executed with uncommon beauty. It has
                  received the sanction of many of our most eminent artists, and can scarcely be
                  commended too highly."—N. Y. Tribune.
               
               "This present number is dedicated to the subject of Perspective—commencing with
                  the elements of Geometry—and is especially valuable to builders, carpenters, and
                  other artisans, being accompanied with beautiful illustrative designs drawn by
                  Chapman, and further simplified by plain and perspicuous directions for the
                  guidance of the student. Indeed, the whole work, from its undeviating simplicity,
                  exhibits the hand of a master. We trust this highly useful and elevated branch of
                  art will hereafter become an integral portion of public education, and as it is
                  more easily attainable, so will it ultimately be considered an indispensable part
                  of elementary instruction. Its cheapness is only rivalled by its excellence, and
                  the artistic beauty of its illustrations is only equalled by the dignified ease
                  and common sense exemplified in the written directions that accompany each
                     lesson.—Poughkeepsie Telegraph."
               "The subject of Perspective we should think would interest every mechanic in the
                  country; indeed, after all, this is the class to be the most benefited by sound
                  and thorough instruction in drawing."—Dispatch.
               
               "Permit me here to say I regard your Drawing-Book as a treasure. I was a
                  farmer-boy, and it was while daily following the plough, that I became acquainted
                  with the first number of Chapman's Drawing-Book. I found in it just what I
                  desired—a plain, sure road to that excellence in the Art of Arts, that my boyish
                  mind had pictured as being so desirable, the first step toward which I had taken
                  by making rude sketches upon my painted ploughbeam, or using the barn-door as my
                  easel, while with colored rotten-stone I first took lessons from Nature. I am now
                  at college. I have a class at drawing, and find in the several numbers I have
                  obtained, the true road for the teacher also."—Extract from a letter
                  recently received.
            
            
               THE WORKS OF EDGAR ALLAN POE:
               WITH NOTICES OF HIS LIFE AND GENIUS,
               BY J. R. LOWELL, N. P. WILLIS, AND R. W. GRISWOLD.
               In two Volumes, 12mo., with a PORTRAIT OF THE AUTHOR.
               PRICE, TWO DOLLARS AND FIFTY CENTS.
               NOTICES OF THE PRESS.
               "The edition is published for the benefit of his mother-in-law, Mrs. Maria Clemm,
                  for whose sake we may wish it the fullest success. It however, deserves, and will
                  undoubtedly obtain, a large circulation from the desire so many will feel to lay
                  by a memorial of this singularly-gifted writer and unfortunate
                     man."—Philadelphia North American.
               
               "Poe's writings are distinguished for vigorous and minute analysis, and the skill
                  with which he has employed the strange fascination of mystery and terror. There is
                  an air of reality in all his narrations—a dwelling upon particulars, and a faculty
                  of interesting you in them such as is possessed by few writers except those who
                  are giving their own individual experiences. The reader can scarcely divest his
                  mind, even in reading the most fanciful of his stories, that the events of it have
                  not actually occurred, and the characters had a real
                     existence."—Philadelphia Ledger.
               
               "We need not say that these volumes will be found rich in intellectual
                  excitements, and abounding in remarkable specimens of vigorous, beautiful, and
                  highly suggestive composition; they are all that remains to us of a man whose
                  uncommon genius it would be folly to deny."—N. Y. Tribune.
               
               "Mr. Poe's intellectual character—his genius—is stamped upon all his productions,
                  and we shall place these his works in the library among those books not to be
                  parted with."—N. Y. Commercial Advertiser.
               
               "These works have a funereal cast as well in the melancholy portrait prefixed and
                  the title, as in the three pallbearing editors who accompany them in public. They
                  are the memorial of a singular man, possessed perhaps of as great mere literary
                  ingenuity and mechanical dexterity of style and management as any the country has
                  produced. Some of the tales in the collection are as complete and admirable as
                  anything of their kind in the language."—Military Review.
               
               "A complete collection of the works of one of the most talented and singular men
                  of the day. Mr. Poe was a genius, but an erratic one—he was a comet or a meteor,
                  not a star or sun. His genius was that almost contradiction of terms, an analytic
                  genius. Genius is nearly universally synthetic—but Poe was an exception to all
                  rules. He would build up a poem as a bricklayer builds a wall; or rather, he would
                  begin at the top and build downward to the base; and yet, into the poem so
                     manufactured, he would manage to breathe the breath of life. And
                  this fact proved that it was not all a manufacture—that the poem was also, to a
                  certain degree, a growth, a real plant, taking root in the mind, and watered by
                  the springs of the soul."—Saturday Post.
               
               "We have just spent some delightful hours in looking over these two volumes, which
                  contain one of the most pleasing additions to our literature with which we have
                  met for a long time. They comprise the works of the late Edgar A. Poe—pieces which
                  for years have been going 'the round of the press,' and are now first collected
                  when their author is beyond the reach of human praise. We feel, however, that
                  these productions will live. They bear the stamp of true genius; and if their
                  reputation begins with a 'fit audience though few,' the circle will be constantly
                  widening, and they will retain a prominent place in our literature."—Rev. Dr. Kip.
            
         
            
               
               JUST PUBLISHED,
               In one Volume, 12mo., cloth, Price $1.50,
               THE LITERATI:
               SOME HONEST OPINIONS ABOUT 
                     AUTORIAL
                     AUTHORIAL
                   MERITS AND DEMERITS, WITH OCCASIONAL WORDS OF PERSONALITY INCLUDING
                  MARGINALIA, SUGGESTIONS, AND ESSAYS.
               BY EDGAR A. POE.
               If I have in any point receded from what is commonly received, it hath been for
                  the purpose of proceeding melius and not
                     in aliud.—LORD BACON.
               Truth, peradventure, by force, may for a time be trodden down, but
                  never, by any means, whatsoever can it be trodden out.—LORD COKE.
               Among the subjects treated of in the volume, are criticisms on the works of the
                  following authors:—
               
                  J. G. C. BRAINARD,
                  FITZ GREENE HALLECK,
                  WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT,
                  HENRY W. LONGFELLOW,
                  CHARLES F. HOFFMAN,
                  WILLIAM GILMORE SIMMS,
                  JAMES FENIMORE COOPER,
                  CHARLES ANTHON, LL. D.,
                  GULIAN C. VERPLANCK,
                  ROBERT WALSH,
                  PIERO MARONCELLI,
                  JOHN W. FRANCIS, M.D., LL.D
                  WILLIAM W. LORD,
                  SEBA SMITH,
                  THOMAS WARD, M.D.,
                  RICHARD ADAMS LOCKE,
                  RUFUS DAWES,
                  JAMES LAWSON,
                  PROSPER M. WETMORE,
                  GEORGE B. CHEEVER, D.D.,
                  FREEMAN HUNT,
                  NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE,
                  RUFUS W. GRISWOLD,
                  BAYARD TAYLOR,
                  CHRISTOPHER PEASE CRANCH,
                  JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL,
                  CORNELIUS MATHEWS,
                  HENRY B. HIRST,
                  LEWIS GAYLORD CLARK,
                  RALPH HOYT,
                  JAMES ALDRICH,
                  THOMAS DUNN BROWN,
                  CHARLES F. BRIGGS,
                  WILLIAM M. GILLESPIE,
                  EVERT A. DUYCKINCK,
                  JOEL T. HEADLEY,
                  GEORGE P. MORRIS,
                  NATHANIEL PARKER WILLIS,
                  HENRY CAREY,
                  LAUGHTON OSBORN,
                  EPES SARGENT,
                  E. P. WHIPPLE,
                  ROBERT M. BIRD,
                  WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING,
                  WILLIAM A. JAMES,
                  CATHARINE M. SEDGWICK,
                  FRANCES S. OSGOOD,
                  ANNE C. LYNCH,
                  ELIZABETH OAKES-SMITH,
                  CAROLINE M. KIRKLAND,
                  ANNA CORA MOWATT,
                  ANN S. STEPHENS,
                  ESTELLE ANNA LEWIS,
                  ELIZABETH BOGART,
                  MARY GOVE NICHOLS,
                  AMELIA B. WELBY,
                  MARGARET MILLER DAVIDSON,
                  LUCRETIA MARIA DAVIDSON,
                  SARAH MARGARET FULLER,
                  EMMA C. EMBURY,
                  LYDIA M. CHILD,
                  ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING,
                  T. B. MACAULAY,
                  CHARLES LEVER,
                  HENRY COCKTON,
                  CHARLES DICKENS,
                  R. H. HORNE,
                  FRANCIS MARRYAT,
                  SIR EDWARD BULWER LYTTON,
                  THOMAS HOOD.
               
            
            
               JUST PUBLISHED,
               In one Volume, 12mo., cloth, Price $1.25,
               THE NIGHT-SIDE OF NATURE;
               OR, GHOSTS AND GHOST-SEERS.
               BY CATHERINE CROWE, AUTHOR OF "SUSAN HOPLEY," "LILLY DAWSON,"
                  ETC.
               OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
               This book treats of allegorical dreams, presentiments, trances, apparitions,
                  troubled spirits, haunted houses, etc., and will be read with interest by many
                  because it comes from a source laying claim to considerable talent, and is written
                  by one who really believes all she says, and urges her reasonings with a good deal
                  of earnestness.—Albany Argus.
               
               It embraces a vast collection of marvellous and supernatural stories of
                  supernatural occurrences out of the ordinary course of events.—N. Y.
                     Globe.
               
               Miss Crowe has proved herself a careful and most industrious compiler. She has
                  gathered materials from antiquity and from modern times, and gives to English and
                  American readers the ghost-stories that used to frighten the young ones of Greece
                  and Rome, as well as those that accomplish a similar end in Germany and other
                  countries of modern Europe.—Phila. Bulletin.
               
               It is written in a philosophical spirit.—Philadelphia Courier.
               
               This queer volume has excited considerable attention in England. It is not a
                  catchpenny affair, but is an intelligent inquiry into the asserted facts
                  respecting ghosts and apparitions, and a psychological discussion upon the
                  reasonableness of a belief in their existence.—Boston Post.
               
               In this remarkable work, Miss Crowe, who writes with the vigor and grace of a
                  woman of strong sense and high cultivation, collects the most remarkable and best
                  authenticated accounts, traditional and recorded, of preternatural visitations and
                     appearances.—Boston Transcript.
               
               This is a copious chronicle of what we are compelled to believe authentic
                  instances of communication between the material and spiritual world. It is written
                  in a clear, vigorous, and fresh style, and keeps the reader in a constant
                  excitement, yet without resorting to claptrap.—Day-Book.
               
               The book is filled with facts, which are not to be disputed except by actual
                  proof. They have long been undisputed before the world. The class of facts are
                  mainly of a kind thought by most persons to be "mysterious;" but there will be
                  found much in the book calculated to throw light upon the heretofore mysterious
                     phenomena.—Providence Mirror.
               
               This book is one which appears in a very opportune time to command attention, and
                  should be read by all who are desirous of information in regard to things
                  generally called mysterious, relating to the manifestations of the spirit out of
                  man and in him.—Traveller.
               
               This is not only a curious but also a very able work. It is one of the most
                  interesting books of the season—albeit the reader's hair will occasionally rise on
                  end as he turns over the pages, especially if he reads alone far into the
                     night.—Zion's Herald.
               
               A very appropriate work for these days of mysterious rappings, but one which shows
                  that the author has given the subjects upon which she treats considerable study,
                  and imparts the knowledge derived in a concise manner. —Boston Evening
                     Gazette.
               
               This is undoubtedly the most remarkable book of the month, and can not fail to
                  interest all classes of people.—Water-Cure Journal.
               
               To the lovers of the strange and mysterious in nature, this volume will possess an
                  attractive interest—N. Y. Truth-Teller.
               
               The lovers of the marvellous will delight in its perusal..—Com.
                     Advertiser
               
            
         
            
               
               W. F. P. NAPIER, C.B., COL. 43D REG., &c.
               HISTORY OF THE WAR IN THE PENINSULA, AND IN THE SOUTH OF FRANCE,
               FROM THE YEAR 1807 TO 1814.
               Complete in one vol., 8vo. Price Three Dollars.
               "NAPIER'S history is regarded by the critics as one of the best narratives that
                  has recently been written. His style is direct, forcible, and impetuous, carrying
                  the reader along often in spite of himself, through scenes of the most stirring
                  interest and adventures full of excitement. Many of the most distinguished and
                  remarkable men of European history figure in these pages, and are sketched with
                  great distinctness of outline. Napoleon, Wellington, Sir John Moore, Ney, Murat,
                  and others, are the characters of the drama which Napier
                     describes."—Evening Mirror.
               
               "WE believe the Literature of War has not received a more valuable augmentation
                  this century than Col. Napier's justly celebrated work. Though a gallant combatant
                  in the field, he is an impartial historian; he exposes the errors committed on
                  each side, refutes many tales of French atrocity and rapine, and does not conceal
                  the revolting scenes of drunkenness, pillage, ravishment, and wanton slaughter,
                  which tarnished the lustre of the British arms in those memorable campaigns. We
                  think no civilian chronicler of the events of this desperate contest has been so
                  just to the adversary of his nation as has this stern
                     warrior."—Tribune.
               
               "NAPIER'S History, in addition to its superior literary merits and truthful
                  fidelity, presents strong claims upon the attention of all American citizens;
                  because the author is a large-souled philanthropist, and an inflexible enemy to
                  its ecclesiastical tyranny and secular despots; while his pictures of Spain, and
                  his portrait of the rulers in that degraded and wretched country, form a virtual
                  sanction of our Republican institutions, far more powerful than any direct
                     eulogy."—Post.
               
               "THE excellency of Napier's History results from the writer's happy talent for
                  impetuous, straight forward, soul-stirring narrative and picturing forth of
                  characters. The military manoeuvre, march, and fiery onset, the whole whirlwind
                  vicissitudes of the desperate fight, he describes with dramatic
                     force."—Merchant's Magazine.
               
               "THE reader of Napier's History finds many other attractions, besides the
                  narrative of battles, marches, plunder, ravages, sieges, skirmishes, and
                  slaughter— for he learns the dreadful evils of a despotic government-the inherent
                  corruption of the entire system of European monarchies—the popular wretchedness
                  which ever accompanies the combination of a lordly, hierarchical tyranny with the
                  secular authority, and the assurance that the extinction of both are essential to
                  the peace and welfare of mankind. All these lessons are derived from Napier's
                  History, which, in connexion with its literary excellence, and the accuracy of its
                  details, render all other recommendations utterly superfluous. It is a large,
                  neat, and cheap volume." L. I. Star.
               
            
            
               EDWARD GIBBON.
               HISTORY OF THE DECLINE AND FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE;
               A new edition, revised and corrected throughout, preceded by a Preface, and
                  accompanied by Notes, critical and historical, relating principally to the
                  propagation of Christianity. By M. F. GUIZOT, Minister of Public Instruction of
                  France.
               In two vols., 8vo. Price Five Dollars.
            
            
               New and Beautiful Work on NATURAL HISTORY.
               First American Edition.
               EPISODES OF INSECT LIFE.
               BY ACHETA DOMESTICA.
               BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED IN THREE SERIES:
               
                  One Volume each.
                  First Series—INSECTS OF SPRING.
                  Second Series—INSECTS OF SUMMER.
                  Third Series—INSECTS OF AUTUMN.
               
               
                  Notices from the English Press.
                  Professor Nichol has done much to make astronomy a lightsome science; Mr.
                     Miller of Edinburgh has thrown the influence of eloquent and powerful writing
                     around the fishes and fossils of the old red sandstone: Neither, however, has
                     produced a work equal in the particular above mentioned to the "Episodes of
                     Insect Life."—Tait's Edinburgh Magazine.
                  
                  The whole pile of Natural History—fable, poetry, theory and fact—is stuck over
                     with quaint apothegms and shrewd maxims deduced, for the benefit of man, from
                     the contemplation of such tiny monitors as gnats and moths. Altogether, the
                     book is curious and interesting, quaint and clever, genial and
                        well-informed.—Morning Chronicle.
                  
                  We have seldom been in company with so entertaining a guide to the Insect
                        World.—Athenæum.
                  
                  Rich veins of humor in a groundwork of solid, yet entertaining information.
                     Although lightness and amusement can find subject-matter in every page, the
                     under-current of the "Episodes" is substance and accurate
                        information.—Ladies' Newspaper.
                  
                  A history of many of the more remarkable tribes and species, with a graphic and
                     imaginative coloring, often equally original and happy, and accompanied both by
                     accurate figures of species, and ingenious fanciful vignettes.—Annual
                        Address of the President of the Entomological Society.
                  
                  This second series of "Episodes" is even more delightful than its predecessor.
                     Never have entomological lessons been given in a happier strain. Young and old,
                     wise and simple, grave and gay, can not turn over its pages without deriving
                     pleasure and information—Sun.
                  
                  The headpiece illustrations of each chapter are beautiful plates of the insects
                     under description in all their stages, capitally grouped, and with a scenic
                     background full of playful fancy; while the tailpieces form a series of quaint
                     vignettes, some of which are especially clever.—Atlas.
                  
                  The book includes solid instruction as well as genial and captivating mirth.
                     The scientific knowledge of the writer is thoroughly
                        reliable.—Examiner.
                  
               
            
         
            
               
               RED FIELD'S TOY BOOKS,
               FOUR SERIES OF TWELVE BOOKS EACH,
               BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED, FROM DESIGNS BY J. G CHAPMAN.
               
                  First Series—Price One Cent.
                  1. Tom Thumb's Picture Alphabet, in Rhyme.
                  2. Rhymes for the Nursery.
                  3. Pretty Rhymes about Birds and Animals, for little Boys and Girls.
                  4. Life on the Farm, in Amusing Rhyme.
                  5. The Story-Book for Good Little Girls.
                  6. The Beacon, or Warnings to Thoughtless Boys.
                  7. The Picture Book, with Stories in Easy Words, for Little Readers.
                  8. The Little Sketch-Book, or Useful Objects Illustrated.
                  9. History of Domestic Animals.
                  10. The Museum of Birds.
                  11. The Little Keepsake, a Poetic Gift for Children.
                  12. The Book of the Sea, for the Instruction of Little Sailors.
               
               
                  Second Series—Price Two Cents.
                  1. The A B C in Verse, for Young Learners.
                  2. Figures in Verse, and Simple Rhymes, for Little Learners.
                  3. Riddles for the Nursery.
                  4. The Child's Story-Book.
                  5. The Christmas Dream of Little Charles.
                  6. The Basket of Strawberries.
                  7. Story for the Fourth of July, an Epitome of American History
                  8. The Two Friends, and Kind Little James.
                  9. The Wagon-Boy, or Trust in Providence.
                  10. Paulina and Her Pets.
                  11. Simple Poems for Infant Minds.
                  12. Little Poems for Little Children.
               
               
                  Third Series—Price Four Cents.
                  1. The Alphabet in Rhyme.
                  2. The Multiplication Table in Rhyme, for Young Arithmeticians.
                  3. The Practical Joke, or the Christmas Story of Uncle Ned.
                  4. Little George, or Temptation Resisted.
                  5. The Young Arithmetician, or the Reward of Perseverance.
                  6. The Traveller's Story, or the Village Bar-Room.
                  7. The Sagacity and Intelligence of the Horse.
                  8. The Young Sailor, or the Sea-Life of Tow Bowline.
                  9. The Selfish Girl, a Tale of Truth.
                  10. Manual or Finger Alphabet, used by the Deaf and Dumb.
                  11. The Story-Book in Verse.
                  12. The Flower-Vase, or Pretty Poems for Good little Children.
               
               
                  Fourth Series—Price Six Cents.
                  1. The Book of Fables, in Prose and Verse
                  2. The Little Casket, filled with Pleasant Stories.
                  3. Home Pastimes, or Enigmas, Charades, Rebuses, Conundrums, etc.
                  4. The Juvenile Sunday-Book, adapted to the Improvement of the Young.
                  5. William Seaton and the Butterfly, with its Interesting History.
                  6. The Young Girl's Book of Healthful Amusements and Exercises.
                  7. Theodore Carleton, or Perseverance against Ill-Fortune.
                  8. The Aviary, or Child's Book of Birds.
                  9. The Jungle, or Child's Book of Wild Animals.
                  10. Sagacity and Fidelity of the Dog, Illustrated by Interesting
                     Anecdotes.
                  11. Coverings for the Head and Feet, in all Ages and Countries.
                  12. Romance of Indian History, or Incidents in the Early Settlements.
               
            
            
               NEARLY READY,
               MEN AND WOMEN OF THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY.
               BY ARSENE HOUSSAYE.
               With Beautifully-Engraved Portraits of Louis XV. and Made, de Pompadour.
               In Two Volumes, 12mo., Cloth—PRICE $2.50.
               
                  CONTENTS.
                  DUFRESNY.
                  FONTENELLE.
                  MARIVAUX.
                  PIRON.
                  THE ABBE PREVOST.
                  GENTIL-BERNARD.
                  FLORIAN.
                  BOUFFLERS.
                  DIDEROT.
                  GRETRY.
                  RIVEROL.
                  LOUIS XV.
                  GREUZE.
                  BOUCHER.
                  THE VANLOOS.
                  LANTARA.
                  WATTEAU.
                  LA MOTTE.
                  DEHLE.
                  ABBE TRUBLET.
                  BUFFON.
                  DORAT.
                  CARDINAL DE BERNIS.
                  CREBILLON THE GAY.
                  MARIE ANTOINETTE.
                  MADE DE POMPADOUR.
                  VADE.
                  MLLE CAMARGO.
                  MLLE CLAIRON.
                  MAD. DE LAPOPELINIERE
                  SOPHIE ARNOULD.
                  CREBILLON THE TRAGIC.
                  MLLE GUIMARD.
                  THREE PAGES IN THE LIFE OF DANCOURT.
                  A PROMENADE IN THE PALAIS-ROYAL.
                  LE CHEVALIER DE LA CLOS.
               
               "A series of pleasantly desultory papers—neither history, biography, criticism,
                  nor romance, but compounded of all four: always lively and graceful, and often
                  sparkling with esprit, that subtle essence which
                  may be so much better illustrated than defined. M. Houssaye's aim in these
                  sketches—for evidently he had an aim beyond the one he alleges of pastime for his
                  leisure hours—seems to have been to discourse of persons rather celebrated than
                  known, whose names and works are familiar to all, but with whose characters and
                  histories few are much acquainted. To the mass of readers, his book will have the
                  charm of freshness; the student and the man of letters, who have already drunk at
                  the springs whence M. Houssaye has derived his inspiration and materials, will
                  pardon any lack of novelty for the sake of the spirit and originality of the
                     treatment."—Blackwood.
               
               IN PRESS, PHILOSOPHERS AND ACTRESSES, BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
            
            
         
               
               JUST PUBLISHED,
               THE LADIES OF THE COVENANT.
               MEMOIRS OF DISTINGUISHED SCOTTISH FEMALE CHARACTERS,
               Embracing the Period of the Covenant and the Persecution.
               BY THE REV. JAMES ANDERSON.
               In One Volume, 12mo., cloth, PRICE $1.25—extra gilt, gilt edges $1.75.
            
               
                  OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
                  "It is written with great spirit and a hearty sympathy, and abounds in
                     incidents of more than a romantic interest, while the type of piety it
                     discloses is the noblest and most elevated."—N. Y. Evangelist.
                  
                  "Seldom has there been a more interesting volume than this in our hands.
                     Stories of Scottish suffering for the faith have always thrilled us; but here
                     we have the memoirs of distinguished female characters, embracing
                     the period of the Covenant and the Persecution, with such tales of heroism,
                     devotion, trials, triumphs, or deaths, as rouse subdue, and deeply move the
                     heart of the reader."—N. Y. Observer.
                  
                  "Many a mother in Israel will have her faith strengthened, and her zeal
                     awakened, and her courage animated afresh by the example set before her—by the
                     cloud of witnesses of her own sex, who esteemed everything—wealth, honor,
                     pleasure, ease, and life itself—vastly inferior to the grace of the Gospel; and
                     who freely offered themselves and all that they had, to the sovereign disposal
                     of Him who had called them with an holy calling; according to his purpose and
                        grace."—Richmond, (Va.) Watchman and Observer.
                  
                  "The Scotch will read this book because it commemorates their noble
                     countrywomen; Presbyterians will like it, because it records the endurance and
                     triumphs of their faith; and the ladies will read it, as an interesting
                     memorial of what their sex has done in trying times for truth and
                        liberty."—Cincinnati Central Christian Herald.
                  
                  "It is a record which, while it confers honor on the sex, will elevate the
                     heart, and strengthen it to the better performance of every
                        duty."—Richmond (Va) Religious Herald.
                  
                  "The Descendants of these saints are among us, in this Pilgrim land, and we
                     earnestly commend this book to their perusal."—Plymoth Old Colony
                        Memorial.
                  
                  "There are pictures of endurance, trust, and devotion, in this volume of
                     illustrious suffering, which are worthy of a royal setting."—Ontario
                        Repository.
                  
                  "They abound with incidents and anecdotes illustrative of the times and we need
                     scarcely say are deeply interesting to all who take an interest in the progress
                     of christianity."—Boston Journal.
                  
                  "Mr. Anderson has treated his subject ably; and has set forth in strong light
                     the enduring faith and courage of the wives and daughters of the
                        Covenanters."—N. Y. Albion.
                  
                  "It is a book of great attractiveness, having not only the freshness of novelty
                     but every element of historical interest.—Courier and Enquirer.
                  
                  "The author is a clergyman of the Scottish kirk, and has executed his
                     undertaking with that spirit and fulness which might be expected from one
                     enjoying the best advantages for the discovery of obscure points in the history
                     of Scotland, and the warmest sympathy with the heroines of his own
                        creed."—Commercial Advertiser.
                  
               
            
         
      
   
