
    ----CITATION----
        Hazel, Harry, (1814-1889). Old Put, or, The Days of Seventy-six .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6939
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               OLD PUT; 
               OR, THE DAYS OF SEVENTY-SIX. 
               A TALE OF THE REVOLUTION. 
             
             
                
                  
                      
                        "HE was the soul of goodness; 
                        And all our praises of him are like streams 
                        Drawn from a spring, that still rise full, 
                        And leave the part remaining greatest." 
                     
                   
                  BEN JOHNSON. 
                
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               H. LONG & BROTHER,  
                     43 ANN-STREET. 
                  
                
               CINCINNATI: 
               H. B. PEARSON & CO.,  
                     17 EAST FOURTH-ST. 
                  
               
             
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty BY H. LONG AND BROTHER, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York 
          
       
      
         
            Old Put, or, The days of seventy-six 
             
            OLD PUT. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               VERD-ANTIQUE 
               THERE was an old tavern haunt in the upper part of the city of New York, in the year 1776, at and round which was wont to swarm, in that time of excitement and prognostic trouble, quite a variety of loose and lounging characters. The place had been not inappropriately dubbed "THE POOR MAN'S INN," from the fact that none but those who were indisputably poor in every conceivable particular were ever seen about its precincts. Such, at least, was the title by which it was best known by the citizens and neighboring inhabitants. With its regular occupants it invariably went by the name of "THE EEL POT;" but whether from any supposed similarity it bore to such an alluring invention or not, it lies entirely without our power to say. 
               The house itself looked ruinous and rotten enough-its door-sills being on a fast road to decay, and the street itself rapidly filling up to a point considerably above them. Yet there was an air of antiquity about its old, fantastically-formed roof, looking half as if it had once had a mind to give itself up altogether to gables, and half as if it meant to abjure them altogether, that readily arrested the stroller's eye, and naturally enticed his thoughts into quaint fancies and sombre reflections. The shingles upon the sides of the house, or, at least, upon its front, were thickly covered with green and gray mosses, that gathered themselves here and there into regular-looking embossments, and gave the old building the appearance of being coated and screened with some firmly-rivetted armor. Just over the eaves peered long and slim weeds, that had thought to glory over others in their water trough heights, while after all they looked as if their only lease on life was held upon condition that they should be allowed to come down. 
               The chimney was a huge one, built of stone, and occupying a liberal share of the building itself, as was the custom in those times. The panes in the windows were exceedingly small, scarcely allowing a man to exhibit the whole outline of his face and features. About the outside of the windows was built the customary frame-work, nailed flat and fast to the side of the house, and uniting above the same in the same angle that was given to the two sides of the roof at the ridge-pole. 
               It was a mellow, genial day in the month of May, in the eventful year 1776. The people of New York were all excited, pro and con., to the highest pitch over the discussion of the revolutionary steps that had already been taken by the Americans against the tyranny of the mother country. The majority, as a matter to be expected, were united in upholding the brave and defiant conduct of the hasty and raw levies, who had only the summer before withstood so courageously the flower of England's army on the heights of Banker's Hill; yet there were those-and they were not few, either-who openly scouted the idea of our making a successful resistance to the forces of the crown, and characterized in no very measured or meaningless terms, either, the infatuation of those men, who thought to secure for their future claims and requests even that attention and respect from the ministry which they had heretofore received. 
               The bar-room of the "Eel Pot" was partly full, on the morning of the day of which we speak, and the singular and perilous situation of the colonies formed the chief staple of the not over-intelligent conversation that might have been overheard. It was plain that the "Eel Pot" was a place where as yet every man was allowed the freest and least inhibited expressions of his sentiments, both political and moral. There was a gathering there of all sorts and almost all sizes of people. Some stood before the bar, their glasses in hand, uttering fugitive bits of opinions at one another, and swallowing occasional gulps of the spirits that so cheered their own. Others knotted themselves about the entrance, gazing first upon the spit-stained floor, and then into each others' faces and then they mumbled out some expressions relative to the subject in hand, that certainly betokened not altogether their heartiest concurrence in what might then be termed popular sentiment. 
               Presently the groups began to resolve themselves into their constituent elements, when they observed the entrance of an oddly-dressed individual into the room, and to re-gather in one general knot about him as he stood conversing with mine worthy host, Paul Potter. 
               "Hand me out some of your old Holland, Paul," said the stranger, with an air of familiarity. 
               "Is that you, John Horton?" exclaimed one of the company, stepping up to him and laying a no very delicate hand upon his broad shoulders. 
               "Yes, this is old Verd-Antique," replied the stranger, looking round and recognizing an old acquaintance in the person addressing him. 
                
               "But where from, John?" pursued his interrogator, clutching his bony hand. 
               "That I never tell," replied he, mysteriously, while he gave his huge shoulders a peculiarly expressive shrug. "But you are goin' to have some o' this good old Holland with me, now? Come!" 
               "Yes, I never refuse an old friend that much of a favor, John-if it is one; and I hope I'll never see the time when you'll refuse me, either." 
               "No, no; never may that time come; never, I hope. But what is the news here with you now?" 
               "News! Aint there news enough everywhere? I hope you don't want no more news, John Horton! I hope you don't! Haven't the British made us work enough already to do? And aint there been men enough killed a'ready, to make news enough to last for a good many year? Tell me, John? Tell me that!" 
               "Maybe there'll be more killed, before there'll be any less," laconically replied Verd Antique. 
               "Yes, an' you'll help do it, too; won't ye?" 
               "I'll be deathly sartin not to kill none o' my own friends, and the friends of my own country," replied he, glancing round to catch the sentiment of approval or disapproval, as it should express itself upon the countenances of those about him. 
               "You're really in with the rest on 'em, then; aint ye?" inquired his acquaintance, taking the glass of spirits and water in his hand, and preparing to entomb it within his own skeleton-looking carcass. 
               "With the rest o' who?" asked Verd-Antique, clapping his glass to his lips immediately upon the question, and pouring a steady stream thenceforward down his apparently parched throat. 
               "O, the rebels-I mean the--" 
               "The rebels!" repeated John Horton after him in the most contemptuous manner, grinding his teeth together till their gritting sound could be distinctly heard, and striking his tumbler down upon the rude bar with an unwonted and unsafe force. "The rebels!" 
               "No offence, John; no offence!" instantly apologized his companion, observing the indignation he had so unexpectedly aroused in John Hortons' bosom-"I really didn't know that you belonged to 'em, John." 
               "Wal, no more do I," replied he. "But I cal'late to be round where there's fightin' and warrin' a-goin' on; and if I can be of any use to my own country, why, then I cal'late to be-that's all. I mean to go on my own hook. I don't obey no man's orders, because I don't willingly put myself under no man. If I fight, I fight on my own account; and, mind ye, I don't make no half-way work about it, neither! Jest remember that, will ye? Hey?" 
               As he spoke these words, he took the landlord aside to the farther corner of the room, and began talking with him in a low strain, which was steadily kept up by him for several minutes. No one else knew of what he was talking; but every one knew that it was of no common importance from the very emphatic and gesticulatory manner in which he laid down all his positions to his attentive friend, Paul Potter While he was talking in this manner, we said the crowd watched him with interest. The reader may be supposed to be taking a close survey of him, too. 
               He was a man of apparently forty years; of a stout, athletic frame; a-tall, well-made figure; with a head that sat erect and firm upon his shoulders; an eye of blue-dark, deep and expressive; shaggy eyebrows; a bronzed skin, undoubtedly become so by long and ruthless exposure; a nose somewhat long, and slightly aquiline; a well cut, firm-featured mouth; rather high cheek-bones; and a round, oval chin. His beard at this particular time was long and grizzly, neither very light nor very dark, yet what might be called a dark brown; and his locks stuck out liberally and flowing from beneath the slouched hat that strove to conceal them. 
               He wore a grizzly-gray loose coat about his body that descended not quite to his knees. There was nothing beneath this but a coarse shirt, whose seam gaped frightfully at the breast, exposing a brawny chest such as Goliath himself it may be supposed would have contemplated with delight. His pantaloons, which were of buckskin, were laced tightly about his ankles, over which were drawn a pair of cowhide boots that seemed to want for everything but actual service. These pants-or, more properly, breeches-were hitched up over his hips with a narrow strip of leather. About his neck he wore something that might once have stood for a neckcloth; but it would be impossible then to have told with the least degree of accuracy what it was. It constituted the only article, either of adornment or of comfort, with which his neck was supplied at all. With his hands stuck carelessly within the pockets of his coarse coat, in the peculiarly independent attitude he very often assumed, he was a subject worthy of an artist's pencil. 
               Why he had applied to himself the soubriquet, VERD-ANTIQUE, surpasses our knowledge; as it doubtless did that of everybody else about him. He was quite as much known by that, however, among his friends and acquaintances, as by any other title. It was, in all probability, one he had usurped himself, never deigning to give the inquisitive world the benefit of an innocent why or wherefore. 
               He was, in every respect, a character. And as he stalked out at the door, the many eyes that inquiringly followed him bore abundant testimony to the fact. He formed a study-and a deep study, too-for the whole of them He was a subject that even the most sagacious of them had not yet been able to expound or fathom. And when Paul Potter, the landlord, walked back again behind his bar, and Verd Antique went sullenly out the door, the former seemed to them all to shake his head bodingly in spite of himself; after which he took down a case bottle and poured out for his own stomach a potion of old Jamaica far beyond his usual point of indulgence. This he drank down at almost a single draught. 
               The bystanders only looked inquisitively at each other, but no words escaped them. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               REBEL AND TORY. 
               THERE lived in the lower part of the city a gentleman tobacconist, named Elton Edwards. Mr. Edwards was already a retired merchant, enjoying himself in the bosom of his family with the abundant assistance of his large gains in trade. 
               His only family consisted of himself, his daughter Laura, and a servant girl named Susan. He was himself a man of a trifle over fifty years, of true British birth, and had been a widower for many years-not to exceed fifteen, however. He had settled himself in business in New York some twelve or fourteen years before the commencement of our story, having been originally driven to seek a change for himself and his only child by the anguish occasioned by the lamentable death of his wife. Embarking at once, and under favorable auspices, in the line of business we have mentioned, he soon began to accumulate large gains, and by assiduous industry and perseverance at length became a highly wealthy and respectable citizen. His loyalty to the king, however, was unbounded. No sunshine of fortune among the colonies could entice him from that allegiance to the crown which he deemed his chief lease upon life and all the enjoyments it so abundantly offered him. Mr. Edwards, in truth, was a tory, and one in whose veins flowed the warmest tory blood. 
               The exact number of pounds that rightfully belonged to him, it is impossible to state; but those who were supposed to be best acquainted with his affairs, and his somewhat peculiar method of doing business, generally set him down for a quite wealthy individual. He lived in a samewhat antiquated house, yet it was furnished in a style every way becoming the fortune he enjoyed. He made no great appearance in the world, neither did he pretend to. He only meant to go along and enjoy his money, unmolested by any one. It was only upon the subject of politics that he ever engaged himself in public conversation, and even then but rarely; but he always expressed his political sentiments and preferences in so decided and unmistakeable a way, that no one needed to have asked him to speak upon them a second time. 
               Laura Edwards was a girl of about eighteen years, and an only child. She was born in England, it is true; but for all that, she was none the more of a loyalist on that single account. 
               Her education, for those times, was in every respect a superior one, it having been the wish of her father to qualify her to move in the best society the colonies might any of them afford. Of course, then, in no one particular had her training been neglected or lightly passed over. 
               In person, she was tall and remarkably well formed. Her face was full and inclined to floridity. Her features were all finely marked; not as if chiselled by a sculptor's instrument, but as if they were rather moulded-and moulded most perfectly, too. 
               Her head was most classically shaped, and sat up on her white and arching neck, like the head of a swan. Her hair was jetty black-black as the inside of a glossy raven's wing. Eyes of a very dark blue, that one would scarcely distinguish from a downright black itself, beamed pleasantly and full of gleaming expression from underneath her pure while forehead, while from their lids grew long and silken lashes that swept far below them. Her cheeks were somewhat full, and the clear red-and-white colors lay in them, even as rosy clouds are sometimes dreamily entangled and intertwisted in the depth of a summer sky. Her mouth was small, but well-shaped; at each corner of whose pouting lips swam two roguish and indescribable dimples, to but look at which were allurement enough for the most strait-laced moralist. 
               She was the life of her father's house-ever gay and noisy; yet she was anything and everything but boisterous. She was in her manners as unexceptionable as any lady of her day. 
               There was a little chamber in her father's house which had long been devoted to her own use. Scarcely ever did even her own father enter it, so complete was the understanding that it was all her own-that its precincts were specially sacred to her. In this room she had accumulated a few books, which she had arranged against the oaken wainscotting, after the manner of a library; while upon a table that stood drawn out into nearly the centre of the apartment, was confusedly thrown and piled up a large variety of work, consisting indiscriminately of plain sewing, embroidery, and the like, of which no one may be supposed to have half as accurate a knowledge as a woman herself. 
               Laura was sitting in this room of here, one afternoon in May, alone. It was the day subsequent to that when we opened our first chapter. Her father had gone from home, and Laura had sent away the servant Susan upon some frivolous pretext or other, that she might he undisturbed. It was evident from all this, as well as from the frequent and anxious glances she cast upon the door and out of the window, that she was momentarily expecting the entrance of some one, whom she seemed to desire to appear at once, as being the time most favorable. 
               She had not long to sit, however, in this to her agony of suspense, for she soon heard the echo of a light and studiously disguised foot-fall in the hall, and in another second there came a light tapping of the knuckles upon her door. 
               "Come in!" at once commanded she, her voice crowding itself up to as high a pitch of courage and tone as was possible, although it quavered in her throat a trifle. 
               Instantly the door opened, and a young man entered. Hastily drawing up his chair by the side of Laura, he took her hand within both his own, and imprinted upon its back a fervent kiss. Then he continued holding it, while she went on to express to him her anxiety lest he would not come at all, and her strange fears at the clouded prospect of public affairs. That was a time in the history of our country, when the state of public matters bore a more intimate relation tion to private enjoyment than we may now know anything of. There was nothing absolutely settled, then. The elements had been all set at work, boiling and seething since blood was spilt at Lexington, and at Bunker's Hill. People were sure of nothing-not even of their meanest possessions. A hostile fleet was hovering upon our coast; but where, or in what particular direction bound, surpassed the ingenuity of men to imagine. 
               The young man-to whom it becomes us without farther delay or ceremony to introduce the reader-was of perhaps twenty-three years of age, tall, well-built, and of a manly carriage. His eyes were a dark gray, and the forehead above them was ample and intellectual. His features were all strikingly good and strongly marked. He wore short and dark whiskers on each side of his face, that became him exceedingly. He had a profusion of hair, which was of the blackest kind, glossy, and inclined to curling. 
               You could not have looked steadily for a moment into his eyes, without being touched contagiously with their peculiar expression. They were large and inclined to fulness; and when they wore a particularly pleasant look, it was next to impossible to harbor gloomy or morose thoughts beneath their genial sunshine. Again, if they attempted to express a feeling of fierceness, or displeasure, there were few who knew him, that did not secretly admit that the look came from the depths of a stirred and indignant soul. 
               He was dressed plainly and with studied care; betraying that he had but little of this world's goods to waste upon objects that were, after all, of comparative frivolity. He wore a loose frock-coat, a pair of plain and pretty smoothly-worn kerseymere pantaloons, shoes that were no intimate acquaintances with blacking of any quality or description, and a pair of blue stockings that nothing could have concealed. The cuffs of his coat-sleeves were abundantly long, and the cut of his vest-or coat, either-was by no means of the freshest or most fashionable importation. Yet although in these particulars he approached so dangerously near to the externals of a ploughboy, or a rough backwoodsman, there was something in his face that belied any suspicions of rudeness or want of culture. But the culture was all within. It was upon himself-upon his heart-upon his very soul. 
               "I may not soon see you again, Laura," said he pressing her fair and delicate hand with fervency and illy concealing the emotion that found its way out with his words. 
               "Why not, Henry? Where are you going?" inquired she, gazing up into his face with deep anxiety. 
               "You know that my country needs me now," he replied. 
               "Are you going--?" 
               "I am going to enlist," interrupted he. 
               There was a pause of a minute or two. 
               At length he spoke himself. 
               "I resolved, however, to come and tell you all first, Laura. I know that you cannot, or your father cannot regard me with any degree of favor, because I am a rebel in his eyes. I deserve to be hung; and I--." 
               "Do not talk thus, Henry!" implored she. "You know how my feelings are in relation to this contest, and you can need no assurance from me that they will never be changed, so long as the inhabitants of the colonies conduct themselves in the honorable manner they heretofore have. What my father thinks is nothing to me, at this time. I think for myself in this matter, and yet I love him none the less as my father. That need make no difference, Henry. If you enlist, you are no rebel in my eyes. You are a PATRIOT, and you deserve the name!" 
               He raised her hand to his lips. 
               "Yet if this cup could but pass my lips, Henry," she continued, seeing the conflicting emotions that disturbed his breast. 
               "It is a sore trial, Laura," he exclaimed, in a low and deep tone. "But men must come from somewhere. There are few enough now, heaven knows, to save even a strong cause. We need all that can be raised. The enemy at this moment threaten us on every side. There is no knowing in what quarter their next approach will be. And therefore the country stands in greater need of more men. They are needed at every turn. Fortifications are wanted everywhere; and men are needed to defend them. If all staid at home, where should we all be eventually?" 
               "Spoken just like a brave man and a patriot, as you are!" replied Laura. "Henry Byram, go to the defence of your country! Much as my heart is bound up in your own-closely as my heart-strings are intertwined with yours-I cannot hesitate to say to you in this emergency-go! Go, by all means, Henry! Win a proud name for yourself that shall make you worthy the respect of those who would now affect to spurn you!" 
               "I will, Laura! I will!" 
               "Go, and my blessing be on your head! Heaven will take abundant care of you: heaven takes care of me, and will continue to do so for your sake. I know that the parting is hard, Henry. I know that we are all uncertain when we may meet again, or whether we shall at all in this world; yet my duty commands me to give you entirely up at this time. It would be selfish in me to attempt to thwart even the most trifling interests of our country!" 
               "God ever bless you, my sweet girl!" exclaimed Henry, rising from his seat and throwing his arms tenderly about her. "Will you pray daily for my safety?" 
               "Each night and morning I will offer up a fervent prayer for you," said she, the big tears filling her eyes, and her pretty lip quivering faintly. 
               "Then I am content. But for this, I could not have put my knapsack over my shoulders. It is all well now, however. My heart feels stronger than it did. I can go anywhere now, if I am but commanded." 
               "We shall meet each other soon again, under better auspices, I hope," said she. 
               "God grant it may be!" replied the young man, still standing over her. "The war may be a long and troublesome one; but, under Providence, it will all yet be well. I feel that it will. We are engaged in a righteous cause, and it cannot be vanquished by any enemies, though their hosts swarm never so thickly about it." 
               A brief pause ensued, during which both the young man and his betrothed looked steadily down upon the floor. Their thoughts were upon the dark and untried future. 
               "You are alone, I hope?" asked Henry. 
               "Yes; I made the appointment, knowing that the house would be vacant at this time." 
               "And there can be no danger of my detection from your father, as I go down stairs?" 
               "No; yet you had better take your way out by the side entrance. He would not be as likely to meet you there." 
               "I should not care to have him come in contact with me yet," said he. "I wish first to satisfy him that I am no rebel, but an honest-hearted man. It will take time to satisfy him of that, however." 
               "Yes, all that must be the work of time alone." 
               "Let us hope to meet under more agreeable circumstances at some future day, Laura," said he. "I hope we may yet be permitted to receive the blessing of your father. It would be the happiest day of my life" 
               "Yet we must not expect to turn him from his set prejudices with mere trifles. Providence, in his regular way, will probably satisfy him of his error. But I hear footsteps!" 
               They hurriedly embraced each other a moment and the young girl was alone. 
               In another moment, Susan, the servant, stood knocking at the door of her mistress, demanding admission. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               ISRAEL PUTNAM. 
               AN officer-an American-was sitting alone in his room in the city, one night in the latter part of May, engaged to all intents in deep study. He repeatedly ran his eagle eye over a few roughly drawn maps that lay on the table before him, and studied them in every part with great eagerness. He traced out line upon line with his broad index finger, and, when it had arrived at a given point, he supported his head with his hand again, and fell into a deeper fit of thought than ever. 
               The apartment which he occupied was not the most elegantly furnished, yet there was everything in it that could have been needed by such an occupant. A broad, plain centre-table stood in the middle of the room, upon which lay the maps and charts to which we have made allusion. On one side of the individual was piled up a liberal heap of letters and despatches. Ever and anon, too, as his eye tired with running over the outlines marked on the charts, he had recourse to the letters, several of which he took down from their pile, opened, and carefully perused. Then he fell to musing again. 
               Let us describe the man to the reader. 
               He sat in a large arm-chair, made wholly of wood. His head was large and well-shaped, indicating a mind well-balanced, and the possession of a strong and decisive will. His forehead, though not remarkably high, was broad and ample; and his long, dark hair fell in half-wavy, half-curling locks down either side his head. His eyes were large and alive with expression, and shadowed above with rather heavy brows. His face was full and fleshy. The mouth was the picture of firmness and decisiveness itself; yet there lurked about its corners just wrinkles enough to betray the genial humor and the warmth of heart that tempered all. His chin was excessively round, and slightly dimpled: and below it his neck and throat seemed gladly to have met each other, forming a full, deep line beneath. 
               He wore no coat over his shoulders, on the night to which we allude-nothing but a huge waistcoat, that was entirely unbuttoned from the top to the bottom. The neckcloth he usually wore about his neck was taken off and laid aside upon the table. His shirtsleeves were likewise unfastened at the wrists, and partially rolled up, exposing a broad and manly wrist and arm, that promised to be a tower of defence in itself to almost any one. His breeches were made as easy as was possible, and he had thrust his feet into a pair of leathern slippers. 
               The man was ISRAEL PUTNAM, at that time in full command of the continental forces in the city, while the commander-in-chief had absented himself to confer with the congress then in session at Philadelphia. 
               These were his quarters, almost in the heart of the city. He had been for a long time laboring upon the perfection of the plans of defences for the city which had been begun by General Lee, but which were early relinquished by that officer on receiving orders from head-quarters to Charleston, which it was reasonably supposed the enemy were about to attack. 
               He had been alone in his apartment for only a brief time, when a knock came suddenly upon the door, and a man obeyed his summons and entered. 
               "Good evenin', General," saluted the stranger, pulling at the wilted brim of his old felt, and finally taking it off altogether. 
               "Ah, John Horton!" exclaimed the General: "is that you, John? I'm glad you've come! What word do you bring, my faithful fellow?" 
               "That there's dissatisfaction enough about the last order
                     
                        
                            
                               
                                  
                                    PROHIBITION. 
                                    
                                       [Head-Quarters, N York, April 8th, 1776.]
                                     
                                    The General informs the inhabitants that it is become absolutely necessary that all communication between the ministerial fleet and the shore should be immediately stopped; for that purpose, he has given positive orders that ships should no longer be furnished with provisions. Any inhabitants, or others, who shall be taken that have been on board, after the publishing of this order, or near any of the ships, or going on board, will be considered as enemies, and treated accordingly. 
                                    All boats are to sail from Beekman slip. Capt Jas. Alner is appointed inspector, and will give permits to oystermen. It is ordered and expected that none attempt going without a pass. 
                                    
                                       ISRAEL PUTNAM, 
                                       Major General in the Continental Army, and Commander-in-Chief of the Forces in New York.
                                     
                                  
                               
                           
                        
                     
                   of the General's," replied he. 
                
               "Not surely among true Americans?" inquired the General, turning quite round and looking John Horton fully and fairly in the face. 
               "No, General. No, indeed. It's only amongst them what are ruther more inclined to toryism than to patriotism. And yit, they do love to call themselves Americans, General. They'd feel awfully bad, if they thought everybody looked at 'em as outright tories. I'm jest as much o' that opinion as I ever shall be of any opinion whatever. The truth is, General, these cowardly fellers hate to come out an' show their colors. They haint got courage enough to all a shell o' flaxseed, and I'm sure I shouldn't know what we was agoin' to do, if we had to depend on sich as them." 
               "Have any of the respectable citizens yet tried to hold intercourse with any of the ships in the harbor, that you know of?" asked the commander. 
               "I know of one man, General, that's gone out in a little wherry to one of the British ships, this very night!" 
               "When will he return?" 
               "To-night, I s'pose." 
               "Who is he? Do you know?" 
               "He's as respectable a man as there is in the town, and he's got money enough, too. His name is Elton Edwards." 
               "Can you take him as he comes back?" 
               "If you will give me two or three men to give a feller a sort o' boost, General." 
               "You shall have them. How soon?" 
               "Wal-say within a couple o' hours." 
               "Strange that men persist in breaking over such regulations!" exclaimed General Putnam, bringing his generous hand flatly down upon the table, and working up his features to an expression of excited fervor. 
               "So I tell 'em, General!" broke in old Verd-Antique; "so I tell 'em, General! But, ye see, they don't know our strength yet, nor our will, nor our determination. When they have a chance to learn these, then they'll be more likely to respect what their General says at his head-quarters." 
               "We must take that man if it can be done," continued the commander, hurriedly wiping the perspiration that stood in big drops, from his broad brow. 
               "And I can do it, with a leetle help!" 
               "Then have it done at once. Here!" 
               General Putnam leaned over to the table again, and drew up an order for a file of men to accompany John Horton on an enterprise he had planned for that night, directing that they should confide in and implicitly obey him and all his orders. Handing this to the queer-looking man, the latter expressed a profusion of thanks for the same, and immediately left the room. 
               The General at once relapsed into his wonted silence and deep reflection. 
               Let us follow, with the reader, the course of John Horton. 
               Giving his order to a proper officer, signed in the hand of the General himself, he speedily received the assistance of three men of the garrison, who tramped away at a rapid pace with him. 
               They passed on through several streets, and lanes, and dark alleys, with him, observing an unbroken silence as they went along, until they reached the edge of the water on the North River side. Arrived there, they lay in close ambush, awaiting the order of their strange superior. 
               "Now, men!" began he, "jest as soon's I give you the word, you've only got to form a ring round the man that'll be pinted out to ye. Don't be in none too great a hurry-for haste makes waste, you know, and 'twould be a long sight better to not tech the feller at all, than to lose him arter all's said and done. Don't ye think so?" 
               "Yes, yes!" went up from each throat, their own are being probably glad to have an opportunity to converse with their leader, at any price. 
               "But who is he?" asked one of the three, grown suddenly emboldened with the license thus indirectly offered by the speech of Verd-Antique. 
               "That's what I don't tell right away, I don't" replied he. 
               "Have you seen him?" 
               "In course I have, then." 
               "And there'll be no mistake about his coming back this way to-night?" 
               "Don't ask too many questions," said Verd-Antique, somewhat pettishly. "jest obey orders, and I guess we shall go along purty slick. The man'll be back again before a very great while, and then our fun 'll begin, if we do but manage it right and you all obey orders." 
               "We will? we will!" all three of them answered simultaneously. 
               Scarcely had the words escaped his lips, when the sound of oars in the row-locks came over the still water, and all three listened. The silence was almost painful. 
               "Yes, it's the old feller, I guess!" whispered Verd-Antique. "Now lay jest as low's ye can, and for God's sake, don't say a syllable! The minnit I say 'stuboy' to ye, there'll be plenty o' time for ye to go in and surround him. Now wilt ye all remember?" 
               "Yes," was the response of all. 
               "Jest obey orders," continued he, by way of an impressive finale, "and all 'll go right! Mind now!" 
               They waited in a state of almost breathless anxiety for the approach of the boat. The night was dark, and the whole sky was overhung with clouds. Scarcely a rift of clear sky was anywhere to be seen overhead. A light wind moaned and whistled along the still water's surface, bringing damp breaths to their temples, and in a manner refreshing and renewing their spirits; otherwise it was freighted with melancholy suggestions and influences. 
               Occasionally, there came across the water the faint holloa of some boatman or sailor on board the enemy's vessels, and then they felt themselves suddenly in spired with a new courage; for the sound of their enemies' voices was quite enough to strengthen their hearts and make them desirous of some opportunity for immediate action. While they lay and listened to these varied sounds, they were warned by the quite distinct sound of oars, plashing in the water, and groaning in the row-locks, that the object for which they had come on this expedition was close at hand. They accordingly pricked up their ears, and peered through the almost blanket darkness as best they could. 
               Pretty soon they discovered the outline of a boat, and almost in an instant afterwards, the figures of two men sitting upright in the same. It seemed as if they could scarcely restrain themselves from leaping at once out of their temporary covert and springing upon them; even before they had effected a landing. It certainly spoke well for their trusty hearts, and the inclinations that prompted them. 
               As soon as the passenger-as he appeared to be-had leaped from the boat to the shore, the boatmen pushed rapidly off from the same and disappeared in the gathering darkness. Undoubtedly it was nothing new for him to be employed in such interdicted business, and he had experimentally learned that there was quite as much valor, oftentimes, and a trifle more safety in flight than in hazardous pertinacity. He was wise that he fled from the view of the infuriated ambuscaders. 
               The passenger had scarcely walked a dozen steps from the tracks he made where he leaped on the shore when Verd-Antique gave an expressive signal to his men, and at once started from his hiding-place. 
               "Where do you come from, at this time o' night?" demanded Verd-Antique, very gruffly, and with an air of authority. 
               He had already thrown his arms about his prisoner, who found himself struggling as within the relentless embrace of a vice. 
               "Who are you? Be off! What will you with me!" asked and ordered the captured man, in a tone of frenzy and rage. 
               "What is your business on the water at this time o' night?" demanded Verd-Antique. 
               "That which doesn't concern such as you! Let me loose, I say; or I'll have the heavens about your ears in less time than you can get ready for them." 
               "Brave talk that for a tory!" 
               "Tory!" muttered the prisoner, contemptuously, between his tightly-closed teeth. 
               "Yes, you are that, aint you?" asked the leader of the captors. 
               "No matter what I am! Let me loose, I say-and that, too, at once!" replied the prisoner. 
               "Guess you'll give a short account o' yerself fust," drily spoke Verd-Antique. 
               "I'll do no such thing! I am a free man, with the right to go where I please!" 
               "Not while you live inside o' our lines you haint," said the unique John Horton. 
               "A graceless set of rebels and cut-throat scamps you are, all of you!" exclaimed the prisoner. "What you can't make in an honest way, you manage to get by robbing and stealing!" 
               "If ye don't fall into no worse hands than ourn are to-night, I guess ye'll stan a dreadful small chance o' bein' robbed! Jest put me down as bein' good for the truth o' that, will ye?" 
               "I say, let me go! I'm a free citizen,--" 
               "But not an American citizen. You never was born here, and you haint got our ways yit, exactly. But jest come along with us. There aint but little danger that you'll learn any tew much of our ways, and what you dew I guess won't hurt you none Come, bring the rope, boys!" 
               One of the young men stepped forward to obey the command given him. What was his surprise at looking closely into the face of the prisoner, to find that it really was no other than Mr. Elton Edwards. 
               The young man who was so unfortunate as to make the discovery, was--Henry Byram, the betrothed of his own daughter. 
               But the father did not recognize him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE PUNISHMENT. 
               EARLY the next morning, the General started off from his quarters to make a visit at the guard-house, and take a review of the private proceedings of the past night. 
               He wore the plain dress of a common citizen, and passed along with that easy gait and sir that wonderfully helped to make him feel perfectly at home any where. But although he made no show of false and stilted dignity in his own person, his character was sufficiently the theme of admiration, and the subject of respect among his fellow officers and the soldiery to draw out from them marks of decided warmth and affection. As he passed one and another, therefore, they touched their hats respectfully to him, accompanying the significant gesture with profoundly low bows. All these tokens of respect were duly recognised and returned by the General. 
               Arrived at the guard-house, he walked up to the morning officer in command, and saluted him with: 
               "Major Fay, good morning!" 
               "Good morning, my dear General! Good morning, your excellency!" 
               "How is the guard-room this morning? Full?" 
               "There are but three in it," was the reply of the subordinate. 
               "But three?" musingly repeated the General. "I am heartily glad there is such a falling off." 
               "None more so than we all are, General. I hope that the citizens are all of them beginning to see for themselves the necessity of uniting upon some decisive and patriotic course. I hope they will soon cease to be troubled about the name rebel, and infuse into the expression a meaning of patriotism and dignity. But it will never be done until people dare to think, and feel, and act for themselves. This haggling and bantering, General, is not going to make us a nation. 
               The commander's gray eyes lit up with a patriotic glow on hearing this comparatively young man thus descanting on the necessity of an union of popular sentiments. But he suddenly bethought himself of the immediate business on which he had come, and and inquired for what the three men were particularly confined. 
               "Two of them were arrested for attempting to pass the sentry without giving the countersign.
                     
                        
                            
                               
                                  
                                    GENERAL ORDERS. 
                                    
                                       [HEAD QUARTERS, N. YORK, APRIL 5TH, 1776]
                                     
                                    "The soldiers are strictly enjoined to retire to their barracks and quarters at tatto-bearing, and to remain there until the reveille is beat. 
                                    "Necessity obliges the General to desire the inhabitants of the city to observe the same rule, as no person will he permitted to pass any sentry after this night, without the countersign. 
                                    "The inhabitants, whose business requires it, may know the countersign, by applying to any of the Brigade-Majors, 
                                    
                                       "ISHAEL PUNAM, 
                                       "Major-General in the Continental Army, and Commander-in-chief of the Forces in New York.'
                                     
                                  
                               
                           
                        
                     
                   They were brought in and detained until morning," 
               "And the other-the third prisoner?" inquired the General. 
               "He was brought in for having been over to the enemy's boats. He is a rich man, too, and a respectable citizen." 
               "Are you sure he had been to the vessels of the enemy?" 
               "Quite sure of it. Those who brought him in asserted that he was taken in the very act of landing again on our shore," 
               "That would seem to be proof enough," replied the General, thoughtfully. 
               "The men can be ordered in, in a moment, who took him," said the officer. 
               "It had best be done soon, then" 
               "At once, General?" 
               "Yes. Bring in the two men, who were arrested for trying to pass the lines, first. In the room yonder,' continued he, pointing towards it with his hand and moving in the direction of it himself. 
               Major Fay bowed assent to the orders of his General, and instantly moved away towards the guardroom. In less than three minutes time, the two men were brought into the room where sat the American General, in charge of a sergeant They stood before him, eyeing him sullenly and silently for some time. What were their thoughts, it is impossible for us to conjecture. They might even at that moment have been contrasting in their minds the state of things under an outright anarchy, and under an union of republican hearts-an union cemented by the strongest associations by which it is possible for human nature to be bound. Or they might have been studying up some nefarious plot, by which they might be the means of great wrong and injustice to the commander who sat before them, as well as to the entire forces that were subject to his control within the city. Or, still farther, they might have been calculating, in obedience to the avarice that seemed to be busily at work within them, how much advantage it might finally be made to them, if they would but openly come out and enlist in the needy continental army. 
               It is of no essential consequence, however, which of these three subjects might, or might not, have been puzzling their brains. They regarded General Putnam with fixed and decidedly surly looks, which their very dress betokened were the expressions hearts predisposed to malice and inveterate hatred, 
               "You were taken in the act of trying to pass the lines, last night," said the General. "What have you to say for yourselves?" 
               The men hung down their heads, gazing abstractedly upon the floor and making no reply. 
               "You had not the countersign," continued the General, half turning in his chair. "Why did you not procure one?" 
               No answer. 
               "Dumb, hey?" said the General, not a little piqued at their sullen obstinacy. "Were you in pursuit of honest business, when you were captured?" 
               Still no reply. 
               "Answer me that if you wish to have the privilege of exculpating yourselves at all!" 
               He waited to have them explain their conduct, if they could; out they appeared to take no notice whatever of the privilege he extended to them. This only exasperated him the more; and he called out to the guard in an almost stentorian voice: 
               "Guard! Remand these men to prison! keep them confined in separate rooms for three days, and allow them nothing but bread and water to eat! Away with the fellows!" and he waved his hand commandingly towards the door. 
               At once they were removed from the room, and in a few minutes the officer of the morning entered. 
               "The rascals would answer nothing for their conduct, Major Fay," said the General, his eye kindling as he spoke, and the blood mantling faintly his bronzed cheek. 
               "Nothing, eh? said the officer. 
               "Not a single syllable. I have ordered them into solitary confinement for three days, and they are to be kept on nothing but bread and water so far as you are concerned, see to it that this order is strictly obeyed." 
               "I will, General," was the ready reply. 
               "And now have other prisoner brought in the one who was taken in the act of landing from the British ships. This is an offence that cannot be passed over lightly, and yet consistently with good order in the city. Our Prohibitory Order must be enforced." 
               "You would see those who took him, also, General?" said Major Fay, inquiringly. 
               "No, no matter. I would first see him alone. Bring him in now." 
               Major Fay immediately left the room. He returned, however, in a short time. bringing along with him the prisoner who had been captured by Verd-Antique and his associates on the Hudson River shore, the evening before. 
               As he entered the room, he cast his eyes rapidly about it, and then let them fall on the officer who sat in the chair before him. The latter instantly waved his hand to Major Fay, to signify to him his desire that the room should be vacated, and he accordingly left him. 
               "You are properly a prisoner, Mr. Edwards," said the General, as soon as he was satisfied that they were alone. 
               Mr. Edwards started at hearing his name called by the commander, wondering how it should have become known to him. 
               "You stand charged with having disobeyed a military order, which prohibits an inhabitant from passing over to the enemy's ship. What have you to say, sir?" 
               "Why should I be obliged to say anything?" he replied. "I do not hold myself accountable to the American army, nor to any one of its officers, for my conduct." 
               "Plainly spoken, sir," said the General; "very plainly spoken, indeed! But let me assure you, sir, that so long as you and your property-of which I hear you have no special lack-are upon American soil, which it requires American arms to defend from foreign aggression, you are accountable to the American authorities; of which you will recognize one in my person. If you choose to lend your assistance to the British against the country that has so long protected and fostered you, and in which you have succeeded in accumulating a liberal fortune,-then pass over to their lines at once, and when once there, be sure that you stay there; Join their army, and go in their hostile flocks up and down our coast, sending terror wherever you go, and breaking up the security and safeguards of the society that has nurtured you for so many years! If you wish to do this, do it! But you cannot be allowed to be running our lines, and carrying information and mischief over to the enemy. That has been prohibited by a special order; and you are arrested and brought here for disobeying that order." 
               There was a feeling of deep indignation burning in the bosom of the General, at the time when these words passed his lips, which it would not have been possible for the prisoner to allow to pass unobserved. The General could not help thinking at the moment how ungrateful the man was toward the country that had so long sheltered him, and to the people who had for so many years helped him in the accumulation and enjoyment of his fortune, undisturbed. 
               "I do not profess to be an American," said the prisoner, after a short pause. 
               "Then are you a tory?" asked the General, more deeply stirred with indignation than before. "That is what we want to know, and to know at once!" 
               "I do not side with the American people-that is, with those who are in rebellion against their king." 
               "Do you call an honest defence a rebellion? Is that what you would be meant to say? Rebels and rebellion indeed! If these are your opinions, it is truly high time that you had your license to visit the enemy and return to our shores, revoked!-high time, air!" 
               "I shall never take up arms against my king," added the prisoner, not a little abashed by the firm and determined tone in which the commander confronted him. 
               "Then you will not against the country of your adoption! You will never do that sir, while you are within American lines!" 
               "No; but have I done it yet?" 
               "You have done what it its exact equivalent, sir." 
               "What is that?" 
               "You know as well as I do, We all know what you have done." 
               "I protest my ignorance of what you mean," replied the doggedly obstinate prisoner. 
               "Were you not on board a British vessel only the last night?" 
               "And what if I was?" 
               "Is not that taking up arms against our citizens and people?" 
               "Perhaps not." 
               "Of a surety, it is!-and for that you are arrested. You have flagrantly and willfully disobeyed an army order, and we have to answer for it this morning. In consideration of your hitherto respectable character as a citizen, I have consented to come and pass judgment upon you myself." 
               "I esteem the compliment highly," rejoined the prisoner, in a tone evidently intended to be deeply sarcastic. 
               The color flew like the flash of a flame to the forehead of the General. 
               "You are a tory, sir! exclaimed he, in an exasperated voice. "You would be a spy, if you dared! You are a coward, in any event! For your contempt of our regulations, you must suffer the penalty." 
               "What is that?" 
               "Imprisonement." 
               "For how lung?" 
               "Were not this an aggravated offence, I should be loth to pass so severe a sentence upon you. In the circumstances by which you are surrounded in life, you should certainly have known better than to attempt so base an act as you have been guilty of. You have shown yourself an open and a vowed enemy of your country, and it is hardly safe that you should at present be allowed your liberty. The army is compelled to protect itself, at any and all hazards, even if individuals have to be quite plentifully sacrificed!" 
               "And I suppose they will be," interrupted the prisoner. 
               "If there by many such as you have shown yourself, there will be probably a good crop of them to gather in." responded the General. "But I have no words to waste longer with you. If I thought you desirous of being enlightened upon the state of our affairs with the mother country, so as to assume the attitude you conscientiously thought you ought to in this emergency, I would let you into a knowledge of many things of which you are now ignorant, and will probably long remain so. It is enough for me to know what your feelings are. Your conduct I shall take it upon myself to visit with the punishment it deserves. I herewith order that you be confined in solitary imprisonment for the term of ten days-on and after the present date!" 
               The prisoner bowed slightly, and gave the General a piercing look; but it was returned with one from the latter, so full of expressive indignation, and deep, unspeakable contempt for his littleness of soul, that he fairly quailed before it, and let his eyes drop almost instantly upon the floor. 
               Immediately the General rapped heavily on the floor beside him, and Major Fay entered, attended by a guard, bearing a musket on his shoulder. 
               "Ten days' solitary imprisonment!" ordered the General, partly rising from his chair. "This business must be stopped here, exactly where it is! There must certainly be virtue enough, and courage enough, and determination enough to put an end to it!" 
               As he spoke these words, he waved his hand in the direction of the door, and they proceeded at once to march their prisoner away to the apartment in which he was to pass his imposed punishment. 
               The heart of the wealthy man rose in his breast at beholding himself thus ignominiously escorted to a prisoner's apartment, when he had so comfortable a house of his own in waiting for his reception. He could not help inwardly cursing the rebels to whom he owed his capture, and thinking of the disgrace that attached to his present situation His proud spirit very naturally chafed under the insult-as he deemed it-and he vowed at some future day to have his revenge. He thought it would be sweet to him, when it did come, for the insult and contumely were so difficult to bear now. 
               With a measured tread, and with a turbulent thought at each forward step, he marched away through a long hall, or passage way, until he reached a flight of stairs. Here he paused and asked the guard if he was to ascend them. 
               "Assuredly," was the reply. 
               "Then my coming down may be worse for some of you than my going up!" said he, mumbling it between his teeth. 
               To this uncalled-for remark no reply was offered. They only marched him up the stairs, and pushed on along another passage-way until they reached the door of the apartment specially set apart for his confinement. It was unlocked by one of his conductors, and he was ordered to go in; which he did with a degree of reluctance that readily betrayed the feelings that were working with such violence within his breast. 
               As soon as he was fairly imprisoned, the key was turned upon him, and he was left alone to eke out the sentence that would hang so heavily upon him. 
               His rage, at this time, exceeded all bounds imaginable. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               A TURTLE AMONGST THE SHIPPING. 
               IT was a fresh, incense-breathing morning in the latter part of June. The sun had risen clear and golden, and the roofs, and peaks, and gables, and spires of the city were bathed in its stainless sheen. The water slept calmly in the river and the bay, scarce a breath of wind blowing over to ruffie its crystal-pure surface. Upon the distant horizon, seaward, rested a long and lazy wreath of light mist, which it needed but the approaching beams of the sun to dissipate into thin air again. 
               General Putnam was leisurely walking backwards and forwards upon the wharf, seemingly intent upon no particular purpose; but to one who might have been disposed to watch him closely and alternatively, he would have appeared to be occupied about something of more than usual interest and importance. He looked carefully and guardedly all around him to see that he was not observed, and then strained his gaze far away over the water. In this attitude he remained for a long time. 
               He was interrupted at last by being accosted by a voice that seemed strange to him; and hastily turning himself about, he saw the person of Verd-Antique approaching him 
               "Good mornin', Gen'ral!" accosted the strange character who was the cause of the interruption. 
               "John Horton!" exclaimed the General, "is that you?" 
               "Me, Gen'ral," he answered. "I git up in the mornin', I do, myself! Gen'ral, my best respects to ye!" 
               "And mine to yourself, John," answered the General, who certainly seemed in all particulars on excessively easy terms with the oddity whom he was addressing. "What news do you bring me, John? You're always wide awake for what's going on!" 
               "I got no news, Gen'ral," said the man, "but what you must have long ago have got yourself. I have just come from a tramp into Westchester, and over into the edge of Connecticut." 
               "Is all going on well there?" 
               "It is in Connecticut, your honor; in Westchester I didn't see so much a-goin' on. You see, I had a leetle bizness in the woods, and didn't go out much into the state o' civilization." 
               "You are a strange fellow, John; what do you think will come of your roving habits? Can you tell, do you think?" 
               All this time, the eye of the practised old veteran was busily watching a dark looking object that seemed to be making its way over towards Governor's Island and even then could not be very far from the shore. 
               "Good, I hope," answered John Horton to the interrogatory of his commander. "But what d'ye see away there, Gen'ral?" he continued. 
               The General did not at once proceed to make him any answer. 
               "Anything very pertikler, Gen'ral?" again inquired old Verd-Antique. 
               "Do you see that black object yonder?" asked he, pointing in the direction in which he had been looking. 
               "What-'way yender, d'ye mean?" inquired Verd-Antique Antique, pointing with his finger in turn. "Yes, I dew, Gen'ral," he replied, after a pause; during which he gave himself up abstractly to the contemplation of the object. 
               "Well, I want you to take a whale boat from the wharf here, and go out and bring it to the shore. Can you do it at once?" 
               "You needn't ask me no sich question as that but onst, Gen'ral; I always make it a pint of honor to obey every one o' your orders. I hope I may never see the day that Gen'ral Israel Putnam, that fit so like a tiger and a brave man against the cuesed Injuns, will want my help and not git it. Yes, I'll go, Gen'ral; in course, I'll go." 
               "It must be done cautiously." 
               "I'm your man there!" 
               "And kept a secret, too," added the commander. 
               "I can keep a secret a long ways better nor I kin keep my money, or my terbarker; nairy one on'em aint so easy to keep as this 'ere one thing is. I was allers purty good for a secret, Gen'ral; try me now." 
               "That is an internal machine, John,-" 
               "A what?" exclaimed he, his eyes extending themselves to their widest, and his lower jaw dropping in-considerately upon his breast. 
               "An internal machine;-" 
               "Infernal! I won't have nothin' to dew with it then," he replied, his features expressing a' feeling of terror and repulsiveness. 
               "Then there's all there is about it," added the General, with much emphasis, betokening that he was not altogether pleased with the sudden summersault John Horton had turned. "I must go and find some one else: for the thing must be got back." 
               "It's a sure case, then, is it, Gen'ral?" broke in the wondering man. 
               "Yes; it must be got ashore, and at once, too. If it falls into the hands of the enemy, it may do us much mischief. We must, by all means-" 
               "Say no more, Gen'ral," he bawled out; "say no more. I'm after it, if it's the Devil's own self, instead of one o' his mersheens. I don't care a fig for life, nor money, nor nothin' else: only put me onto the track o' anything I see the enemy's arter, and I don't stan' tew ask whether it's a-goin' tew be a safe speculation or not. I feel John Horton-ish all over, at sich a time; and I feel confoundedly so this very minute. I'll go now, Gen'ral!" 
               "Can you find a boat?" 
               "Ef I can't, then I swear I'll swim! I'll git there, and git hold o' that 'ere infernal critter afore anybody's had a chance to see it." 
               With these words, he started off in quest of a boat. The next his commander saw of him, he was shooting out over the sleeping water of the bay as rapidly as two bending, pliant oars and a pair of stout and sinewy arms could propel him. General Putnam watched him with a deep anxiety that plainly gave an expression to his usually pleasant countenance. It was at this time overcast with clouds. 
               The agile hunter rowed dexterously until he had almost reached the shore of Governor's Island; when he suddenly shipped his oars, and, leaning far over the gunwale of his boat, drew a dark substance of no inconsiderable size into the boat with him. Then casting a look all about the water in every direction, he turned his prow about and rowed back to shore quite as rapidly as he had originally gone out. 
               When he reached the place where the General still continued to stand, he passed the 'machine' up to him, with some considerable exertion, and then proceeded to climb the wharf after it. 
               "Now you air a goin' tew tell me what that critter is," said he, when he had fairly caught his breath-"and what it's for. I never brought no sich lookin' things as that about with me afore, and I cal'late to know jest exactly what 'tis. May the Devil have me if I ever see sich a thing in all my life afore." 
               "I told you it was an infernal machine," answered the old General." 
               "Yes, but I don't know no better now,' replied Verd Antique. 
               "You don't, hey? Well, it belongs properly to a boat, which is called by the inventor "A TURTLE."
                     The "American Turtle" was the name given to a highly ingenious and philosophical invention of Mr. David Bushnell. A. M, of Saybrook, Connecticut. We are indebted to Colonel Humphreys, a distinguished friend and biographer of General Putnam, for the following account of it, substantially: A machine, altogether different from anything devised by the art of man, was invented by Mr. Bushnell, for the purpose of submarine navigation, which was found to answer the purpose perfectly, of rowing horizontally at any given depth under the water, and of rising or sinking at pleasure. To this machine was attached a magazine of powder, which it was purposed to secure to the bottom of a ship with a driving screw-the screw so arranged that the same stroke that disengaged it from the machine, should likewise set an internal clock-work in motion. This once done, the snapping of a gun-lock, a half hour afterwards, an hour, or at any determinate point of time, would cause the powder to explore, and leave the results to themselves! The inventor, being unfortunately of a feeble constitution, was unable to perform the severe labor of rowing and managing the 'Turtle,' and consequently had taught a brother of his own to manage it with perfect dexterity; but as ill-luck would have it, his brother also fell sick of a fever just before the arrival of the British fleet off New York waters. Recourse was therefore had to a sergeant in the Connecticut troops, who, having received all the instructions necessary that could be communicated to him in the short interval that remained, went at too late an hour at night under one of the enemy's sixty four gun ships, with all the apparatus needed for a grand blow-up.
                     The result will meet the eyes of the reader in the natural course of the story.
                     If it should not, however, weary too much the reader's attention, we would like to append a brief account of the incident that occurred in the neighborhood of Philadelphia, in the year succeeding.
                     About Christmas, in 1777. Mr. Bushnell committed to the Delaware river a flotilla of kegs, each one of which was furnished with a machine and magazine similar to those described above. These kegs were destined to fall among the British fleet, then anchored in the Delaware at Philadelphia; but his squadron of kegs, having been separated and retarded by the ice, destroyed but a single vessel This catastrophe, however, produced an alarm among the enemy, the like of which was scarcely ever heard of before; and it was faithfully represented in the following song by the Hon. Francis Hopkinson,-a song that deserves to be published over again in this connexion, as being one of those quaint relies of revolutionary times, of which, we fear, the minds of each successive generation are becoming more and more oblivious. Here it is: 
                            
                               
                                  
                                    THE BATTLE OF THE KEGS. 
                                    Tune-Maggy Lawder. 
                                     
                                       Gallants, attend! and hear a friend 
                                       Thrill forth harmonious ditty! 
                                       Strange things I'll tell, which late befell 
                                       In Philadelphia city. 
                                     
                                     
                                       'Twas early day, as poets say, 
                                       Just when the sun was rising, 
                                       A soldier stood on log of wood, 
                                       And saw a sight surprising. 
                                     
                                     
                                       As in amaze he stood to gaze. 
                                       The truth can't be denied, sir, 
                                       He spied a score of kegs, or more, 
                                       Come floating down the tide, sir. 
                                     
                                     
                                       A sailor, too, in jerkin blue, 
                                       The strange appearance viewing, 
                                       First damned his eyes, in great surprise, 
                                       Then said-"Some mischief's brewing. 
                                     
                                     
                                       "Those kegs now hold the rebels bold, 
                                       "Packed up like pickled herring, 
                                       "And they've come down, t' attack the town, 
                                       "In this new way of ferry'ng!" 
                                     
                                     
                                       The soldiers flew; the sailors, too; 
                                       And, scar'd almost to death, sir, 
                                       Wore out their shoes to spread the news, 
                                       And ran till out of breath, sir. 
                                     
                                     
                                       Now up and down, throughout the town, 
                                       Most frantic scenes were acted; 
                                       And some ran here, and some ran there, 
                                       Like men almost distracted. 
                                     
                                     
                                       Some 'fire' cried, which some denied, 
                                       But said the earth had qua-ked; 
                                       And girls and boys, with hideous noise, 
                                       Ran through the town, half-naked. 
                                     
                                     
                                       Sir William, he, snug as a flea, 
                                       Lay all this time a snoring: 
                                       Nor dreamt of harm as he lay warm- 
                                       His fire in chimney roaring. 
                                     
                                     
                                       Now in affright, he starts upright, 
                                       Awak'd by such a clatter; 
                                       He rubs both eyes, and boldly cries- 
                                       'For God's sake, what's the matter!' 
                                     
                                     
                                       At his bedside he then espied 
                                       Sir Erskine at command sir; 
                                       Upon one foot he had one boot, 
                                       And t'other in his hand, sir. 
                                     
                                     
                                       "Arise! arise!" Sir Erskine cries; 
                                       "The rebels-more's the pity- 
                                       "Without a boat, are all on float, 
                                       "And ranged before the city! 
                                     
                                     
                                       "The motley crew, in vessels new, 
                                       "With Satan for their guide, sir, 
                                       "Packed up in bags, or wooden kegs, 
                                       "Come driving down the tide, sir! 
                                     
                                     
                                       "Therefore prepare for bloody war; 
                                       "These kegs must all be routed, 
                                       "Or surely we despised shall be, 
                                       "And British courage doubted!" 
                                     
                                     
                                       The royal band now ready stand, 
                                       All ranged in dread array, sir, 
                                       With stomachs stout, to see it out, 
                                       And make a bloody day, sir. 
                                     
                                     
                                       The cannons roar, from shore to shore, 
                                       The small arms make a rattle; 
                                       Since wars began, I'm sure no man 
                                       E'er saw so strange a battle. 
                                     
                                     
                                       The rebel vales, the rebel dales, 
                                       With rebel trees surrounded. 
                                       The distant woods, the hills and floods, 
                                       With rebel echoes sounded. 
                                     
                                     
                                       The fish below swam to and fro, 
                                       Attack'd from every quarter: 
                                       "Why, sure," thought they, "the devil's to pay 
                                       'Mongst folks above the water!" 
                                     
                                     
                                       The kegs, 'tis said, though strongly made 
                                       Of rebel staves and hoops, sir. 
                                       Could not oppose their pow'rful foes- 
                                       The conqu'ring British troops, sir. 
                                     
                                     
                                       From morn to night, those men of might, 
                                       Displayed amazing courage: 
                                       And when the sun was fairly down, 
                                       Retir'd to sup their porridge. 
                                     
                                     
                                       An hundred men, with each a pen, 
                                       Or more, upon my word, sir, 
                                       It is most true, would be too few 
                                       Their valor to record sir. 
                                     
                                     
                                       Such feats did they perform that day, 
                                       Upon those wicked kegs, sir. 
                                       That years to come, if they get home, 
                                       They'll make their boasts and brags, sir! 
                                     
                                  
                               
                           
                        
                     
                   It was made to blow up ships with; but remember you, it's all a secret yet." 
               "I know all that well enough," replied he, becoming deeply engaged in what he heard. "I shan't forget my promise, Gen'ral." 
               "Well," continued the General, "if you watch matters close enough, and long enough, you may see a small blow-up in the shipping yonder. The magazine of powder that belongs to this machine was fastened to the bottom of the Eagle, on board which is Admiral Howe, at this minute." 
               "You don't say so, Gen'ral?" exclaimed the astonished man, his features assuming every conceivable expression of wonder and unbelief. 
               "Yes I do say so too," replied he; "if you will wait here long enough, I imagine you will be treated to the sight of at least a water spout, if nothing more. It will all be luch and chance, whether the powder is under the vessel now or not. The matter wasn't arranged as it ought to have been; and yet, there could not anything more have been done, under the circumstances. The man who rowed under the Eagle didn't get away till quite late in the night, and he has brought me word that he wasn't quite sure whether the screw would hold fast to the bottom of the vessel or not. We shall see, I presume, before long, if we do but wait;" and with these words, General Putnam directed his gaze still more earnestly towards the distant shipping. 
               "I wish you'd ha' gin me the job," exclaimed John Horton, bending his own gaze in the same direction 
               "Could you have done better, think you?" asked the General, never averting his steadfast gaze in the slightest degree. 
               "I think I'd ha' been purty sure to give old Howe a berth a good deal warmer 'n any he's had yet." 
               "Perhaps you could have gone, John, if I had known where you were. I can never find you when I want you; and when I'm thinking of everybody and everything else but you, who is there to appear before me but your own self-just as you have this very morning." 
               "It's all very true, Gen'ral; it's true, every word on't, as I'm a livin' man. But what can I do? I want to do everything, all in one day. I want to be here, and I want to be there, all 't the same minnit. If I should jine the army in a reg'lar sort o' way, as I s'pose I orter, why then I sh'd miss o' seein' somethin' else, that I wouldn't miss of for nothin'. No, Gen'ral; no, I can't. I'd like to be by your side all the time, Gen'ral, a seein' and a-doin'; but I have so many ways to go, and so many folks a callin', that if I do but the half of what I set out to. I'm satisfied. It's wand'rin' life I lead, Gen'ral, but I've got use to it. I was a human onst, but I've a'most got over that 
                
               weakness. I use to love socierty, and go into that that was respectable and good, you know, onst; but that day's gone clean by. I've took to the woods purty much, lately; only if I can find out where there's any fightin' goin' on, I'm on the spot as soon as any on 'em; jest count me good for the truth o' that, will ye, Gen'ral?" 
               "Yes, I've had proof enough of your courage and your patriotism already, John," replied the General, "to doubt that you will be lacking when the muster roll is called now" 
               "No, that aint me, Gen'ral; it's not my name that'll go unanswered to when the roll's bein' called, or the fightin's bein' done. I say I'm on hand for that Genral." 
               "See there-look there, John!" suddenly exclaimed his commander, pointing towards the distant shipping. 
               "Sure enough. Merciful God!" rejoined John Horton, raising both hands. "The infernal machine has begun to spout, sure enough." 
               In the direction in which their eyes were turned, there suddenly arose from the water, in the immediate vicinity of the shipping, a vast column of water, to an astonishing height. Accompanying it, there could be heard a deep and sullen report, sounding quite as much like a distant earthquake, the rush of a falling meteor, or the distant explosion of a bomb, as anything that could be imagined. 
               "That's the magazine," remarked the General. 
               "If't had only been right under the berth where Lord Howe slept!" replied John Horton. "Oh, what a lift 'twould ha' gin him towards heaven-further up, I guess, than he'll ever be apt to git in any other way. Too had; too bad, Gen'ral, entirely! But better luck next time. P'raps some on 'em 'll be tryin' to find out what in thunder come up in that shape out o' the water, jest at the time when there 'll be another porpoise-blow, somethin' arter this same fashion. I hope this won't be the last on't, Gen'ral." 
               "We must secrete this instrument somewhere soon," said the General; "for the sight will be apt to attract people about the wharves." 
               "Here's for ye, then," replied Verd-Antique, raising an end of the machine to his shoulder, while the General took hold of the other and tugged stoutly and courageously. In a few minutes, they had it hidden in a by-place where the latter well enough knew it could be readily found at the time it would next be wanted, and then nothing was to be seen of either of them. 
               For many days after the singular phenomenon presented in the harbor, there was a continued series of conjectures and theories explanatory in some measure of the same. Some averred they saw a water-spout; others, that a huge whale must have risen to blow; and there were others so skeptical as not to believe that any common breed of whales could make a noise so loud and so startling, as was heard early on the morning in question. So the matter remained an unrevealed mystery to all but the commander himself, the person who manned the boat on the expedition, and John Horton, the rover. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               A BRIEF INTERVIEW. 
               WE have need to take the reader by the button-hole and go back a little way, to the evening of the day on which Mr. Elton Edwards received his sentence of a ten days' imprisonment. 
               Young Henry Byram, the recently-enlisted soldier, who had been so unfortunate-so far as his own feelings, at least, were concerned-as to be detached by his officer upon the expedition that resulted in the capture and punishment of Mr. Edwards, received permission to absent himself from his post for the evening and betook himself as speedily as possible to the house of the prisoner's daughter-Laura 
               It was quite dark when he arrived at the door, where he was met by the person of Laura herself, who had grown unaccountably anxious in consequence of the protracted absence of her parent. At a little distance behind her in the hall, likewise stood the servant Susan, grown almost as concerned about him as her young mistress. Laura could not help starting back when she found that, instead of the person at the door being her father, it was her lover. 
               "Henry! Henry!" she exclaimed. "Is it you, indeed? How did you get here again to me! Tell me-have you seen anything of my father? Tell me, Henry! I cannot think what has become of him. He has been gone since last evening, and we have been unable to learn any tidings of him anywhere. I fear he may have fallen into some sudden trouble; you know he is so staunch a friend to the king, and the soldiers would not hear him say anything in his favor now." 
               "Do not give yourself any farther trouble, my dear Laura," replied the young soldier, taking her hand within both his own and pushing his way along into hall. 
               "Then have you seen him, Henry?" 
               "Come in here and sit down with me, and I will tell you all," said he, in a tone calculated as much as possible to comfort and console her. "Let us be alone, too." 
               Laura signified to her maid that she would dispense with her attentions for a short period, and walked hurriedly with her lover into an adjoining room. They seated themselves side by side upon an old fashioned, quaintly-carved, massive sofa, or settee, whose framework and arms were of solid mahogany Drawing a small stuffed cricket to her feet, Laura folded her hands within her lap and gazed with a look of inquiry and deep anxiety into the young man's face, as it she would have him begin. 
               "I shall bring you joy, Laura," said he, "in one sense at least, by what I am about to tell you; for you will know where your father is, and that may afford you much consolation" 
               "It will-it certainly will! Then you indeed know where he is, Henry?" interrupted she, with much and strong feeling. 
                
               A cloud passed over the spirits of the young man, for he knew that when she came to know the entire sequel, all her hopeful joy would again be dashed in a thousand fragments to the earth. But he went on, trying to be regardless of all this. 
               "But I may bring sorrow too, with my intelligence, Laura." 
               "Why so, Henry?" asked she. 
               "Let me tell you the whole, then; and may you forgive me as I deserve to be forgiven for doing that, which only as a soldier, and obedient to the commands of my superiors, I should have done at all!" 
               "What mean you, Henry?" she demanded. "You perplex me with riddles; I do not understand you!" 
               "This is the story: last night, I was ordered by my commanding officer to form one of a small scouting party that was to be sent out to make a prisoner of a person who was known at the time to have gone over to the British vessels in the harbor. Of course I was obliged to go, without a why or a wherefore. In such a case, Laura, a soldier is privileged to ask no questions, and a true soldier never thinks of asking one. He goes straight forward, just when and where he is ordered. 
               "We were under the guidance of a stranger-a curious-looking man as I ever remember to have seen. I did not know his name and did not ask it. He seemed to know exactly where he was going, and said not a word to any of us. After we had gone to the river and lain in ambush there for some time, we heard the plashing of oars in the water. We knew it was this for which our guide and commander was waiting, and we listened attentively. The sounds came nearer and nearer to us. He made us a sign to preserve a continued silence, until he should give us the watchword when to start. 
               "The suspense was painful to us. The night, as you may yourself remember, was dark, and the sky was well blanketed with thick clouds. We could hardly see anything before us. But we could hear the sound of the oars in the rowlocks, and their plashing in the water. And presently the boat drew quite upon the beach, and we readily detected the indistinct figures of two persons in it. One of them appeared to be a passenger, and the other, the oarsman. Just as soon as they reached the shore, the passenger leaped out and landed, while the wary boatman whirled his boat partially round and cast off; and in another moment he was lost to us in the darkness. 
               "As soon as our guide saw the stranger fairly on shore, he made us a sign to follow him and make the passenger our prisoner. We sprang from our places quicker than a flash, and stood at his side. Our guide charged him with being a tory, and with going over to the enemy's boats. He seemed obstinate and indignant, and demanded loudly to be let loose again but we had no idea of letting him off so easily, now that he had been detected in the act of returning from the boats of the enemy-an offence that we could not overlook. The guide ordered one of us to hand him a rope, that he might secure him with it, and carry him safely away to the guard-house. I sprang towards him with the rope, and for the first time was enabled to have a close view of the prisoner's face. You can imagine my surprise, Laura, when I saw it was--" 
               "My father!" shrieked she. 
               "You have said it," added he, as calmly as possible, "It was your own father, Laura!" 
               "Henry!" exclaimed she, suddenly checking, or seeming to check, the violence of her excitement, and looking up with steadiness while a tear swam in each eye of blue. 
               He looked down upon her with a conscious change in the current of his feelings, but was able to utter no reply. 
               "How could you do it!" she said. "How could you assist in throwing my own father into prison! Did you forget me, then, in that moment? Did you forget that you was capturing the father of her who was-" 
               "Laura! For heaven's sake, Laura!" he replied, his heart wrought to an agony that was quite as inexplicable as it was difficult to bear. 
               She remained silent, willing to listen to such justification of his conduct as he might be disposed to make. 
               "You do not understand me, Laura," said he. "I did not offer myself to go and assist in the capture of your father; far from it. I was ordered to do so, Laura, and it of course at once became my duty to go. I was a soldier-a volunteer in the cause that you and I have so long loved together. I placed myself by that single act in an attitude of obedience to whatever commands might ever be issued. How could I do less than I have unfortunately done? How could I have refused the most trifling obedience as a soldier? No-I could not! You will forgive me, I hope, Laura, for that I have done; but in my present situation, if the same order should overtake me again, much as I know I love you, I should feel obliged to obey it as literally as I have already done in this instance." 
               "Enough, Henry, enough! I can easily see how trying a soldier's lot may be, especially when he enlists in a cause so seemingly desperate as that of the Americans. I bear you no hard feeling for what you have done; indeed, I hardly see how you could have done otherwise. You certainly could not. I can imagine it, was a trial to you, but you could have done your duty none the less for all that." 
               "Laura-my dear Laura!" exclaimed he, clasping her tenderly to his bosom, and impressing a fervid kiss upon her forehead. "I feel that you are yet all my own!" 
               The maiden made no reply, but continued with her head still reclining upon his shoulder. Occasionally she fetched a deep, long breath, attesting that her heart was wholly engrossed in what had been said to her. 
               "How long," asked she, suddenly springing up,-"how long did you say it would be before my father is released." 
                
               "In ten days." 
               "Ten days! Oh, my poor, poor father! I would not have foreseen this for a whole world's value! It is almost as much as I can bear." 
               "It is more, Laura," he replied, "much more than I had ever expected, much less hoped, to become a participator in. But the fortunes of war properly carry a person into every kind of embarrassment as well as danger. None of us soldiers-young or old-can tell what lies before us. As I have already told you, we have learned but one rule, and that is-obedience. It is a soldier's disgrace, and his positive ruin afterwards, if he refuse to obey the orders that he receives. But let us drop this mournful subject, Laura, if it be possible, from our thoughts-" 
               "I wish it were possible, Henry!" interrupted she, with a sudden outburst of feeling. 
               "And so do I. But we must try to. It will do us no good to continually brood over it, and it had much better be banished from our minds altogether. All that can be done is to quietly await the hour when your father will be restored to you. It will not be long coming, and patience is a good virtue to possess one's self of. Meantime, I will procure leave to be absent from my post each evening during your parent's imprisonment, and the whole of the time shall be given up to your company. I shall hope to drive away in some measure the sadness that I see is predisposed to settle down upon your spirits." 
               "You will have a wonderful influence in doing it, too," replied she, gazing lovingly up into his face. 
               To a compliment so flatteringly paid, it was not in the young man's power to reply in ordinary and set phrases. Accordingly, he only pressed his betrothed more closely to his breast, and ventured upon a liberty with her rich ripe-red lips which his very embarrassment and haste proved to be by no means a common practice with him. 
               The remainder of the evening-that is, what still remained to it of the youthful soldier-was passed in the enjoyment of conversation of a general character, intermixed with the usual episodes that were sometimes their pleasant peculiarities. Henry at length rose to take his leave, promising, if circumstances were favorable, to be back again by the side of Laura on the ensuing evening. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE WITCH-BET MIEFLES 
               IN the extreme north of the county of Westchester, and bordering closely upon the town of Ridgfield-if not quite within its boundaries-in Connecticut there lived, all through the days of the revolution, an old woman, named Bet Miffles. She was a complete hermitess, inhabiting a solitary cave, or a hut, built conveniently about the same, and subsisting only upon what a trifling and exceedingly meagre patch of a garden, or the bountifulness of the woods, afforded her. 
               
                  This is no fiction, but a historical fact.
                
               Her unique and lonely-looking habitation was located on the side of one of the high hills, or ridges that everywhere abound in that quarter, from whose door was to be bad at all times of the day a beautiful and truly picturesque view of the surrounding country. The rock afforded a natural cavity for protection against the inclemency of the weather-whether in the warm or the cold seasons-and upon and about this had been built the rude temporary shelter or which we will attempt but a partial description. 
               Stiff and stout poles, notched at their upper extremities, held up others that served in the capacity of cross-beams, upon which in turn was laid sufficient brush, boughs, and boards, their chinks and crevices carefully plastered up with moistened clay, to afford abundant protection under the visitation of any of the elements save fire. The sides of the hut were carefully boarded up, and every chink sedulously concealed. The door opened in about the middle of the front of the habitation, and on each side of it, at proper distances from the ground, room had been reserved for rough windows; rough, indeed, but none the less useful in inclement weather, when the door must be closed, for all that. 
               Where the cavity in the solid rock admitted it, a primitive fire-place had been formed, by placing two stones of a broad base and sufficient height opposite each other, in the fashion of and irons; while sundry well-smoked and seasoned pegs of hard hickory, stuck into the interstices of the rock at different elevations from the fire, served every purpose of crane and hooks that those identical articles themselves could have well done. The smoke was suffered to escape in the crevices already blackened and besooted with its steady passage upwards for a long period. 
               In the part of the hut in which was this cavity in the rock spoken of, was the kitchen. Here stood the utensils common to the duties of even the most regardless housewife, ranged around against the rock and the partition in tolerably respectable order. In a distant corner was placed a low cot-the sleeping-place of old Bet Miffles herself. Near the middle of the kitchen stood, upon two whole legs and one temporary supplied one, a round table, of exceedingly ancient manufacture, as well as of a decidedly unique appearance. There was a small, plain cupboard standing under the high window in the room, in which might have been seen, on every occasion when she opened its door, a goodly row of burnished tin-ware, as well as the number of cups, plates and saucers, which were requisite for her small family's use. An old and somewhat clumsy arm chair, together with one considerably shorter and lower, constituted the only movable seats there were in the apartment, unless, perchance a short bench that never was moved from its position against the wall, be reckoned in with them. 
               The floor was without the merest vestige of a carpet, and left abundant opportunity to the old woman to exercise her habits of tidiness and good order. In the corner opposite her bed stood an old-fashioned clock, reaching very nearly to the boarded ceiling of the room. Upon its face was the slowly but steadily accumulated dust of long years, already forming a coating sufficiently thick and heavy in many places to have allowed the tracing of letters upon and through it. The face was an odd and fanciful one, too; with two large and long eyes cut in its forehead, as if it must needs take a survey of every thing going on through them. Its hands were simply long and slim indices, steadily pointing to the hour that was gone forever. There were two posts, or pillars, whose quaintly carved peaks, once gilded, still stood sentry over the ancient time-keeper, and between which ran a carved screen or fence on the front side. The steady and monotonous tickings of this old clock sometimes caused the silence-a silence almost as of death itself-to become painfully apparent; even more so than if it had been altogether uninterrupted. All day long came that steady click-click, as the huge pendulum swung to and fro in its long box of a prison house. Perhaps in the summer days it was a pleasanter sound. It suggested quiet, and unmolested seclusion, and holy privacy. It made one feel that the place was one removed far from the crowding, and shouting, and jostling of the driving world-that its Babel noises could not reach quite thus far up the mountain side. As the fragrance came breathing into the apartment from distant banks and beds of wild flowers, and the gentle winds just danced and pirouetted across the hard oaken floor, there was a strange, yet satisfactory companionship in the continuous ticking of the old clock, which would have really been needed, had they not been heard, to make the dream one of a perfect pleasure. 
               On the other side of the door, the entire remainder of the hut was carefully partitioned off from observation. The part of the building devoted to it was, after all, only the wing of the same, forming a snug and convenient little apartment. The door of this little room was opened for the greater part of the time in mild weather, and the casual visiter was greatly assisted in this manner in taking an ocular inventory of its contents. 
               There was a neat little bed in the corner of the room farthest from the window, whose counterpane vied in whiteness with the driven snow. A small stand was placed near the head of the bed, and upon it lay a Bible and three or four other books, of an apparently miscellaneous character, that already attested to their having been thoroughly thumbed and much more thoroughly used. There was a small chest of drawers standing beneath the high window, into each one of which was secured-not a pair of highly polished rings, but-a pair of smoothly-worn, brown-colored strings. There was a small and not very clear mirror standing just above this, and fastened at its top by a string to the wall. Just above the mirror itself was painted, with all the art some ancient brush must have possessed, a huge blue rose, with tulip-shaped leaves protruding from its stem, and a bunch of versi-colored petels aspiring beyond its broad bosom. The floor, unlike that of the outer apartment, had a carpet upon it, which, though it was much worn and more faded, seemed just as well in that place as one of Turkish warp and woof would have done, to express an idea of comparative ease and undeniable comfort. 
               In pleasant weather, there might be seen an old pitcher, whose nose and handle had long been broken off, filled with the freshest wild-flowers and trailing vines that grew, whose fragrance completely filled the little apartment. No one had ever seen the bed in a tumbled and disordered state; and yet there could be no doubt that some one tenanted that room as much and as regularly as the outer one. There were the evidences of a refined life within it every day. They were to be seen in that broken pitcher of fresh and fragrant flowers; in the care with which every wrinkle and tumble in the snow white counterpane was smoothed out; in the diligence that kept the well-worn carpet free from any and every symptom of carelessness or want of tidy labor; in the very thumb marks so deeply stained upon the leaves of the books, not excepting in especial the Bible itself. 
               Old Bet Miffles, who was the well-known proprietor of this strangely located habitation, was a person of quite sixty years; perhaps even more; certainly more, rather than less. Her figure was tall, lean and lank. It was slightly curved with the united weight of cares and increasing years, yet not sufficiently so, by any means, to deceive one in that appearance of perfect agility which she seemed to possess as one of her individual characteristics. Her face was long, sharp, and peaked at the chin, about which latter feature there grew two or three hair moles of various colors and sizes. Her cheeks were somewhat sunken; and as her skin scarcely sufficed to cover her features, it may be a certainly that the furrows in her cheeks looked intensely repulsive. Her forehead was high and narrow, breetling over a pair of very small and very gray eyes, like some cliff over the diminutive and almost unseen entrances to a cavern. A pair of eyebrows overshadowed the latter, that were exceedingly bushy and entangled for one of her sex, and added an almost ferocious look to her countenance. Her mouth was small and well shaped. Her nose, slightly inclined to a beak, yet just passing off into an acute angle. 
               Upon her head she wore a cap that had long been there, once, perhaps, white, but now of a color altogether incomprehensible. The strings to the same were long since gone, and even the lower lobes of it were mutilated into shapeless shreds; still, she continued wearing the cap upon her crown, apparently ignorant that it poorly served to conceal those broad ribbons of silver that had long since been intertwined and intertwisted by Time within her once dark and glossy locks. Over each temple her hair was parted with exact care and brushed smoothly away; thus leaving no part of a countenance capable ble of so many, and, at times, such undefinable expressions, to suffer for want of a fair, and candid, and legible exposure. 
               As Bet Miffles walked about her habitation, in the performance of her regular household duties, her figure best exhibited its several characteristics to the truest advantage. Sometimes she forgot her troubles-whatever they were-or her experiences-whatever they had been-and quite straitened her form to woman's dimensions. At such moments she showed herself a lithe and rather graceful personage, capable of almost any movement not absolutely inconsistent with her years. Sometimes she hurried to and from her cupboard in the farther part of the room, stooping down to remove or set aside the various dishes of which it formed the proper receptacle; and at such times she betrayed the natural gifts of a smart and provident housewife. She went about her work with unheard words and sentences-many believed them to be imprecations-between her lips; dropping one and another at times, as occasion seemed to offer or demand, yet constantly seeming to keep her counsel entirely to herself, as if what she happened to say either had not been said, or absolutely meant just nothing at all. 
               As a constant companion to the old woman, there lived with her an enormous black cat, with fiery-fierce eyes of enormous proportions, and a coat of fur of enormous thickness. The creature really seemed endowed with an intelligence far superior to that of ordinary animals, and perhaps quite equal to that of which some few mortals are barely allowed to make their boast. Whether, at any rate, she understood general subjects as thoroughly as human beings may some of them be said to, it lies not in our power as a narrator to satisfy the reader; but we well enough know, for we have abundant reason for it, that she comprehended every word, deed and movement of her mistress, old Bet Miffles, as if she had been a human being herself; nay, even better. Betty had but to point to a particular object, and the cat's glowing eyes were upon it in a trice, watching it as vigorously, and twice as fiercely, as she. 
               Wherever the old hermitess went, whether just around the hut, or across the little plain before it, or far within the forest beyond it, the black cat was sure to follow. The people in the distant village who were well acquainted with this strange being, used to call her a witch; and averred that this huge black cat was no other than the devil's own wicked self. Several of them had, on various occasions, suddenly vacated the premises, and so greatly abridged a long-planned visit of investigation and inquiry at the hut, as soon as they saw this creature fastening her huge eyeballs, flaming with an unearthly rage, upon them. They said that Bet Miffles always always kept company with the devil; and this statement was in no manner weakened by their invariably seeing this cat walking either at her side, or just before or behind her, wherever she went. Moreover, they pertinaciously insisted that she was a witch-a co-worker with unseen and terribly wicked spirits of the air-and that her deeds could be no other than evil. The village of which we speak, could be distinctly seen, in clear weather, from the door of the hut, or from just before it, although it was quite a three miles' walk by the mountain path; and old Betty seemed to delight, at particular times, in sitting down upon a rude bench before the door and gazing off upon it. 
               The scene far and near, in summer, was charming. On the right waved an eternal forest; dark with its gloomy green; running like a strong army of men up precipitious ridges and mountain-sides; and raising its huge outhanging banners from lofty spires, or gaped and flashed into innumerable ravines by the uncontrollable power of the elements. Looking towards the left, the hill seemed suddenly lost, as it was jaggedly rounded, to the eye; and of a sudden, long vistas of pleasant meadows, where but few and straggling trees grew, presented themselves with all their coverings of the greenest verdure. There were few or none of those almost interminable stone walls laid in that day, as they are now laid in that and other portions of New England, and in consequence the pleasantness and harmony of the view was unbroken. Occasionally there were to be seen patches and small fields of grain, either just raising its promises to the weary husbandman's eves, or already bending under its load of profit; and where the yellow corn peeped out from the dry husks that sought still to conceal it in the autumn time, there were just faintly-visible streaks of yellowest gold-the real gold, too, from the most reliable mine, to his hands who tills the bosom of the earth. 
               The view was, at times, wonderfully distinct from this hut for miles and miles away. Betty averred that she could descry even the distant waters of the Sound, when there were no land fogs from the mear dows below her to interpose, and there can be but little question, after all, that what she said was perfectly true. At any rate, she was accustomed to sit and look watchfully in that direction, sometimes by the long hours together. Could it be that she waited for the arrival of any one? 
               Living with this old heamitess-this strange being that seemed unaccountable to any code either of law or morality in existence, was a young girl named Mary. She was a being of singular beauty, more especially when viewed in this rough and wild seclusion, and in immediate contrast with the old hag who supported her. She appeared perfectly satisfied with living where she did, never deeming it a deprivation to her of a single one of those comforts and trifling amenities of life, without which so many of us would be uncomfortable and unhappy. 
               Let us briefly describe her: 
               She had been fanned by the breezes of some seventeen or eighteen summers, and her cheeks were still as clear as alabaster. There was but little color naturally in them; but what little there was, was visibly heightened whenever sufficient occasion occurred to produce that effect. Her head was well formed, and covered with hair of a jet blackness, which she carefully brushed and smoothed away, each morning, from her well developed temples. Her forehead was rather low than otherwise, yet it lacked no mark of intelligence, neither did it do despite to a face that was full to crowding with every mark of the sweetest intellectuality. That face was fresh and fair, as how could it be otherwise: discovering in all its features a perfect harmony in nature with every principle of beauty and grace. Withal, at times-but those times did not come very often-a saddened expression stole over her countenance, leading one to imagine that her young heart was even then brooding over wrongs that she could in no wise mitigate or escape from; and then this transient cloud would be chased away and altogether dissolved by a gleam of sunshine, so clear, and so altogether golden, that it diffused its radiant influence all about her, and made others comparatively happy by a sort of contagion. 
               She was always dressed with the most studied simplicity, as she was obliged, indeed, to dress herself. Her hair was invariably glossy and smooth. Her face was always wreathed with irresistible smiles. Her person never looked other than tidy and attractive; and there was an innate and unconscious grace about it that was sufficient to charm the most casual beholder. It had already-that same lightsome and airy person-won the hearts of more than one of the young men in the distant village. 
               Knowing no other name by which to denominate the old witch, she always had called her "grandmother." Her grandmother she might have been, too, for all that we could now bring forward to shake the strength of such a relationship, or even dispute all-and that was much-which was talked round by those who knew both the individuals; but there was a wild strangeness in the contrast the one afforded to the other. It was like the sight of a blushing and dewy flower in the remorseless folds of a hideous serpent!-or growing unprotected upon the brink of a dark and fathomless cavern! We do not say that such was the truth in relation to the two; but the sight of them suggested just such thoughts and unpleasant comparisons in the minds of the good people of that day. 
               Persons in the distant village often circulated with remarkable briskness and energy the inquiry, whether there could be any right in the world that would at low that old witch to confine that sweet young girl up in those mountain fastnesses; and parties of the more determined and valiant ones had repeatedly been formed for the purpose of scaling the high precipice that intervened, and rescuing her from the injuries which they insisted on imagining she suffered. But, nevertheless, no such expeditions were ever undertaken, and this wild flower of the mountain-side was permitted to remain undisturbed in her dreamy solitude. 
               The reader has undoubtedly guessed already that the other partitioned room in the hut of old Betty was occupied by the youthful Mary. Such was really the case. It was her soft hand that smoothed out the wrinkles in the counterpane, and fed the old broken-nosed pitcher with the rarest flowers of the woods. It was her spirit that diffused such a charming sense of tidiness around the entire apartment; discovering itself as much in the manner in which the furniture in the room was arranged, as in the very charms that swarmed about her matchless features. 
               It was a custom of the girl, too, when her grandmother had absented herself long, to sit upon the brow of that fearful precipice that yawned but ten or a dozen rods before their door, and from that dizzy height to view the constantly changing landscape, as the sun glanced over distant meadows, and fields, and hills; or watch with eager eye the almost unrivaled phantasmagoric views that sailed into her vision from the far-off waters of Long Island Sound. She would sometimes sit there so long that she might have been thought asleep and dreaming; so rapt were all her senses with the thousand natural charms that presented themselves to her through her eye alone. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               A VISIT TO THE MOUNTAIN. 
               FULL a mile away from this wild residence of the child and her grandmother, and deeply in the inner and almost impenetrable recesses of the forest, was built a rude cabin. Its component parts were chiefly boards, stones, and logs, and over all was thrown a sufficient quantity of boughs of oak and pine to conceal the place altogether from the view. 
               This cabin was simply a log house, fashioned as the rudest of such habitations are, and affording a meagre light by only a single window that was ordinarily protected with a close shutter. It stood just beneath a high ledge, the better to give it the appearance of a rock itself, for the purpose of concealment. No visible path betrayed the existence of such a hiding place in that locality, every imaginable access to that same being strewn with dried leaves, and roughly paved with fragments of rock. One, in passing, would scarcely be able to detect the most unusual appearance in that quarter, even upon the closest personal inspection; so guarded were all the avenues, so carefully were the boughs strewn about its entrance, and so much like a very part of the ledge itself did the hut appear. It was evidently the work of an ingenious person, much accustomed to life in the woods. People would need to go very near it in their passage from the hut of the hermitess to the northern road, or cart-path, that, if properly followed, invariably brought the traveler to the low land upon whose broad bosom was built the little village we have spoken of. 
               One afternoon in June, in the year 1776, a young man walked up from the neighborhood of the village in question, apparently for the purpose of indulging in the pastime of gaming. He carried a gun in his hand, and a leathern pouch was slung across his shoulders. His dress was altogether careless and unstudied. His boots were drawn up over his pantaloons, as if to protect them from the wear and tear of the brush, as well as possibly from water in wading, and his hunting coat seemed made for just such an excursion as he proposed. 
               It was quite the middle of the afternoon when he reached the hut of the old woman, which he approached with a cautions step and a listening ear. He at length stood boldly before the door, and looked in. No person met his gaze. He knocked with his knuckles upon the rough lintel, and awaited a reply; but none came. A second time he knocked; still no summons from within. 
               "Can the old hag have carried her off with her?" were the words that involuntarily passed his lips. 
               He continued standing in the position he had first taken before the door, for some moments, apparently engaged in deep thought. Then he suddenly broke away from the same, and turned to take his departure with a clouded brow. 
               What was his surprise, however, and how much more was his joy, to observe the figure of the young girl approaching from the opposite direction. She had been rambling down the declivity, in quest of her usual afternoon's adventure. 
               "My dear Mary!" exclaimed he, moving quickly towards her and encircling her waist with his arm. 
               She turned upon his fine countenance a look of love and gratitude combined, but her lips uttered no syllables. The moved; but their soft murmurs were inaudible, though not unintelligible to him. 
               "Are you alone this afternoon?" ventured he. 
               "Grandmother has been gone since morning," she replied. 
               "And doesn't she inform you where she is going, Mary, when she leaves you in this place by yourself for so long a long a time. I declare, it's absolutely dangerous. There are enemies about, and no scarcity of them either. It would not be safe that any such should know of your being unprotected up here." 
               The girl blushed deeply at this profession of his regard for her, and as she yielded to his gentle guidance of her person towards the hut, she said in a low and sweet voice: 
               "I'm not afraid, William." 
               "That's not the thing, child! Afraid, or not afraid, it's her duty, if she is a grandmother of yours, to see that you are not exposed to the ruthless and wanton insults of such scapegraces as the country just at this time happens to afford" 
               "But I never have been harmed, William," she protested mildly. 
               "And that is no reason at all why you may not be," replied he, seating himself beside her upon the bench, and fondly taking one of her fair hands within both his own. "These are troublesome times, Mary," he continued; "we do not know what dangers are lurking about us. It is difficult to determine even who are the friends, and who the foes, of their country; though, I acknowledge, that the latter are found with greater difficulty than the former. Sometimes they are impressed with a sense of shame, and sometimes of fear; and under such impressions, they are somewhat chary in making known their prejudices and preferences to the public. But the truth must sooner or later come out; men cannot long disguise their sentiments on the subject of this war, for it is one that brings itself too closely home to their hearts and hearths. It isn't, however, from respectable dissentients to the cause of liberty that I should fear any wrong to you in this out-of-the-way place; it is from those lawless, renegade, vagabond fellows, who, under the avowed cover of the name of tory-a name I loathe sufficiently already-commit every act included in the term lawlessness, and swear it all subserves the cause of the king." 
               "Why am I not quite as safe here, William, as you are in the army?" asked the maiden, looking up and seeming to imagine she had the better of the argument. 
               "I am safe everywhere, and I am in danger everywhere," replied he, with earnestness. "My duty calls me to a post of danger; while your duty as plainly points you to a place of as great comparative safety as possible." 
               "Does it, William?" 
               "Does it! Does it not, Mary? Woman is for the fireside and the heart-chambers. She was never formed and never educated for the field, or the rough experiences of life; these are for men?" 
               "But I would expose myself equally with you, William." 
               "Forbid the thought, high heaven!" fervently ejaculated he. "If breasts are to be bared in this unnatural contest, at least let them be the more hardy breasts of men! Mary, you wrong your sex when you propose to put yourself in a place of peril. You had better come down to the village, and there make your home until the war is over. My uncle will be left all alone with his good housekeeper, after I am gone, and there will be no telling what choice company you will be for him. Come, Mary; say that you will go!" 
               "And leave my grandmother?" 
               "Mary-Mary," said he, lowering his voice quite perceptibly, and drawing still nearer to her side-"I do not believe she is your grandmother!" 
               The girl had never chanced to hear the suggestion from any one's lips before, and it startled her. 
               "Why do you not think she is?" she turned and inquired, with a look of the most perfect innocence. 
               "She can't be! No-she can't be! I cannot tell you why; but I have always had an undefinable feeling towards her that I could not purge myself of. Besides, she doesn't possess a single feature that you do." 
               "But she is so much older!-she is my own grandmother, too!" 
               "Fudge! I cannot believe it." 
               "And she treats me well." 
               "Yes, in her way; but that way has no affection in it. If she were really your relative, my dear Mary, think you she would go off in the morning, and leave you to protect yourself in this mountain eyrie until night again?" 
               "But how could she protect me any the more for being here herself, William? She is old, and she is weak. She has not so much power in her hands as I have, to defend us both." 
               "You!" exclaimed the young lover playfully, the while fondling with her delicate hand and observing its soft texture, as the best marginal note by which to read the real meaning of the sentence she had uttered 
               "And why not I, as well as she?" 
               "Child! child!" 
               The maiden hung her head, while the crimson mounted to her cheeks, and thence even to her temples. 
               "Now I wish you would give me your word, Mary," continued he, after a brief pause, "that you will accept the protection and hospitality which my uncle's house affords. Will you not?" 
               "And leave grandmother, as I asked before?" 
               "Yes," replied he, after some hesitation. 
               "I could not do that" 
               "Then have her accompany you." 
               "And that she would never do. I had better not think of it, than of taking her along." 
               "But I shall probably be called back to my regiment very shortly, and how can I go until I am assured of your safety?" 
               "Think not of it," replied she. 
               "Then I cease to live! Mary, you do not yet know the depth of my heart!" 
               "Forgive me, but I spoke thoughtlessly. I was careless." 
               "You are readily forgiven," replied he; "yet that act of mine does not determine my happiness and quiet any the more closely. I wish you would go with me-go at once!" 
               Their further conversation was suddenly cut off by the appearance of old Bet Miffles herself. She was coming, at a slow and thoughtful pace, from the direction of the forest, and her inseparable companion, the black cat, was walking just before her, her tail at a right angle with her body, and both rubbing affectionately against the dress of her old mistress 
               The old witch drew near to them almost before they could have had a faint glimpse of her coming; and the young man began to fear that she might have overheard the latter part of his conversation, and would accordingly insure Mary against the favorable chance of every project he might set on foot for providing her a place of security. She passed by them, however, and be took herself into the house without saying a word. 
               She evidently was not unused to the sight with which her eyes had just been regaled, and it seemed therefore nothing strange to the young couple that she preserved the silence she did. 
               Before long, the young man, William Howe, had stolen a long and ardent kiss from the lips of his fair mistress, as they sat upon the oaken bench before the door, and taken his sad departure. He threw many a hurried glance backward upon his heart's treasure, looking as if it were quite a living death for him to separate from her under such gloomy and unsatisfactory circumstances, and then had vanished altogether from her straining view within the dark recesses of the forest. 
               For at least a mile kept on his solitary way, his gun across his shoulder, busily thinking upon the chances of his finding an order for him to repair to head-quarters at the house of his uncle, and trying to devise some method by which complete safety might be provided for Mary, while he should be obliged to be absent from her. His thoughts evidently tended to no point like a satisfactory one, for his countenance bore every symptom of unrest. Reaching at length a stump that stood upon a little cleared spot, he stood his gun by his side, and sat himself down to rest and contemplation. 
               The hour was one peculiarly adapted to such an object, for the rays of the sun came slantingly through the garniture of the trees, and wove themselves into bright and golden figures upon the green earth-carpet at his feet. There they danced and shimmered with each motion of the trees, like the ever-varying figures one sees in a kaleidescope. There were the most fragrant breaths upon the air, and they revived his sinking spirits. Anxious to draw in as much of their inspiration as possible, and willing to have them visit him in their native freedom at every quarter, he took off his cap and freely bared his temples and brow to them. 
               For some time he sat as one in a trance. There was a power beyond and above that of his own will, that controlled every thought of his soul, and even every muscle of his face. He rested his head slightly upon his hand forgot entirely where he was. Was there a sweet picture at that moment before his swimming eye? Was there the form of a lovely maiden everywhere pervading and permeating that picture? Were there clouds, big and threatening clouds beginning to let themselves down upon the fair landscape, and promising soon to enshroud everything in their blackness? Saw he-mentally-no azure depths still beyond those threatening clouds; depths of blue in which they had once sailed as a gauze-like mist, and out of which they had now suddenly gathered themselves as for a cruel and furious onset? Yes! lightnings and thunders came out of these clouds! The sound of that thunder made him dream of the booming of far off cannon. Their indistinct flashes horrified him with the glare of many battles. He kept looking at the vision before him-looking steadily and dreamily. He saw long streamers of fire and blood shooting athwart the horizon in every direction. Every variety of serpent and vile creature that crawled and bred was pursuing its strangely confused and intertwisted way across the sky. Then he saw distinctly huge banners, and heard the roll of a hundred drums, calling upon the hosts to rush forward and sustain them. The air was alive with the sweetest melody, and the most harsh and grating discords. Still the numberless drums kept on their rolling, and the thick heads of the gathering clouds kept up their roar. Still the thousand reptiles kept going on their scaly bellies, and the broad streamers, flaming with fire and deeply dyed in blood, kept shooting higher and higher. Yet above and beyond all was that same field of azure sky-that sure anchor-that abiding hope-that final resting-place for him, after every energy was spent and every effort was thoroughly and hopefully made. He tried to interpret the meaning of all-what there was of it that was no mystery. He thought the picture was that of his own hopes, and of the hopes of his own country. The array, the music, the roar, the banners, the reptiles, the streamers-all filled his mind with indefinable terror; yet there lay a sure and strong hope for him beyond all. That deep blue sky encouraged and inspirited him. 
               While he yet sat in this position, these wild and incoherent fancies sailing across his busied and excited brain, he heard the sudden and sharp crack of a rifle. He had no time to seize his own gun that lay by his side. He had not even time to turn himself partially round, to see what might be the cause of the report. Almost at the same moment when the report struck his ear, he fell senseless to the ground. He was not able to catch the sound of a musket, fired almost simultaneously from a point not far distant from him. 
               The next time he was conscious of anything, his head was lying in the lap of a person near him, and he was gazing up into his face. The face was that of a negro, who responded to the look of gratitude with: 
               "Blessed glad you come back to life, Massa Billy! 'Fraid you was done for good! That Injun's rifle not quite sure yit!" 
               The young man motioned for him to narrate the particulars of the unexpected occurrence, as near as they could be collected by him. In substance, he told him as follows: 
               The negro, whose name was Buff, and who had long lived in the family of the young man's uncle, observing that he was making preparations to go into the woods for game, and perhaps for another purpose with which he seemed in nowise unacquainted, resolved secretly to follow him; for, said he to himself, "there's no telling what help he may want before he gets back, and I might just as well be on his track unbeknown to him." Accordingly, he followed on until he saw his young master safely at the hut of the old witch. While he remained there in the company of the girl, Buff was secreted in the edge of the forest, where he lay until the young man took his departure. On his return, he continued following him, and stood hidden from view behind a tree, while he was sitting upon the stump in the clearing. While he gazed round in the wood, he thought he saw a figure slightly moving not far from him. It was growing dusky, and he watched longer and more patiently to satisfy himself what it was. What was his horror at length to observe that the figure slowly raised a rifle to its shoulder and took deliberate aim at the young man! Quicker almost than thought, Buff clapped his own musket to his shoulder, took a hasty sight at the figure, and fired. But the other had fired first. Buff stopped to see what service his gun had performed, when he saw the lithe and dusky form of an Indian running away from his post of concealment. Looking again towards his master, he observed that he had fallen to the ground from his seat upon the stump, and still lay there insensible. He instantly sprang towards him and raised him gently in his arms. Examining his wound, he found it was nothing more than the graze of a bullet upon the left side of his head-a rather narrow escape, to be sure-but a great ways preferable to being killed outright by having the ball go through his head. He took his own canteen, filled with water, from his shoulder, and bathed his temples and moistened his lips until he revived him. It was then that he narrated to him the manner in which this occurrence, approaching so very near to fatality, had befallen him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               A NOONDAY ENCAMPMENT. 
               THREE men were encamped in a piece of wood in Westchester, a trifle above what so soon afterwards came to be known by the name of the Neutral Ground. It was about the middle of the forenoon, and they lay in a sort of intervale expressly adapted to the purpose of concealment. 
               Two of these men were dressed after the fashion of working-men, and were without doubt specimens of the brave and hardy farmers of that day. They had their muskets lying close by their sides, and the leather straps they had been wearing about their waists, were relaxed to allow them the greater ease in their roving siesta. Their countenances denoted characters of sterling good sense and irreproachable honesty. Their limbs were specimens of muscular combinations, looking as if they were jointed with rivets of iron. A third person sat by them, engaged in finishing a meal upon which all had been busying themselves. His dress was fully as rough and careless as that of the other two, and it was altogether more noticeable and unique. 
               He wore a deer-skin hunting cap upon his head, fitting it pretty closely, and yet leaving well exposed the entire countenance. There was growing a shaggy beard upon his face, which he had seemingly taken great pains to cultivate, for some special purposes undoubtedly best known to himself. He wore skin leggins about his limbs, that were laced up on their outer sides with well-cured strings of the same material. Over his feet were drawn a pair of rather clumsy boots, that looked as if he had chosen them as much for the purpose of slipping out of them easily in a close pursuit as for downright rough-and-tumble wear. He likewise carried a rifle, and, while he sat by the side of his companions, it rested against a young sapling just at his hand. 
               The individual himself was Verd-Antique. 
               "Come, John!" spoke one of the men lying upon the green moss-carpet; "finish your meal as soon 's ye can, for I've got work cut out for ye afterwards." 
               "And what mout that be?" questioned he. 
               "You was in the battle o' Bunker Hill, nigh Borstun, warn't ye?" 
               "I wasn't fur off, I kin tell ye," replied Verd-Antique, hurrying the remaining morsels of his food into his capacious mouth, and putting them into a summary process of mastication. 
               "Wal, it's about that battle that I want ye to tell us a little, while we lay here. Why not? There's nothin' else to do to-day, and an hour spent in gittin' a leetle more acquainted with the way they fight in a reg'lar battle can't be an hour hove away-not on me, it can't." 
               Old Verd-Antique was soon through with every vestige of his morning repast; and, removing his seat to a tuft of moss that looked a trifle greener and softer, he ventured to begin: 
               "If you'd really like to hear about it, why, I s'pose, I kin give you most as much information as anybody about these parts." 
               "Tell us, John-tell us all you see!" called out both men at once, quite earnestly. 
               "Wal, then, here's what little I know'd and see o' that consid'able of a skrimmage folks call- 
                     The Battle of Bunker Hill!
                  
                
               "Wal, you see, it's an occurrence sich as I can't specially give ye all the pertiklers about, but sich as come under my own observation I'm purty apt to remember; for 'twas a hot kind of a fight, and there was purty clost quarters for us all. 
               "Let me see; yes, it's jest a year ago this very day that we was all on us into it. Only think of it! a year ago to-day-and as much hotter out there in the brillin' sun than in here in this shade, as anybody could very well imagine. There wan't no chance for folks to keep cool that day-not a bit of it. Everybody had to stand and take his chance. 
               "Let me see-where was I fightin'? But 'taint no very great matter about where it was. I wa in some company o'Connecticut militia, and you may depend that my old musket was as deep-loaded and sure-primed as any on 'em. 
               "There'd been a good while that the soldiers'd got sort o'tired o'hangin' round the camps, round in Cambridge, and Dorchester, and so on, and they begun to talk up to the officers about having' a bit of a skrimmage with the red coats that were in Boston. It kind o'made our country fellers' blood hot to hear that the cussed British was a-doin' jest what they wanted to do in Boston, convertin' the churches of God Almighty into stables and circus shows, and they wanted to git a grip onto 'em, if in any way they could. Wal, the head officers held meetins, and councils o' war; and they agreed to a little of everything and a good deal o' nothin.' Amongst all the rest on 'em. Old Put had his say. Says Gen'ral Putnam, says he, 'Gentlemen officers, all I've got to say about the matter is this: the soldiers want to go and fight the cussed British most orfully, and, for my part, I'm willin' to led 'em a hand in doin' of it!'" 
               "Good for Old Put!" shouted out one of the companions of Verd-Antique. 
               "Yes," replied he, "good for him, but 'twant half, nor near so good as what he said right afterwards." 
               "What was that?" asked the other. 
               "Why, he said that our men would learn a kind of experience they wanted, in riskin' a single important engagement with Gage's troops, and that the British would git a trifle of an idee of what sort o' marksmen our folks was. Moreover, he said that if our men fit behind entrenchments, they'd have a double advantage, and would cover themselves with twice as much glory. Says the old man, says he, 'the Americans aint a bit afraid o'their heads, though they're wonderful afraid o' their legs; and if you only cover up their legs, they'll fight for ever!' And a truer thing he never spoke, even if he spoke it right out o' the Bible. 
               "Wal, after a good deal o'parleyin' and palarverin', they all finally agreed to have a brush with the red coats. We heard, you see, that they talked of comin' out o' camp and occupyin' Dorchester Heights and Charlestown on the eighteenth, and so our folks thought they'd jest be a little before 'em, and give 'em work of a different kind to do. And old Gen'ral Ward, who commanded all the forces at the camp in Cambridge, issued his orders to Colonel Prescott and others to get themselves and their men ready for an expedition somewhere, and to provide themselves with provisions for one day. This order was issued on the 16th of June-just a year ago yesterday, too. 
               "On the evenin' of the 16th-I remember it all jest as well as if 'twas only yesterday-Colonel Prescott got orders to march to Charlestown, take possession of Bunker Hill, and demand it the best way he could. The Colonel kept the whole plan a secret from his men, and he set off on his job. Old Put had a sort o' general supervision over the matter, and there was a famous engineer, too, Colonel Gridley, that went along with us on the expedition. Not a single man of us knew what was goin' to be done, though we all knew what we wanted." 
               "What was that?" interrupted one of the listeners. 
               "What was that? We wanted to see fightin! That's all there was wanted jest then, and we knew that it couldn't be very fur off, either. All of a sudden, we had crossed over Charlestown Neck; and then we begun to see for ourselves. There was all the wagons, piled up with tools of all sorts for making entrenchments, and ready to go right along with us. The officers begun to order us all to stack arms and begin the fortifications, when it was discovered that nobody knew what spot in pertikler was to be fortified. There was two or three hills before us, but for the sake o' savin' our souls from the army of General Gage, there wasn't one of us that knew a name for any on 'em; all on'em was Bunker Hill to us! 
               "They had a consid'able, of a talk about what spot they'd take hold of, the officers did amongst themselves, and the time was a-wearin' away, and it was gittin' kinder tedious; and at last the engineer spurred up, and told 'em if they was a-goin' to do any thing that night, they'd best begin purty soon with it. This sorter started some on 'em, and after another long parley they concluded to fortify the hill furthest down towards the British, and what we afterwards found out was called Breed's Hill. 
               "To work they went, all hands on 'em. The figger of the redoubt and the breastworks was laid out by Colonel Gridley, and we had the picks and spades put into our hands soon after. But 'twas a trifle past midnight before the first shovelful of ground was hove up by one of us. But after we did git to work about it, you may make up your minds that we worked jest as hard as men knew how to, the rest of the night. Old Put had his cot off most all the time and his sleeves stripped up, and there wasn't a man on the ground that would make the dirt move faster than he did. I knew he must be an old head at farming, quick as I laid eyes on him; and I didn't believe he had to use oxen to do quite all his plowin', nuther. And Colonel Prescott, the brave old man, he was encouragin' us all the time, and tellin' us 'put in boys! put in for it! the red coats will all go into fits the minnit the sun rises and they see these entrenchments!' I tell you, we had every kind of encouragement men needed to have about their work. 
               "It was jest as clear starlight that night as ever you see in all your life. Colonel Prescott begun bymeby to git a trifle squeamish for fear the British might be able to see what was goin' on, for you see we wasn't but a short ways from Copp's Hill and the Ferry, at the best. So what does Prescott to but take Major Brooks along with him down to the shore, and go to work to reconnoitre 'em. There wasn't no sound to be heard from 'em, however, thank Fortune! Everything was as quiet as death itself, and death in a deep forest at midnight, too. They could hear plain enough, thought, the enemy's sentry relievin' guard, and heard 'em cry out 'All's well!' with a kind of pleasure they hadn't enjoyed before in a long while. 
               "Early the next mornin', while we were yet hard to work upon the breastwork, Old Put started off for the camp to Cambridge, to get ready for the action that he pretty shrewdly guessed wouldn't be long comin' on. He went to make some arrangements, too, about relievin' his horse in the course o' the day, for he wasn't no common rider, you'd better believe me! If he rode a horse, the animal was pretty sure to find out there was a man on his back! Colonel Prescott, he keeps thinkin' the enemy can't help seein' what we'd done, and down he posts to the shore agin; but all was jest as quiet as before. 
               "Bymeby the great yaller sun begun to lift up his head above the hills over in the east, and the gray of morning pretty soon turned into gold. It wasn't possible that the thing could be kept from the British any longer. They rubber their eyes, and looked through the mist-or what they must ha' thort was a mist-and then I cal'late they begun to cuss I knowd they called us damned foxes for what we done that night, and said we was a good deal better at our nat'ral business, which was burrowin', that at fightin'. But, howsomever, perhaps they found out a good deal more 'n that, afore they got through. There they saw us, airly in the mornin', overlookin' 'em completely, and with entrenchments hove up before us as would frighten the bravest sort o' soldiers. Bymeby, the cannon begun to blaze away from one o'their vessels, and all Boston was purty much astonished at wakin' up, to see what had been done in the short and warm night they'd been sleepm' sound." 
               "Enough to scare a hundred sick towns, I should think," rejoined one of the men. 
               "So I should think, too," exclaimed the other. 
               "'Twasn't very long, though," continued the narrator, putting a fresh quid of tobacco in his mouth by way of an introduction-"'twasn't long, though, before they opened on us from their battery on Copp's Hill, and from their floatin' batteries, and frigates, and a man-o'-war they called the Somerset, right not and hearty. It was purty ticklish for some o' the poor fellers that most on 'em never see cannon fired before, and I looked round to see some o' the boys' cheeks turn a little white; p'raps they did; but they stood to their places and their work like so many veterans after all. The big balls come ploughin' and boundin' along where we were, and sometimes they looked in the air as if they was goin' to crush and pound up all on us into a mortarful of grissle and bones; you'd better think 'twas ticklish a trifle! 
               "Prescott was hard to work in the redoubt, and Old Put was everywhere else. The moral truth is, there warn't no keepin' him in one spot! He wouldn't stay nowhere! One poor fellow, who had got the other side o' the works, was struck down of a sudden by a ball from the shipping. I see that man fall myself. He was the first man that fell, too, on that day. He was n't far from where I stood, and I remember how like death it come over me, to see them pesky red coats causin' such a cruel ruin as that. The poor man never 'd harmed them--" 
               "But you can't say he wouldn't if he'd had a good chance?" interrupted one of the deeply interested listeners. 
               "No, but I can say most likely he would ha' done all the hurt to 'em he could, if they'd but allowed his soul to say in his body a dozen hours longer. But jest as soon 's he fell, the word begun to go down the line, 'there's man killed! there's man killed outside!" You may be sure there was a freezin' terror that crept over every heart and frame there was on the ground. None of 'em-that is, the most of 'em-never had seen a man killed in their midst before, and it curdled their blood for 'em. They stopped their diggin', one and another of 'em, and begun to crowd round the dead man to catch a sight of his face. Then their cheeks turned pale enough, and one could see that there was something like a wild fear settin' in on 'em, such as couldn't be got rid of after it had got full control of 'em. Jest at this minnit, Old Put came ridin' up on his great horse, and looked for himself to see what was the matter. I reck'n he had a fear for the effect 'twould have on the men, and he was all-ready for such an emergency, as he always has been for all sorts of such things. 'Come, my lads!' says Old Put, hollerin' up pretty strong, jest as if nothin' at all had happened-and his good strong voice alone was as good as a glass o' sperits and water to put courage into a man-'come, my lads,' says Old Put, 'a half dozen of you dig a grave and bury that man! such a sight'll be nothin' new to any of you before nightfall!' Quicker than wink, the men who were ordered fell to their duty, and the thing seemed to pass out of the minds of all of us in a very few minnits. 
               "Prescott, he was on top o' the redoubt works, and his old gray wig fell off, and he kept wavin' his sword over the heads of his men, sometimes threatenin' to chop 'em up into mince-meat if they didn't put into it with more of a will, and sometimes tellin' 'em how much like Trojuns they all were, and what good fellers they were, and how much they'd enjoy the great victory they were goin' to have; and then agin he'd tell 'em stories and anecdotes that would make the very tears come into their eyes for laughter. "Twould n't have made any difference to them whether he had on a wig or not; they'd know him jest as well without one, and respect him a good deal more, too, because they know'd then that he was all Prescott and no wig! 
               "By ten and 'leven o'clock it got to be pretty hot, I can tell you. There we'd been, working all night, with nothin' like water to drink, and what little provisions we'd brought away with us from camp were about all gone. We were hot, and tired 'most out. Some of the sub-officers proposed to Colonel Prescott to send to the camp at Cambridge and bring a force to take our places. 'No, no!' cried the old Colonel, 'these men raised these works, and they are the best qualified to defend 'em! They've done all the labor-now let 'em enjoy the victory-for a victory 'twill certainly be!' This was good enough to make us all feel a little stouter-hearted, and I guess all hands made up their minds at once to stand till they were drove off by the British. 
               "'Twasn't long before we could see the state of things in Gen'ral Gage's camp in Boston. We purty soon knew what they'd determined on doin'. Their companies were marchin' about in the streets, and we could hear the rattlin' of the artillery wagons and carriages, and everything was getting ready for a demonstration. 'Twould have done anybody good to hear Prescott holler out, jest at that minnit, 'Now, my boys, we shall have a fight; and we shall beat 'em, too!' Prescott sent over to Gen'ral Ward at Cambridge for refreshments and more men, at that time, but 'twas a long time before they come, though. 
               "And Warren come there amongst us, that last forenoon of his life, too. He'd been out to Water-town, to preside over the doins of the congress that was met there, and come into Cambridge only that mornin'. He got there at Cambridge about daylight and sayin' that he was sick with the headache, threw himself down on the bed. But jest as soon as Gen'ral Ward sent to his room to tell him that the British were comin' out o' Boston to fight us on Bunker Hill, he jumped off o' the bed and said his headache was all gone. Purty soon he mounted his horse and come gallopin' across the neck over to where we were. 
               "It was about one o'clock, and jest a year ago to-day, and as much hotter, too, as you could imagine and not die, when the British troops landed at a spot in Charlestown they call Morton's Point. They halted here for some time, and purty soon they had a fresh arrival of men. While they were landin' and gettin' themselves ready to be shot at in the best order they knew, Old Put ordered Colonel Knowlton, as brave an officer as ever anybody see, and to whose corps I belonged that day, to git behind a rail fence that run across from the road to the Mystic River. There was an orchard in front of this fence, and another behind it. We set to work to pullin' up the fences of both of 'em, and stackin' 'em up near the one we were ordered to. There was some grass fresh mowed near by, and so we took that and stowed it in between the three fences. To be sure, it wouldn't be expected to defend us no great, but it looked like a breastwork, and that was something, you know. 
               "Old Put about this time rode back across Charlestown Neck to Cambridge, where the fire of chain, and round, and bar shot raked the whole of it. He rode jest as it he was ridin' for life and death. I never did see a man use a horse so thoroughly. But for all of their firin', never a ball struck him nor harmed a hair of his blessed old head. 
               "Purty soon the British reg'lars begun to march up towards us. They was all dressed out in their gay uniforms, and they marched to the liveliest kind of music a soldier ever stepped to. All the heights back of us were covered with Americans, lookin' on so anxious and impatient to know what was goin' to be the fate of their friends and their country. All the steeples, and houses, and hills in Boston were covered, too; and many a poor woman looked through her tears that day; not knowin' but she might be a widder before night, and her home thousand dreary miles across the water! It was such a sight as I say I never see the like of before; and it's a good deal of a question whether I shall ever see such a one agin!" 
               "So I should have thought!" one of his companions could not avoid interrupting. "I never laid my eyes on sich a one!" 
               "No, nor I either," rejoined the other. 
               "But I b'lieve I could ha' fit then, if ever I could," added the first speaker. 
               "And who, in the name of Ameriky and all that's holy, couldn't?" replied old Verd-Antique. "But," continued he, "a feller didn't find much time to stop and look round, at sich a time as that. The cannon begun to boom off towards Roxbury, off at the t'other part of the city; and what with the noise the cannon they were firin' at us made, there was a good deal o' music in our ears sich as 'twas. 
                
               "The drums behind our entrenchments begun to beat, and a long and steady roll it was too. Old Put come gallopin' along from Bunker Hill, jest back of us-you see we'd got on to Breed's Hill instead o' Bunker-and he led the men forrard into the fight. He rode a splendid dark bay horse, and then it was all of a lather. He went this way and that with the fury of a thunderbolt. He wasn't either here or there; he was everywhere, except in the redoubt itself. He was orderin' one regiment here to one post, and another there to another. One company he ordered at the rail fence on the right hand of the redoubt, and another he ordered to the open place on the left, between the rail fence there and the breastwork, and some he told to find their places anywhere along the line. 
               "Jest as the battle was about to begin, too, the old war-scarred Pomeroy come into the lines a-foot, right amongst us, jest as if he was no better 'n than the worst of us. You see old Gen'ral Pomeroy had made a good many muskets in his day himself; and the sight of him made the fellers that even then carried so many of 'em in their hands, almost crazy for joy. I never see a set o' men so stirred clean to the bottom as we all was. We all felt certain o' victory then; and I'm sure there wasn't a man that carried one of his make o' muskets that didn't resolve, the minnit he see him comin', that his musket shouldn't suffer for disgrace. By the way, they said that Gen'ral Pomeroy first heard the firin' of the cannons in Cambridge, over at the camp. They pricked up his spirit jest as they would that of an old war horse. He couldn't stay where he was another hour-no, nor another minnit. He vowed he'd go to the field o' battle, if he went a foot!-and that was the kind o' soldiers that the British gunpowder couldn't conquer, how-somever many of 'em it might kill! He told Gen'ral Ward, the commander-in-chief at Cambridge, what he was goin' to do, and that was to go to battle; and he asked him to lend him a horse. This the Gen'ral was glad enough to do, and he lent him an elegant and valuable one. Pomeroy, with his musket across his shoulder, rode the horse down to the neck, and when he see the shot that raked that place from the enemy's vessels, he stopped short." 
               "Afraid?" interrupted one of the listeners. 
               "Afraid!" repeated Verd-Antique after him, in a voice of thunder. "Was the old man ever known to be afraid of anything, living or dead? Afraid! but what was there for him to be afraid of, sure enough? No; he gave the steed to a sentry that was posted there, and marched across himself through all that takin' fire, jest as cool and calm as if a hundred balls of all shapes and sizes warn't whizzin' and sailin' by his head! There's bravery for you! Gen'ral Pomeroy afraid! There never'll be another story to tell, after that's proved to be true? 
               "Warren, he went into the redoubt jest like a common soldier, for all the world; and there he was, the president of the provincial congress, and as fine a gentleman as ever was! Colonel Prescott stepped up to him, they said, and asked him if he wouldn't take the command of the place; but he answered him 'No,' and said that he should be glad to learn his duty from a soldier of so much experience as he was! 
               "The columns of the enemy begun to move up the hill now; and every little while they stopped-I s'pose to give the artillery a chance to make a passage for them clean through the breastwork. Major-Gen'ral Howe commanded the reg'lars, and he walked out with a military step some hundred and fifty yards in front of 'em, and begun to reconnoitre. He see there was a good swab of us, I reckon, and I rather guess he didn't altogether like the kind o' breastworks we'd put up so unexpected like between ourselves and his troops. But that couldn't be helped any way, and all there was left for him to do was to dislodge us. If he could drive us from our ground, why, the entrenchments were his; that's all. 
               "As soon as the enemy's columns begun to open and show themselves in shape aginst us, I tell ye it was the tightest kind o' work for our men to keep from firin' at 'em. We could see their gay rigementals gliterin' in the sun, and the great high knapsacks stuck up a long ways above their shoulders. They had long and glistenin' bayonets on the end o' their guns, that shone enough to dazzle the brightest eyes there was peekin' over the works that day. Old Put come tearin' along by us all, singin' out to us in a husky voice-'Don't fire, boys, till you have the order! Don't fire till they git within eight rods! Powder's scarce, you know, and it mustn't be wasted! You mustn't fire at 'em till you see the whites o' their eyes; and then fire low, and take aim at their waistbands! You're all of you first rate marksmen, and can kill a squirrel a hundred yards off; keep back your fire as long as you can, and the whole of 'em 'll have to go! Aim at them handsome coats!-pick off them commanders?' 
               "Some of 'em was within a short shot of the redoubt, and the sharp shooters in there couldn't let such a good chance go to pick some of 'em off. They let drive their charges at 'em. They said there never was a madder feller than old Prescott was then, never nowhere. He waved his sword over their heads, and swore by all that was good that he'd run the first man through that did the thing again, before he got his orders from him. He told 'em that he knew what was the best jest then, and he'd let all know jest when to fire their pieces. The enemy got within the eight rods of our lines, and Old Put gave the word along the line, and Col. Prescott in the redoubt, to be sure of a good aim, to let every musket cover its man, and then fire. We all fired! Great God!-how they fell before us! It was jest as if there had been a great scythe in the hands of the Almighty, and he had mowed 'em down with a single sweep! But up they come again, as brave as the front lines that had jest fallen; and down they went again upon the green sod, to hug those that were already bitin' the dirt before 'em. 'Twant no use, their tryin' to get at us through the breastworks, for our men's aim was alto gether too sure for'em. They were obliged to wheel about quicker 'n they came up, and go back down the hill. 
               "Down under the cover of the hill they halted and rallied themselves agin. Then they formed into line, and the drums begin to roll, and they begin to march up the hill a second time. They looked a trifle tired as they come up, and I thought it was hard work for 'em to have to walk right over the dead bodies of their companions as they did. But the sight only made their cheeks turn whiter, and they ground their teeth tighter together, and I thought they meant to have their revenge on us for it. On they come, all in good order, lookin' as straight at us as if they were going to face us down, instead of shoot us down. They got within their eight rods of us agin, and the word come along the lines for us to fire. We give 'em another jest such volley as we did when they come up before, and they dropped like apples from a tree, when a feller's in the limbs, a shakin' it. There's no tellin' what a heap of dead and wounded ones lay round there. The ground was covered with them; and not only covered, but it was piled up with them! 
               "Some of our men would hold their fire till they could pick out an officer from the enemy's lines; then they'd say to one another-there! there! see that officer! let's have a shot at him!' The rest would say-'no, no, not yet! wait till he gets a little nearer!' I see 'em pick out one officer in pertikler in that way. He was on horseback; and the only one we saw of the enemy on horseback, all that day. He rode up as proud and unconcerned to the rail fence as if there wasn't nobody-behind it, when our boys got a good sight of him. 'There, there!' said they; 'd'ye see that officer-that one on horseback? let's fire at him!' 'No, no!' said some of the rest of 'em, wait till he gits to that little knoll yonder, and then we'll fire! Now!"-and as many as a dozen bullets struck him. He fell off his horse quicker 'n a squirrel off a high tree, and a good deal deader! He was found out to be Major Pitcairn, an officer that told the Americans at Lexington that they were rebels, and ordered them to disperse. 
               "Another of the British officers was in our eye, named Major Small. Almost every other officer near him had been shot down, and he was stand in' pretty much alone. The boys had their muskets pointed at him, and in another minnit they would have given the word to pick him off, and he'd have gone where the rest of 'em did; but jest then Old Put rode furiously along by us and see what we was doin'. He recognized Major Small as an old friend; you see h'd fit with him against the French and the cussed Injins, and knew him jest as well as I do both of you. He waved his old sword in our faces, and knocked up our muskets in the air, and says he-'For God's sake, my lads, don't fire at that man! I love him as I do my own brother!'
                     The above strict historical fact was related in the following manner by Colonel Small himself to Turnbull, the renowned American painter, in London, in the summer of 1786-three years after the termination of the war. Colonel Small, looking at Turnbull's great picture of the Battle of Bunker Bill, broke out to the painter: "I don't like the situation in which you have placed my old friend Putnam; you have not done him justice. I wish you would alter that part of your picture, and introduce a circumstance which actually happened, and which I can never forget. When the British troops advanced the second time to the attack of the redoubt, I, with the other officers, was in front of the line to encourage the men. We had advanced very near the works undisturbed, when an irregular fire, like a feu-de-joie, was poured in upon us; it was cruelly fatal. The troops fell back, and when I looked to the right and left, I saw not an officer standing. I glanced my eye to the enemy, and saw several young men levelling their pieces at me. I knew their excel lence as marksmen, and considered myself gone. At that moment, my old friend Putnam rushed forward, and striking up the muzzles of their pieces with his sword, cried out 'For God's sake, my lads! don't fire at that man! I love him as I do my own brother!' We were so near each other that I heard his words distinctly. He was obeyed. I bowed, thanked him, and walked away unmolested."
                   That was enough for any of us. We wouldn't have harmed a hair of his blessed head, for we knew that he was a dear friend of Old Put; and Old Put was most as much as our hearts could hold himself. 
               "It was right in the midst of this second fight, too, that we discovered all Charlestown was afire. It was an awful sight of itself; but when you come to add it to the battle before us, 'twas enough to make the stoutest heart quail and quiver. There was a great cloud of smoke, bigger than anything you or I can, possibly imagine; and there come jest a light wind from the south'ard, and blew it right over the spot where the fightin' was goin' on. It looked like a huge thunder cloud. 
               "But they hadn't more than took a second round from our well-directed guns, before they turned their backs on us, and started down the hill like so many sheep without a leader. We was in hopes they wouldn't try it again; for we thought they must have got all they wanted this time. But they hadn't any sooner got to the bottom of the hill than Gen'ral Howe begun to spur 'em up agin the best way he knew how. Some of the officers warnt for having the men come up again, for they thought 'twant much more than downright butchery to lead 'em up there before our breastworks; but the older ones and them in the higher ranks resolved not to have it said in old England that their fine troops were driven off by a mob o' rebels, did behind a wall of hay and dirt. Not they! So they come on towards us agin. Howe, he led on aginst the redoubt, and Clinton, who had rushed over from Boston as fast as he could come,-mad as a March hare at seein' his men cut down so like ripe clover,-Clinton, he joined the British marines in tryin' to turn our right flank, while the artillery were pushed forrerd more 'n before, to turn the left of our breastwork, where there was an open space for 'em, and the only place where they could rake our whole line. We made every preparation to meet 'em that we could, and Old Put rode backwards and forrerds on his horse all covered with foam, to fetch up the reinforcements. The enemy was comin' agin. This time they seemed to have learnt something: for they flung away their great onhandy knapsacks, and some of 'em even took off their regimental tal coats and flung them away. They seemed to understand themselves. Up they come the same as before. Old Put knew we hadn't but precious little powder left, and he told us we must use it to the best advantage. He told us to have every shot take effect. Some of us didn't have but jest one charge left to go into that fight with. 
               "The British artillery come up to the place between the breastwork on our left and the rail fence I've told ye about. There they poured into us a steady fire, such as no mortal army could stand. 'Twas impossible. They turned our left and raked our whole line so that their balls whizzed right straight through the open sally-port into the redoubt itself. The men at the breastworks had to retire then. There was nothing else left for 'em. The British kept coming on, and advanced on every side of the redoubt except the north. They had made up their minds to scale our works, as they'd ought to have known enough to do in the first place, and there was no withstandin' them. We were out of ammunition, and our men hadn't got no bayonets; and there the British soldiers had each of 'em, a gleamin' bayonet to his gun, half as long as his body. One of their head officers run up behind the breastworks they'd cleared, to a corner of the redoubt, and climbed up on to it by the help of an apple tree that stood there. Then he called out for his men to foller on. On they come, in squads and snarls. Troops follered troops over the parapet, till there wasn't no tellin' when the last of 'em would come. I got into the redoubt myself this time, and see how 'twas done. Prescott told us to club our muskets and beat 'em back. 'Stone 'em!' said he, 'knock 'em down with your muskets! Anything, so you drive 'em back!' But there warnt no use in that kind of game. It was all on one side too much for our men, and we had to begin to think of gettin' out of the place in the decentest way we could, without bein' thought cowards. Prescott would have stood and died there, I verily believe; but he saw it wasn't right to risk the lives of his brave men to no good, and he was obliged at last to give the order to retreat. 
               "They enemy was all round us now, and we had to fight our way through 'em. I could see that Gen'ral Warren hung on to the very last. He didn't seem to be willing to give it up at all. I never see such pluck in such a gentleman as he was. He kept beatin' 'em back, and I thought he rather seemed to want to the shot by some of their balls. He hadn't got but a few yards from the redoubt, however, when one come, sure enough, and took him through the head. Col. Small knew him, and told him to stand and save his life; but the Gen'ral kept on. Small told his men not to fire, and threw up their guns with his sword; but the ball was fired before he could stop it, and he lay down by the side of a little locust tree that was close by, looked up with one of his heavenly smiles, and died! 
               "The British daren't fire at this time, for fear they might kill some of their own number. Their right and left wings faced each other now, and the Americans was between 'em. While they was formin' agin, so as to be all in one body, our men collected themselves pretty well together, and began to retreat the best we could. Old Put drove his spurs into his foaming horse, and rode up between us and the enemy! and the energy want a step more than twelve rods from him either!
                     The depositions of several men who distinctly saw this act of heroism, abundantly establish its truth.
                   We all looked to see the brave old man fall every minnit; but he wasn't born to be shot that day He called out to us to make a stand again on Bunker Hill-the next hill back of where we'd been fightin'-and he pledged his word and sacred honor that we'd lick 'em clean out! But some-how the men didn't seem over willing to try it agin. They thought they'd done one good day's work a-ready. And so they had, too. Old Put had a lot of spades and other tools in his hands, that he'd picked up, determined to carry off everything he could from the rascally British. He took his stand close to a field-piece we were passing, and begged us not to desert, and disgrace our gen'ral. But the British bayonets was comin' too thick upon us. There wasn't but one man that dared to stand by the old Gen'ral at that gun, and he was a sargeant. The British shot him down, and their bayonets were close onto Old Put himself, when he left it to them. The old man seemed to defy 'em to shoot him; and he acted jest as if he could gather us all up in one of his generous hands and carry us off himself to a place of safety. We went with him back as far as Prospect Hill, and the next morning we had as good an intrenchment to show to the British as they had seen on that morning. This is the most I've got to tell you of that famous Battle; you'd ought to have been in it, to know jest what was done, and how 'twas done. I hope I hav'nt tired you out;" and with these words, the old hero took a fresh quid of tobacco, and stretched his limbs out upon the ground. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE NIGHT BEFORE THE ARMY LEFT NEW YORK. 
               Late in August, and the battle of Long Island had been fought; that battle which, considered in almost every aspect, resulted so disastrously to our arms. We had lost, in killed, wounded and prisoners, according to the account of General Washington, fully a thousand men; while the loss of the enemy could not have exceeded four hundred. That famous retreat across to New York had been accomplished under cover of night and a fortunate fog, and all the American stores and means of defence were safe in camp in the city. 
               It was now the manifest design of the enemy to make a regular descent upon New York itself, for the purpose either of taking our camp, or dislodging our forces. A portion of their fleet doubled Long Island for that purpose, and made their appearance in the Sound; while the main body of the same boldly entered the harbor, and came to anchor very nearly within cannon shot of the city. 
                
               The American commander saw, with unmistakeable precision, what the intentions of the enemy were, and a council of war was at once convened. It was resolved to abandon the city at the earliest possible moment. No time was lost, accordingly, in removing the military stores to some far point above, upon the banks of the Hudson. The commander-in-chief himself retired to Harlem Heights, and a strong force was posted at King's Bridge, in the northern part of the island. 
               On the 15th of September, 1776, the enemy landed a strong detachment on the east side of New York Island, in the neighborhood of three miles above the city. Meeting with little or no resistance, they took a position stretching across the island at Blooming-dale, five miles north of the City Hall, and two from the American lines. On the following day, advanced parties on both sides met and skirmished, to the decided advantage of our own army. The men, who had already grown dispirited in consequence of their retreat from Long Island, now fought like tigers, knowing that the eye of their commander was upon their conduct, and wholly desirous of retrieving their past loss and disgrace. But our victories were not purchased with nothing. They were bought with a price; and the price of the victory of the 16th of September was the life of Colonel Knowlton, of the Connecticut line, a native of the eastern part of the state, and the life of Major Leitch, of Virginia. They fought like valiant men, as they were, at the head of their troops; and both fell mortally wounded.
                     An extract from Gen. Washington's public orders of the 17th will best show in what light he viewed these transactions of the 16th and a part of the day previous, and how strongly disposed he was to foster the courage and soldierly conduct his men then exhibited:
                     
                         
                            
                               
                                 ORDERS 
                                 
                                    Head Quarters, Harlem Heights, Sept. 17, 1776, 
                                    Parole, Leitch. Countersign, Virginia.
                                  
                                 The General most heartily thanks the troops commanded yesterday by Major Leitch, who first advanced upon the enemy, and the others who so resolutely supported them. The behavior yesterday was such a contrast to that of some of the troops the day before, as must show what may be done, where officers and soldiers will exert themselves. Once more therefore, the General calls upon officers and men to act up to the noble cause in which they are engaged, and to support the honor and liberties of their country. 
                                 The gallant and brave Colonel Knowlton, who would have been an honor to any country, having fallen yesterday, while gloriously fighting, Captain Brown is to take command of the party lately led by Colonel Knowlton. Officers and men are to obey him accordingly. 
                               
                            
                        
                     
                   The manner in which Washington noticed the affair in his General Orders was, in a high degree, inspiriting to the whole army. 
               Not deeming it altogether the best policy to attack the fortified camp of the Americans, General Howe made a movement to gain their rear, and so cut off their communication with the eastern states. With this intent, a large part of the British left New York, and passing up the Sound, landed near the village of Westchester, at Frog's Point; while another portion was dispatched up the Hudson, in three frigates, to cut off the American communications with the Jerseys. Washington withdrew his troops altogether, therefore, from New York Island, and stretched his line along the course of the Bronx river, in the direction of White Plains. On the 28th of October was fought the battle of White Plains-a battle yielding the Americans no satisfactory result. General Putnam took part in that engagement, being ordered by General Washington with a detachment to push forward and support Brigadier-General McDougal, whose position had been assailed 
               It was on the evening before the day of the evacuation of New York city by the American army, that a young person, attired in female apparel, knocked softly upon the door of the mansion of Mr. Elton Edwards, in Queen street. 
               Susan, the maid, obeyed the summons, and, following close upon her heels, came Mr. Edwards himself. His mind was in a state of great perplexity in relation to the recent battle and the quartering of the American forces within the city, and he deemed it no more than an act of prudence to be at hand in case the servant met with unpleasant business at the door. But as soon as he saw that it was only a female at the door, he shrunk back from the forward position he had taken, and appeared disposed to say nothing. 
               "Are ye to home, so that I can see ye alone tonight?" asked the visiter of Susan, lowering her voice and catching her by the hand. 
               "I'm not goin' to be busy," replied the servant, hardly knowing what to say in her sudden surprise. 
               "Ye don't know me, Susan!" exclaimed the visiter, in a tone remarkably low and clear, and studiously below the pitch at which Mr. Edwards might have heard it. 
               "Heavens! yes! Come in, Mary. Do come in!" exclaimed the shrewd servant, plucking hold of the visiter's sleeve and drawing her in towards her 
               "Fasten the door, Susan," ordered Mr. Edwards, seeing that the visiter was only some company for Susan. "We must be very careful, when these American soldiers are about. No one can tell what they may do next-a miserable pack of rebellious scoundrels!" and with these words he turned and went up stairs. Susan and her company went into the kitchen below stairs, while Mr. Edwards walked slowly up stairs to his daughter. 
               He had not been gone a great while, however, when he suddenly returned to bid Susan go up and keep her young mistress company a while, for he was going out a little ways; and her company could go with her, if she chose. He felt that both of them-though females-would afford a greater protection for his daughter than one of them would. Accordingly, he went out at the street door and bade Susan fasten it after him, which she was very glad indeed to do. Then hurrying up to the side of her mistress, her visiter following close on, she bounded into the room and sat down quite unceremoniously. 
               "Who have you with you, Susan?" asked Laura Edwards, when she saw the visiter enter behind her. 
               "Oh, it's no one but a girl that's come in to see me this evening, mistress; one of my neighbors." 
               "Yes, Miss Edwards," added the visiter. 
                
               Laura started slightly at hearing the stranger's voice, but discovered nothing like alarm. 
               "Did you see anything going on in the streets, as you came along!" asked she. 
               "Yes, ma'am, I saw very much going on," was the reply. 
               "What was it?" 
               "They say the Americans are going to leave the city early in the morning, or at least as soon as they can." 
               "Do they! do they!" exclaimed Laura, dropping her eye to the carpet, and drumming uneasily with her little slippered foot upon the same. 
               The stranger's eye caught the change in her expression, and she ventured to go on: 
               "The stores are already gone a good ways up the river. The army is going to leave at once in pursuit of them." 
               "But where got you this news? Who told you all this? Perhaps there are soldiers in the family in which you live?" 
               "No, ma'am," was the answer. 
               "How then came you to know of this so early?" 
               "I am a soldier myself!" replied the stranger, rising to his feet, and ceasing to counterfeit the voice that of right belonged to him. 
               "Henry! my dear Henry!" exclaimed the equally delighted and astonished girl, rising from her seat and rushing to the open arms of her lover. 
               The servant Susan could no longer refrain from the enjoyment of the laugh she had so long repressed, and gave way to it with a strange zest indeed. 
               "You come in disguise, Henry," said Laura, looking at him with delighted eye. "Why was it?" 
               "Because I could come in no other manner," replied he. "I needn't have found much difficulty in getting away from post; but the thing was, to get in to your father's house." 
               "You were ingenious," said she, regarding him again with a remarkably tender and affectionate look. 
               "Wasn't I? This woman's dress! He never would suspect such a thing!" 
               "No, indeed. But do you tell me truly," said she, suffering herself to be led to the sofa by him, and motioning Susan out of the room at the same moment-"do you tell me truly that you are going away tomorrow?" 
               "Yes, with the army." 
               "And who will come into the city next?" inquired she, looking sad. 
               "The British, I suppose. At any rate, it wouldn't do for us to stay where we are any longer; we should be surrounded, and taken prisoners, every man of us." 
               "Oh, are those British troops coming, then, into the city, to act like savages and cannibals among us?" 
               "I do not apprehend they will do as bad as that," replied he. 
               "I've heard enough of them, and I wish I could persuade father to move away into the country, out of the reach of all of them." 
               "But as he is a loyalist, he is much the safer here. This will be just the place for him, for when the enemy once got possession here, it will be a difficult matter to get them out again. Our forces are scattered, and they will be for a long time to come. The enemy command the water, and they can go and come when and whither they please; but it isn't so with us." 
               "Then I may not know when I shall see you again, Henry! And you may be killed in battle, too!" 
               "Yes, but I shall then at least know in whose hands my memory will be safe!" replied he. 
               The remark set a train of thought in operation in her mind, which she continued to pursue, without interruption for several moments; then she spoke and said- 
               "Let me go with you, Henry." 
               "Devoted angel!" cried he, embracing her to his bosom and looking through the filmy tears that quickly gathered in his eye. "Your life is too precious to throw away! Where could I carry you, that you would be safe from all harm? Nowhere. There could be no place where you would be as safe as you will be here under the protection of your own father and the authorities that will soon enter to exercise their away. No, Laura, forget the thought, and remain where you are! There is no safety for you anywhere else! Promise me then that you will be happy here!" 
               "As happy as I am able," said she, sobbing, and laying her head upon his offering shoulder. 
               "Enough, enough!" replied he; "it is all I can ask! If Providence spares my life through whatever engagements I may be called into with the enemy, then depend upon seeing me here at some future day." 
               "What! if the British are here, too?" 
               "It will make but little difference with me, I shall do what I can to get to you." 
               "But I fear to trust to such specious hopes. I had rather expect nothing, Henry, and then suffer no disappointment." 
               "Trust me for finding the way here. I shall do that. Have not come here tonight?" 
               "You have-you have!" replied the young girl, her reason coming to her in time to enable her to see that she had been deceiving herself and doing injustice to her lover. 
               What passed more than this between the two young people, until they heard the thundering on the outer door at the hand of Mr. Edwards, it behooves us not to say. Suffice it, that there were many warm tears shed, many sad words of farewell spoken, and many living and loving promises uttered between them. Mr. Edwards came thundering through the hall, and the disguised soldier was behind Susan at the door through which he came. When the father entered the parlor where the so recent interview had been held, he discovered nothing of his daughter. She had gone into the solitude of her own chamber, there to commune with her own saddest thoughts, and to pray for a light to shine through the thick darkness of the cloud that overhung and enveloped all her hopes and prospects. 
               Henry Byram, the soldier, returned to his quarters as soon as he had divested himself of the disguise he had assumed, and was soon dreaming in comparative quiet and comfort of the more than a dream he had just broken himself away from, and of the days that were before him in their dread array. 
               Late that night, a man came to the quarters of Israel Putnam, and demanded of the sentry to see him. 
               "Away with you for a drunken fellow!" shouted the guard, not thinking that a real soldier would be out at that time of the night for any good purpose. 
               "I'tell ye, I must see him!" replied the comer; "it's on business of importance to some one!" 
               "Oh, that's the game you're going to think to play with me, is it? Well then, let me tell you that if you are not gone from here in just three minutes' time, I shall run you through with my bayonet!" 
               "No you won't do no sich thing!" retorted the visiter, very coolly. 
               "And what's the reason I won't?" demanded the sentry, advancing upon him with bayonet levelled to his breast, as if to assure both the intruder and himself of the authority he held in his hands. 
               "Because you won't; that's reason enough! Come, let me in to the Gen'ral!" 
               "Advance but one step and I shoot you down in your tracks!" cried out the sentinel. 
               Their further conversation was interrupted by the approach of a couple of individuals, who on nearer view proved to be a white man and a negro. 
               "Gen'ral! my dear old Gen'ral!" cried out the stranger who had uselessly tried to obtain an entrance for some minutes past. 
               "John Horton!" exclaimed General Putnam-for he it was-"is that you? Any news?" 
               "Not special," was the reply; "but I'd wanted to see you! Now I guess you'll know me when I come your way agin!" said he, turning tauntingly upon the sentry. 
               "Why, did he refuse you admission?" inquired the General. 
               "Yes, he did; and what's more, he was a-goin' to baggonet me in three minnits more!" 
               "You would have killed in that event one of the bravest men and warmest friends your country's got!" replied the General, turning to the sentry likewise. "But I commend you for doing your duty so well. Where men are so vigilant, there's but little room for treachery to creep in!" 
               "Never was anything truer 'n that, Gen'ral," said Verd-Antique, walking majestically in at the door behind him. 
               The negro, who was none other than the body-servant of the General-Dick Fortune
                     Such was, in reality, the name of the body-servant who attended the General through all his revolutionary campaigns.
                   -followed close on, neither heeding what he heard, nor the not-altogether inviting appearance of the man who preceded him. Still, Verd-Antique was a person by no means unknown to Dick, and he was not surprised to see him perform any sort of an operation that could have been performed by a human, except as he showed it in his trifling way-training open his eyes until there was nothing but whites to them. 
               The interview between Verd-Antique and General Putnam was secret and long. When, at length, the former left his apartment, he strode down the stairs past the sentinel with a heavy tread, and then walked away at a rapid pace towards the north. 
               He had not been long on his feet, however, before he stopped before the window of one of the rooms of house he appeared not unacquainted with, and looked in through a pane for a moment with much steadfastness. The house was known to him-as it is already known to our readers-by the name of "The Eel Pot." He finally hurried up to the door, which he flung open quite leisurely in comparison, and then proceeding across the contracted space that was dignified with the name 'entry,' he opened the door of the bar-room and entered. 
               "John Horton for ever!" shouted two or three of the men that stood ranged before the dirty counter, with their glasses freshly primed for a new draught. 
               The new-comer acknowledged their friendly welcome only by a cold nod of the head. It spoke a great deal more than words could have done. 
               "John Horton!" shouted one of the crew, while he advanced towards him and took him by the coat-collar, and proceeded to drag him, not much against his will, to the place where the refreshment was to be had. 
               "Where do you come from?" asked two or three more, simultaneously. "You look tired. Come, John! step up and have some Jamaica, or some Holland, with us!" 
               The invitation needed not repetition by any one, for the new-comer already felt the need of a refreshing draught, as General Putnam had forgotten to place in his hand the glass of spirits and water usual with him. Accordingly, he advanced to the bar and helped himself as generously as any of them to the inspiriting beverage proffered him. 
               There was a man in the room whom John had long been accustomed to see at "The Eel Pot," whom everybody called Tim Flood. He was professedly a lunatic, and the noticeable phases and characteristics of his disorder did not present themselves except at particular times. At all other times, he was generally disposed to calmness and a soporific manner, and his thoughts seemed to run altogether in a poetic channel. He was addicted to the strangest style of expressions, and some of them, too, wrapped in a covering of the most airy and graceful poetry. 
               When Verd-Antique came in, and while he was engaged in receiving the numberless congratulations of his friends and making way with his potation, this man stood behind and apart from the rest, apparently absorbed in a deep leverie. As soon as Verd Antique was in a degree rid of the more pressing importunity of his friends, he drew near Tim, and accosted him with- 
               "Are you lonely, Tim?" 
               "Yes," replied the strange being, looking up through his peculiarly light eyes, and shaking the pendent locks of his nut-brown hair. "Yes, I am lonely. Will you go home with me? I am young you know, and I like company. Mother's sick on the bed, and I think she'll die. I'm young yet, you know, and I ought to have company. Hadn't I?" 
               "I think you had," replied Verd-Antique, willing to encourage him in any whim or fancy that might pervade his brain for the moment. 
               "Is the moon in the full to-night?" asked the young unfortunate. "If it is, I must go on my revel again. It's only when the moon is in the full that I go to revel; and my heart is just as full as that is, too, until it almost bursts sometimes. Is the moon full to night?" 
               "No," answered John, "I saw no moon in the sky when I came in. But isn't it late for you to leave your poor mother so much alone, Timmy?" 
               "I know she's alone. She loves to be alone. The angels come through the lattice to her sometimes, when she's alone, and they never come when I'm there with her!" 
               "I guess you're the angel she thinks the most of," replied John. "You'd ought to be home so late tonight, Tim. The British'll come into the city before long, and it won't do for you to leave your mother then You must stay at home, Tim. There'll be sorrow for her if you don't." 
               "Sorrow, will there? Then I'll go now. I never thought there was sorrow where there were angels. But I forget, I may be mistaken. I may not know what the sorrow is you speak of. Will it come to her, did you say?" 
               "Yes, if you don't stay by her more." 
               "Oh, then I'll go back to her. But she is never glad. She is always tearful and sad. She never wears a smile on her face for me. She always speaks pleasant words, but her eye is cold and dull, and her hand is never warm when I take hold of it, as she thrusts it out to me. Is this the reason why there's sorrow?" 
               Even the usually-sagacious and self-possessed Verd-Antique was at a loss how to reply to him, and stood leaning in silence upon the little bar and gazing intently into the eyes that for no whole moment expressed a continuity of similar thoughts or emotions. All was shifting, like the views of a kaleidescope, or like the bubbling and boiling of cool, clear water over beautiful pebbles in a brook or pool. 
               "I walk o' nights, friend," continued the young demented one. "I go out and ramble through the graveyard when the moon shines on the white stones; and I kneel down and see who is asleep under them, and how many years they were awake, and whether they died happy as I live, or not. I pluck all the pale primroses, too, I can find growing about the grave-yard fences, and gather them into large bouquets, so big I can hardly hold them in my arms; and then I go and lay them down by the heads of such as the tombstones tell me died happy. Isn't that a fancy? Getting bouquets by the moonlight! Who ever heard of such a thing but poor Tim Flood? Who ever did, surely?" 
               John Horton, with all the roughness of his exterior, had a great many refinements about his natural heart. He could pick off an enemy, or club a musket, or handle a knife, as coolly and effectively as they who do such things their manhood through; but for all that, there was a chord in his heart that the silly, yet saddened speech of this poor driveller had touched most tenderly. He felt as if he could not bear to hear him talk longer. He pitied him from the depths of his warm heart. He thought all this was only a lamentable mockery of the real life, and of the living soul, that should be in man, and he determined at once to stop the young babbler's melancholy pratings. If he listened to him as long as he would talk, there would be no telling but he might become suddenly moonstruck himself. So, taking the pitiful object by the hand, he led him gently out the door to the street, and urged him to hurry homeward to his mother as rapidly as he could. 
               "That's melancholy," said he to Paul Potter, the host of "The Eel Pot," as soon as he had returned again. 
               "What," said Paul, "that boy?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Indeed it is, John," replied he. "But we don't any of us know what to make of him. His mother is said to be quite a delicate woman, and still a good deal young. She's lived about here this many a year, and yet I've never seen her to know her. Some say she's been crossed in love; and some, that her husband cleared out a long time ago, and left her to shift with her child for herself. But how that is, I can't say. I must say, too, that I ruther like the boy, he's got such an interestin' kind of expression about his countenance, and he never was known to do nobody harm, dead or alive." 
               "I couldn't bear to hear him talk," said Verd-Antique, "and so I led him to the door and sent him home." 
               By this time the room of Paul Potter had become considerably thinned out. The men who had prolonged their evening's socialities to the hour when John Horton arrived among them, were fast hieing their usual courses homeward; and, when the latter saw that the coast was sufficiently clear, he observed to his friend, the worthy host- 
               "Paul, I must have a horse!" 
               "A horse, John? What in the name of good sense do you want of a horse? Legs givin' out? Old muscles growin' tender?" 
               "No, nothin' of that, but I want a horse to-night." 
               "To-night!" repeated the landlord, more astonished than ever "you'd better turn into one o' my warm beds, John. It'll do ye a sight more good than all the horseback ridin' you might do such a night as this." 
               "But don't be so hasty, Paul. A horse I must have, somehow or other, and have him to-night, too. Can't you accommodate me?" 
               "Yes, but tell a friend where you're going fust, so I shall have evidence that you aint altogether crazy!" 
               "That I can't tell you," replied Verd-Antique, looking down on the deeply sanded floor and musing a minute or so. 
               "Then of course I don't see how I can let you have one, if you can't say where to go." 
               "Wal, to King's Bridge, then." 
               "As fur as that to-night?" 
               "Yes, I must, or within a mile or so this side." 
               "But when are you comin' back?" 
               "That's all onsartin agin." 
               "Let you have a horse, when I haint got but two in stable, and you don't know when you're comin' back, nor whether the horse 'll come back with you! That's very likely!" 
               "Umph!" was she only reply Verd-Antique offered to this. 
               "Can't I go with ye?" asked Paul, his countenance brightening, and his inquisitiveness flaming up considerably. 
               "I never thought on't." 
               "I've got a shay," added the landlord. 
               "Or a lumber waggin, purty light?" inquired Verd-Antique. 
               "Yes, I've got that, too." 
               "Then it's all I want. Can ye go soon?" 
               "How soon?" asked the landlord, pulling out a huge silver watch and examining its face. 
               "Now." 
               "Y-e-s; that is, jest as soon as I can harness and fix up things a trifle. I'll shut right up now;" and to work he went with all his energy, closing his inner shutters, counting and pouring into a large deer-skin wallet the silver he had taken through the day, and hurrying out into the stable yard to equip the animal that was at once to serve on the expeditious, and, to Paul Potter, the mysterious journey of that night. 
               It took not a great while for everything to be got in readiness for the journey, and Verd-Antique caught the sound of the wheels as the wagon came round before the door, with a peculiar pleasure at his heart. While his friend was gone for the horse and vehicle, he stood leaning against the bar, deeply absorbed in thought. 
               "Now we'll warm the inner creetur a trifle before we start off to-night," said the landlord, returning to the bar-room, "for it's a chilly night, and there's a thick, wet fog a layin' over everything. I mistrust if we git any of that in our throats, we shall think 'twould have been better to fill 'em with something' else!" 
               His companion only smiled and slightly nodded, apparently too much occupied about fears and thoughts of his own, and of a far more important character, to lend any more emphatic expression to his recognition of Paul's philosophical astuteness and excellent general knowledge. 
               "Come, John!" said he, holding a glass and a decanter of spirits before him; "wake yourself up with this!" 
               Verd-Antique mechanically complied with the urgent and hospitable invitation, and poured out a trifling quantity of the liquid, which, after due dilution, he tossed off at almost a single draught. Then they both hastened to the vehicle before the door, and, as they rolled rapidly away from "The Eel Pot," not a light was to be seen burning in the vicinity, and no sound was to be heard save the continuous rattle and clatter of the wheels of their own crazy vehicle. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE FIRE-FIENDS ARE ON US. 
               OUR army had left the city, and the enemy were already in full and undisputed possession. Just at this time occurred one of those great and sweeping disasters that seem specially ordered by a directing Providence for some definite purpose A fire broke out in the city, which for destructiveness and terrific grandeur had never been paralleled in any of the colonies. 
               How it took its origin, or how long exactly it raged, people are at this day divided in asserting. But there are none who pretend to doubt that it was a trouble that at that time sorely scourged the victorious and greatly enlivened ranks of the enemy. 
               It came blowing its hot breaths down into the very heart of the principal streets. It respected no appearances, and no ranks, in its onward passage. It blasted every object upon which it fell, quicker than does the fatal simoom of the cast. Merchants of standing and wealth beheld their all consumed in a breath before their eyes, and they helpless to prevent it. The British impressed their soldiers and their sailors into the service of the firemen, who aided somewhat in saving a few buildings and preventing the ravaging element from attacking their endangered shipping. And it was only by the most courageous and unintermitted exertions that the entire city did not prove to their entering army what Moscow did, so many years later, to the overpowering French under Napoleon. 
               In a low, one story wooden dwelling, a woman was eitting in her rocking chair. The room was scantily furnished, and in this particular her personal attire was in nowise inconsistent with the furniture. She had a peculiarly youthful look, although care, and sadness, and manifest disappointment, had begun to engrave their lines upon her well-developed forehead, and to sink her once well-rounded and highly colored cheeks. There was a sweet expression sitting upon her countenance, although it was always saddened; perhaps it was all the more sweet for its very sadness. Her head leaned slightly upon her hand-a hand of singular delicacy, and one betraying the remorselessness of some fate by which she had been driven to the circumstances and situation in life in which we find her. 
                
               She was rocking gently in her chair to and fro, and giving herself up to the reverie in which her senses seemed to be enfolded. Not a shade of color was in her cheeks, and no lustre played ever so faintly in her eyes. Her hand looked veritably bloodless, even the large blue veins refusing to discover themselves sufficiently to satisfy the beholder that the hand was not one of Parian marble. It was near the middle of the afternoon. 
               While she sat thus, dreaming and dreaming away the hours, the melancholy autumn sun slanting its yellow rays through the outer blinds across her person and the carpet on the floor, the door suddenly opened, and a strangely-wild-looking being entered, bareheaded, his hair tangled about his forehead and over his eyes, and those eyes gleaming with the strangest fires that ever lit up human or inhuman expression. It was the son of the woman sitting before him. It was poor, young Tim Flood. 
               "Mother! mother!" shouted he, as he opened the door and saw her before him. 
               "Sit down, my son," mildly urged the mother, beckoning him vainly to herself. "You need to rest. Where have you been, Timothy, my son?" 
               "But the spirits are all awake to-day!" exclaimed the lunatic, brushing his hand hurriedly over his dishevelled hair and swinging his hat about gesticulatingly. "Did you know the spirits are out, mother? They come from the sky! I have seen them!-I have seen them spread their great white wings! They are not far off now, mother. They will be here very soon. I know they will be here, for I saw them flying like mad this way. Oh, what a glorious army of them there were, too! They hid behind the great smokes that went before them, until they thought I couldn't see them. And then they peered through the huge clouds with their fierce bright eye, and laughed at me, and clapped their white spirit-hands, and flapped their wings again-and dashed on after me! They have chased me home, mother! They drove me from street to street, all the way here. They blew on me with their hot fire-breaths, till I almost sank down before them. But I did not. I ran on and on, and shrieked at the top of my voice, while everybody else was shrieking too; and I put my hands up over my face, that they shouldn't come nigh me with their long, forked tongues! But they didn't catch me-no, no! not they! not they! I was too fleet for them-I out-ran them! I knew I should get home before they did; but they will be here soon, mother; very soon; they will be sure to overtake us here!" 
               "Poor, poor boy!" groaned the mother, her heart more deeply saddened at this exhibition of her only child's impotence and folly. As she uttered the words, she fetched a deep sigh, that seemed to have been an odor, or a frail breath, wafted over the long and distant fields of memory, and redolent with every act, feeling and sentiment that long ago grew thereon. 
               "Do not sigh, mother," said the boy, "but help me to beat away the spirits when they come to surround and seize me. Come, get up, mother, for they will very soon be here. Up, up, mother! Can't you see them through the lattice? Can't you feel their hot breaths already? Can't you hear their low and hissing whispers in your ears? Come, my mother!" continued he, catching hold furiously of her hand-"come!" 
               "I see nothing but the sun, child," replied she, mildly, hoping by this means to pacify him in a measure. 
               "Oh, then if you will not come," said he, "if you will not come, then will I go to the door alone and beat them back! Can I do it with my hands? Will they flee if I do but look steadily at them? Will they turn pale, and flee from me? No, no; no, no, no They are spirits of the air-they come from God-they can't be beaten back-they will not be cowed away-they are too fierce for that! Their eyes are like the stars in a midnight sky, only more, and fiercer, and brighter. I never saw such eyes before. Their tongues are like the tongues of a million serpents; every one of them is forked, and keeps playing all about in the air! Come and see them, mother-come, I beg you!"-and he ran back to where his parent eat, determined in his frenzy to bear her to the door. 
               "What makes you so excited today, my son?" asked she, herself becoming considerably alarmed at his unaccountable manner. 
               "Excited!" exclaimed he; "but the spirits would excite you, too-they drive anybody mad! You cannot look into their eyes, but you will grow mad yourself! They are so lurid, and their tongues look so thirsty, and their faces are so deathly pale! Come to the door, mother!" 
               "I cannot, my son," replied she. "I am not well enough. Go yourself, if you will not sit down and stay with your mother one short hour. Go, my son, if you will not." 
               "But I can't stay here a short hour-nobody can stay here that time!" 
               "Why not?" 
               "Because the fire-fiends will be here-they will come in and eat everything out of the house! They will swallow all there is, house and all! 
               "What mean you, my son? I do not understand you." 
               "Then come but to the door with me." 
               He looked inquiringly at her, but she gave a negative shake to her head, and he replied- 
               "Then I go alone-I'll go to the street alone! I dare all the fire-devils to eat me up with their thousand tongues-I dare them to look me through with their million fierce and bloody eyes! I defy them to blow their hot breaths on me, so that my own free breath shall be stopped. No, no, no! they cannot do it-they cannot do it! not they-not they! I am much too brave for them, my mother. I will go and meet them!" 
               He started at once for the door. The sun had already become shadowed upon the carpet, and none of its blessed gleams yet lay and nestled in the lap of the saddened mother. He opened wide the door and stood in it, gazing wildly up and down the court in which the house stood. Then he looked upwards and began clapping his hands exultingly, and laughing with a very maniac's laugh. 
               "Ha! ha! ha!" shouted he, 'they're coming down now, mother! They'll be on us soon! They'll burst in through the door." 
               "What is that noise, my son!" exclaimed the mother, moving excitedly in her chair. 
               "It's the spirits out of the air!" he responded, pointing wildly up towards them, and laughing madly with the gesture. "The fire-fiends are come! I smell their breath! I see their eyes! I can almost clutch their tongues, that they want so much to run through my body!" 
               The woman became alarmed with the dry and crackling sound, every moment growing more loud and fearful, that fell on her ears. She rushed from her chair in frantic haste to the door, and, leaning on the shoulder of her son, gazed with fearful foreboding in the direction in which he pointed. 
               "Gracious Heavens!" exclaimed she, in her feeble woman's voice, "it's fire!" 
               "Didn't I say 'twas the fire-fiends?' asked her son, looking round into her face, and beholding it, if possible, more perfectly livid than before. "Didn't I say the fire-devils were coming, mother? Didn't I say they'd soon be in at the door, and eat us all up with their great lapping tongues? Look, look! See how they twist themselves together, like so many serpents, and open wide their hungry jaws, and look fierce with their million eyes!" 
               "Let us fly, my son!" cried the terrified woman, suddenly catching the echoes of the confused clamor of the multitudes in the adjoining street. 
               "Flee, mother? Yes: let us flee, let us go now! See, see! The devils are running down the roof! They are in the court! They will soon be upon us! Quick, mother, quick! You can't be too quick for them! Let us flee, where they cannot overtake us again!" 
               While the son stood in the door, employing defiant gestures in the face of the flames, and counselling his mother to make all the haste within her power, she had gone within, and with so much strength as still remained to her after her fright, was engaged in gathering together what few articles she thought of most immediate value to both of them, and packing them closely within the folds of an old red shawl. She had scarcely time, however, to complete even this hurried preparation for their safety and future comfort, before one of the roofs near by fell in, driving upwards clouds of countless sparks and cinders, and sending an echo back upon her ear that startled her. 
               "Come, mother, come!" cried the boy, growing pale with his excitement. "Now's our time to fly! The breath of the fiends is hot upon my cheek now! They will look me through with their huge, fierce eyes! Come, mother, come!" and he immediately extended one hand towards her, while with the other he kept beating back the phantoms that danced before his eyes in the already close approaching flames. 
               "My God! all is lost! We are houseless, my son!" exclaimed she, when she reached the door and looked about her. "With me, my boy, with me! Take hold of this bundle!" 
               He seized hold of the bundle containing all their remaining earthly valuables, and ran as fast as his weary parent's strength would suffer him. She heard the wild shouts and shrieks of the people in the adjoining street, and her knees grew weak beneath her body. 
               "Which way?" asked she, on reaching the angle at the entrance of the court. 
               "This, this way!" cried out her son, pointing frantically with his fingers in a direction opposite the fires. 
               They ran on for a long distance, never stopping to catch breath, or to rest, until they had reached a point far removed from the scene of the conflagration. Here they sat down upon a rock, and watched with palpitating hearts the heavy clouds of black smoke, as they rolled away into the clear azure of the distant sky. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               THE INDIAN AND THE OUTLAW. 
               It was quite nightfall when young William Howe, accompanied and assisted by the faithful negro Buff, reached the house of his uncle not far removed from the extremity of the little village street. The wound of the young man was as just nothing at all, his only temporary hurt consisting in the sudden shock that had produced his insensibility. From this, as already narrated, the negro's timely and assiduous attentions had at length altogether succeeded in recovering him; and leaning on the arm of the faithful attendant, he walked at a slow pace down the path that led to the road below the declivity of the mountain. 
               Nothing was said at the house of the young man's uncle respecting the trifling accident, it having been agreed upon that such should be the management of the affair. Buff was rampant that the "cussed Injun" should be punished for the murderous wrong he had done his master, and the latter could only pacify him by repeatedly assuring him that his punishment should be certain, even though it came late. It should therefore be none the less severe. 
               The young man accordingly went about the village to engage a couple of such friends as he thought most valiant and trustworthy to promise him their assistance, as soon as he should think it expedient to call upon them. He found no difficulty in obtaining just such assistance as he stood most in need of, for two more brave and honest hearted men than were Walter King and Harvey Brown, could be found nowhere either within town or county lines. The time was left to be arranged by William Howe alone, to whose hands was committed the entire project and expedition. Everything was put in complete and instant readiness, however, by all of them, that they might be able to move at an hour's notice. But just as the youthful lover thought his enemy was within his power-for he had kept sight of him for some time previous-he received orders by post to join his company without delay in New York. Thus he was reluctantly compelled to defer a project his heart fairly burned to carry out. But still he had hope that he should not finally be cheated of his promised victim. 
               After he had taken a sad leave of the charming mountain-nymph, who lived with the old witch, and bade farewell to his uncle and his kind housekeeper, who seemed more like an aunt to him than like a housekeeper simply-no set out through the eastern part of Westchester for head-quarters. Arrived there, he duly reported himself to the proper officer, and was at once set upon such duly as for the time it belonged to him to perform. He afterwards removed with General Putnam's forces to the heights of Brooklyn, and engaged in the unfortunate battle of the 27th of August, with as much ardor and bravery as any one in the American ranks. He subsequently took an active part in the battles, or skirmishes, of the 15th and 16th of September, above King's Bridge, at which time he so greatly distinguished himself beneath the eye of the commander-in-chief, that he was forthwith raised from the rank of lieutenant, which he held at the time, to that of captain-a commission no one thought would ever stand the leest chance of being disgraced. On the 28th of October, the day on which the battle was fought at White Plains, his post was so distant from the scene of action that he was not able to take a part in struggle in which his soul was none the less interested; but he fired his comrades with new thoughts and braver resolutions, while he chafed so openly in their presence to go and poor out his blood with the others, for the good of their common country. After this time, he was withdrawn with his regiment to a point somewhat in the rear of the battle ground. 
               It was only in the early part of October, the same month with that of the battle of White Plains, that a couple of men lay concealed in the little cabin situated a mile or more from the hut of old Bet Miffles, in the middle of the afternoon. One of them was the Indian who had taken aim at the person of Captain William Howe, and the other was a lawless, thieving, vagabond wretch, whose name was Jim Marshall For years before he had been a loose and vagrant character about the village, subsisting nobody knew how, and living scarcely anybody knew where. One day he would be seen hanging about the village in quest of work, and the next he would be at least ten or a dozen miles away in another direction. He practised no particular trade or calling and though abundantly known and firmly believed to be a rogue, he had hitherto avoided the commission of any overt acts, such as would be sufficient to convict him on any specific charge. Like all such rogues, he had always studied to escape conviction, and with no mean success either. Nothing had been known concerning him by the inhabitants of the village, for a long time previous to the time when we find him with the reader, secreted in this place in the forest; and many of the people began to think he had either gone off forever, or that he must have met his death in some skirmish or quarrel of which they had heard nothing. And the public memory had now quite dislodged him and his name. 
               "Lariko," said Jim, as they sat there in the dark cabin, addressing the Indian; "Lariko, we have met at a good time here. I have a plan in my head!" 
               "Lariko have no plans. Lariko keep his own heart. Pale face be grown mighty strong now, and poor Indian lose his heart!" responded the Indian. 
               "Do you know the old witch on the mountain, Lariko?" asked the renegade. 
               "Ugh!" responded the Indian. 
               "And the young maiden that lives with her?-the beautiful girl?" persisted the rover. 
               "Young maiden is Manokee-young maiden is spring-flower for beauty!" replied the Indian. 
               "I want to take her from the lodge of the white woman," said he. "Will Lariko go too and help me?" 
               "Lariko never fail. Lariko's eye still clear. Lariko's ear still quick. Lariko go where his pale brother say!" 
               "Then come!" said the white man; "let us go now! The day will soon be down and we need to have her in the forest early." 
               The Indian sprang speedily to his feet, anxious to accompany the white upon the route he had marked out. In an instant almost, they were on their way to the hut of old Bet Miffles. 
               They arrived before the door before long, and Marshall motioned to the Indian to remain outside while he entered the hut alone. The Indian did as bidden. Marshall raised the latch and entered the room. The old witch sat there herself, smoking her pipe over a small fire she had just kindled, and Mary was reading not far from her. Both looked up as Marshall entered, while the old woman took her pipe hurriedly from her mouth, and said: 
               "Jim Marshall-the evil one's upon ye, that ye show your face here! I thought ye was long dead!" 
               "Not quite so easy as all that," rejoined he, coolly taking a vacant seat by the side of the maiden, but not offering to remove the skin cap from his head. "I aint dead yit, old woman. I'm good for a good many more winters." 
               "If you dont git yer pay for what you've done, before that time," replied she, somewhat sharply. 
               Never be afraid concernin' that!" said he. "But, Betty, how goes the times with ye?" 
               "The devil take ye tor a rascal and a coward, to come into my house while I am alone and unprotected!" exclaimed she. "Why are ye here to-day?" 
               "Don't fly into such a passion, woman," said he, "and all about nothing at all! I've only come up to make ye a visit." 
                
               "And pray it may be a short one," replied she, puffing out the tobacco clouds quite vigorously. 
               "But why so? Have I ever done you any harm, Betty?" asked he. 
               "No matter whether you have, or you havn't. It's nothing to what you might do if you but thought you could." 
               "I'll tell ye what 'tis, old woman," said he, his tone considerably changed, and his syllables finding their way out much more slowly and with greater emphasis than before-" I've come to have a talk with you to-day about this gal of your'n. She fills my eye exactly. I haint seen her equal nowhere. Now I want to make a bargain with you for the price I shall pay you to let me carry her off." 
               "A murrain seize ye, you spawn of the devil!" ejaculated the old woman, her head shaking to and fro a tempest of ungovernable rage, and her gray and grizzly hair unfastening from its several places of confinement. "Jim Marshall, ye talk like a madman! You don't know what you're about; the evil spirit is in ye to do the works of hell! I say to you, ye had better leave me-leave my but-leave the mountain altogether!" 
               "But I love your little chick," protested he, laying his rough hand across her arm, and then in his coarse manner chucking her under her chin. 
               The maiden involuntarily drew back from his foul contact, disgusted with his odious manner and appearance. 
               "Not so shy, young miss," said he, patting her soft cheek into which the crimson had suddenly forced itself, until her face seemed all a glow. "Not so coy, pretty maid? I've loved you long-I love you now! 'Faith, but you'd be a brave maid, wouldn't ye, to grace a poor man's cabin? And I must have ye in mine, I believe!" 
               She made a still further effort to remove out of his reach, in which she proved finally successful. 
               "Why do ye come here, Jim Marshall," broke in the old witch-" what is it ye want? Can't ye let a lone body be in peace by herself, away from the world?" 
               "I want your gal, woman," he replied with warmth. "Give me but her, and you shall be paid your own price, and we will always be the best of friends." 
               "Away with ye where ye came from!" uttered she. "You are a madman! I cannot let the child go from my side. I should be lonely and die!" 
               "Keeping her for that young rebel Howe, I cal'-late?" replied he, sarcastically. "Rather give her up to that scapegoat than to me? Oh yes, I see it all; I know what it means; but I swear, old woman, that it shall not be so!" 
               "Never fear for that-never fear!" said she. 
               "Why needn't I fear, when I see what I do see, every time he comes back to the village? Who walks with her, talks with her, laughs with her, sits with her into the twilight hour, but he? Whom does she love but him? Who will have her but he?" 
               All this time the face of the maiden assumed a color of more deeply burning crimson, and her vexed heart palpitated tumultuously with a contrariety of emotions. But she preserved a rigid silence, looking steadfastly down upon the floor. 
               "Away with ye, Jim Marshall. The young man cannot have the girl for his wife. It is ordained otherwise. He cannot have her. It isn't possible! Providence has arranged differently." 
               "Yes," said Marshall, "that I should carry her off with me, where he cannot get her, true enough.' 
               "You lie! She will stay with me! She will not leave the hut where lives her grandmother. Think ye, ye have power enough to take her away?" 
               "Unless you are the evil one himself, as they say you are. I have," he replied. "But never be afraid but what I shall do what I begin. I must take the girl along with me, so make no words about it, but get Ler ready and say your prayers to her as soon as ye can, for I'm in a hurry. She must go along with me!" 
               As he uttered these portentous words, that fell upon the ears of Mary like the knell of her certain doom, he rose to his feet and gave a long and shrill whistle, by applying his fingers to his mouth. 
               The old woman, on seeing this movement of his, and hearing this almost deafening evidence that he must be leagued with others, suddenly rose from her chair and fell to clapping her hands most energetically. On this instant, the old black cat, who sat crouching upon the top of the antique clock, and whose eyes had for some time during the interview been like two flaming balls of fire, sprang with a single bound from her perch, and with a demoniac yell and frightful hiss, deeply imbedded her long and glistening claws in the cheek and throat of the bold intruder, just as he had laid hold of the person of Mary to carry her away. The old woman kept up her shouts and gestures of encouragement, and the enraged brute kept up her unearthly howls and hisses, and her horrible torture. 
               It was more than the man was able to stand. He was rent, first with unspeakable surprise, and then with smarting pain. Letting go the hold he had upon the girl, he raised his hands in the most agonizing and horror-stricken manner, and cried at the top of his voice. 
               "Hell, and all its fiends let loose! Bloody murder will ye do to me! mur--der! Ten thousand devils. Help, help! Take 'em off, take 'em off! The devils have got me! The devils are on me! They wo'nt let me go! You old hell-hag, take your devils off-" 
               "Will ye leave me unmolested, then?" broke in the old woman, determined not to relinquish the business until it was entirely and satisfactorily performed. 
               "Yes, yes, yes! I'll leave ye forever! I'll never come near any of ye more! Only call off your devils, only stop their infernal howls! Only rid my ears of their hissings and spittings! Away with 'em, take 'em off. They're diggin' my heart out of me now. My life 'ill soon be gone. Take the devils off. Take 'em off!" 
                
               "Do ye promise, then?" persisted the old woman. 
               "To leave you? yes: I promise it a thousand times in one breath." 
               "And never come back again?" 
               "No-no-no. Take off this black devil! She's having my life out of me!" 
               "Then Kip, Kip, come off, come here," called the old witch to her infuriated cat. 
               Just as she had issued her order to the brute. Marshall had opened the door, where he still stood. The Indian saw him in this strange predicament, his face and neck covered with blood, and the fierce looking black cat fastened like fate upon him. Being of a superstitious character himself, he had no sooner caught an unmistakeable glimpse of the apparition, and heard the wild sounds the infuriated brute produced, than he took to his heels and was soon far out of sight and hearing in the heart of the sheltering forest. Marshall followed on as closely as the smarting sense of his wounds would suffer him, which acted much as, it may be supposed, the sting of a well-driven spur acts upon the flanks of a steed. Taking long and giant strides from the front of the hut door he buried himself from the power of human penetration in an incredibly short space of time. 
               It was not long after this occurrence-it being only early in November-when, as the troops about the Hudson anticipated no surprises or attacks from the enemy during at least the coming months of the winter, Captain Howe obtained a furlough of sufficient length to enable him to visit his uncle's house and carry out secretly a project that had long been working in his busy brain. As a matter of course, he had not long been domiciled with his benevolent relative-sometimes a churlish old gentleman, at the best-before he found the occasion to make a visit to the mountain. His uncle hung on hard to have him tell more particulars of the skirmishes on that side of New York, as well as of the battles of Long Island and White Plains; but the youthful Captain's invention was ready for abundant excuses for a short absence in the woods, now that the squirrel hunting season had exactly come, and his assurance offered him abundant words with which to reiterate the firmest and fairest promises to the old gentleman respecting what the certainly would do when he came back. 
               He got off one afternoon, in company with the faithful negro Buff, and it was preconcerted that the other two men-Walter King and Harvey Brown-should meet them at an appointed rendezvous beyond the village. All their preliminary arrangements worked to their satisfaction. They met as agreed; and now the question arose, 'which way shall we go to share our prey?' The Captain had heard from the lips of his beloved maiden every particular of the transaction of the hut so shortly previous; and his heart burned with mingled rage and a desire to revenge the insult and wrong of which the innocent Mary had been the recipient. 
               "Then that Jim Marshall-that infernal tory-is at the bottom of all this," said he to himself, "and he was undoubtedly the man who put up that vagabond Indian to fire upon me last summer! Yes, Yes! I think I see it all. But, Jim Marshall, keep a very good lookout for yourself, or you may suddenly fall in with a party you are not in daily expectation of seeing.!" 
               Such were his thoughts and feelings at the moment when his comrades proposed the inquiry, 'which way shall we go first?' They all walked on in silence, however, for some distance, without either of them suggesting an answer to the same, and each busy with his own reflections, until they suddenly discovered that they had gone far up the mountain and quite into the forest. Looking about them in apparent listlessness, for the first time since they started they seemed to recognize the fruitlessness of their task in the present manner in which they had set out upon it. 
               After a brief practical consultation, in which no one of them-not even old Buff-went unrepresented, Captain Howe proposed to the others that he and the negro should take a circuitous path in the right hand direction, and the other two men a route that lay open to them on their left. This was at once concluded upon, the time of separation from each other settled, and the call or shout of recognition determined. They then struck off upon their separate ways, full of hope-and hope only-that their expedition might not prove altogether fruitless. 
               The young man, with his black companion, had travelled on almost in an uninterrupted silence for a great distance, when they halted and listened. The still forest, however, gave out no sounds, no voices, no echoes, save those made by the crush of some falling tree-bough, or the sudden flight of a large bird, or the distant bark of some fox that had wandered far from his hole. They sat themselves down upon a rock close at hand, in the front of which was a thick growth of spruce and hemlock, which concealed quite everything from their view. It appeared to be generally rocky all about them. They had sat in this spot but a few minutes, during which time neither of them had spoken a word, when Buff suddenly started up a little and exclaimed in a loud whisper to his young master- 
               "There, there! What's that? Didn't massa Billy hear um?" 
               "What's what?" asked Captain Howe, pricking up his ears quickly, and looking all about him for the purpose of catching any the most trifling echo. "I hear nothing, Buff. "What do you hear? What is it, Buff?" 
               "Me hear voices," replied the negro. 
               "Voices! Where?" 
               "Don't know dat yit, massa Billy; but sure Buff hear em voices somewhere. I sh'd tink dey was over yender," said he, pointing in the direction in which he thought them to be. 
               The young captain instantly regained his feet, upon this trifling suggestion from the negro, and, catching hold of the outspreading branches of the hemlocks that grew next him, walked onwards a few feet. His astonishment was unbounded on finding that he had suddenly come upon the edge of a large shelving rock, and that beneath his feet yawned quite a formidable precipice. Not knowing what sort of concealment such a place might afford for renegades and thieves, he determined to stand still where he was and await any further demonstrations that might offer itself of the presence of such characters. He had remained in his new position, however, not more than two or three minutes, when he distinctly heard with his own ears the sound of voices. He listened with all his eager earnestness, if possible to undeceive himself of his first impressions; but there still swelled up to him from below the same low sound of human tongues. Full of curiosity, and freshly fired with his desire of revenge, he dropped down on his knees, and, holding on tightly by one of the boughs, extended his body-a portion of it-ar over the edge of the moss-stained cliff. In this position he kept his eyes and ears all about him. 
               "See anybody, massa!" inquired the negro, in a loud whisper, that sounded exceedingly husky and hollow. 
               But the young man made no reply while in that position, even if the negro had expected such a thing to be done. He continued looking steadily for some time, until by the sudden lighting up of his eyes and the mounting of the hot blood to his cheeks, it was plain that the discovery he was bent upon had been finally made. There-true enough-he caught sight of two human figures. At first, he thought they might be those of his own companions, who had strayed thither, hardly knowing in what direction they were going; but upon a closer and more considerate examination, he found that they were not the men who had started from the village with him. He looked again, parting the small twigs from before his face, and stretching himself still further over. He could no longer be mistaken. They were the objects of his pursuit. They were none other than the outlaw, Jim Marshall, and his companion, the Indian! 
               Captain Howe satisfied himself that they were fast seated in their present place of security, and then crept back to the side of the negro. The large eyes of the latter grew immoderately larger, as the Captain narrated to him the particulars of his discovery, and he could scarcely be kept back from rushing to the edge of the cliff and discharging his musket at them He was informed, however that such a course would only ruin the whole plan, and induced to give over his sudden and passionate purpose. Still his black fingers kept busily working with his gunlock, and his eyes kept ferociously glancing at the edge of the cliff. The Captain led him off hurriedly to the rear, and ordered him to follow him on closely. Then he rapidly struck a line into the woods. 
               His plan was, to hurry on as fast as he could until he should intersect the path his companions had taken, in the hopes of cutting them off at some point they might not yet have reached, and communicating to them his discovery. He dared not fire his gun as a signal for them, for then all might be overthrown; the bird would undoubtedly take warning from the alarm, and escape would be the more easy. Accordingly he waited patiently for some half an hour, hoping the others would come up. But he was disappointed. He heard nothing of their advancing; he discovered no traces of their having gone on, either. 
               "Come on, then, Buff!' said he to the negro; "examine your priming, that your musket don't fail you in case of need, and come along!" 
               "Oh, he be all right," returned Buff. "Ole-musket never fail Buff. He know he too well. He too sure-he fired him too many time." 
               "Follow me, then," said the captain, "and keep your eyes about you." 
               "Yes, massa, yes. Goin' to shoot 'em, massa? Tell old Buff put his gun guts 'trait troo dat Injun?" 
               "That I can better tell you when I get to where they are," said he. "Only do as I order-follow me closely-keep your eyes open-and I reckon we shall catch the villain. I don't care whether we shoot the Indian or not, so we do but take that infernal tory of a Jim Marshall alive! That's all I want to do today." 
               "Den I guess we do um," said Buff. 
               They started back towards the ledge. Much time had already elapsed, as the Captain knew, since he had left the place, and his misgivings were neither few nor trifling that he might not find either of his objects of pursuit just where he had left them; but still he kept-onward with a stout heart, his resolution even and anon flaming up within him, that, dead or alive, the man who had sought to wrong Mary so foully should be made a captive. He exchanged but few words with the negro as they went along, and the latter fell silently into the rear, expecting nothing from his master's lips, but intently watching for any signs of the proximity of human beings that the thick growth of woods might be able to furnish. 
               "We must get on faster, Buff," ordered the Captain, mending his pace. The long, gray shadows of evening had begun to extend themselves through the November woods, and he was reminded of the now rapid approach of nightfall. Occasionally he tripped and stumbled over the rocks and stumps that beset his path, the light being insufficient to discover them in season to him. Through covert and tangled brake, over rocks and ledges, he kept steadily on his course, his eyes fast set upon only one object, and that object the exact point, or locality, where he was expecting to find the villains he was in such resolute pursuit of. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               THE CAPTURE AND CONFINEMENT. 
               "Los' de way, massa Billy?" asked old Buff, after they had continued upon their journey for some distance, and at the moment when Captain Howe came to a momentary halt; "tink you know um agin? Tink you find um where dey be?" 
               "I have but little fears about that," replied he, willing to exchange a word with the negro, though he felt never so little inclined to utter a syllable. 
               "Better let Buff fire he ole musket at um, when he say so? Den one of um be sure to be dead! Guess you miss it dat time, massa! Buff sure to kill um, only let he fire!" 
               "But that wasn't what I was after, Buff," replied the Captain. "It is my desire to take the fellows alive, if possible, and administer to that Jim Marshall such a punishment as I think will do him good. I've no desire to kill him, and if you had discharged your gun at him, the whole object in this present expedition of ours would have been frustrated. It was on that account that I ordered you not to fire at the-" 
               "All right, massa Billy! All right enough, Buff tink. Buff neber do nothin' what massa Billy say he not do. Buff neber kick down massa Billy's plans." 
               "My present plan is, Buff," said the young Captain, "to go near enough to those fellows I saw hid below the rock, and take them prisoners" 
               "How you do um, massa Billy? How you go to work to do um? Dey fire, and shoot us down afore we say hold on!' Dey make dead folks ob us afore we see um! How you catch um, massa Billy?" 
               "How will I do it?" 
               "Yas, yas; how you do it, massa Billy? Jes' say how he be done, an' Buff no lag behind massa Billy to seize hold ob um." 
               "Why, I shall order them to surrender," replied the young commander. 
               "Den 'spose dey no surrender?" asked Buff. 
               "Then I shall shoot them; that is, if you will help me, and not turn and run away." 
               There was a look, half of anger and half of mortified pride, that momentarily crossed the sable countenance of the negro, and had he been of a white complexton, the blood that rushed so impetuously to his cheeks, and mounted in such hot fury to his forehead, would have abundantly attested the depth of his feeling. He only replied to this latter insinuation of his master by turning upon him a look of inexpressible astonishment, and muttering aloud, loud enough to be heard by him, 
               "Me turn and run. Did eber Cap'n Billy hear the thing? Did eber Cap'n Billy s'pect dat Buff be good-for-notin' coward? If he 'pend on Buff to shoot the Injin, den de Injin's jes' as good as a dead Injin dis-berry minnit. But den; Massy Billy," continued he, his face greatly brightening, "but den, s'pose dey see us fust? S'pose dey draw trigger fust, and shoot us? How Cap'n Billy take um den?" 
               It staggered the young man to produce just such an answer to this question as should both satisfy the imaginations of the negro, and at the same time keep good that resolute courage he believed at that moment his. But he succeeded, as he thought, in the attempt, through the exact character, or form, of his reply he was unable to recollect again only a minute or two afterwards. 
               They had by this time come within so short a distance of the place where William Howe supposed the concealed men to lie, that the latter motioned with his hand for Buff to cease all efforts at conversation, and follow closely on behind him in silence. This injunction was readily observed by the negro, and at once obeyed. He fell into the rear, but kept his lony fingers still busily playing with his gun-lock, and his large, white eyes, glaring fiercely all about him. The shadows began to shed themselves now more thickly upon the earth and all through the woods, and there was need that every faculty they each of them possessed be put in requisition. 
               Softly, and far more slowly, then, they began to creep along now, dodging and skulking, and peeping about the bushes, pushing the small boughs and twigs aside for a better prospect, stopping ever and anon to listen and catch any the slightest sounds, and then penetrating again the clumps of thickets that almost seemed to bewilder them. The negro said not a word, but kept close on after his young master. 
               Presently he felt the touch of the young man's hand upon his arm. It was laid at first lightly upon it, and then it settled down heavily, and finally it took hold with an almost convulsive clutch. The black instantly looked into his master's face for an interpretation of this peculiar gesture, and readily found it in the contortions the young Captain's face was at that moment undergoing. It seemed to say to him, louder than any words, and plainer than any gestures-which in that position might have been peculiarly unfortunate- 
               "Do you see there? Look where my eyes look-follow my eyes with yours-look yonder! See that man yonder-he is alone-he doesn't see us yet; but be careful not to make the slightest motion-be careful not to utter the slightest sound by which he may discover us! Do you see him! Then keep your eyes on him-only on him! Remember your musket, and see his lying on the ground by his side! Now do just as I do, and be careful that he doesn't get a chance to fire first!" 
               The negro's eyes grew perceptibly whiter and larger at seeing the object to which the Captain had thus quietly, but none the less effectively, directed his attention, and his well-set teeth showed themselves to surpassing advantage. He ground them together as savagely as if he could have gnawed in twain one of the stoutest tree buts that stood near him 
               The Captain slowly raised his musket to his shoulder, and deliberately took a sight. The faithful negro, nothing daunted, did the same. For a few seconds both stood in this position, moving not a foot or a muscle, but gazing steadfastly into the face of the infamous outlaw who sat upon the ground beneath the ledge. His face was yet deeply marked with the evidences of the conflict he had with the old black cat of the witch, and he was idly plucking with one of his hands the small tufts of grass that grew around the spot where he sat. As yet he was all unaware of the presence of any one. The Indian, it appeared, left him while Captain Howe and his companion were gone to attempt finding the remaining two of their party, and he sat there apparently awaiting his return. He was looking down upon the ground, and the expression of his countenance was sullen and disturbed. 
               Suddenly Captain Howe advanced with a determined tread upon him, cracking the dry sticks and brush that lay in his path, and shouting almost at the top of his voice- 
               "Move a foot, and you die! Stir but a hair, and I'll shoot you down like a brute as you are!" 
               The outlaw looked suddenly up from out eyes glaring with ferocious excitement, and seeing two men standing so near him, with loaded muskets deliberately levelled at him, involuntarily seized his own that lay idly by him, and brought it part way to his shoulder. 
               "Raise that musket another inch," shouted Captain Howe, "and you're a dead man! I've no more words for you now! you move only at your peril!" 
               The bewildered man, set upon so unexpectedly and by a superior force, too, saw that he was in the power of the speaker, almost at the first glance he threw upon him. But he rose unconsciously to his feet, still clutching his musket with a deadly grasp, as if he had every reason to feel that that alone could save him in his emergency, as it undoubtedly had saved him many a time before. But the young man never lost the deadly aim with which he had first taken the advantage of his enemy, and the negro stood, ready to double the charge, in case the first gun should not answer the purpose. Marshall saw at once that if he fired and brought down one-even allowing that he was agile enough to do it before he should receive a charge himself-the other stood ready to mete out to him a fearful retribution; and he gave up his project at once, as being every way impracticable. Accordingly, he dropped it at his side, and looked steadily and demurely at his captor. 
               "Give up your gun to Buff!" ordered Captain Howe. "Buff, go take, his gun from him!" 
               The negro bestowed a fierce look upon the outlaw, and slrode rapidly up to him. Just as he reached him, however, the latter saw that Buff had been so thoughtless as to interpose his person partially between himself and the young Captain; and knowing that Captain Howe would not then dare fire, through fear of killing his own best friend, quicker than the flash of a running flame, he raised his musket to his eye, and fired. The ball went whizzing with a murderously cruel sound past the head of the young man, but he stood unhurt. 
               "Knock the wretch down, Buff!" cried he to the negro; "knock him down Seize him by the throat! Where are your cords? Where are your cords Buff?" 
               The black stopped not for forther ceremony, not to answer the questions he did not then hear; but throwing his gun without the reach of the villain, he advanced like a very tiger upon him, and in an instant had thrown him heavily to the ground, and was lying across him. The prisoner attempted to kick, and bite, and scratch the black upon him, but the latter seemed at all points armed to meet just such an adversary. At length he laid his long and bony fingers across his throat, and commenced the vice-like operation of which they were eminently capable. 
               "Guess he shoot massa Billy now!" grunted Buff, still continuing the working of the vice, and glaring with an almost inhuman ferocity into his victim's face. That face was suddenly become almost as black as that of his tormentor. The eyes protruded hideously, and the tongue lolled a long way beyond its accustomed limit. He was struggling vainly to speak, and his efforts were expanding themselves in a series of the most frightful internal sounds that Buff had ever heard. His master, who had been busily rummaging his own pocket for the cord he considerately brought along with him, heard the strange not ses, and seeing to what a pitch his zealous servant was engaged in carrying matters in his behalf, in stantly ordered him to desist and allow the man at least a chance for breath. 
               "Yes, but, massa," replied the exasperated negro, "how much chance for breff tink he gib you? Yes-yes; it be very good for dis old tory to breathe, but he never tink massa Cap'n want breff too!" 
               "Never mind that now," replied Captain Howe, pacifyingly. "He will be sure to get his punishment now, for I don't see where there's any help for him. Let him have breath enough to keep him alive. We shall want him to live, Buff, in order that we may punish him. If he is dead, we can't do it." 
               "Bery well! bery well, den! Jes' as massa Billy say. But ole Buff mighty sure dat dis villain never deserve to hab no breff agin!" 
               The Captain stooped down over the prostrate form of the outlaw, and told Buff to give him his hands These he tied firmly together before him at the elbows, and afterwards at the wrist; and then he told Buff to get off of him and help him to his feet. 
               "What have I ever done to you, Captain Howe," broke out the outlaw, his strength greatly exhausted and his breathing deep and hard-"what have I ever done to you that you should come on me in this way-will you tell me?" 
               "Jim Marshall!" spake the young officer, turning and looking him fully in the face," if you do not yourself know why you are this day my prisoner, you certainly need not be told of the reason by me! This is only a deceit of your own, which you vainly think to practise upon me. You must know why I have thus treated you! You do know, and do not think to deceive me by saving that you do not! Have you so soon forgotten your going to the hut of the old hag, to get away that girl by force?" 
               "Is that anything to you?" asked Marshall. 
               "It is much to me; it is everything to me," answered the Captain. 
               "But the old woman says you can't have her; and--" 
               "You, I conclude, have sworn the same thing, too!" The outlaw made no reply. 
                
               "No matter whether you have or not; your presence there only a few weeks ago was cause enough for my present feeling towards you. You have not forgotten it, I see. Let us see if you have forgotten another thing, too? Who fired a rifle ball at my head only last summer? Tell me that!" 
               "Before God, but 'twasn't me that did it!" exclaimed the man. 
               "No-no, it was not you!" replied the Captain, slowly and with a peculiar emphasis. 
               "But I assure you by all that's holy, Cap'n Howe, I never fired a ball at your head." 
               "He lie! He lie brack lies!" shouted Buff, lustily. 
               "He fire at massa Billy's head on'y jes' now! He lie! He lie!" 
               "Yes, you have but a few minutes ago discharged your musket, loaded with ball, at me Now how can I know that it was not your gun that was levelled at me while I sat upon that stump in the woods, last summer?" 
               The outlaw was sullen and silent. 
               "But I do not charge you with that. I know who it was that did it. It was not your hands that held that musket!" 
               The prisoner looked strange, and alarmed more than ever. 
               "It was by your order, however, that it was done, Jim Marshall!" continued he. "It was you who urged a cruel Indian to the deed, more ignorant, and therefore less responsible than yourself! He fired the musket, and you had already set your price for my scalp! Was it not so, Jim Marshall? If you are innocent of that charge, nothing is easier than for you to prove it." 
               The Captain gave his prisoner an opportunity to clear himself, if he could, of the charge; but the latter chose to make no attempt at vindication; he doggedly refused to open his head in reply to anything his captor had to say upon the subject. 
               "Come along, then," said he. "Buff, load your musket and bring his along too. Keep in the rear, and have your gun ready at a minute's warning!" 
               "Cap'n Howe," said the prisoner, now breaking the silence he had so sedulously observed respecting the interrogatories of his captor-"Cap'n Howe, where are you join' to take me?" 
               "Where you will be safe from doing more harm," replied the young man, firmly. 
               "And where is that, I would know?" 
               "That you will know when we reach the place. 
               "And not before?" 
               "No." 
               "Cap'n Howe," continued the prisoner, "you may shoot me down in my tracks like a dog; you may take my head and fasten it to the highest tree-top there is in all this forest; but do not, for God's sake! do not carry me back into the village! Death is better than that? Anything is better than that! I never'll go down this mountain into the village yonder! I'll die fust? I'll destroy my own self fust!" 
               "Undoubtedly you feel your guilt and your shame," replied Captain Howe; "but how am I accountable for that? I brought it not upon you. It is all your own wrong doing. You must pay the penalty of your wrongs yourself. I shall not aid in screening you!" 
               "Then I shall go into the village?" asked Marshall. 
               "Without a doubt you will," replied the Captain. 
               Hereupon the prisoner set up such a wild, unearthly yell, gathering suddenly what breath and strength he could to give it propulsive force, that the old woods rung to their innermost depths with the echoes. It was really a fearful cry, and made the blood curdle in the veins of the young man who claimed for the moment to be his keeper and captor. 
               "Do that again, and you'll have a gag in your throat!" said the Captain, stepping closer to him and looking him fiercely in the eye. "Do you hear me? If you will be more comfortable in your journey with your throat plugged up, then just yell in that way again! You may succeed in calling back the Indian to your side; but I hardly think he'll venture very near you to-night. He's too watchful for that. He knows too well what dangers are upon his path. So no more of your yells Come on, Buff! Keep everything right? It's growing dark, and we must get out of these woods as soon as we can. We had best reach the clearing by the old witch's but at once!" 
               On they started, therefore, at once; Captain Howe walking a very little in advance of his prisoners, and the negro, now inflated with pride at the success of their expedition, following close on behind, carrying a couple of muskets as best he might in his hands. By crooked and circutious routes they at length succeeded in reaching the clearing but a little way from the hut of the old witch. For a moment they halted here. The young man appeared in doubt as to the better course for him to pursue. The shades of night were fast closing upon him, and it must inevitably be quite dark before he could safely gain the foot of the mountain-side with his prisoner. In that journey down, too, he knew not what help might accidentally overtake the outlaw, now so securely his. He was ignorant how many were banded with him in his lawlessness and iniquity, and he was quite as certain that the Indian could not be so far off as not to have heard the fearful yell of his comrade. His resolution, therefore, was soon taken. He determined to go direct with his prisoner to the hut of the old witch, and claim the use of part of her apartment for the safe keeping of him through the night. 
               "What do ye bring your renegades here for?" snarled out old Bet Miffles, when she turned herself about from over her scanty fire and regarded the appearance of the party that had just entered the room. "Aint there devils enough about without seekin' to stir up another?" 
               The young girl only raised her eyes to see that it was the form of her lover who had entered with the rest, and the color instantly flew to her cheek, and hear heart commence beating tumultuously; but she ventured not any word of recognition for his ears. 
               "I've brought this scoundrel here to-night," replied the young man, "to keep him safely until the morning. I cannot get him down to the village to-night." 
               "And do ye take my hut for a prison house? Can't a poor lone body go even into the mountains, but what she must be driven up as close as ever by outlaws, and officers? I say, Cap'n William Howe, you can't keep your prisoner here-there's no place for him-he'll get loose! He'll set fire-he'll destroy all I've got! He can't stay!" 
               "But it's impossible to get him in safety to the village to-night," protested William, "and it's just as important that he be kept safe till morning. I don't see any other way than for us to stay here. Mary," said he, addressing himself to her, "can I have your room for him?" 
               "Oh, certainly," answered she, gladly. "Certainly you can have it." 
               "But what'll you do for sleep? The child must git her sleep!" interrupted the old woman. 
               "Me! I'll sit up in this large chair," replied the maiden, glad to think of any mode in which she might gratify her lover in his present extremity. "I'll sit and sleep in this chair, grandmother," said she. 
               "And I in bed? No, no, no-that would never do! Would Mr. Howe drive you out of yer room?" 
               "I seek to do no such thing, woman," said Captain Howe, a little vexed with the needless talk he though there was being made over the matter. "Mary has voluntarily relinquished her room for an important purpose, to-night, and, with her permission still, I shall occupy it with my prisoner. If you have any objections, they must be removed the best way you can do it. This man must stay here, and here is the only safe place for him." 
               William said this with an air and tone of such unmistakeable determination, that the old witch felt strangely nettled at it. She could not yet see how any circumstances could be either so peculiar, or so important, as to justify a person in taking absolute possession of the premises of another. So she replied to the young man, in a taunting tone- 
               "This is what comes o' your bein' allowed to sit and talk unmolested with the girl, when the old grandmother's back is turned! This is what comes on't!" 
               "Grandmother!" repeated William, contemptuously. 
               He might have been about to say more, which, if said, would undoubtedly have precipitated matters for him beyond the reach of final redemption; but the delicate hand of the young girl was instantly upon his lips, and instead of giving expression to his thoughts, just then excessively turbulent, he only expended the pent-up power of his lips in affectionately kissing the tips of her fingers. 
               "I'll see if I can't find a place for me," continued the old woman, "where I shan't be molested day and night, summer and winter, by anybody that's a mind to come in! I want to git away from the world, and the world won't keep away from the world, and the world won't keep away from me-I go, and they foller! There's no rest for me, I verily believe!" 
               "There's no earthly use, woman," said the young man, "in your running on in this senseless way, and all about nothing. I have not pursued you nor hunted you down; on the contrary! I am only asking of you a simple favor; just such an one as any one in your situation would be willing to grant me. And remember, it is not altogether a favor done me alone; it's just as much for yourself as for me. You have not probably forgotten so soon the treatment you received from this same villain, only a short time ago. I is to punish him for that, as well as for other offences, that I wish to keep him a prisoner to-night." 
               Without saying another word, he walked across the floor with Marshall, and opened the door of Mary's room. It was just as her own fair hands, obedient only to a refined taste, had arranged it. Ordering in the prisoner before him, he himself followed closely on, bidding the negro to stay in the other apartment. 
               In an hour's time, the prisoner had stretched himself out upon the floor of Mary's room, still silent and sullen, to get the night's rest that belonged to him. Captain Howe sat down by him in a chair, and there continued sitting for a long time, until the breathing of the outlaw became deep and heavy. Then he arose softly as-possible, and going into the other room, bade the negro go and lie down beside him. This the black was not backward about doing, anxious as he was to stretch himself out somewhere for the night. The old which had thrown herself down upon her bunk in the corner, and was likewise fast asleep; and the two young lovers sat there through the long hours of midnight, alone, communing with each other as only persons relatively situated know how to do. Even their silence was a source of happiness to them, for it was crowded with an intense sense to each of the other's presence; and that was happiness to either of them. 
               Just as soon as the faint, gray streaks of dawn began to shoot up from the eastern horizon, and it was possible for him to do so without stumbling over any objects that might lie in his way, Captain Howe walked cautiously across the floor to the door of his prisoner's apartment, and opened the same. There lay Buff upon the floor, sound asleep, and his gun beside him. He looked still further: the prisoner was gone! He rushed hastily into the room, peered under the bed, hunted closely in every corner, but none but the negro was there-the bird had flown through the window of his cage, while one of his keepers was sleeping soundly, and the other making love to the fair creature by his side! 
               No words are adequate to convey a title of the young man's disappointment and chagrin. He walked cautiously back to his seat and communicated the unwelcome intelligence in a whisper to Mary. She was quite as much surprised as he; but what could she do to help the matter now? What could anybody do to help it? 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               A CHAPTER PURELY OF HISTORY, WHICH ANY ONE MAY SKIP WHO CHOOSES. 
               AFTER the battle of White Plains, General Putnam was ordered by General Washington to cross the Hudson, and make all provision in his power to prevent an irruption of the British forces into New Jersey. He was closely followed by the commander-in-chief himself, who, with a part of his army, took post near Fort Lee. After the disastrous fall of that fort, and the subsequent evacuation of Fort Washington, and while the commander-in-chief was slowly retreating with only the sad remnant of an army through the Jerseys, to the banks of the Delaware, Israel Putnam was constantly by his side, encouraging that great man by his hopeful words in the steady resolution and perseverance which at last brought us a nation out of that gulf of despair into which we were then deeply plunged. Putnam was among the very last of the fugitive American army that crossed the Delaware. 
               Immediately upon the back of his experience with the retreating army, he was entrusted with the duty of fortifying the city, of Philadelphia, which the Provincial Congress had resolved should be defended to the last extremity. He fell to his new work with the same earnest vigor that had characterized all his previous conduct, remitting no effort that would be in the least likely to forward the grand design with which he was entrusted. The capture of Philadelphia appeared to be the main object and aim of the British authorities; and Putnam was in consequence so much the more determined that it should be effected only with the hardest labor, and after the greatest sacrifices of blood and treasure. 
               He accordingly set himself to work to conciliate, both by his authority and example, all contending parties and factions, as well as to excite the individuals inhabitants to put forth uncommon and redoubled efforts in the defence of whatever interested them, or related to their common cause. His individual exertions were unparalleled in the performance of the same duties he prescribed to others; and to such an extent did he carry his zealous efforts, and so harassing were the cares that constantly pressed upon him, that his health began to give way before his exertion. He issued orders
                     The following specimen of these orders has been preserved, and may be matter of interest to the general reader:
                     
                         
                            
                               
                                 
                                    "HEAD-QUARTERS, Philadelphia, Dec 14th, 1770.
                                  
                                 "Col Cruffin is appointed Adjutant-General to the troops in and about this city. All orders from the General, through him, either written or verbal, are to be strictly attended to and punctually obeyed. 
                                 "In case of an alarm of fire, the city guards and patroles are to suffer the inhabitants to pass, unmolested, at any hour of the night; and the good people of Philadelphia are earnestly requested and desired to give every assistance in their power, with engines and buckets, to extinguish the fire. And as the Congress have ordered the city to be defended to the last extremity, the General hopes that no person will refuse to give every assistance possible to complete the fortifications that are to be erected in and about the city. 
                                 
                                    "ISRAEL PUTNAM."
                                  
                               
                            
                        
                     
                   in relation to the protection of the buildings against fire, and to the surest method of extinguishing accidental fires. 
               The enemy had vainly imagined that to overrun a country, was to conquer it. Already their armies had successively possessed themselves of the cities of Newark, New Brunswick, Princeton, and Trenton, in New Jersey, just as fast as they were abandoned by the retreating Americans. Washington, desirous of undeceiving them in this particular, as well as to engage in some sudden action, whose sure success would re-inspirit his despairing and deserting soldiers, planned the brilliant expedition against Trenton. This place was then occupied chiefly by Hessian troops. Accordingly, at eight o'clock on the morning of the 26th of December, 1776, General Washington took with him twenty four hundred men, and came upon the enemy so unexpectedly as to take one thousand of them prisoners of war, repassing the same day to his own encampment. As soon as his troops had sufficiently recovered themselves from their fatigue, he recrossed the river with his troops the second time to Trenton. On the 2d of January following, Lord Cornwallis advanced upon him with the greater part of the British army, and offered him battle; but as Trenton creek lay between the two armies, and General Washington had it in his power to decline an engagement, he did so for the purpose of completing the masterly plan he then, meditated. Kindling the usual watch-fires about his camp, and stationing faithful men to keep them burning, and advanced sentinels of undoubted fidelity, he silently led off his army after dark by a circuitous route, reaching Princeton by nine o'clock the next morning. Of the British brigade stationed in that town, he killed and captured nearly six hundred; and the noise of his firing was the first intimation Lord Cornwallis had of the march he had stolen upon him during the night. Unwilling with his small numbers to risk an engagement with the entire British army, he filed off to the mountainous grounds in and about Morristown. Meantime, Cornwallis, who arrived with his army at Princeton just as Washington had left it, declined to pursue him, but moved on for Brunswick, where were valuable stores for whose safety he could not now but have fears. 
               On the 5th of January, 1777, General Putnam received from General Washington an account of his second successful incursion into the grounds occupied by the enemy, and likewise an order to remove with all his troops, immediately, to Crosswicks, for the purpose of being able to co-operate in the recovery of the Jerseys. He cautioned him against surprises from the enemy, as they would be likely to attempt a severe retaliation for those already practised upon themselves; advised him to represent his forces to be fully twice as large as it was; suggested to him to keep as many spies active as consistent; and to keep a number of horsemen, dressed in rustic style, going constantly forwards and backwards upon the same service; and whenever any new intention or plan of the enemy was unmistakeably discovered to him, to see that immediate intelligence of the same be conveyed, by express, to head-quarters. This peculiar and sleepless service was performed by General ral Putnam in a manner highly satisfactory to the commander-in-chief, and nowise inconsistent with the General's well-known character for performing his duty, however arduous. It was not long after this, however, that he was commanded to take post at Princeton, which place he held possession of until spring. 
               While in Princeton, he never had under his command at any one time more than a few hundred troops, and yet he was distant only fifteen miles from where the enemy were strongly posted in Brunswick. At one particular time, his numbers became so reduced by the expiration of many of the soldiers' terms of enlistment, and by the slowness with which new 'recruits came to the American standard, that he actually had more miles of frontier to guard, than men with which to guard them! Incredible as this may seem, it is nevertheless strictly true. 
               It happened that in Washington's skirmish at Princeton Captain McPherson, a Scotchman, and belonging to the 17th British Regiment, was severely wounded in the lungs, and left behind with the dead. When General Putnam arrived to take possession of the place, he found him in extreme distress, without a nurse or a surgeon, with scarcely a single accommodation, and without a solitary friend to wipe off the death-damps from his brow. He instantly went in person to see him, and ordered for him every comfort and accommodation that was within his reach. But contrary to all expectation, even his own, Captain McPherson recovered after a long while, and expressed to General Putnam the grateful obligations by which he felt bound to him for his generous and disinterested kindness. In the course of conversation, one day, with the General, the invalid asked his friend-"Pray, General Putnam, what countryman are you?" "An American," answered the latter. "What not a Yankee?" inquired McPherson. "Yes, a full-blooded one!" responded the General, "By G-d!" exclaimed the sick man, "I am sorry for that-I did not think there could be so much goodness and generosity in an American, or, indeed, in anybody but a Scotchman!" 
               While yet the recovery of Captain McPherson was a matter of doubt, he earnestly desired General Putnam to send for a friend in the British army, to come and assist him in making his will. At that particular time. General Putnam had but fifty men in his command. The proposition was one to which he was exceedingly reluctant to express his dissent, and yet it was attended with serious embarrassment to him. His heart was divided with two conflicting emotions-humanity and fear. On the one had, he was extremely unwilling to refuse this last favor to a seemingly dying man; while, on the other, he was dissatisfied that an exposure to the British should thus unnecessarily be made of the weakness of his force. He was plainly in a dilemma. 
               But the good genius of Israel Putnam did not desert him here. It had befriended and guided him in far greater straits than this, and he trusted confidently to it now. He bethought himself of a fortunate expedient, just in time to save himself from farther trouble. A flag of truce was instantly dispatched to the British lines with Captain McPherson's request, with the strict and positive order not to return with his friend until after dark. In the evening, lights were accordingly placed in every room of the College buildings, and in every apartment of the vacant houses all through the town. While the Englishman was with his friend, Putnam kept the fifty men-his entire force-marching, sometimes all in one company, and sometimes in detachments, now from this quarter, and now from that, past the house where the sick man lay. On the return of the Englishman to his camp, it is well known that he reported to his commander that General Putnam had under him at Princeton a force of at least four or five thousand men! Such a device on the part of General Putnam served well to impress the enemy with a large idea of our numbers, and to deter them effectually from attempting any surprises and incursions they else might have been emboldened to make. 
               When at length the spring had so far advanced that it was certain the enemy must soon take the field, the commander-in-chief, after requesting General Putnam to give the officer who was to relieve him at Princeton all the information necessary for the safe keeping of that post, appointed the latter to the command of a separate army in the Highlands on the Hudson. In obedience to this order, General Putnam at once took post at Peekskill; at which post we leave him, the British still in possession of the city of New York, and the tories, skinners, refugees, and cow-boys ravaging, destroying and pillaging all through the interjacent county of Westchester-while, with the permission of the reader who has kindly consented to wade through this chapter with us, we will resume the thread of our story. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               THE SIN AND THE RETRIBUTION. 
               LOW down in the county of Westchester, and properly within the British lines, there lived a family at the time when the enemy held the city of New York, named Wilson. It consisted of Mr. Wilson, his sister-a maiden lady-and his daughters Alice and Ellen. Their dwelling was one of the few in that region that seemed to have been built exclusively for comfort, it being planned upon a somewhat liberal scale, and finished for the promotion of family enjoyment more than aught else. The building was wholly of wood; a square building, with a wing at either extremity, and a verandah, supported with plain and chaste corinthian pillars, running across its entire front. The house stood upon a slight elevation, and just at the edge of a shading grove. Perhaps the road passed it at the distance of twenty-five of thirty roads. From this piazza, on some of the clear days in summer, were to be seen sights, and drank in sounds, such as rejuvenate the soul, and fill it up with a thousand inspiriting thoughts and fresh emotions. The road ran at the right of the house, through the natural course of a ravine somewhat thickly overshadowed by brush and trees. On the left, rose from the edge of a small plain or meadow, successive ridges and knolls, each crowned with a thick growth of healthy wood. In the rear ran, far back as the eye could stretch, a grove and it at length was bounded by the curvature of the road. In front, there was an almost uninterrupted view of the country for a great distance. Clump of woods, freshly opening glades, and wavy, undulating fields, with only here and there a few scattered trees to relieve their otherwise monotonous character, filled up the charming vista. It was an absolute luxury to sit upon this verandah of Mr. Wilson's mansion, of a pleasant day, and give one's self up to the contemplation of the scene. 
               The well-understood wealth of Mr. Wilson was fully sufficient to make all that appertained to his house a perfect paradise, in and of itself. The furniture was costly-for those times, luxurious. His tables were not unsupplied with service of the most massive silver ware, and his cellar never lacked for the choicest and most costly wines. Never suffered he his larders to become impoverished, while there was anything to be had from his own estate, or as long as the market in New York could furnish him with the abundance he craved. 
               In politics, Mr. Wilson was one of those who in those days termed themselves loyalists; that is, he hated to give up the idea of allegiance to his sovereign, while that sovereign was the rightful (because powerful) one in the land. Accordingly, he made it a point to court all possible favor with the officers of the enemy, aware that their authority, in times of need and danger, would be the surest safeguard for his estates, real and personal. 
               His family, all females, lent their thoughts but little to the intricacies and perplexities of political subjects, much as they entered into the life and duty of the people of that time; leaving such subjects wholly to the superior wisdom and sagacity of him they thought every way competent to dispose of them. Their ambition all centered upon the internal arrangements of their mansion, in the thought of making as much happiness for themselves as possible, and the desire to fulfil to the utmost the duties that were properly theirs. 
               Alice was the elder of the daughters; a beautiful blonde, with large, dark, and speaking eyes; dark wavy hair; an intellectual forehead, and a mouth where smiles seemed always struggling for a positive existence. When she laughed, the echoes were as soft and clear as the dripping of crystal water; and she disclosed a double row of the smallest, pearly white teeth imaginable. Her figure was well formed, giving her an air of dignified grace and decided beauty. Her dress, too, was always in perfect taste and keeping with her complexion and figure, heightening them to the greatest advantage. 
               The younger sister-Ellen-though not gifted with any features that might be called beautiful, still had a face that bore the unmistakeable stamp of spirituality. Her complexion was nearly all the time destitute of the least color; her forehead was intellectually high and uncommonly pale; her eyes were a dark blue, that seemed, as they bent upon you, to be but the truest reflex of her soul and all its palpitating feelings; her mouth was formed finely, but firmly: and upon all her features, breathed and expression, or an air, of the sweetest sadness, such as marked her as a being of no common mould. There was a reason, too, for all this additional beauty and expressiveness in her countenance, for nature never, or rarely, stints in one particular, except she takes great care to be exceeding lavish in another. So with Ellen; she was a confirmed hunchback! Not unaware herself of the extent of such a misfortune, when considered from many merely worldly points of view, she nevertheless considered it in its truest sense no misfortune, but rather an additional incentive to real, heart-strong, kindly exertion. And as her body grew less graceful and more weak under these exertions of hers, her soul grew more strong, more perfectly developed, and more attractively beautiful for its qualities. 
               There was a small social gathering of British officers, accompanied by several ladies, at the mansion of Mr. Wilson, one day in the month of June, 1777, and the house was alive with mirth and rejoicing. The journey from New York had been a fatiguing one, and it was determined, after some urging on the part of Mr. Wilson and his maiden sister, to remain in their present comfortable quarters till at least the next day. 
               Evening came on. The sky was clearer than glass and myriad stars peeped through the ocean of blue in whose far away depths they were hidden. The full moon had risen but a little way above the eastern horizon, begirting leaf, and shrub, and flower and grass blade with a sheen of matchless beauty. The slight dews that had already fallen, still lay on the grass like endless beds of diamonds, untarnished and untouched. The few shadows thrown across the yard and upon the piazza from the near tree tops, only served to heighten the charm with which the clear moonlight invested everything else. Dark and mysterious shadows, continuous and unbroken, hung over the entire length of the road, as it would round in the distance above them. There was a hush in the air that seemed holiness itself; inspiring the purest thoughts; awakening the most loving desires; charming and enveloping every sense, until it yielded itself unreservedly to the secret influences that were setting in on every hand. 
               The parlor of the mansion of Mr. Wilson was lighted brilliantly. The windows were still flung widely open, and but partially screened by closed blinds. On the long seats that were ranged along the piazza, sat the greater portion of the family with their visiters. They were engaged in agreeable converse upon the scene immediately about and before them, and it was no difficult matter to determine that the tone of their conversation, if not of their thoughts, was materially subdued and softened by the influences that stole over them from without. The woodbine and honeysuckle, clambering in rivalry up the pure white pilasters, and then running wildly over the eaves and up the roof, shed sweetest fragrance for every nostril; and it is nothing preposterous or ridiculous to say, that the same fragrance seemed to be crushed out of their very words, at the moment they uttered them. 
               Alice was sitting in the parlor upon the sofa in company with one of her father's guest, a rather young-looking officer in the British army-Major Templeton. He was sitting quite near her, and the conversation in which they indulged was in so low a tone as to be almost inaudible. Ever and anon, he bent his head over closely to hers, when he whispered to her some endearing expression, and the crimson flushed in her cheeks. Then she looked steadily up into his eyes again, as if she would satisfy herself that what he said was all true as the heart that would fain receive it. 
               Presently, the unusual quiet of the scene was interrupted in a measure by the appearance of a young man on the outside, in front of the piazza. He had come no one could tell whither, as a shadow, or as a fresh ray of moonlight would suddenly come, and lay across their path. He was a young man, wearing no hat or cap upon upon his head, but carrying it in his hand, and his profuse hair dishevelled greatly. He at once began gesticulating in a most furious manner, and the words he wanted were nothing loth to find their way to his lips: 
               "It's the full o' the moon to night!" exclaimed he, wildly, yet his tone was almost silvery sweet and musical; "it's the full o' the moon to night! Look there!-look there!" and he pointed upwards to the moon. "There's riot out to-night! There's blood, red blood, to be shed to-night! I see it on the moon's disc now! I see it on the ground, where the moon-beams lay! I see it in the air! Look! Look! Do you not all see it? It were better for you that you did! What!-not see the blood? It's all about you now! It's on the leaves-on the tree-boughs-on the grass-on the ground! Not see the blood? Not see the blood? Look up there! Read it in the face of that round, full moon!" 
               "Poor creature!" softly exclaimed young Ellen Wilson, to a lady who sat next her. 
               "Who is he?" inquired her companion. 
               "His name is Tim Flood," answered she; "he came no one knows whence to this place, and father has allowed him and his mother-a sweet and heavenly woman-the use of an old house on the estate. It isn't far from here, and in the morning we will all walk over to it. I have exerted myself to make the poor woman comfortable, but do not know how well I have succeeded. She appears to have a large amount of true poetry in her nature, and is far too refined for the circumstances that surround her. She must certainly once have been a lady somewhere; but her position is wonderfully changed now. We supply her with the necessaries of existence for herself and this son you see, and she employs herself at any and all kinds of work in our family in return. I should not be surprised if she were in the house even now." 
               "Shouldn't you? I have taken a sudden interest in her," returned her companion. "I shall ask of you the privilege of going in and conversing with her soon. But let us listen to this poor young man a little longer, first." 
               "He is a lunatic, I think," said Ellen. "And yet he does not rave as all lunatics do. He does no mischief, or violence, either. On the contrary, his heart is as mild as your own at this very moment. I love to sit and listen to his babble sometimes, even though the sight of a shattered intellect is suggestive of so much misery; he is so full of poetic sentiments and fancies-broken and fragmentary, to be sure, but none the less beautiful, because in pieces. Hear him now, poor creature!" 
               "Does the moon rave? Does the moon ever go mad?" asked the unfortunate young man, pointing hither and you in a series of the most extravagant gestures. "Does the pale, pale moon ever smile, fair ladies, as you smile now? Does it smile? Yes, yes, yes! I look in her face and I see a smile there now! It is a broad smile, that covers her whole face! But it is a ghastly smile, too; reddened with the glow of flowing blood! See you that smile? How awful it is! How it discolors the whole face of the moon? How it shoots out beyond the disc those broad streaks of red light-all blood-all red blood! See you them? See you them?" 
               Then he instantly turned his back upon the company gathered upon the piazza, and stood for a long time gazing steadily into the moon's face. He spake no syllable, but kept his arms still swinging uncontrollably to and fro, and his fingers constantly and vainly clutching, as if to grasp some substance he imagined to be in the thin air around him. Then he slowly and deliberately combed his long and flowing locks with his fingers, and brushed them back from off his forehead, as if he would thus readily brush away every obstacle that intervened between his own soul and the fantastic visions he saw in the face of the silver moon. 
               "The great moon is a glorious sight!" resumed he, suddenly turning partially round to the company. "It is the fairest object that we who dwell on earth may look at! But we do not all see it alike. Some only see a man's face in it; and some think they see mountains; and some, large lakes and rivers: but none of them see what I see! No one can see as much as I do! I know all the people that live there! I can call them all by name-I know the rank of each and every one-they are my friends-they love me, and I love them! I send them back my thoughts on the backs of the yellow moonbeams; and when they get there, they are as clear as the crystal that their lakes and rivers are made of! They look at me, too, out of their eyes; they smile at me, when I smile; and they weep when I' weep. Now they all smile at me; but their smiles are ghastly smiles! They are forbidding and fearful! They make my blood curdle in my vlens! They bid me tell you-beware! There's blood about! It's every where about us! It's in the air; on the leaves; on the grass; on the water; on the door post; on the sill; on the fence; in the fair, pure flower cups; it's every where! I see it-I smell it now! My hands are red with it! Oh, what an ocean of blood! No water will wash it out-its stains are deep, and they will not come out!" 
               "Why does he talk so much of blood?" asked one of the gentlemen of Mr. Wilson. "One would think that that was a cause of his madness. Can it be that he went mad in consequence of some sudden disaster, like murder, to his family? Has he a mother?" 
               "Oh, yes, sir," answered Mr. Wilson. 
               "And father?" 
               "None that I can hear of," replied Mr. Wilson. "His mother and he dropped down here from somewhere, one night last autumn, and here they have stayed since. I have given them a little roof that stands on my estate, for their unmolested use, and they manage to do work enough for my family to pay us for the necessaries I allow them. The mother is really an object of the deepest interest to me, although I assure you that but for the superior sagacity and appreciative powers of my daughter Ellen, I might never have made the melancholy discovery to this day." 
               "Is the woman beautiful?" pursued his interrogator. 
               "Not that, exactly, now; but she certainly must have been once. Her features were evidently cast in the finest mould, and the expression upon them now, though full of sadness and thoughtfulness, is none the less sweet and winning." 
               "Can the moon keep her secrets?" again broke forth the young man. "Can her large heart deceive those who read it, as I read it to-night? No, no, no! There is no deceit!-no concealment! All is as plain as a printed page! Its letters are all red, too! They speak of what is to come! I can read them! I know their meaning! They tell me what's coming-and it's bloodshed! It's war! It's war between father and son-between mother and daughter-between brother and sister-between husband and wife! It's civil war-worse than all wars the blood-soaked earth ever knew! It's death to everything like love, and affection, and faith in families, and peaceful labor! Hear that? See that? If you don't, then you will! You must see it! The moon can't keep secrets! The moon is a great tell-tale! She lets people read her heart-she lets human eyes wander all over her face! But they can't all see with the eyes that I do! They can't read her secrets as I can-they can't dive down into the depths of her heart as I dive down, and bring up such treasures, too! No, no, no! The moon is cold, and distant, and repulsive to some! It is to you-all of you; but it is not to me! It shines for me to-night as warm as the sun at mid-day-it glows on my my back, and makes me feel its genial warmth-it bathes my temples and my bared forehead in its silvery sheen, and I feel filled with glorious thoughts, such as I never had before, and such as I cannot utter! It warms up my heart, and my blood begins to flow fast again in my veins! I love the full, round moon-it is the great shield of God-it covers His great designs, and one who can read the moon can read them! Oh, how I wish I could fly to thee, oh, beautiful moon! and bathe myself in the sea of liquid silver that fans thy great, broad bosom! See you the moon?-that moon? Read it then-read it slowly and well! See what characters are writ on it, and take timely warning! See what your doom must be, all of you! See how the great God is going to dispose of coming events. But, do not forget for a mo-moment the blood! No, no, no-forget not that! It is all about you now! I see it-I smell it! It is more than that water can wash it out!" 
               "How he rages!" exclaimed the lady, sitting by the side of Ellen. "Let us leave him and go in-I am interested in his mother, from what you have already told me of her, and shall be obliged to you if you will see if she is any where in the house." 
               "Certainly; follow me in," replied Ellen, rising from her seat on the piazza bench, and moving to the door of the hall. 
               They entered, and found none but Major Temple ton and Alice there together. They still sat upon the sofa, and the blushes, deeper than ever, that suffused the fair cheeks of Alice as her sister and her companion entered the parlor, betrayed the feeling that stole over her full as rapidly. The companion of Ellen seated herself at a little distance from the Major and Alice, while Ellen went into another apartment to see whether Mrs. Flood-the young man's mother-was in the house. In a few minutes she returned with her, and they all three sat down for a genial conversation. The lady had become so much more deeply interested in the poor woman immediately upon seeing her, that she confessed to herself that she had the sweetest countenance and the most engaging manners she had ever met with in all her life. 
               The mother had not sat there long, however, before her face and features began to give evidence of the strangest internal commotion. Ellen asked her in a gentle voice if she were unwell, and if she might run and bring her a glass of water, or even of wine; but Mrs. Flood appeared to take no notice of what she said, and her symptoms continued to grow more alarming. 
               At length she rose slowly from her chair, her eyes fixed upon the figure of Major Templeton, who still continued talking with Alice. Her vision seemed closed to every other object but him. She had suddenly lost the feminine delicacy of her appearance, and her muscles appeared on the instant to knit together in a strength she never knew before. She strode with an air of pride up before the officer, and accosted him, her feeble voice much raised from its usual tone: 
               "Am I mistaken?. Is it not he?" 
               "What do you mean, woman?" inquired the Major, turning half round upon her, and affecting not to un stand what she meant by her strange words and manmer. 
               "Yes," continued Mrs. Flood, not heeding him; "yes! 'tis his voice! I knew him from that! Mr. Templeton!" 
               "That is my name," replied he, as calmly as he could, yet turning deathly pale. 
               "Is it you, then? Yes, but it is you! You forget me!" 
               "Indeed, madam, I do not know you," said he. 
               Then you have forgotten poor Margaret May? You have forgotten her so soon? But why should you not have done so? What were your words but smooth-sounding deceits? What your promises but downright lies? Yes, yes; you have forgotten me, I see! I see that you do not wish to remember such an one as me any longer!" 
               Alice, meanwhile, sat anxiously gazing into the face of the intruder, unable to say a word, and most of all wishing that she should make an explanation of her language. It sounded strangely wild to her ears, and she more than half began to fear that the mother, too, might, in some mysterious manner, have imbibed the lunacy of her son. 
               "You ask for the explanation of all this, sweet mistress," continued Mrs. Flood, looking at the anxious countenance of Alice as she spoke. "You shall have it! It shall all be made as plain as noonday!" 
               Major Templeton's face assumed every conceivable expression, except that of satisfaction, while the pallor that suddenly overspread his countenance, betrayed the fear that already lurked in his heart. If he was a brave man in battle trials, at least he was a white-lipped coward now! 
               "This man once promised me his heart-his love, Miss Alice! In my own happy home, in England, years ago he sought me out, professing to be enraptured with my beauty, but more in love with my character-and won my heart. I gave it to him freely-freely did I give it all to him! I was young and thoughtless. I thought the whole world were just as pure at their intentions, and just as honest as I was myself. I had no fear from any one, especially from him who had sworn himself my lover. He led me on, by promises, and by frequent expressions of his affection. He ruined me! Yes, behold this wreck-and he, the cause of it all! Still he protested, to all I said to him, that he still loved me! Still he kept alive his promises! That child was the evidence of my shame-my eternal infamy in the sight of my parents! He is at this hour a babbling lunatic! This man is his father!-" 
               "Away with you! You are a lying creature-you are crazy!" shouted Major Templeton, pushing her away with his hand, while he rose from his seat as if to go and leave her. 
               "I will not away!" cried she, in a voice that startled those seated on the piazza, and instantly collected them about the door of the parlor. "I am not the lying creature you would make me! And now that Providence has allowed me to set the monster out in his true light to you, sweet Miss Alice, I shall be more content! I have stripped off the mask he has worn about him too long already. He would come and marry another fair lady on these shores, and he has one already-a wife already-at his own house at home! And so he thinks to deceive every one! He thinks there is no track which he himself makes, by which retribution can ever overtake him! But he mistakes! He is overtaken already! Oh! that he could but restore to the poor heart that is in this bosom, the peace that once belonged to it! But he cannot-no, no, he cannot! It is all too late now! This poor heart is too desolate now!" 
               "What, mother," exclaimed Tim Flood, who had followed the rest, unbeknown to them, across the piazza and quite to the door of the parlor, "what! have not you seen the moon to-night? It's all blood! Come-come and see!" 
               "That is his child!" said the pale mother, not heeding what her son said but remembering that it was his voice she heard. 
               "Is this his son, mother?" asked the lunatic. "This his son? And where's the father, then? Where's the father?" 
               "There! There!" replied the mother, pointing to Major Templeton in a frenzy of feeling which she could in no wise control. 
               "It's false! The woman is crazy!" replied Major Templeton, his feelings wrought to their highest pitch of excitement. 
               "Before the great God, at whose bar we shall all appear!" said Mrs. Flood, elevating her hands and glancing upwards, "what I have just spoken, is as true as the Sacred Word itself! I am not crazy. I am in the possession of my reason! I am only excited-excited to come so suddenly upon one whom I had thought never again in this world, at least, to see! What I have told in the presence of this company, Mr. Templeton-William Templeton-is true!. You are the father of this child of mine! And if you seek to ensnare others as fair and as virtuous as I was once myself, I am by your side to betray to them your true character! Remember! Were you the real man the world wrongly gives you the credit of being, you would this day be protecting me-the lone soul to whom you so many times pledged all your affection-all your love-all your valueless life!" 
               While she was speaking, Tim Flood advanced at a stealthy pace across the carpeted floor, and, bending low so as to obtain a fair view of his reputed father's countenance, stared wildly for a few moments into his face. 
               "My father, mother!" exclaimed he, at length. 'No, no, no! No father this of mine! The moon tells me another story than this! My father doesn't dress like this, mother! He's more of a gentleman, too, than this man! My father! ha, ha, ha! He's nobody's father-he's nobody's son-he's nobody at all himself! What a man! What a slim shadow! How pale his face is! How white-lipped he is, too! He any one's father! That's a good joke-a good joke! But, see, see, she wants help! She's grown weak! Why do you not take her in your arms?" 
               He pointed to the figure of Alice, as he spoke, that now lay stretched out upon the sofa in a state of perfect insensibility. So excited had they all become with the scene they had so unexpectedly been called to witness, that the condition of Alice had been suffered to pass thus long unobserved. 
               The mistress of the mansion suddenly sprang forward to catch her up in her arms, and Ellen and the other ladies volunteered to perform the same service, when a loud and terrific yell was heard without the house, seeming to enter at each door and opened window-so frightful and so inhuman, as to freeze the blood as it ran through their veins. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               THREE SURPRISES, AND THREE TIMES AS MANY PRISONERS. 
               THE gentlemen had thought of everything but a surprise at a point so far below the American lines, and were not, accordingly, at the moment accoutred as they might have been in a more perilous situation. They rushed to the door, however, unarmed as they were, and were accosted by a band of men whose leader rode on horseback. 
               "Do you surrender without words, or shall we have a fight?" demanded the leader, in an imperative tone that thrilled those who heard it. 
               No answer was made to his question. 
               "Go in, my boys!" ordered he; "take every man" in the house a prisoner! Give them quarter-give them quarter; but don't spare those who would take a life when you don't threaten them!" 
               Obedient to the commands of their leader, the men at once rushed pell-mell in at the doors and windows, and succeeded without difficulty in arresting every man there was in the house. The ladies they of course left untouched. Bringing their prisoners before their commander, who still sat on his horse, a vigilant supervisor of the work that was done, he asked each one of them his name and rank. To his questions, always put with respectfulness, some answered cheerfully and correctly; while others refused to make any reply whatever. 
               "Very well, then," said the leader, "we must carry you all along with us. Men, form about the prisoners-march!" 
               "Stay but one moment!" cried out a voice from the crowd. "Stay but one moment more!" 
               The leader turned himself quite round on his horse, and seeing that the voice proceeded from the place where were gathered the prisoners, rode quickly up to them. The voice was that of Mr. Wilson himself, the father of Alice and Ellen. 
               "What will you, sir?" asked the commander of the force, speaking quickly and somewhat sternly. "Be in a hurry, for we cannot halt long here!" 
               "As you love you own children, sir," said Mr. Wilson-"if you are blessed with the--' 
               "Oh, well; I am-I am!" quickly interrupted the officer, jocularly. "At any rate, suppose me to be!" 
               "Then suffer me to return to my house again. I know not but my child is at this moment dying-my own daughter! Speak to me, sir, and let me return. She was desperately ill when you came upon us, and may need nothing so much as a father's care in her last moments." 
               Without stopping to consider the improbability of his story on its very face-for it truly might have seemed strange to any one that a death should be on the point of taking place in the midst of such festivities-the officer replied to him: 
               "Yes, go; and keep yourself clear hereafter from all such connexions as these British! God make you a patriot, and save your daughter!" 
               The gentleman did not stop to thank his captor for so generous a favor as his liberty certainly was, under all the circumstances, but hurried directly back into the house. The company then started forward at a double quick pace, following the road that wound away to the northward in plain view of the mansion of Mr. Wilson. In an incredibly short space of time, after the kicking up of such a hubbub, the place was as quiet as if nothing had been there to disturb the repose that now hung all around it. 
               We must now leave the company-which was an advanced company of Americans, sent out from head-quarters at Peek skill to break up the lawless bands of renegades that ravaged all the country around, leaving not even peaceable and inoffensive citizens unharmed in the enjoyment of what was by honest labor theirs-we must, we say, leave this company to march on with their prisoners, and take the reader to the contemplation of another scene, which was almost at the same moment enacting, 
               Two men were journeying along in the moonlight of that evening, at some distance from the road; the one a tallish lank, and wiry-looking man, somewhere, to appearances, in the vicinity of forty years of age; the other, much younger in his look, yet bearing about him no mark of peculiarity, either one way or the other. They were some five miles, or a trifle less, north of the place where the scene we have already described was enacting, picking their way with great caution over the ledges and untravelled by paths in the edges of the woods; now winding around the base of a ledgy knoll, or ridge, and now plunging still farther into the woods for greater security against discovery. Their course was southward, and it was evident that they intended to strike into the road below as soon as it should be safe enough for them so to do. 
               The elder of the two appeared to be the guide of the other, as he was constantly breaking out in some expression of caution, and uttering some principle or rule by which safe travelling through disputed lands might pretty generally be secured. He likewise kept taking hold of the arm of his more youthful and impetuous comrade, and checking him in a haste that might very unexpectedly be the instrument of his ruin. 
               They had finally arrived at a place in the road, where was situated a rocky and exceedingly precipitous hill on either side of it. To climb the hills, or to think of going round them through all the rubbish and roughness there was about them, was a hard thing for two such really tired travellers to contemplate; so they at once concluded to take the road for a short distance, and the consequences along with it. 
               It was too late for them to think of retreating, when they found that they had unexpectedly come upon a party of Skinners, lying in ambush at the sudden angle of the road. They were too clearly in their hands to think of an experiment so hazardous. So they exchanged whispers with each other-whispers purely of counsel-and journeyed on as boldly as if no one beleaguered their path. 
               "Hold there!" cried out one of the gang, springing forward from the side of the road, and advancing to the front of the travellers. They accordingly halted, as all honest travellers would do when not in an imminent hurry, and closely questioned. 
               "Tell us where ye come from-and where you're goin'?" demanded the intruder, about whom had now gathered pretty much every man of the outlaw gang. 
               "That is a question, or rather those are questions, my friend, very easy of answerin'," coolly and calmly replied the elder of the two travellers. 
               "By my soul! I believe we've got old Piety himself here, after all. But tell who ye are?" said the Skinner who had first stopped them. 
               "We are honest men, then, in pursuit of honest business. Does that satisfy you any better?" 
               "Not so easy duped as all that comes to, either. Do you really preach for your livin'? Or do you live a free sort o' like the gentlemen you see about ye?" 
               "Gentlemen, I should verily think!" exclaimed the elder traveller, feigning great deliberation and composure. "Gentlemen, indeed!" 
               "Come, come, old long legs! None of your preachin' now, or you may have to pick out a text for your own funeral sermon. Who are ye?-where are ye goin'? Tell us that." 
               "Wal, as for that," slowly rejoined the traveller, who still continued to do the talking, "as for that, we are goin' down to the lower part of the country, with your most gracious permission! Anything more! Ask all the questions you wish, gentlemen; only do not, I beg you, disgrace yourselves by abusing the ministers of God, whenever they happen to come in your way." 
               "Wal, old piety, who's this with ye? You're a strange lookin' couple, by the holy Moses!" 
               "This gentleman, is my son. I am desirous of procuring him a situation in the city below, and have thought proper to accompany him on his first visit to the city myself. It is a duty I think I owe to myself, as well as to him. Anything more, gentlemen?" 
               "Give us a handful of change, then, by way o' toll, and get along with ye where ye will!" 
               "It's hard, gentlemen, to part with all the change one has; particularly when one's on a long and expensive journey. But I never refuse the calls of charity, whenever I hear them made as now, and here is all the money I have about me. Take it, and God make it pleasant spendin' of it to ye!" 
               The leader held out his hand to receive the proffered toll-for such he considered it legitimately to be-and then with a horrid oath ordered both the men begone, for that no good could come to anybody travelling so late in the day as that. 
               "We have deceived them," said the elder traveller to his companion; "I hardly thought we should do it so easily." 
               "Let us hurry on then!" responded the younger. 
               "No! For heaven's sake, no! Not until we are completely out of their sight. Every moment now is precious to us, and counts fully a year in our lives. If they search us, we are lost; for they will certainly find out who we are. So be cautious-be cautious. I'ts bright moonlight, remember, and they can see our every motion as plainly as at noonday." 
               "Now! Let us start and run now!" urged the young man, before they could have advanced a dozen paces farther. 
               "No, no!" screamed out the other, in a whisper. "Your life! Think of your life!" and he looked fearfully over his shoulder. "They know me, I verily believe! They stand in the road, looking at me now!" 
               "How should they know you, pray?" 
               "I have met with the leader of that infamous gang before. I know him well, and he has reason, too, to be familiar with some of the traits of my character! I verily think he has repented him of his resolution to let me slip by so easily, now!" 
               "Why? what does he do?" 
               "Nothing-nothing! Look not back, for your life! Let my eyes answer! They see all-they will give you all necessary warning!" 
               "What are they doing now?" asked the younger, anxious to learn the exact state of the case, as well as to settle as soon as he could the fears that rose within him. 
               "They are talking closely together-" 
               "Who? the leader and the rest?" 
               "Yes. Now they are looking this way-looking steadily at us. Now they are pointing towards us! The leader shakes his head, and still looks towards us!" 
               "What are they doing now?" asked the other, after the interval of half a minute, which to him must have been the space of half an hour. 
               "One of them-two of them-three-four-five of them have started this way! They are walking rapidly!" 
               "Let us run, then! Let us plunge into the woods at once and be out of their sight!" 
                
               "No, no, no! Keep your pace yet! We must reach that huge rock yonder first; keep your pace. The leader calls them back!" 
               "Then there's hope for us?" 
               "Be not too sure. They know I've got my eyes on 'em, and it's only a ruse for us; they think we shall take advantage of our fright, and run. But do not run yet!" 
               They kept on at the same steady walk for another minute. So excited had the younger one become that the perspiration stood in huge beaded drops upon his temples, and his eyes glared with an unnatural fire. 
               "What are they doing now?" again asked he, unable to keep his anxiety pent up within his breast any longer. 
               "Now he gives orders to them to pursue! he leads them on himself! They're coming on us! They'll be here soon!" 
               "Run! Run, then, for our lives!" 
               "No, no! not yet! not yet!" 
               "Why not? Let us gain time!" 
               "I know them better than you! I've seen those rascals, the most of 'em, before. Now they come! We are near enough to the rock! Come on, then-run with all your legs! Run as if you were made for nothing else-run, run!" 
               Both men instantly set off in as vigorous and rapid a race as they ever had, in all their lives before. In an instant they had gained the woods beyond the huge rock by the road-side, and their course thence forward into obscurity was rapid as possible. They could hear the demoniac yells their enraged pursuers uttered, and the terrific sound but added speed to their feet. The men were after them, however, helter-skelter, minding neither rocks, ledges, nor tree boughs. The younger of the travellers became separated from his companion, in some way, and his pursuers had entirely lost sight of him. They kept their eyes fast fixed, though upon the form of the elder, and all his dodging behind trees, his crossing and re crossing his own path, and his other ingenious subterfuges, served not to conceal him from their steady view. They were on his track, fast and sure. They thought they knew their man, and they were determined to have him. 
               "There he is! Have him, boys! Don't let him slip this time! He's the one-the same one!" were the now distinct ejaculations that burst with a frightful meaning indeed upon his ears. 
               "Oh, God!" groaned the pursued man to himself aloud, "Oh, God, it's all up with me! I'm quite as good as a dead man!" 
               "We have you now!" shouted one of the foremost in pursuit. "We've got you now!" and he stretched out his arms towards him, as if even then he was within his reach. 
               "No, no; not quite yet!" said the pursued man to himself, as he succeeded in dodging him momentarily behind the huge trunk of a tree. 
               But despite every exertion he continued to make for his safety, they succeeded too surely in capturing him. He was tired and worn, and his breath was short and difficult. Accordingly, he was obliged to acknowledge himself overtaken in a race where the odds were so fearfully against him. Suffering one or two of his pursuers to seize him by his arms, he turned upon them with a loud voice: 
               "Why do ye pursue me now? Do you want more money? Do you think I carry more money about me than I was willing to show?" 
               "That isn't it!" replied one of his captors; "we don't want your money, for it must be precious little that such a chap as you are has got! We want to git you out here into the moonlight amongst us again, and take another look at you! We were so much pleased with you before, that we thought we'd have more o' your company; and as we haven't got any chaplain to our company, mayhap you'll stand us in need, old fellow! But where is the t'other one?" 
               "I don't know that, sir," answered he. 
               "You don't hey? Wal, it isn't of so very much consequence where he has gone; you're the one we wanted the most!" 
               But what of me? What do you want to stop me for?" 
               "You'll find, when we git you out where Cap'n Jack is!" was the answer. 
               Surrounding him, they marched him with no special ceremony over the rocks and stones back to the place in the road whence he made his sudden flight into the woods. There they all pressed closely about him, and began making such comments upon him as their malice could best invent, 
               "Do you want anything more of me?" asked the prisoner, affecting excessive innocence and ignorance, and directing his question to him who appeared to be the leader of the gang. 
               "We'll see!" was the reply. "But what did you pay for your wig? 'Pon my soul, but it's a fine wig, isn't it!" and he commenced stripping it off his head. 
               The prisoner turned pale, and his heart palpitated a fear he could not control. 
               "And these whiskers are very good growers!-and so nat'ral!" exclaimed another, pulling off a huge pair of false whiskers from either side of his face. 
               "Why this white neckcloth, too?" asked a third, unfastening it and revealing the proper and somewhat peculiar shape of the prisoner's throat. 
               "Verify!" exclaimed the leader of the gang, "you are a precious scoundrel! Old Verd-Antique, for all the world! Who'd ha' thought he'd turned minister so soon? Who'd ha' thought he had a son so likely as that feller he was piloting to some point below! Old Verd-Antique, as I live!" 
               "Gentlemen, began Verd-Antique-for he it was who had up to this moment succeeded in maintaining his ingenious disguise-gentlemen. I know I am in your power; but I claim the right to be treated as becomes a man-a human being!" 
               "Yis, yis! You shall git all the good treatment you deserve!" answered the captain of the gang. "You shall have all your wants fully attended to! Bring him along, men!" 
                
               "But where will you take me? You know that I have done you no wrong! I demand my liberty!" 
               "Liberty!" exclaimed the leader, contemptuously. "Your liberty! Who has learnt you the meaning of such a word? No! you shall receive the reward you have merited so long! Come!" 
               "If you harm a hair of my head, I swear that I will have my revenge on you-every one of you! Do you hear? Am I to be hunted down like a wild animal? Is there no path I can be allowed to travel in peace?" 
               "Come; come along!" answered the leader. 
               The men set upon the prisoner, on hearing this command, in a particularly ferocious manner; seizing him by his shoulders, arms, coat collars, and head, and dragging and shoving him along most unmercifully. In this manner they escorted him to a level, plain-like spot at a little distance below, and just beside the road, where they halted and began to make preparations for some new ceremony. Verd-Antique regarded them with intense anxiety, for he feared, as he had abundant reason to do, that his time had really come. One of them drew a long coil of rope from his pocket, or from some other equally mysterious place, and proceeded to make one end of it fast to the overhanging bough of a stunted apple-tree. Verd-Antique was not so blind but that he could see the noose at its other extremity, and he knew that his fate was hard upon him. 
               "This way!" ordered the leader, hurrying him along to the spot. "Try on that collar, now, and see if it's any easier than the neckcloth of a minister!" 
               "But you don't--." Verd Antique was going to protest, more for the hope of gaining time than any thing else. 
               "Not a word from your cursed lips! In with your old head-in with it! Stand up on this board!" 
               They had rigged a small platform without uttering a syllable, and placed the ugly rope about his neck. The leader stood ready at hand to draw the noose tighter, as soon as he should have slipped his head within it; and, in a moment more, every preparation for the hasty ceremony was complete. 
               "Now, if you have any prayers to say," ordered the leader, "be saying the same quick! There's no time to lose-we must go about bigger and better business to-night! And yet we couldn't have passed by such a duty as this is, when it's so exactly in our way!" 
               Verd-Antique bowed his head low in the attitude of supplication, continuing in this position for several minutes; during which time the entire gang engaged themselves in promiscuous and somewhat boisterous conversation. Of a sudden, however, quicker and more unexpectedly than a loud peal of thunder out of a bright, clear sky, there came about the ears of all of them such a terrific yell that their hearts misgave them for the time, and they stood staring about them like men demented entirely. Again, and yet again, came the shout-a shout as from the throats of an impetuous army. It curdled their blood as it ran; it stopped their breath as it came. They had dreamed of nothing so much as perfect security, and now there was nothing save imminent danger about them-nay, close upon them! 
               In an instant almost, there rushed in upon them a band of armed men, having their leader mounted, who advanced with fixed bayonets, and shouted to them at the tops of their voices to surrender. 
               "Kick away the platform!" ordered the leader of the skinners to the man who stood next the prisoner they were about to punish-"kick it down and let him swing!" 
               At that moment, a young man from the opposite and attacking party ran up to the swinging body, and severed the rope with but two gashes of his knife-blade-then he proceeded to free him altogether by cutting in twain the cord that confined his arms. It took but a single look of Verd Antique at the person to identify him as his recent travelling companion-Henry Byram. He thanked him for his kindness by only a grateful look, and then, seizing a musket from the hands of one of the men, he rushed on with the body of them to the onslaught. 
               "Pour in a fire upon 'em!" said he; "give 'em hot lead!" and he fired the gun he held, simultaneously with his words. Then nearly all the party discharged their pieces upon the ruthless skinners, and at least a half dozen fell, dead and badly wounded. Then, charging upon them with fixed bayonets, and loud orders for them to surrender, they drove some of them far backwards into the adjoining wood, while they succeeded in surrounding the remainder and taking them prisoners Among them was the leader of the gang. He was led up to the side of the horseman-who commanded the scouting party of Americans-and his hands secured behind him. 
               "Jim Marshall!" exclaimed the captain of the party to his captive, as soon as he looked him fully in the face, and by the moonlight detected his well-remembered features. "Are you across my path again?" 
               The prisoner looked up to the countenance of his interogator, and recognised in his captor-Captain William Howe! Instantly his heart failed him, and his knees knocked together as from the effects of an ague fit. 
               It appeared that Henry Byram-the travelling companion of Verd-Antique, whom in truth the latter was piloting towards New York to make a visit in disguise to the beautiful Laura Edwards-after having made his final escape from the skinners, ran on at great speed for a long distance, always keeping by he side of the road, that he might the more readily overhear the approach of friends or of danger. Very fortunately for him, as well as for old Verd-Antique, he heard the voices of men journeying from below at a rapid pace. Secreting himself behind a tree near at hand, he listened to hear whether those who passed were friends or foes. It was for sometime difficult for him to satisfy himself beyond a doubt; but at length overhearing some remarks of a peculiar character, made concerning the rascally British who were below, he had every needed assurance that he was in the vicinity of friends. Accordingly, he hurried out from his covert, and took a position directly in the front of the travelling party; at the same time calling out to their commander that he was an American, and that he was an American, and that he wanted help in a matter of difficulty. When the latter had heard his story, leaving a sufficient guard for the prisoners he had with him, he detached the remainder of his men and hurried forward at a rapid rate, under the guidance of the fugitive. As has been already shown, the detachment arrived just in time to save the life of a highly valuable partisan, and to break up a formidable gang whose outrages would not, in all probability, have ceased with the particular one in which they were fortunately prevented. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               THE DEATH OF THE SPY. 
               There was an unusual bustle and confusion in the camp of General Putnam, at Peekskill, one fine morning in August. The soldiers were congregating in knots in one place and another, busily engaged in talking over some new piece of information that had but just reached them. It was as lovely a morning as ever sun shone down upon. The magnificent highlands were severally wreathed at their summits with volumes of the whitest mist, which, as the rays of the sun penetrated them, rose with majestic sweeps, and slowly lifted themselves up into the heaven whence they came. The noble Hudson glistened in the newly risen sun, like a huge pathway of liquid silver. Its waters slept in beauty, mirroring in their pellucid depths the thousand tints, and forms, and figures, that every where seemed to crowd forward to git a glimpse of themselves in its bosom. One could not have stood on the heights of Reekskill on that morning, and gazed steadily into that majestic river, with out dreaming. All fancies, all thoughts, all hopes seemed suddenly to spring, as by inspiration, from its broad waters. 
               The grain stood, dew-laden, upon the many hill-sides that were within sight, and the vast meads and plains stretched away before the eye, bestudded and bedecked with beds of countless uncrushed diamonds. From cloud to earth the eye ran in delighted haste, nor ceased its wanderings until it lay again quietly and dreamily upon the slow-sweeping river. Ittran up the precipitous mountain sides; along the vista of mean and plain; far off over the towering highlands; then back by the sweeping mountains again; down their green-clad sides; along the tops of their forests; and down along the path of the singing, silvery river. It was truly a view in which the sight might long revel, and yet never be fully sated. It produced, first, a glow-then, an inspiration-then, an intoxication of the brain. Through the same eye that gazed upon it with such satisfaction, a soul looked and longed with the most ardent and almost uncontrollable impulses. There was not only poetry in the surrounding scenery; there was sublimity-true, high, heaven-born. It stirred the heart to noble thoughts. If it intoxicated, even its excess could never deaden. It but awakened to loftier purposes; filled with higher hopes; fed with purer thoughts; animated with stranger resolutions; breathed with fresher and more invigorating breaths. 
               The camp was early astir. Men examined their trusty firelocks, and burnished up their bayonets. There was a new life on every countenance. There was a fresher glow on every check. Some walked about in haste, and talked with one another in quick and earnest whispers. Some held short and hurried conferences with their immediate commanders, and then moved rapidly away to their stations again. It was evident from what was going on, that an event of more than usual interest was about to take place. Still no words concerning it were speken in tones loud enough to betray what that event was. 
               It was but a short time after the breakfast hour, when a man was led in by the yard into the room where sat a general officer and two subalterns beside him. The general officer was Israel Putnam. His companions were General Parsons and Colonel Root. The appearance of the prisoner, to say the least, was much against him. He was led up before the officers who formed the court, and who sat behind a table standing in the middle of the room, and there confronted by them. General Putnam was the first to speak. 
               "You were taken, sir," said he, "in our camp last night, in at least questionable circumstances. The guard at once distrusted you. Have you any explanation to make of your being found here?" 
               "None, except that I am an American, and therefore supposed I had a right within American lines," responded the prisoner. 
               "You an American!" exclaimed General Putnam. 
               "Indeed, I was born in this part of the country," said the prisoner, gathering courage. 
               "But that may all be; yet you are not a patriot! You do not mean to say that you help our people fight their battles against the tyrant who rules us?" 
               The man made no answer. 
               "No, sir!" exclaimed General Putnam; "you are no American! Your are a tory-you are a spy! Dispute it, if you can? I give you the privilege! Your time is short! Go on!" 
               "Your excellency," began the prisoner, his countenance becoming pallid and his heart beginning to fail him, "if I had thought I was not among friends I should never have ventured here." 
               "No-no! No, you wouldn't, surely!" exclaimed the General. "It'se asy enough to see that!" 
               "But I came within the camp, General, for the purpose of finding some friends of mine whom I greatly desire to see. Nothing more, I assure you, was my object. I came as a private citizen, and never feared harm. If I had I should have staid away. I should never have come here. I had friends here whom I had not seen in a long time. I was about to depart into a distant portion of the country, and thought they might wish to send some word to their families and friends. Nothing more than this, General, was my object. Believe me! I speak on my honor!" 
               "Had you not a commission in the handwriting of Sir Henry Clinton-a lieutenant's commission?" was for the first time inquired by General Parsons, who sat on the right of General Putnam. 
               The man silently shook his head, intending to express a negative reply by the motion. 
               "Read that!" said General Parsons, handing him a paper he held in his hand across the table. 
               The man's face turned, if possible, more pale than ever. He was only able to control his muscles sufficiently to reply: 
               "I know nothing about it! I never saw it before! It's the work of some designing enemy of mine! In deed, I know nothing about it!" 
               "Room there! Make room!" came up in varied tones from the passage without. The men about the door began accordingly to clear a way for some one, though no one seemed to know who was about to enter, and a stranger, clad in British uniform, hastened into the room. The gray eyes of General Putnam lit up with an altogether different expression, as he glanced at the uniform of the stranger, and he bent on him a look of eager inquiry. All eyes were turned steadily upon him. 
               Immediately the stranger drew from the breast of his cost a document, folded carefully in the form of a letter, and handing it to the persons who sat be hind the table, remarked: 
               "For General Putnam." 
               The General took it from him, broke the seal, and commenced reading it rapidly. As soon as it was finished, he told the stranger in a low tone to be seated, and he would finish the reply needed in as short a time as possible. 
               "You say you hold no commission in the king's at my, do you?" asked General Putnam, directing the inquiry to the prisoner before him. 
               "I do, General," was the answer. 
               "Then just read that; see what that letter contains," said he, handing him across the table the letter which the uniformed stranger had just brought in. 
               The prisoner took it, but he was far too much agitated to read it. He merely glanced his eye over the page, now hither and now thither, read the name affixed to the hasty scrawl, and returned it to General Putnam without a word. 
               "What have you to say to that?" asked the latter. 
               "I can say nothing; I cannot help it, I'm sure!" 
               "Where is your honor, of which you spoke, now? Hold no commission from the king, do you?" and as he uttered the stinging words, he passed the paper just received to his companions who formed the court. They took the paper and read it with evident surprise; and yet their surprise was not unmingled with a solid and secret satisfaction. 
               While they busied themselves about the reading of this highly interesting document, General Putnam seized a pen lying upon the table near him and commenced writing vigorously. He prosecuted this labor to the extent, however, of only a few minutes and as many lines, when his pen rested, and he threw it suddenly down upon the table. 
               "Sir," said Putnam, looking sternly at the prisoner, who quailed before his look, "you know that you came into this camp for the purpose of recruiting from the American ranks. You hoped to be able to obtain deserters from among our men. I do not believe you could have done it, even if you had not been detected as you have been. Furthermore, you came here as a spy, to ascertain our numbers, and so report them to the enemy under whom you serve, and from whom you hold a commission this day. Is it not so?" 
               A moment was considerately allowed the prisoner' that he might make any defence within his power or inclination; but he only preserved a doggedly obstinate silence, keeping his eyes fast fixed upon the table before him. 
               The three officers then held a brief consultation with each other, not leaving their seats for the purpose, and then at length General Putnam raised himself to his highest sitting posture, and said- 
               "By the unbiassed opinion of this court, you have been pronounced a spy! The punishment of such characters you know to be a fearful one in both armies. You were born an American, but you have chosen to join the enemy of your countrymen. There is no earthly reason why you should not have been a patriot and a brave man, like the many you see at this moment around you; but you have determined otherwise. What were your motives for your course, I know not. It concerns me not. I can only know that you have joined the enemy, and, while belonging to their ranks, have found your way into our camp, where you have been taken. This abundantly proves you a spy; and as a spy you must be dealt with at once!" 
               "Is there no hope for me, then?" asked the suffering wretch, his words unaccountably finding their way to his lips. 
               "None: none at all. Hope for none, for all hope is delusive now! You had best prepare for the doom that awaits you!" 
               The man buried his face in his hands for a few moments, and spoke not a word. A silence, as of death, reigned throughout the room. Every eye was fixed upon the unhappy and condemned prisoner. Even the stifled breathing of the spectators could be distinctly heard. Such a silence was too painful to be borne long. It was beyond the endurance of nature. 
               "Guard, clear the room!" ordered General Putnam to the guard. 
               Instantly all the spectators that had crowded into the compass of the small apartment, began to move, and in an incredibly short time there were none in the room but the court, the prisoner, the stranger in British uniform, and the guard. General Putnam gave a few orders to the latter in relation to the further ceremonies to be gone through, and then the three officers rose and left the room together. 
               An hour passed away. Outside the building where the prisoner was confined, could now be heard the steady rolling of the drum, and the tread of human feet. The sound fell strangely upon the ear of the condemned man, for he well knew what a fearful doom it foreboded. He moved his lips convulsively, as if in prayer; but his coward heart refused to pray! it denied him in that hour of his need, a boon that he might have otherwise enjoyed so much. He tried to weep: but the tears burned in the depths of his eyes. He could not weep. He had not the heart to weep. What a situation for a man! Deserted by his own countrymen-by all who should have been his friends-he has friends nowhere. His friends had become his enemies; and all by the rash act which he had himself alone performed. And thus he sat, reeling to and fro, distracted in mind, and thoroughly sick at heart! Truly might one say-what a situation for a man! 
               The roll of the drums became louder, and deeper, and steadier. They smote the convict's heart, and he trembled for fear. Then the guard from without opened the door and passed in the order: "Bring out the prisoner!" "Oh, God!" he groaned, as he heard the words. But no groans could avail him anything then. With his arms firmly secured behind him, he marched down the stairs, between the files of soldiers that opened at the door to let him pass, and found himself at once in the hollow square formed by soldiers on all sides of him, those in the rear having suddenly closed up after he had gone through. 
               On they marched, with mournful music, to the place where the execution was to take place. There was not a whisper in all the ranks-not a spoken syllable. The same feeling that weighed upon the prisoner, seemed to have weighed also upon them. Their countenances were all saddened, yet all was expressive of firmness and resolution. It was indeed a sorry and a solemn sight, this man being led away to his execution. The sun shone never so glorious; the sky looked never so clear; the grandly rolling river looked never so limpid and beautiful. The sounds that came up to them from mountain-side, from valley, from river, were sounds of peace, and happiness, and love. There was no blood in the scent of the lazy gale! There were no red spots upon the azure sky. The garish sun was not veiled with even the semblance of a gloom. Yet must men destroy each other, that the mastery of this green earth might, for only a few short years at the longest, be established. Strange infatuation! Yet there was no infatuation about those who fought only for their own liberties, and their own rights. Theirs was not purely a struggle for mastery-except the rightful mastery over their own selves. It was simply a struggle to be free!
                
               They reached the place allotted for the execution, at last. It was just upon the top of one of the most beautiful hills at Peekskill, from which was a view of all the surrounding country, and of the noble Hudson for miles. The scene from this point was unsurpassed. General Putnam, with his staff, and general officers, sat on horseback close by, and narrowly watched the procession as it neared him. His countenance was expressive of firmness and resolution. He knew that such trials cost any warm and ingenuous heart a pang, but he counted likewise the greater benefits that his country was finally to receive from thus boldly and independently asserting her authority. 
               The prisoner was ordered to mount a ladder that stood leaned against the boughs of a tough oak tree. From that bough swung a rope, at the end of which was made the hangman's fearful noose. The condemned man only gave a single glance at these proparations, while his ashy pale face attested that words were beyond his reach in that hour, even if they could have saved him. The British-uniformed man was likewise brought upon the ground, and compelled to witness the spectacle. 
               When at length the condemned man reached a particular round upon the ladder, and the fatal noose was secured about his neck, at a signal from General Putnam the ladder was knocked suddenly away, and the spy dangled between the heavens and the earth! As soon as he was pronounced dead by the army surgeon, General Putnam hastened to his quarters and summoned the stranger in British uniform into his presence. He obeyed the summons, and stood before him awaiting his order. The General seized a pen and appended a single line to the hasty scrawl he had written in the course of the trial. Sprinkling it with a little coarse sand, he ran his eyes rapidly over the whole again, to be assured that what he had written was directly to the purpose. It ran thus- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              HEAD QUARTERS, 7th of August, 1777.
                            
                           Sir-Nathan Palmer, a lieutenant in your king's service, was taken in my camp as a spy-he was tried as a spy-he was condemned as a spy-and you may rest assured, sir, he shall be hanged as a spy.
                            
                           
                              I have the honor to be, &c., 
                              ISRAEL PUTNAM, 
                              His Excellency, GOVERNOR TRYON.
                            
                         
                         
                           P. S-He is hanged. 
                         
                      
                  
                
               Folding and sealing this exceedingly brief and laconic message to the commander of the enemy's force, he gave it into the hands of the stranger and bade him depart immediately to his own camp with the flag of truce; enjoining it upon him to assure Gov. Tryon, that in spite of all his threats of vengeance, any one of his tory new levies who might be found within the American camp, would surely be brought to a similar punishment to that which he had that day witnessed. The messenger departed with all dispatch beyond the American lines, glad to escape from any further contact with such scenes as his eyes had quite unwillingly been compelled to witness. 
               The soldiers buried the dead, and by nightfall the camp betrayed not the least evidence of having gone through such a scene so recently. The sun rolled back to his pavilion behind the western hills, as quietly as if it had shone on nothing, that long day, but scenes and sights of peace. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               MARKING THE FLOCK-HEALING WITH STRIPES. 
               THE reader must go back a little with us. When the fortunate charge of the company in command of Captain William Howe had succeeded in repulsing the offensive gang at whose hands Verd-Antique was about to suffer death, we have informed the reader that those of the gang that were neither killed nor put to flight, were carried away prisoners, with those already captured at the house of Mr. Wilson, to the American camp. Among them was the notorious Jim Marshall, the outlaw and tory. 
               All the prisoners were marched safely within the American lines before a very late hour of the night, and the success of the expedition duly reported to the superior officers. It was an expedition purposely got up to retaliate upon the British authorities below, for their forwardness in hiring any and all sorts of characters to plunder and lay waste the country within the American lines. In consequence of this offer of the enemy, the entire country between the lines of the two armies was almost daily ravaged by fiends in human shape. Their boldness even led them within our own limits, where many a family was cruelly stripped of the last means of subsistence upon which it had long depended; neither age nor sex was spared. The savage ruffians had no hearts for pity and no ears for the petitions of innocence. They were dead to any of the commonest feelings of our nature. And, under pretence of executing only such orders as those they received from their more inhumane employers, they were guilty of atrocious barbarities such as now send a shudder of horror, indignation, and disgust through the heart of the reader or the listener. We must blush for human nature, when we see recorded such shameless acts, their authors incited thereto only by the most grovelling avarice and the most brutal lust that anywhere ever defaced the page of civilized history. 
               When all arrived at the camp, or the rendezvous within the American lines, the prisoners were secured and conducted to a place of rest. The British officers were treated with all the consideration due their rank and station, while the villanous skinners were bound hand and foot and placed on the ground beside the soldiers who guarded them. They were bidden to take especial care of the leader of the corps, Jim Marshall, for Captain Howe could tell of a certainty that he was a slippery fellow and needed close attention. 
               All went off well, however, during the remainder of the night, and Captain Howe made preparations early in the morning to accompany all his prisoners up to the head-quarters of the General, where likewise was to be found his Colonel-the gallant and brave Colonel Meigs. They were soon after breakfast up on the march, hurrying forward at the same rapid pace as on the eventful night before; and, by nine o'clock, they had reached head quarters, without meeting with any special incident or accident. 
               The result of their expedition being duly made known to General Putnam, the old hero expressed himself greatly pleased with it; and added that such measures of retaliation would be the only ones, after all, that would be likely to open the eyes of the British commanders to what was due to the peaceful Americans who lived between the armies. He likewise complimented the youthful Captain Howe upon his courage and perseverance, and hoped that he should continue to grow as he had done in his warm esteem. 
               The prisoners were all drawn out in order one afternoon-it was but a few days after their sudden capture-the skinners being placed on one side, and the British officers over against them. Major Templeton was not among his brother officers, having escaped-as we omitted to say before-in the confusion created by the sudden fainting of Miss Alice, and before the soldiers came upon the building. General Putnam advanced on horseback to the front of the square that surrounded them, and spake- 
               "Fellow soldiers, I am going to say a few words to you all. You have done your duty well in successfully securing the persons or these British officers; but you more than did your duty, when you brought in with you, after a hard skirmish, three infamous cow-boys? They are villainous wretches, unfit to be classed among human beings! They are not worthy of being treated as prisoners of war, and yet they cannot just now be considered spies, although I have no fears about their turning anything that is for their interest. What shall I do with them?" 
               It was an unusual thing, for a man who followed so implicitly his own impulses (and they were not blind impulses, either) as did Israel Putnam, to make an appeal for advice to the troops under him; yet in this instance he felt that such an appeal was not without its wholesome effect. He was willing for once to give up to the unreserved wishes of his trusty men. Accordingly, he paused for a few moments upon his question, to give them an opportunity to reply. 
               "What shall be done with them?" asked he a second time, seeing that they hesitated about making him a reply. 
               "Tie 'em together!" shouted some. 
               "Duck 'em in the pond!" said others. 
               "Tar and feather 'em!" cried out others still, taking manifest courage, now that the ice was broken. 
               "Tie 'em, and flog 'em bareback!" answered others still. 
               The idea seemed to find its way within the minds of all of them just at the same moment; and that moment, when the words were uttered. So they instantly joined in an almost universal cry- 
               "Yes, yes! Tie 'em, and have 'em flogged!" 
               "Very well, my lads'" exclaimed General Putnam. "It shall be exactly as you say. They shall be tied up and flogged-flogged in the presence of those who set them on to such deeds, and who might well be made to take their share of it along with them!" 
                
               Hurried preparations were instantly made, therefore, to carry out the decree of the soldiery. The desperadoes were marched out before the who in single file, their hands fast behind them. There grew a dozen trees-wild and crabbed fruit trees-not far off and to these the offenders were conducted with due diligence and dispatch. Their hands were now taken from behind them, slung together at the wrists, and in this condition made fast to a bough above them. At each tree was placed a single prisoner, that the operation might be performed thoroughly and so as to favor the observation of all. Then their clothes were stripped clean from their brawny backs, and the field lay open and clear. 
               A bundle of limber birch twigs, lithe and long, was provided for each victim, and a soldier detached to perform the service. They stood by the side of the renegades, while the remaining prisoners-the British officers-were led along before them. Then they were stationed where a sight must be had of the whole proceeding. It cost them many a pang to humiliate themselves so far as to witness such a ceremony, and their pride was none the less wounded at being brought into such close contact with men they despised, however much they might, for sinister purposes, he disposed to tamper with them. But Gen Putnam knew all this from the beginning, and determined to avail himself of his knowledge. 
               As soon as all was in readiness, a soldier (as we have said) being stationed at each man with the bundle of birches in his hand, General Putnam gave the order from his saddle. 
               "Lay on, my lads! Don't spare them! Brand them with marks deeper than that of Cain!" 
               At once the long twigs began to cut the air, and stripe the backs of the victims. The latter doubled, and writhed, and twisted under the infliction, their features most fiercely and fearfully contorted; some hanging their tongues out of their mouths, and some gritting and gnashing their teeth together in unsufferable agony. But their tormentors saw naught of all this. They were intent only on doing their duty, thoroughly and well. And now the groans of the wretched victims could remain pent up no longer. They found vent as best they might. It was beyond the power even of an in human nature to endure all this, and not flinch, not cry aloud. And the yells and cries of agony that then went up from that small apple orchard, may be compared to just nothing else but themselves. There was nothing else like them in all the world. 
               The red blood began to follow the blows, and the bent backs of the renegades were as striped as our national flag. They writhed and twisted their bodies about, too, so fiercely, that it seemed as if they must have taken themselves entirely out of the clothes that still remained upon them. The beads of sweat stood thickly on their temples, and then dripped like rain, drop by drop, down upon the ground. They began to beg; but they were told that prayers and petitions were things they themselves had never been accustomed to listen to, and they need not expect to benefit themselves from the use of such supplication now. So they ceased begging, and took to sweating blood and rain again. For many minutes this sort of activity continued, during which the countenances of the British prisoners were overcast with looks of anger. Involuntarily they clapped their hands to their sides, as if in search of their swords; but they did so only to learn that they were prisoners. General Putnam at this period rode up near them, and pointing in his earnest manner to the flogging that was going on, remarked to them: 
               "These are the miserable wretches you hire to do your lawless work! These are the creatures that rob, and burn, and pillage, and destroy! They know no mercy, they scarcely know humanity. They spare neither innocence nor beauty! They are outlaws, and it is only by your commander, that they are hired! If real justice were to be done, they who instigate these men to their cruel work are the ones that should suffer! They should be tied up by the hands as these ignorant creatures are, and made to take the same stripes with them! If ever you get back to your camp again, tell them so from me! Tell them that Israel Putnam thinks they deserve the same punishment you have seen inflicted on these wretches they employ!" 
               He rode to the rear again. The birch twigs had all been used up, and the flagellation ceased. Every man was deeply striped, however, by the process, and the agony he suffered was abundantly shown by the contortions they had not the ability to avoid. 
               When all had been housed again and securely placed under guard, the general officers held a consultation together in relation to the disposition of them. To this conference Captain Howe, being the captor of the gang, was invited with the rest. Many propositions and plans were brought forward by one and another, some suggesting that it would be better to whip them out of the camp, as soon as they should recover sufficiently to endure another infliction of the rod-some proposing to chain them to heavy logs of wood and make them march at the head of any company that might accidentally be brought into contract with their companions again-and others thinking it better to keep them confined until then shoold have an opportunity to make salutary examples of them, as had in a measure been done that day. It was finally agreed, however, upon the request of Captain Howe, that Jim Marshall, the leader of the party, should be brought into their presence at once. A soldier was dispatched for him, and in a short time both returned. The outlaw's back was recovered, after the striping it had had, and he walked across the room where the officers sat with a gait betraying the acutest suffering. His brow was lowering, and his eye looked never so wicked before to his old acquaintance, Captain Howe. He glanced rapidly about the room, and his eyes fell on the face of his enemy, the youthful captain. Instantly he dropped his gaze to the floor, and a dark shadow seemed to settle on his countenance. 
               "You have received, sir, but a part of the punishment your infamous conduct deserves," said General Putnam, addressing him, "and the remainder may yet be to come. You are an outlaw to your own race, having joined hands with a gang of lawless villians-all robbers, and hang-dogs, and cut-throats! Now I consent to make you a proposition. If you accept it, you may yet become respected by those who know you. If you conclude not to accept it, however, you may be sure that the balance of your punishment will be somewhat less endurable than what you have been called to go through to-day!" 
               Marshall looked up inquiringly into the face of the commander while he heard him utter these words. He appeared to desire nothing so much as to know what the alternative was, that was about to be presented to him. 
               "If you will at this moment take the oath of allegiance to the American cause, and join a party I am about to send below in quest of others of your old companions, your freedom shall be guaranteed to you. Do you do it?" 
               "Yes, yes!" quickly responded Marshall. 
               "Bring a Bible!" ordered the General at once; "we will have this man sworn without delay, and make an American of him, as he was born to be!" 
               A Bible was brought, the outlaw repeated the words of an extempore form of an oath after the General, kissed the Holy Book, and sat down 
               "This very night, towards sunset," continued General Putnam, "there will advance a party some distance beyond our pickets below. You will go with them, and at once prove the validity of your oath and the genuineness of your new allegiance, by fighting bravely against your old friends. Hold yourself in readiness, therefore, to depart by five o'clock.' 
               He rose from his chair, and in company with his adjutant walked out of the room. One by one the other officers dropped away after them, until no one was left in the room but the unhappy man himself. A sentinel was stationed at the door, to keep him in safety until the hour of his departure should finally come. 
               At five, punctually, the party prepared to move. It was commanded by Captain Howe, as before, who likewise rode on horseback. Marshall was made to walk close by his side, and the least of the Captain's anxiety was the fear that he should get away from them. Night overtook them many miles below headquarters; still the outlaw marched trustily and unflinchingly by the side of young Howe. They quickened their pace, desirous of taking advantage of the darkness caused by the gathering clouds that concealed the full face of the moon. They kept on in silence, no sound reaching the ear but the cautious, yet firm, tread of the men, or the occasional clicking together of the hoofs of the steed ridden by their commander. In this way they went along for a great distance, all eyes wide opened to see unexpected sights, all ears pricked up to catch the first faint sounds of a retreating or advancing enemy. But it appeared as if there would be no brush with any party that night. It was just the night, too, for the passions of the brutal cowboys to let themselves riot at their pleasure, and Captain Howe was unwilling to believe that he should not, in the due course of time, stumble upon some adventure. 
               He suddenly raised himself in his saddle on seeing the faint streaks of a distant light gleaming through the trees, and gazed steadily in the direction whence it proceeded. 
               "March! Forward, boys! Forward!" ordered he, turning round upon his horse, and speaking to his company in a voice little above a hoarse whisper. 
               They obeyed the order like men trained to obedidience; and, as they rose upon a piece of higher ground, the glare of the fire for the first time fell upon their view. Instantly they became so deeply excited, that it required all the self-control of which they were capable, to keep them from breaking into an outright run. Onward they marched at the same quick pace, until they had come within sight of the burning object; it was a comfortable farm house, which the ruthless outlaws had kindled, driving out the beggar-made inhabitants before them. 
               "Will you fight now?" asked the officer of Marshall, leaning suddenly down and whispering in his ear. 
               "You may try me!" was the laconic reply. 
               "Forward, boys!" shouted he to his company; "at them with your bayonets! Give them quarter, and take all prisoners! Charge on them-charge!" 
               The words seemed to act like magic on them; for as soon as they were pronounced, the same men who but a moment before marched in regular and precise array, flew like so many devils let loose, uttering the loudest and fiercest yells, and crying out to their enemy in syllables that would seem to belong only to the lips of fiends incarnate. Over rocks and stumps they flew-driving straight onward toward the objects of their hostility. About the burning house were still loitering the rascally gang, who no sooner heard the sudden yells of their pursuers, than they shouldered their arms and ran at the top of their speed. The soldiers, however, were after them in hot haste; and foremost among them, although he cautiously kept as far from the rest as consistent, was Jim Marshall. Yelling louder than any one of the rest, while he was within their sight and hearing, he plunged fiercely in amongst the enemy, and at length seemed outstripping even them in his speed. 
               "He's left us! He's gone! After him, with the rest!" shouted Captain Howe from his horse, his quick eye detecting the exact state of the case. He put spurs to his steed, and rode on; but the road was no longer as good for horses as for men, and they were nearing a ledge with all possible speed. 
               "Cut him off before he reaches that ledge! Fire upon him! Down with him!" screamed the captain at the top of his already hoarse voice. On the instant, three or four trusty fire-locks were snapped and the pieces discharged; but it was not possible to see that any or all of them had brought down the object at which they were levelled. 
               Still the outlaw sped. On and on he ran, now separated entirely from the others, and seeking security among the rocks and trees which he had already reached. He felt that there was no comparative safety for him in any hiding place he could discover in or about the ledge, and he hurried on, already nearly out of breath, for the dense wood that crowned the whole. Once beneath the covering of its ample shade, he felt in a measure safe; yet he crowded on with the same speed as before. 
               Seeing that their chase was likely to prove fruitless, the party of Americans reluctantly returned to the scene of the conflagration. A poor girl stood shivering near the flames, scantily clothed, and protecting, or trying to protect, a handful of young children. She herself could not be more than sixteen or seventeen years of age, and her countenance wore every mark of the deepest sorrow. Captain Howe kindly approached her, and asked her in relation to the matter of the conflagration; and from her pale, thin, quivering lip, for the first time learned the in human sufferings to which they had been relentlessly driven. The ruffians had broken into the house-her father had joined the enemy, and her mother was gone-she being the oldest member there-stole all the property they wanted, and then wantonly set fire to the only protection they had to their heads.
                     Such excess were, at the period of our story, by no means uncommon in the 'neutral ground.' Colonel Humphreys, a member of the military family of General Putnam, and likewise the author of a warm-hearted biography of his old commander, writes thus respecting the deeds of these outlaws: "Mr. William Sutton, an inoffensive man, a merchant by profession, who lived in a decent fashion, and whose family had as happy prospects as almost any in the country, upon some imputation of toryism went to the enemy. His wife, oppressed with grief in the disagreeable state of dereliction, did not long survive. Betsy Sutton, their eldest daughter, was a modest and lovely young woman, about fifteen years old, when, at the death of her mother, the care of five or six young children devolved upon her. She was discreet and provident beyond her years; but when we saw her, she looked feeble in health, broken in spirit, wan, melancholy and dejected. She said that "their last cow, which furnished milk for the children, had lately been taken away-that they had frequently been plundered of their wearing apparel and furniture, she believed by both parties-that they had little more to lose, and that she knew not where to procure bread for the dear little ones, who had no father to provide for them"-no mother, she was going to have said, but a torrent of tears choked articulation.
                     "In coming to that part of the country again, after some campaigns had elapsed, I found the garden overgrown with weeds! Upon inquiry, I learnt, that as soon as we left the place, some ruffians broke into the house while she lay in bed, in the latter part of the night; and that, having been terrified by their rudeness, she ran, half asked, into a neighboring swamp where she continued until the morning; there the poor girl caught a violent cold, which ended in a consumption. It finished a life without a spot; and a career of sufferings, commenced and continued without a fault!"
                   The soul of the young man flamed with indignation as he heard her narration, and he was doubly stirred in his desire of vengeance for the shameless wrongs these marauders were guilty of. As soon as it could be done he assisted the sufferers to a place of safety-to the house of a neighbor fully a mile distant-and there left them for the night as comfortably provided for as they consistently could be. Then they acoured round in the vicinity of the ruin, always keeping away from the glare of the light by which their figures might be reflected more plainly, until they gave up all hopes of finding any of the gang about the place that night. 
               "By Heavens!" muttered Captain Howe between his teeth to himself: "but I'll surely have him again! He may escape me this once, but never again! never again!" 
               As he repeated the words, "never again," his whole frame shook with emotion. He looked sternly upon the ground, and his teeth involuntarily ground themselves together. His rage was thoroughly aroused, and could he but have seen his most dreaded enemy, Jim Marshall, within sabre stroke of him, it would have afforded him infinite satisfaction to cleave his skull with a passionate blow. 
               Let us follow the outlaw himself. 
               When he found that he had at length reached a point of safety within the friendly covering of the woods, and heard the tread of his pursuers grow fainter and fainter as they turned back from their fruitless chase, he sat himself down upon a moss-covered rock he found well concealed in the thick underbrush, and began to congratulate himself on his escape. The recent wounds upon his martyred back still smarted amazingly, but they brought sweeter thoughts to him, after all, for they suggested plans and purposes of vengeance at no very distant day. He inwardly cursed his fate; and yet he inwardly swore that the wrongs he had but just received, should be repaid upon their chief distributor four fold. Just at that moment the clouds broke away from before the face of the moon, and a rift of clear light was seen struggling to make itself larger. 
               "A streak of better luck!" exclaimed the outlaw aloud, obedient to the superstitious ideas that still kept their tenacious hold upon his ignorant mind. 
               "Yes, yes; better luck now!" uttered a voice but a few steps from him. 
               Marshall turned round in his seat with the agility of a panther, and gazed in the direction whence he supposed the voice came. His features, his figure, his posture, were all as rigid and immovable as those of a statues. He was paler than death; and the beatings of his heart sounded to him like the sound of thunder itself. It seemed as they alone must betray him. He dared not speak; he dared not move; he dared hardly to breathe. The voice was yet upon him like a powerful spell. Whence came it?-whose voice was it?-was he surrounded?-was there an armed enemy right upon him now? 
               "Jim Marshall, don't be 'fraid! you be safe!" added the voice. 
               "In God's name!" cried out the frightened tory, "tell me who you be! Have you come to take me a prisoner! Who be ye!" 
               "Be not 'fraid more!" returned the voice. "You be safe here!" 
                
               Marshall at once sprang from his sitting attitude, and rushed to the place where he heard the voice. Just as he had reached the trunk of a large tree not five paces from him, he was startled to see the figure of a human being suddenly fly from behind its shadow. He held out his hands, and the figure sprang and clutched him. 
               It was Lariko!-the Indian who had hitherto been his sworn friend and companion, upon the heights in the neighborhood of Ridgefield! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               A BRIEF AND WRETCHED FURLOUGH 
               SPRING had come again, blowing with its fragrant breaths over mead and valley. Everything had started into a new life once more. The sprays had bud ded and burst in the deep forest, flinging that soft, sweet, dreamy look of green over all the woods, rocks, and mountains. Winter sent up its steamy vapors from earth's warmed bosom, that rose in the clouds, and were exhaled to heaven. Life was perceptible in everything, from the least even to the greatest. Life shot up in every flower, grass-blade, and stem. Life glowed in the genial sunshine, and the dimpling of the distant brooks. Life sounded in the breaths of the wind, in the brief gusts of the diminutive gale, and in the buzzing of countless insects and gaily bedecked birds. The blood mounted up from the heart with a stronger beat and a quicker force, and made one live quite twice as much in a single moment as he seemed to live in any moment at any other season of the year; yet there were many sights, many sounds many associations, and many influences alive, that in-continently caused dreaminess and reflection. The haze, that at times rested like a thin veil in the air-the steady whirring of frogs in distant marshes and pools-the warm glow of the sunshine-all these predisposed the soul to a habit of reverie, which is easier formed than broken. 
               Oh! what a flood of blessed, gleaming, warming thoughts come back with the return of spring! It is as if the heart was running over with emotions-all of gladness-and yet the lips had no power to express a single one of them! Thoughts flit through the mind as gay little humming-birds fly from flower to flower, never alighting, never gaining a foothold, never leaving an enduring impression-yet always suggesting the brightest fancies, always reviving the greenest hopes, and always crowding to fulness with the highest inspirations. The breath of a clear morning in spring has health in it for any mind that is not jaundiced beyond the hope of recovery. Its bright, genial sunshine melts itself into every pore of the human heart, driving out all the crudities of a long winter's indigestion, and overturning all old systems of thought and forms of feeling as readily and as unceremoniously as if they were good for nothing at all, and quite as easily set up again as overthrown. Ideas, sentiments, feelings, affections, all rush forward from the heart in a tumultuous scramble, as if the newly-warmed blood insisted on expelling them from their sunless secresies, no matter in what number or order, and driving them to the outer surface where the sunlight falls in its profuse floods. Just so bees buzz from the entrances to their hives at the returning warmth of spring, and drive themselves out of their winter hiding places with a bustle of excessive gladness. 
               Young Captain Howe stood before the door of his uncle, his gun across his shoulder, and the negro Buff just behind him. The negro likewise carried a gun which he was just then engaged in loading, in obedience to the orders of his young master. The latter had received a furlough of a few days, and duly improved it by hurrying home to the house of his benevolent old uncle. He had succeeded in reaching this place only the night before. Having passed the evening in company with his relative, busily employed in answering his numberless questions in relation to the war, and all the skirmishes in which he had been called to engage, he resolved, as soon as he had made an early breakfast, to start off for the hut of the old woman, where was his greatest and most valuable treasure. 
               "Stay, stay!" cried the old gentleman, when he saw his nephew cleaning his fowling-gun, and Buff making similar preparations on his side; "not going to leave me this morning?" 
               "I was going out gunning a little ways this morning, uncle," replied the young man, in quite a persuasive tone. 
               "Gunning? What, shoot birds this early in the spring? Do you do that?" 
               "Why not?" 
               "Reason enough! What are the birds good good for? They're just through with winter-just beginning to go at making their nests. You wouldn't shoot 'em so early, would you? Shoot birds so early!" 
               "There's other game, uncle," responded the young man, evidently laboring under some embarrassment. "The woods are full of game." 
               "Full o' fudge! Why, who ever heard of the thing at this time o' year? You never did, boy, I warrant ye!" 
               "But I thought I'd just take a little air and exercise, this morning, too. I need a change, uncle." 
               "And so you do, William," replied the old gentleman; "but I want to know how, in the name o' common sense, going a gunning is a change for you! I should think you'd had exercise enough for one year; why not sit down in the house a bit, and have a long talk all about old matters, the war, and your generals, with your good old uncle? That wouldst be a change, wouldn't it? Not change enough, hey?" 
               "But, my dear uncle," protested the young man-" 
               "No, no! You needn't go to my-dear-uncleing me now, if you think to leave me in this way, when you haven't been home yet a whole day! No more of that nonsense, boy; you can't deceive me with it!" 
               "I do not wish to deceive you, uncle," replied William, pausing from his work and looking steadily at his respected relative; "I thought I should just like to take a turn on the mountain a few hours, and-" 
                
               "And stay all night again, eh?" 
               "No, not so long as that; but I promise you that I will be back soon. I promise you that, uncle I am tired of seeing faces and figures, and I would like to get to the woods again!" 
               "And tired of seeing my face more than all others! Is that it?" 
               "You do me great injustice now. I meant no such thing as that by what I said. I only meant to say that I should like to get into the woods a few hours." 
               "But I want to hear about old General Putnam from you, my boy!" said his uncle. "I never saw the old hero, but I've heard enough of him, and of what he's done, and keeps doing; and really, boy, I feel as if I knew him quite as well as I do you I want to hear more about him. Now I s'pose you can sit down just as well as not, and reel off to me about him by the hour. You've seen the old fellow, and I haven't. You know all how he looks-how he eats-how he talks-and you've heard him tell stories, I haven't any kind o' doubt; and I want you to stay and talk with me this morning about these things, Can't you do it? must you go, after all?" 
               "I've made a promise to go, uncle," said the nephew, forging a reply which he hoped might be satisfactory with his thoughtful relative. But just as the words passed his lips, he found that he had made a false calculation, and would have been glad to retract them; but it was, unfortunately, too late. 
               His uncle at once took him up, as he feared he would. 
               "So you have been making promises, have you, boy? Promises, hey? And if promises, then to somebody! Now to whom? Come, tell the whole!" 
               "You are inquisitive, my uncle," he answered, giving him a look full of respect and deference. 
               "The dickens is in the boy for impudence, I right, eously believe!" exclaimed the old gentleman. "Inquisitive! Of course I am! I have a right to be inquisitive! A perfect right to be! A pretty young Captain are you to tell me I'm inquisitive! I'm your uncle, boy, if you are a Captain!" 
               "And I am proud of it, too, uncle," answered William. 
               "Come, come, come!" 
               "What now?" 
               "No more of your trying to flatter an old, sober gentleman like me-an old gentleman with the gout, too!" 
               "Indeed, I meant anything but flattery, uncle," replied the nephow. 
               "And does old Israel Putnam learn you to flatter? Does he learn you such soft stuff as that? I don't believe it! I never thought that of him! He's not the man, I guess, to give instructions in such an art!" 
               "He teaches his soldiers anything but that," said William. 
               "So I thought-so I thought! He'll learn you to give the hard blows, and the thumpin' knocks; but precious little stuff like palaver and flattery do ye get of him, I guess!" 
               "It is just so. You couldn't speak more truth of him, if you had been under his command for years. He's a hero!" 
               "A hero, is he? And haven't I always told you so, boy? Haven't I always told you to look sharp and learn of him all he had to tell? To be sure, I have! There's something to be gained by being under such a master as that! He knows what he's about himself, and he means to have his scholars learn the same thing for themselves, too." 
               "That's all true-true to the letter," added the Captain. 
               "Well, come now! throw aside your gun! You won't kill anything to-day, and if you do, you'd ought to be ashamed of yourself, at this season of the year. Come, throw down your gun, and break all your promises, and sit right down here with me, and tell me all you have seen and done since you've been in the service of your country; from the time you first 'listed to the day when you got your commission-and even whether you haven't disgraced your commission yet! I can't say as to that exactly! I want to find out about that!" 
               "Then you will have to ask some other person than me, if you wish to be informed on that subject." 
               "That's right!-that's right! A good soldier-a brave soldier never wants to tell of his own deeds! He'd rather let them alone to do their own talking! You re right there, boy!" 
               The young man felt little inclined to prolong a conversation which he well knew would result not any the more to his uncle's advantage or gratification; so he preserved a silence after this last remark, and bestowed all his attention upon his gun. He seemed never so busy as then upon its various fixtures-rubbing, and dusting, and brushing, and blowing them as if the instrument had not been down for a period of five often mouldy, dusty years. 
               "Then you won't stay?" inquired the old gentleman, suddenly looking up. 
               "Really, uncle," said the young man-- 
               "Go along, then! Go right along, then! If you don't like my company well enough to stay with me, I wouldn't have you stay, for all the world-not a minute beyond what you want to-not a minute longer." 
               "I do like to be in your company, uncle," replied William, looking all sorts of ways for a plan to get his reasoning into the head of his obdurate relation, "but--' 
               "Not a word, boy!" cried out the old gentleman "Not another word! Along with you! Go along too, Buff! Keep a good watch over the boy; I fear he may come to mischief yet!" 
               As he pronounced these words, he propelled his nephew with playful pushes towards the door, through which the latter hurried away from his tensing guardian. Buff was close at his heels, and they stood on the green grass before the door, as we first introduced them to the reader a little ways back-Buff in the act of loading his gun. 
               "Now we'll off for the mountain, Buff," said the Captain, casting his eyes off in the direction of it. "It's a good fresh morning, and we can travel rapidly. Are you all ready, then?" 
               "All ready, massa Billy," answered the negro. 
               "Then off with you!" said the Captain, taking up the line of march. They pursued their way through a back or by-lane, running, in some parts of it, nearly parallel to the village street. It was a delightful walk for such a morning, and the nephew's spirits seemed to glow beneath its influences. He felt the warmth of the sun upon him, and felt rejoiced; his heart expanded, as it were, with the heat. He crushed the dew drops that clustered upon the grass-blades beneath his feet, and they looked to him like broken pearls. There was a vigor in the very air he drew in that gave a delicious excitement to his lungs; and he came very near shouting aloud, to assure himself more practically that the act would be one of pure pleasure. The distant mountain, upon which he bent his gaze so often, grew larger and larger as he approached it, until at length he could see nothing but a very small portion of a very great mass. He had come to the mountain-side, and the ascent was before him. 
               Slowly at first, and then still more slowly as they progressed, the two climbed the acclivity. It was a rugged spot, and all the energies of a person were needed to make an ascent at the point where, for the purpose of saving time, he had started. It was an excessively long and toilsome steep; but by diligence and perseverance it was finally mastered, and the young man found himself at the top, just at the point where the plain before the door of the hut emerged into the woods on the right. He stood still a moment and ran his eyes hastily over the level, quite to the hut of the witch. Every spot about the habitation was then carefully scanned, in the hope that Mary might be seen somewhere outside; but no one looking like her, or like any human being, was to be got sight of. 
               "Come, Buff," said he, turning to the negro, "I am going up to the hut, to see Miss Mary. I hope she may be your future mistress!" 
               This was greater liberty than he had ever taken with Buff's confidence before, and he wondered how he came to say as much he did. 
               "I hope she be!" responded Buff, evidently pleased with the novel idea-if the exhibition of a formidable double row of teeth might be taken as an evidence of such a fact. 
               "But you mustn't tell what I've said to you, Buff, not to a living soul!" said Captain Howe, desirous of having this little act of his indiscretion felt no farther in its results. 
               They were not long in reaching the door of the hut, at which both stopped a moment and listened. Then the Captain rapped lustily with his knuckles upon it. 
               "Come in! come in!" cried out a voice within, which he was very well satisfied belonged to no other body than that of old Bet Miffles. 
               Obedient to the summons, he pushed up the wooden latch and opened the door. The first and only object that presented itself to him was the old witch. She sat bending over her fire, of which there was but the veriest trifle at the most, rubbing the back of each hand with the palm of the other, her countenance greatly distorted from its wonted expression, and rolling her body backwards and forwards as if in pain. The negro followed close in upon the heels of his master, and the door closed of itself after them. 
               "What is the matter, Betty?" inquired the young man. "Where's Mary?" 
               "Matter enough, God wot! Have not I trouble enough for my own self, but what you must be about me to make it the more?" 
               "Have I ever made you any trouble, Betty," asked he. "What are you talking about this morning? What can you have got into your head now?" 
               "Cant a lone body like me, I sh'd like to know, go and live on a mountain, all by herself, disturbin' nobody in all the world, but what they must be persecuted?" 
               "But I have not persecuted you, woman; I have never done any-" 
               "Wal, it's all the same whether you have or not! All the same!" said she, interrupting him. 
               "What's all the same?" 
               "Everything! There's no peace for me anywhere! There isn't such a thing as real happiness in this world-not for me there isn't!" 
               "It's not my fault, I am sure." 
               "No matter whose fault it is! No matter whose fault! I have been persecuted, my life through! And now you come to-" 
               "I come to do no such thing!" broke in the young man. "I have only come up here, since I came home last night, to see Mary. I suppose I can see her." 
               "'T would ha' been much better if I hadn't allowed ye to see her at all, poor thing! She should ha' been shut up, away from ye!" 
               "Old woman," said he, "I love your Mary! Perhaps you don't know that! At any rate, I never told you of it before!" 
               "And what good'll that do? You can't have her! You can't marry her!" 
               "That is not for you to say, Bet Miffles!" replied he, with some feeling. "You are nothing more than an old witch! You are not that girl's grandmother!" 
               Had a bullet pierced her, her countenance could not have betrayed a fiercer internal agony than that she suffered from his words. She looked fearfully wild into his face, and shaking her wizened, bony fist, half clenched, towards him, cried out: 
               "How know you that, William Howe? How know you that?" 
               "Then I have not been mistaken?" replied he, more to himself than to her. 
               "You are mistaken," said she, and most wofully, too! Think not to find out anything from her of her relations! I know that you would attempt the thing, but what good can it do you? You will be none the wiser-not a whit! You tell that which is not true,
                   when you say that I am not the child's own grandmother! You know nothing about it! You care nothing about it, only to steal her away from me-" 
               "Who has no earthly claim on her," interrupted he. 
               "And to make my heart desolate!" she continued, heedless of his stinging interruption. "I say that you shall not marry her! She has a different lot in store for her! You know nothing of it! You can know nothing of it! You must only be calm, and leave off thinking to make a wife of the girl! She can never be your wife! do you hear me?" 
               "Woman," said he, "I did not mount this rugged steep on such a heavenly morning as this, to listen to such objurgations from the lips of any one! I will not hear them from you, at any rate!" 
               "None of your threats, now, my brave young officer! None of your threats! Kip! Kip!" 
               The last two syllables brought down the monstrous black cat, whose name they were, from her perch upon the old clock case to the middle of the floor. She stood up boldly in the front of her mistress, and erected her hair threateningly all over her huge person. Her eyes were like two glowing coals of fire. 
               "Where is the girl?" asked Captain Howe, unwilling to carry on any farther contest with one whom he could not help believing (because every body else did) to be allied to the Evil One. 
               "Yes, and hadn't ye better be telling me that yourself!" responded she, with a show of increased fierceness. 
               "What do you mean, woman?" demanded he. "Where is Mary? Will you tell me?" 
               "Don't you know, then? Are you so ignorant as not to know what you have done with her? Where is she, to be sure?" 
               "You old hag!" exclaimed he, opening the door of the young girl's bedroom, and finding the apartment empty, "tell me what you have done with that girl!" 
               "What have you? Tell me that!" replied she, growing more demoniac in her expression. 
               "I don't understand you! I have not seen her! I have but just come from the army! I have not seen her! I have not heard of her! I thought she was here-always here!" 
               "If it was only true!" 
               "Do not tamper with me now, woman, for my brain will not suffer it! I assure you I have not seen Mary since I last saw you too! Where is she?" 
               "That I cannot tell. I wish I could. It distresses me so-her loss!" 
               "Is she lost, then? Have you been robbed of this, your only treasure? Mary lost!" and the wretched lover wrong his hands in an agony of heart. 
               "I have'nt seen her this three days," said the witch. 
               "Do you tell me truly? Will you solemnly swear to what you say? Truth, is it?" 
               "Three days ago," answered the witch, "I left this but to make a short tramp beyond the woods. I could not have been gone more than eight or ten hours-'twas before nightfall when I got home-and she was gone!" 
               "Did you take this black devil with you?" asked he, pointing to the cat 
               "She always goes with me," said she. 
               "You found her gone when you got back!" repeated he, in a voice of mingled astonishment and agony; "where can she have gone?" 
               "The merciful Lord only knows! I hope she may not have been wounded by any savages; for they say they be about!" 
               "I know! I know!" suddenly exclaimed the young man, striking his forehead with his palm sharply, till the hut resounded. "I have it all! It's plain to me now!" 
               "What is it? Tell me what!" shrieked the witch after him. 
               But without waiting to answer her question, filled to overflow with his own thoughts, he rushed from the apartment and from the hut. 
               It was only the second day after that, that an order came to him from camp, requiring him to put an end to his furlough at once; so that if he had formed any plans in his mind in relation to the discovery of Mary, they must have been inevitably broken up by the unexpected order which he received. With a heavy heart, well nigh crushed, he hastened back to camp. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               RETALIATION. 
               GEN. PUTNAM had broken up his camp at Peekskill, and moved down more in the face of the enemy at New Rochelle, below White Plains. He was sitting in his room, towards dusk, one evening, in company with two or three of his officers, engaged in a conversation upon the general aspect of affairs. Presently the door opened, and a man entered. His dress was a compound of everything that was unique and inimitably original, beneath which the real character or appearance of no man could have been detected. Stepping up to the general, with the air of a man not at all abashed by the presence of his superiors, he remarked in a monotonous tone, 
               "Just from below. Robertson has ordered out a secret expedition to Coburn Wright's mills this very night! No-the order was first from Tryon, but I got it through Robertson. The men will be on the march very soon. They intend to be at the place before midnight." 
               "And who are you?" inquired one of the officers sitting there. 
               "Ask the General," was the peculiarly dry reply. 
               General Putnam could not prevent the sunny smile that had just taken shape at the corner of his mouth, from spreading over the whole of his broad, good-natured looking face. 
               "This man is my best friend in these matters," said he, seeing that all directed their attention to him for an answer. "His name is John Horton; you must all of you know John, surely: but he goes at times by the very original name-though nobody knows where he got it-of Verd-Antique." 
               The officers looked surprised enough at each other, thinking that the ingenuity of Verd-Antique's disguise should be able to deceive even such astute judges as they thought themselves in such matters. Verd-Antique read their thoughts at a single rapid glance, and desirous of relieving them of all the embarrassment they felt, spoke up. 
               "Gentlemen, I know now that my devices are not very poor ones. I have long wished to see how skilfully I could do this thing; and now I am satisfied If none of you knew me, I'm sure that my enemies wouldn't! I am satisfied." 
               Verd-Antique lacked anything but a profound and available knowledge of human nature, as the above remark would seem to imply. It was received by those to whom it was addressed with evident satisfaction, as his own sagacity led him to see. 
               "If they have planned the burning of Wright's Mills to night,' said General Putnam, turning to his companions in arms-" 
               "They have!" interrupted Verd-Antique. 
               "Then it must be prevented!" concluded he, in his usually earnest and strong manner. 
               "It may be," said Verd-Antique. 
               "It shall be!" rejoined General Putnam, bringing his broad fist with no common force down upon his knee. "John Horton, go and summon here Colonel Meigs, and Major Brown, and Captain Howe! They are to be here within the minute! There is no end to these incursions," continued he, after Verd-Antique was gone, "and I see for myself no way to make one. Our enemies have got more money than we, and they mean to use it; and it makes my cheeks burn with shame, to think that there are men-American born, and American-bred-who will stoop so low as to take a bribe from the villains! Tryon, he'll seduce them with his flattery, and his promises; and Robertson, with his gold and silver; and that villainous Rivington
                     Rivington-the royal printer in New York, while it was held by the British. The lies he printed relative to the Americans, their battles, and their general cause, were odious and disgusting to our army, and indeed to all who knew the unscrupulous character of the man.
                   with his lies! They approach the people in this country in every way of which they can conceive! There's nothing too low for them to stoop to, so they do but carry their object! I shouldn't want better evidence of the corrupt character and influence of the British army, than their influence right about us here will establish! It's enough to curse the name and memory of any man to command such a horde-call them as rich or as respectable as you will! I know Robertson well, and really I should think he would be above such things! If I could but get him here before me, I'd make his ears tingle with one lecture, and such an one as he would little care to hear again! But there's no way to stop these aggressions of the enemy, with their companies of tories, new levies, cow-boys and vagabonds, but just to adopt a system of retaliation; and from this very minute, so long as my camp is fixed here, I am for retaliation! No other other way, gentlemen! No other conceivable way! Whip the devil with his own switches, they say-the same sort of switches he cuts to whip others with! That's my policy with them, after this!" 
               The farther expression of his boiling feelings was effectually stopped by the entrance of the three officers he had just summoned before him. They received the orders he had so rapidly formed for them in the emergency, and which they hastened to obey. In a moment they had left the room, and General Putnam sat in close consultation with his former companions. 
               In less than a half hour's time, three detachments of troops, each consisting of one hundred men, and respectively commanded by the three officers named above, started off in silence and secrecy from the camp. At their head rode their commanders. We will not trouble the reader to follow them in their course, only promising that they soon filed off in different directions, each keeping the locality of the mills in question in view, and each determined to prevent the commission of the threatened outrage. The night happened to be a fit one for such an expedition, the clouds rolling thickly overhead, and the air disturbed with just wind enough to prevent a sudden discovery from the noise incident to their march. They came upon the enemy in sufficient time to deter them from carrying out their original design, and two of the American parties skirmished sharply with the same number of parties of the enemy. The third came upon the corresponding party of the enemy just after they had burned the house of Mr. Van Tassal-a noted whig, and a vigilant committee man-to the ground. It was afterwards discovered that that gentleman was made to march along with them, barefoot and half naked, on a freezing, chilly night-although he had but just been drawn from his bed! 
               The Americans returned to camp before daylight, carrying with them-one party thirty-five, and another forty, of the prisoners they had taken. In addition to this masterly stroke, they had succeeded in deterring the enemy from burning the valuable property for whose destruction they had been specially sent out. General Putnam heard their reports with evident satisfaction, expressing it as not the least of his satisfaction that the rascally cow-boys were so many of them prisoners. "But," continued he, "we haven't done with them yet! There's more work to be done yet, and hard work, too-before this business is stopped!" 
               As soon as the commandant of the third party, which had come up in time to learn of the outrage dsne to Mr. Van Tassel's property and person, had reported his story to the commander, the old General's eyes flashed a burning fire. The wrinkles all let themselves out upon his face, and fresher and and warmer colors mounted to his cheeks. His lip slightly trembled, and it was a moment before he could distinctly articulate; they he observed, with a thrill of impetuous meaning in every tone: 
               "By Heaven! but that deed shall not pass unpunished!" 
               All who heard him knew that what had been said was every whit meant. There was too much directness and emphasis in the manner of its expression, to admit of the possibility of an unsettled determination in the mind of the speaker. 
               On the very next night succeeding this-the weather being excessively cold and inclement, for winter was now about setting in-a single whale boat shot silently and rapidly up into a little cove that formed one of the many indentures on that part of York Island. There were but five men in the boat, and their arms were working lustily at the bending oars. Their row-locks had all been carefully lined and padded, to prevent noise, and their efforts produced no other sound than that of the breaking and rippling of the water about the bows. A figure sat in the stern, silent and thoughtful. His name was Captain Buchanan. 
               As the boast obeyed his control, and glided into the little cove of which we have spoken, his eyes pierced the thick gloom that hung before and around him, and he described the proportions of a fine mansion that stood but a little way up from the water. As his vision took in its entire appearance, his lips compressed with the power of some determined purpose, and he carried his hand a little unsteady with the tiller. 
               "Is that the house, Cap'n?" asked one of the men. 
               "I suspect it is," answered he, in a low voice; "but we must first land and reconnoitre. We can do nothing till we see how the land lays, you know Easy-easy, there!" ordered he to all his men. "We are near land, and this water's still! We mustn't be heard, or all may fail?" 
               The men needed no further injunction than this. They held back the boat slowly from the shore, and, by a dexterous turn of the tiller, Captain Buchanan brought all alongside as handily as if he were about to board another craft of his own size. The line was duly made fast to a tree near by, and the Captain enjoined them to stand perfectly still until he could take a look at his matches and tinder. Drawing these from his pocket, he closely examined them, and found to his gratification that they were in quite as good condition as when he took them from his table. He then looked at his watch. It was already eleven o'clock. 
               "Come on, boys!" said he, in a low voice. "One of you stay here to be all ready to cast off when we get back-the rest of you follow me!" 
               The order was obeyed with the alarcity of men accustomed to respect, as well as to obey, their officer. They sprang through the bushes after him. Presently, they reached the top of the hill, where all halted. 
               Cold though the night was, and bleak though the aspect of every created thing around them, yet there was a look of decided comfort, not to say luxury, about the mansion before them. It was built entirely of wood, and was two stories high. Almost every species of adornment that a cultivated taste could suggest, or a refined fancy supply, was to be descried about the premises. The immediate grounds were laid out with much care and regularity. Parterres were arranged for the many flowers and bulbous plants that were made to exhale their fragrance for the delight of the inmates. Fountains were constructed in the yard, on each side of the door, and but a trifling way from it. But the musical tinkle of their dripping, breaking waters was not to be heard on that night. The crystal fountains were sealed with the cold. 
               Not far back of the house, in a vista of what must have been, in the summer season, a beautiful drapery of green, stood a spacious summer-house, forming the termination of a series of walks that threaded the entire grounds. Here must have been a delicious place for a poet to dream away the lazy, lagging hours of summer. Here he could drink in, undisturbed, the glowing influences of the season and the scenery; the latter of which could not be otherwise than charming to every sense. Quite a large portico stood supported by four double pillars, each of them fluted, and ornamented at their cornices with odd and fanciful carvings. The steps were of free stone, broad, clean and high. The blinds of the building were all closed, except one of those belonging to a chamber window. All around the house there was the silence of death. Not a light was to be seen in any of the rooms, for the men now began to move stealthily about all sides of the house, to discover what might be going on in any of the apartments. But they saw nothing. 
               "Here, then," said Captain Buchanan, as they returned by different routes and reported the results of their reconnoitres to him, "take you, each of you, a bunch of this dry combustible, and set it at each corner of the house! I will take care of the front entrance myself!" 
               They took the stuff he handed them, and, after having first piled up loose shavings, straw, and pieces of dry wood against each corner, laid the combustible he gave them carefully in the heart of the whole. As soon as every preparation was complete not excepting that of his own before the front door, he struck his flint and steel together, and in a minute the bright sparks were creeping everywhere among the prepared tinder. Then drawing from his match bundle one well tipped with brimstone and sulphur; he stood near by his own pile at the door, lit the match from the tinder by only a slight application, and fired the mass. Next he started round the house, stopping to do similar work at each corner. In an instant, all was well going. 
               "Now to the boat, boys! To the boat!" ordered he, leading the way himself through the beautiful grounds, so soon to be nought but blackened and smoking ruins. 
                
               They leaped hastily into the hoat, which shot like a sea-bird out from the little cove they had entered. They then rested for a few moments upon their oars, and gazed anxiously and earnestly over the low evergreens, above whose tops alone they expected to make the first practical discovery of their success. For a time, no unusual spectacle presented itself. 
               "'Twould be strange if the thing shouldn't go, after all," remarked one, as fearful as any. 
               "It will-it will; there's no help for it! It must go!" responded another, probably endeavoring to reason himself into the belief quite as much as his companion. 
               "The wind blows, you know," said a third; "it may have blowed the fire all out!" 
               "No, no," said Captain Buchanan, evidently resolved to take things just as they came, "there's little danger of the wind's blowing those torches out! They're dipped in turpentine. If the wind does strike 'em, 'twill only help their case!" 
               "'Twas a lucky thought, though," added the first speaker, "your dipping 'em in the turpentine." 
               The Captain did not think it specially incumbent on him to say that he perfectly agreed with the opinion of the last speaker, and therefore there ensued a silence of a few minutes. 
               "Strange enough!" said Captain Buchanan, at length, unable to restrain his patience longer; he was in fact excessively anxious lest the plan might, after all, through the inadequacy of his first arrangements, have fallen through. 
               "There! There! There you are!" exclaimed one of the men, suddenly pointing impatiently toward the mansion. 
               "Yes, see there!" all seemed to respond at once. 
               "Yes, we've got him now! This will be a good lesson for them!" said Captain Buchanan. 
               "Whose house is it, Captain?" asked one of the men, ignorant, up to this point, of every thing connected with the ownership of the property, or even of the professed object of the expedition. 
               "That is the house of General Oliver DeLancy,"
                     General Oliver De Lancy, the Adjutant-General of the British forces in America. He succeeded in his office the unfortunate Major Andre.
                   answered the Captain, looking at the progress of matters with no very dissatisfied eye. 
               The fires had by this time kindled, and their hungry jaws were seizing hold of the dry building with a ferocity that was insatiable. The men in the boat could hear their crackling, and steaming, and hissing, and the glare that shot through even the thick, dark boughs of the evergreens, fell athwart their faces, so that they might readily see the expression each of the other. Presently they heard shouts-as for help-from the chamber windows. They heard the windows open, and the blinds suddenly slap against the sides of the house, and knew that the inmates were thoroughly aroused. One turned his head partially to another, and wondered what they must think, at being awakened so unceremoniously from the depths of a sound sleep. 
               Then the fires seemed to strain their wizard limbs, and erect themselves into all the fantastic and fearful shapes that were properly theirs. They puffed up huge clouds of densest smoke. They thrust out their long, forked, ever-playing tongues, all lurid and red with heat. Through the cloud-folds, though they had been never so black and so dense, they protruded their skinny, skeleton hands, to but touch which were a death of terror. They raced and rolled from corner to corner of the house. They climbed to the eaves, and ran rapidly along beneath them. Then they mounted in their hot and uncontrollable haste to the very roof tree-to the ridge pole-across which they sat, clapping their skeleton hands of flame, spectral and gaunt, and rolling their fierce eyes about them in every direction. Again came those cries for assistance. They were heard upon the water, and their faint echoes died away upon its marble-cold surface. 
               Now the flames enwrapped everything. All about the spot, where but a few minutes before stood an elegant mansion, now looked a glowing mass of flame. There was now no cloud of smoke. There was now no vapor, or steam, uprising from the interior of the building. There was no veil of any character between their eyes and the white flames. All was a seemingly solid mass of fire. It spouted upwards like the play of a fiery fountain. It wheeled, and cuvetted, and wavered. Then it rolled, and danced, and piroutted in the air. Then it rose grandly, towering far upwards, leaping up madly, as if it would lay its hot hands upon the stars, and pluck them from their quiet homes. The same cries for help could ever and anon be heard by them; yet they grew less distinct with each succeeding effort. The flames played along upon the surface of the water-or rather their reflections did-lighting up the countenances of the boats' crew with a lurid shadow, and bringing out their changing expressions into a strange and unpleasant relief. 
               "We must be gone now," said the Captain, as he laid his hand upon the tiller. And forthwith all bent to the oars, and the boat was bounding over the waters at a rapid rate indeed. They turned, every few minutes, and looked over their shoulders at the conflagration; but they could only see that it was fast dying away in intensity, while countless sparks floated upwards to the silent, bending sky. The place looked to them more gloomy than ever. 
               Early the next morning, a soldier presented himself to General Putnam, as he was walking before his quarters for exercise. Touching his hat with proper military respect, he saluted him with, 
               "General, I have come to make my report to you thus early this morning." 
               "Captain Buchanan," responded his commander "you need to be greatly complimented for your punctuality. The men might well take pattern from you.' 
                
               Bowing low as he received the compliment of his superior, the young officer replied, 
               "My report to you is, General, that De Lancy's house was last night burned to the ground. Your orders were obeyed to the letter." 
               Instantly the General turned and went into his quarters again. Communicating the news to his brother officers in the house, who received it with undivided joy, said he, 
               "Now we shall see who is sick of this business first! I ordered that expedition for the professed purpose of retaliation-to avenge the wrong done Mr. Van Tassel! I believe they will think it's a business that can be done by us quite as well by them!" 
               The words of the General were prophetically true. This act of retaliation, it is believed, effected more in the way putting an end to these atrocious incursions and robberies, than all that had been done before towards the same end. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               A PLOT DEFEATED-COWBOYS PENNED. 
               A MAN emerged from the' 'Eel Pot," one evening in the latter part of November, and took his way directly to the quarters of General Robertson. He knocked with the old-fashioned, dog's-head knocker against the door, and immediately a negro, dressed in the style of a footman, opened the same. 
               "Is General Robertson at home?" asked the stranger. 
               "Yaas, he be just got home from a ride," answered the negro, assuming great gravity when he saw who his visiter was. 
               "I wish to see him," said the stranger, without any farther words, pushing by the negro, and stepping in the middle of the hall. 
               "Dat's easy 'nuff done," answered the blacky, retreating to another room, and managing to keep the whites of his eyes rolled on the stranger all the way. "Come dis way, den!" 
               The new comer followed the negro, obedient to his beck and invitation, and stood within the doorway of a spacious drawing room. It was abundantly lighted, the rays from the lamps penetrating every portion of the room, corners, cracks, crannies and crevices. The countenance of the lacquey shone like burnished ebony, the moment he came into the glare of the light, while his rows of teeth threw off the gleams of the purest-surfaced ivory. The door, as it was thrown back, seemed effectually to conceal those in the room from the view of the stranger at the point where he stood, yet he heard the sound of tongues, and knew that he whom he sought could not be far off. 
               "Who is he? What does he want?" he could hear the General ask of the servant. 
               "Sure, I don't know who he be, massa," replied the negro. "He neber tell who he be-neber say nuffin' what he want! Sure, massa, I tink he follow me 'long, but I don't see him!" 
               At this juncture, the stranger thought it proper to introduce himself with no farther ceremony. Accordingly, still holding his hat in his hands, he entered directly into the presence of the man he sought. 
               General Robertson was sitting at table, and three or four companions, evidently officers also, were with him. The decanters of clear wine stood before them, and their glasses appeared freshly primed for a new attempt upon the generous liquor. It stood in their cups as clear and inviting to the intent eyes of the visiter, as a glass of the purest water. All appeared to be in no unsocial mood, the juice of the grapes having undoubtedly warmed their hearts to a generous and lively glow. 
               "Kit Clemm! Upon my word!" exclaimed General Robertson, as soon as he laid his eyes upon the advancing stranger. The others likewise turned their heads to get a view of the person bearing the name, and to hear more distinctly, as they thought, the conversation of the General with him. "Well," continued the General, quite unceremoniously for him-"well, Kit, what news do you bring now?" 
               "I've jest come in." said the stranger. "I've been across the lines, and they're makin' warm work with your tories there, I tell ye!" 
               "Oh, I supposed they would-I supposed they would! The fact is, these fellows must manage to look out for their own necks, mustn't they, Colonel?" and he turned a strange look, yet one full of good nature, upon Colonel De Lancy 
                     Colonel De Lancy, a tory, commanded a party of "cowboys" in and around Westchester, in the time of the Revolution.
                   -the noted partisan leader. "But how's Old Put, Kit? Did ye get a look at him? How is the old fellow now-and what is he stirring himself about, except catching our peaceable men, and whipping the vagabond tories, as he calls them?" 
               "Yes, I saw the General," answered Kit; "he was well, to all appearances, anyhow. I don't know what he's punchin' at now, though. Somethin', most likely. He's none o' your idle ones, now, they say!" 
               "John," ordered the General to the negro, who still stood behind his master, "pour out my friend there a glass of wine. Sit down, Kit; we want to have your opinion upon a few matters, before you leave us; you have dropped in just at the right time!" 
               The negro poured out a glass of wine and handed it to the stranger, though not without a strange commentary in his mind upon the propriety of waiting upon such doubtful-looking individuals with the same ceremony as he would upon outright gentlemen. Taking the glass in his hand, Kit raised it before his lips, and proposed- 
               "General Robertson, may you grow better as you grow older, like this wine!"-and then drank it down at a single gulp. 
               "Faith! but you shall have your glass filled for that a second time!" replied General Robertson. "You couldn't have meant to insinuate that my ways needed mending any, did you, Kit?" 
               All his companions laughed heartily at this version of the sentiment-a version they had not any one of them thought to give it himself. 
                
               "Oh, no, your honor!" rejoined Kit, fearing that his simple toast should all be construed the wrong way for him. "No, no, your honor; I meant only-only-" 
               "I see-I see," replied the General, with a smile he in vain endeavored to repress. "Say no more about it. You meant nothing, as you usually do! Is that it?" and he burst out into a boisterous laugh, as if he had finally reasoned himself, if nobody else, into a good humor again. 
               "Kit, as you've just come from the American lines-though, for the life of me, I don't see how you can get about so and your neck not grow any longer-perhaps you'd like to hear a fresh word from General Putnam yourself. He writes me occasionally, you see, as we were old friends in the Indian and French wars, and I'll just read you a specimen. Gentlemen," continued he, turning likewise to the rest, "suppose I give you the gist of my last despatch from Putnam-it's Old Put all over! I could swear 'twas he, even if I hadn't seen the handwriting! He goes on to speak about our shamelessness in hiring these marauders that prey all through the adjacent country, and then says-'Major General Putnam presents his compliments to Major General Robertson, and sends him some American newspapers for his perusal. When General Robertson shall have done with them, it is requested they be given to Rivington, in order that he may print some truth.'
                  
                     The above is the actual substance of a note sent by the flag from General Putnam to General Robertson. Flags were then suffered to go between the lines.
                   Now, isn't that refreshing-how perfectly cool! I wonder if Putnam thinks the stories the Americans tell of their battles are filled with more truth than Rivington's accounts are? But he's so confoundedly American, there's no getting an unprejudiced opinion out of him at all now. Here are some old copies of the Connecticut Courant, a paper printed in Hartford, containing accounts of our fights at Danbury, and Norwalk, and Ridgefield. But you can have them, gentlemen, if you choose. I don't imagine there's any more truth, so Putnam calls it, to be found in these accounts than in ours; but it's all his way! I know him well! It's just his way!" 
               The papers were accordingly distributed around the table, and a brief examination of them gone through. While they were engaged in his occupation the door again opened, and in walked, with a pompous and stately air, the notorious Colonel Cunningham-the man who had made himself odious to every American that heard his name, by his brutal treatment of the prisoners in his charge in the city prison. 
               "Ah, Cunningham!" exclaimed General Robertson, "you are here in good time. My friend Kit Clemm here is waiting for just such a man as you are. You know he does the work well, and here he is ready for more, I suppose." 
               Kit bowed, as if he were willing to be taken as meaning anything they preferred. 
               "What news with you all here, gentlemen?" added Cunningham, turning and making his respects is the entire company. 
               "A glass of wine, Cunningham! Join us in a glass of wine, Colonel!" said General Robertson, pushing a chair towards him, and looking his necessary orders at the negro, John. 
               The visiter thanked his host with a civil bow, and, seating himself, proceeded to pour out a glass of wine from the massive decanter the negro set before him. The conversation for some time was general-on the part of Cunningham studiously so. From such subjects, enlisting no very great energy or warmth from either one of them, they ran on to the state of affairs around them, more particularly in relation to the camp above them. General Robertson remarked that Putnam was 'a bold fellow,' and as persevering and unflinching as he was bold; to which Cunningham added that he had evidence enough to satisfy him that General Putnam was right on that point, if on no other. 
               "But," continued Cunningham, looking sly and knowing at the officers around the board, "I have a plan in my head, and I came here to-night expressly for the purpose of stating it to you." 
               "What is it?" inquired De Lancy, interested in the earnest manner of Cunningham, and knowing enough of his character and habits to believe that something must now be on the tapis. 
               "To take General Putnam!" was his reply. 
               "Ha, ha, ha!" shouted General Robertson, throwing his head back as he exploded; "but that's a good one!" 
               "Why-what's the trouble?" asked Cunningham. 
               "Trouble!" responded Robertson, "the trouble is to get him here. It would take all the forces of the king that ever landed on this continent!" 
               "Fudge! You have a very exalted idea of the man!" 
               "Indeed I ought to have! I've served with old Israel Putnam long enough to know that he isn't a man to be taken! Cunningham, I'll lay you any wager you can't get him!" 
               "And not interest yourself any to prevent it, and so secure your wager?" asked Cunningham, ironically. 
               "No, no! You joke; I'm in sober earnest!" 
               "Well then, to satisfy you, I will not bet with you-I will go to work and bring General Putnam out of his camp to the city!" 
               "And you shall have all the advice and co-operation I can give you," added General Robertson, "for I should be charmed to have so old a friend as Israel Putnam in my company as much as he would be, if you but took him. I'll help you all I can. Take this man now for your work! Take Kit Clemm! He's a faithful fellow, and trusty! What's your plan! Tell it!" 
               "My men are all picked out now," said Cunningham, with an air of no little satisfaction. 
               "Where are they?" asked De Lancy, his interest in the matter visibly increasing. 
               "They are in the city to-night, awaiting your orders only," replied Cunningham. 
                
               "Good!' cried General Robertson, clapping his hands together. "I like you, Cunningham-you have such a direct way of going about your work! Everything planned, and come here to lay a wager about it, hey? Sly boy-sly boy, that!" 
               "Come, Kit Clemm! Will you go with me?" asked he, turning suddenly to that individual, and setting his glass down on the table. 
               "Certain-I'm always ready to go," replied he, rising. 
               "If you must take him with you, then," said General Robertson, "at least see that you return him as safe as you found him, and don't be long about it, either. He's one of my shrewdest travellers, and I can't do without him long at a time." 
               "I'll answer, General, for his safety, and remune rate you too, if you wish, for the use of him," replied Cunningham, as he and Kit moved out at the door. 
               The latter followed close on at the heels of the former, until they arrived at his usual quarters. Then he went into his room with him, and was there closeted for at least three-fourths of an hour. Their conference was specially secret and confidential, for three or four callers upon Cunningham were unceremoniously given to understand that he was then very busily engaged and would not received a single visiter upon any business. As soon as the consultation was over, Kit Clemm left the apartment and disappeared in a neighbouring street. 
               The third night thereafter, nine men were concealed at about the twilight hour in a small growth of wood near Putnam's quarters, thickly set in with scraggy and shapeless masses of rocks. They lay perfectly still, although the night was bitter cold and the wind purpled their flesh and benumbed their hands. They passed round their pocket flasks, to keep up their sinking spirits, told stories with no special point to them, laughed at the security the Americans at that very moment felt in their quarters, and promised themselves very great fun before another morning's sun should shine. 
               "What'll you do with him to-night?" asked one of another. 
               "Carry him beyond the lines, by all means," responded the other. "We shouldn't be safe here, you ninny!" 
               "I know that well enough; but where had we better carry him? Whose house shall we quarter at?" 
               "There's enough of 'em." 
               "But bad we better, think of stopping?" asked another. "It'll only give him a better opportunity to escape. Besides, they will miss the old man by morning!" 
               "Very true, but how far dare they come after us?" inquired a fourth. 
               "How far! These rebel fellows would run through a fire of a mile's circumference, if they only thought Old Put hud gone through before 'em!" 
               "Yes, they're up to anything," remarked the one who favored the idea of pushing straight through, as soon as they had secured their prey. "They'll look the very devil out of countenance, for that matter, and fight as long as they have a half-point of blood to run! And their General is just like 'em, too! In fact, they copy him-not he them! I'm not so very sure that the old General wouldn't turn to and fight us all, single handed, if he could but get his back to a wall! What say you, Kit? You've see him." 
               "I know I have," responded the individual addressed, who was no other than Kit Clemm himself, "and I know that the General fights as hard as he works-quite as hard. He's never idle-always doin' somethin'-and if he can't find any reg'lar, peaceable work to do, he'll just begin fightin'! There's no tellin' what a constitooshun that man's got, nuther. He's as hearty as an ox, and he never goes into anything half-way. It's jest the same whether he eats, or sleeps, or works, or fights; he does one on 'em jest as much work-fashion as he does the other! It's all the same to him; and all I've got to say is, if you take him to-night, you'd better keep movin' with him! Keep him busy, or he'll keep you so!" 
               "But we're fast-too last-I think," spake up one of the party, who had preserved a strict silence hitherto. "We'd better catch our game first!" 
               "Never you fear that!" cried out one of the hopeful ones, in a hoarse whisper. "He's ours sure enough!" 
               "Counting chickens-and so forth!" replied the first with a half malicious chuckle. 
               "If I go, it's time I went now," said Kit Clemm, wishing to put an end to a discussion that was exceedingly frivolous, at the best. "The old General is abed by this time, I sh'd think, for he rises early. I will start off and reconnoitre for you!." 
               Before Kit made this proposition, he had changed his appearance. The clothes worn by him from the city were now put off, and he stood before them, arrayed in all attire peculiarly unique and original. No one could positively have sworn to his being the same man. Upon his head was a slouched felt, from underneath whose rim he looked up at his comrades with great difficulty and some considerable hoisting of his head. About his body was a loose gabardine of tow-cloth, fastened about the waist with a single round of common whip-cord. His boots were nearly up to his knees, and drawn up outside of his pantaloons. About his neck he wore a coarse neckcloth, looking as if it were heavily wadded with cotton, and tied with the knot almost or quite beneath the left ear. His expression appeared dull and inclined to sottishness. He seemed to observe nothing, and to be in all respects a good example of a good, clever, honest backwoodsman. He astonished those who saw what a transformation the man was capable, with the assistance of a little ingenuity, of undergoing. Waving his hand to the party, he assured them that they might look for him in a few minutes, if nothing happened to him, and then they should all be led on to the undertaking on which they had come. 
               The quarters of General Putnam were in an old, brown house, with but two stories in the front and but one in the rear-the rear roof running off at such a gentle declivity, and reaching so near down to the ground-just over the back door-that the space therein was good for nothing but a garret, and poor for that. General Putnam was sleeping in the front corner room, by himself. All this was perfectly well known to Kit Clemm by some means-he, by the assistance of his disguises, being able to appear in both camps as a friend to both causes-and he advanced towards the house with an assured air. He did not by any means disregard the figure of the sentinel, walking his watchful rounds before the house, but stood prepared to reply to the very important inquiry he might be about to make. 
               "Who goes there?" suddenly demanded the wide awake sentinel, bringing his arms to a 'present,' to be ready for his customer, if a vicious one. 
               "A friend," replied Kit Clemm. 
               "Give the countersign!" ordered the sentinel, in his deep, gruff tones, that seemed to come from the very bottoms of his boots. 
               "Montgomery!" answered the passer, while he walked deliberately on, and stopped at the front door of the house. 
               "What do you want there?" demanded the sentinel, approaching him. "The General has been in bed these two hours, nearly; you can't see him to night." 
               "I must see him, at any rate," was the reply. 
               "Come, now, old plough-jogger!" rejoined the sentinel, "I guess you'll be jest as apt to sell your poultry in the morning as if you hung round here to-night. I don't think the General would thank anybody for waking him up now! He must be in a good drowse, by this time, and I'm not going to be the one to disturb him!" 
               "Then I am!" retorted Kit Clemm, placing his hand upon the door-latch and lifting it. Before the sentinel could utter another word of protest, the stranger had gone from his sight, and the door had closed upon him. He hurried to the chamber of General Putnam, and entered it with no further ceremony. Awaking him without difficulty, he offered to strike a light, that he might the better communicate to him what he had to say. The General prevented this, however, by himself striking the flint and steel that lay upon the stand at the head of his bed. As soon as the light was burning, he looked at the intruder steadily, shading his eyes with his hand as he did so, and then exclaimed- 
               "John Horton!" 
               "It's old Verd Antique himself!" replied the stranger, who had dropped the name of Kit Clemm at the threshold of the door, and now stood by his commander the true patriot he ever had been. 
               To General Putnam he narrated the whole plan that had been formed by Cunningham to make him their prisoner, and likewise all the conversation he had heard, or in which he had taken a part, in the presence of the British officers in New York. Putnam appeared delighted to find Verd Antique so shrewd and collected a man, expressing many times his wonder at his success in so perilous an undertaking, and complimenting him upon the actual service he did for the holy cause in which he was enlisted. 
               When Verd-Antique communicated to his commander the trap into which he had purposely led the party that was then out upon their expedition, the latter could hardly contain himself for joy. He instantly started out of bed, rubbing his hands gleefully, and promising them that they should not go back without their reward. 
               "They lie in those rocks yonder, now," said Verd-Antique. "If you take them to night, it must be done now. I have made them think you are but poorly guarded, and if they should start down this way before you can get a force round them, it might go hard, you know, General!" 
               "How long did you tell them you should be gone?" asked General Putnam. 
               "Until I could reconnoitre; they'll not much expect me back before half an hour from now." 
               "And in that time they'll not expect to get back to their lines themselves!" added the General. "John Horton," continued he, still busied with dressing himself, and taking the precaution to secrete the candle in the fire-place-"John Horton, just run down to Captain Howe's quarters, and tell him to be here in three minutes from now!" 
               The partisan hurried to obey the command. In just about the time prescribed the two men returned together. 
               "Take twenty men, Captain Howe," said General Putnam, 'and hurry round by the ledges yonder! There are a handful of tories there, whom I wish to take prisoners-every one of them! Let every thing be done as secretly as possible, and with dispatch. When you have brought in your men, come and report yourself to me!" 
               The officer departed. The success of his manuvre may best be understood, when we state that he returned within half an hour to the quarters of his General, and reported every man safe in the guardroom, under the care of sentinels. 
               Verd-Antique desired both General Putnam and Captain Howe to make it understood among the prisoners that he had first been captured, and made to disclose the whole plot; and that he was afterwards sent away to another post, farther up in the Highlands, where his very commendable zeal might be schooled under more proper influences. 
               It was on the self-same day that General Putnam received a letter from General Washington, admonishing him that there was a well-laid plan on foot to make him a prisoner, and carry him within the British lines. 
               "But I rather think I've broken it up, with the assistance of my friend John Horton!" exclaimed General Putnam, as he folded the billet and laid it carefully away. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               THE TORY AND THE INDIAN-AN INFAMOUS PLOT. 
               AS soon as the Indian, Lariko, and Jim Marshall, the tory, had come to understand each other a little better, on the night when they met so unexpectedly in the woods, the latter commenced talking of the indignities he had so recently suffered from a flagellation with the hated birches, and vowing that if he did but live long enough, Captain Howe would be sorry for the part he had taken in securing his punishment. What his plans were he did not then see proper to communicate to the Indian, but merely asked him if he remembered the girl on the Ridgefield mountain. 
               "Remember the spring-flower!" responded the Indian, his keen eye lighting still more, "remember the girl of the mountain! Lariko never forget! Lariko remember always!" 
               "Have you seen her of late?" asked the tory, a little inclined to dwell on the subject, as if the vengeful associatious that clustered around it were well calculated to allay the smarting of his wounds, while they were equally certain to keep alive the smarting of his spirit. 
               "Me see mountain flower less than a moon ago," answered the Indian. 
               "What! Have you been to the lodge, then?" 
               "Lariko sleep in the lodge nights! Lariko stop no where else, when he that way!" 
               "But where are you going this winter then, Lariko?" 
               "Poor Indian go back to the woods! Pale faces care none for red-skins! Lariko go far back to the Mohawk, where his brethren hunt!" 
               "And will you promise to be back again at early spring?" 
               "Me be sure to be back! Lariko have presents for pale face Jim! Lariko be sure to be back!" 
               The conversation continued in this strain for some time. Marshall assured the Indian that he should himself go within the British lines as soon as he could get there; and there he said he should stay until the spring was fairly open. He had had enough of the infuriated rebels, he added, and cared to have nothing more to do with any of them. He had a grudge against one of them, however, and he only wanted the opportunity to occur when he might gratify it to his heart's content. 
               The two straggled off together that night, and not long afterwards the one was safe within the protection afforded by the British authorities, while the other was on his solitary journey again to the valley of the far-off Mohawk. 
               Just as soon as the open, clear weather of spring had begun to settle itself upon the earth, Jim Marshall took such by-paths over the hills and across the country as were known only to him, and in which he had no cause to fear discovery, and, after a week's cautious travelling, succeeded in reaching the hut of which we have spoken, situated about a mile from the habitation of the witch, in the depths of the forest. He at once sat about making himself comfortable in his domicil, expecting that the Indian would join him ere long at this their common rendezvous. Nor in this expectation was he disappointed. It was not many days before Lariko returned from his winter campaign at the northward, and presented himself at the door. The surprise of each, at seeing the other, was great, and their mutual congratulations were not all fully exchanged in the space of a whole hour. Marshall had to recount all the experiences-not very varied or wonderful, to be sure-through which he had been carried during the winter, while Lariko consumed quite as much time in telling, in his simple, Indian way, the stories concerning the Americans which he had heard in the Mohawk valley, and rehearsing the many dangers through which he had gone, likewise. All this formed a pleasurable conversational topic for both the wanderers for a long time, at length they settled down upon the direct plan of operations for the succeeding season. 
               "At any rate," said Marshall, pointing anxiously with his index-finger in the direction of the witch's hut, "at any rate, one thing must be done soon!" 
               "What be that?" inquired Lariko, his little eyes looking more diminutive and passive in their expression than ever. 
               "The girl!" answered Marshall, "you haven't forgotten the girl, Lariko, so soon?" 
               "Lariko no forget! Lariko remember always!" was the Indian's reply. 
               "And I haven't forgotten the cutting I got, either, from those rebel switches, last fall! I don't forget such things, Lariko! I have sworn never to forget that!" 
               "Ugh!" exclaimed the Indian, producing that peculiar gutteral sound usually made by those of his race. 
               "That young Cap'n Howe mustn't think I'm goin' to let him off so easy!" continued the tory. "I'm bound to rob him of his sweetheart, that he makes such a fuss over, every time he comes up here from camp; and then if I can get a chance at him, I shan't miss long of it! Ha! ha! ha!" laughed he, fiendishly, "I've seen him before! I know just such characters, and aint to be scared by 'em, nuther! He'll be up this way pretty soon, now that the spring opens, and then you shall see what a fuss'll be made! He'll come up on to this mountain, and he'll hunt, and hunt, and hunt round for his gal-but she won't be here!-no, no-he'll not find her here, I can assure him!" 
               "Lariko creep round the hut-Indian sly, like wild cat-sly, like panther-Lariko look into hut-see the fair maiden! Lariko bring back he sights to paleface brother! The maiden is fair-fair, like the white lily on the pond-Lariko watch fair maiden with both eyes-creep like wild cat-come tell paleface brother!" 
               "Enough, enough; the gal shall leave that but jest as soon as there comes a good chance to carry her away! All I want is, to know when that cussed old black cat-that I believe is only the devil himself in her skin-will go away! She'll be likely to go with her mistress, when the old hag goes into the woods, and then I shall feel a trifle safer." 
               This conversation between these two worthies, during which their nefarious plot was principally laid for the abduction of the beautiful mountain-nymph, Mary, by force, was held only the day before the transaction we are about to record. The Indian's blood was well stirred by the appliances of the tory against everything, and everybody, that could be an object of endearment to Captain Howe, and he was fully as ready as his unnatural instigator to perform any deed that might be suggested to him. Early the next morning, Lariko left the little hut, or cabin, beneath the scraggy ledge, and stole like a shadow through the pathless forest in the direction of the habitation of Bet Miffles, the witch. Marshall lay concealed in the hut, awaiting the return of his companion. 
               "And this young stripling of a fellow," mused he to himself, aloud-"this young stripling thinks he can hold me in his hands, as if I was a baby! The bold fool!-but he doesn't know who Jim Marshall is yet! It's easy enough to cry out 'tory' 'tory!' to the people in the village, and it's easy enough, too, so far as I know, to make 'em believe all he chooses to say against me! But he'll find that talkin's one thing, and actin's quite another! He's got to find that out sometime or other-and why not now jest as well as at any other time? There's no tellin, nuther, how long this war's goin' to last; and if I'm to do anything about him, I'd better do it now! Ah, yes! I know him so well! I know all about him! He don't slip me this time-no, he don't! Then how much of a profit, in the way of favor, this may be to me, after all! There is no tellin', absolutely, how much it may be the means of promotin' me! Only let her marry some one of them British officers, with his gold lace and silver sword-and what a figger she'd cut! And does anybody think Jim Marshall wouldn't be the gainer by it? And he would have his revenge on his enemy, too! That's the thing-that's the thing! There's where I kill two fat birds with one stone! Yes, there's where I do it! Let me see, if I should make known to one o' them Britishers what eyes she'd got, and how much like their Queen she looked-wouldn't I-wouldn't I be in the way of mendin' my shattered matters a trifle? Perhap not! Oh, no, perhaps not! But, I vow, I'll secure the gal first, and we'll talk about gettin' her a lover afterwards. A bird in the hand's worth two in the bush-true enough! true enough! For all that, though, I think I've as good as got her now; I sh'd like to stay and see what the valiant Cap'n will have to say, when he comes home! I guess he'll think of me then! I guess he will! I love to have my friends think of me-I do!"-and with these words, he rolled over upon his temporary couch on the floor, and relapsed into a train of reflection precisely similar to the above, with the exception that it was silent and unspoken. Even the walls have ears, he began to fear, when he found how vehement his expressions were fast getting to be. 
               He had lain but a little while, however, upon his hard bunk, when he heard the sound of coming footsteps-soft, stealthy, and careful. He started upon his feet, awaiting any sign that might be made him. If the person advancing was the Indian, he would be sure to make known his presence by the token mutually agreed upon. Placing his eye to a crevice between the logs that formed one of the walls of the habitation, he cautiously surveyed the premises. Instead of their coming nearer, the footsteps seemed to be retreating, or, rather, going off in an oblique direction. He watched closely between the tree-boughs, whose sprays were just expanding beneath the influence of the sun, and in a moment saw with surprise the form of a woman. Who could she be?-a woman passing by there in the early morning! 
               "It's the witch! As I live, the old witch!" exclaimed he aloud, as soon as he had become satisfied of the fact with close watching. "Yes, and there goes her devilish black cat behind her! That's good luck for Jim Marshall! Great luck for him." 
               He was on the point of rushing from the cabin and congratulating himself in the open air, where his overjoyed spirits would be less trammelled, upon his excellent fortune; but he was checked by some contrary impulse quite as sudden, and gave up the project almost as soon as he had conceived it. His solitary self-congratulations were not permitted to continue long, however; for, within five minutes of the time when old Bet Miffies passed, the door opened and the Indian walked in. One could not have detected in the simple expression of his features any particular cause for joy, except he had trained himself thoroughly to read just such expressions. To Marshall, the countenance of the Indian denoted much elation; but he detected it only in the quicker kindling and swelling of his small eyes. The muscles about the mouth were as rigid as marble. 
               "The old witch is gone!" exclaimed Marshall, unable to contain himself longer. 
               "How does pale face know?" asked the Indian, surprised that he should have found it out. 
               "The old black devil's with her, too!" added the tory. 
               "Has the pale face power to see everywhere, like the Great Spirit?" asked the astonished native. 
               "No, but I generally manage to see what's goin' on about me," answered Marshall. "The old-hag just went by here!" 
               "And see the lodge?" inquired the Indian, alarmed. 
               "No, she looked straight ahead! She knows no thin' at all of any such place as this is! She saw nothin'! Don't be afraid! What news do you bring, Lariko?" 
               "Lariko creep like the congar! Lariko steal like the breath of the gentle wind!" 
               "I know how slick you do it, old fellow!" interrupted rupted Marshall, impatient to hear what he really had to tell. 
               "Indian creep to the lodge-creep close-put his ear to crack, and listen!" 
               "Well, what d'ye hear, Lariko?" 
               "Let Indian tell!" 
               "Yes, yes! Go ahead, old fellow! I'll listen all day to ye; only don't let's miss such a good chance to get the gal!" 
               "Lariko put his ear to crack-old woman mumble, mumble, to spring-flower-fair maiden keep tongue fast! She make no word! Old witch tell she be gone in the forest all day, and-" 
               "Did she say all day, though?" interrupted Marshall again, "what more could we ask?" 
               "Old witch take black devil and leave the lodge-fair maiden all alone!" 
               "Then we must go over there and do what we've got to pretty soon? There's work to be done, Lariko-work!" 
               "When old witch gone, Lariko creep like wild-cat up to the window, and look on the spring flower! The maiden like the morning blush on the clouds in the east! Beauty-beauty-all beauty! Fair as the Red Man's heaven away in the south-west! More beautiful than the lily cup, when it floats on the bosom of the glassy lake, where the soft eyed deer come and slake their thirst! The maiden be truly Manokee! Oh, the happy man that this place-faced maiden gives her heart to!" 
               "But I know who she won't give her heart to-and that is, that young fool of a Cap'n Howe! I'll swear he won't git it, whether she concludes to give it to him or not!" 
               "The maiden is very fair," replied Lariko. "She is fit for the squaw of a great chief! She would sit well in his wigwam, and look more fair, as she counted his many scalps with her lily-white hands!" 
               "Well," said Marshall, "we'll say no more now about her beauty; we'll git her here first, and p'raps there'll be time enough to think about it then. Suppose we start off for the hut now!" 
               "Lariko ready-Indian always ready!" responded his companion. 
               The tory needed no further words of encouragement. His determination was at once taken. Examining his musket, to see that his priming was in good trim, and to satisfy himself more especially that there was enough of it, he started hurriedly for the door. The Indian was close at bis heels. 
               They took the most direct path to the hut of the old witch, and when at length they reached the open plain that spread out before it, the tory could not avoid resting a moment, and gazing far-off at the quiet little village. He thought how few there were in that village street, who knew that he was so near them; how lately, too, it appeared to him that he passed among them, with as honest a look as any! The scene more than half enchanted him, ruffian as he had grown. There was a freshness in the prospect-nay, in the very air he breathed-that inclined him to linger longer, and yield to his reflections. But he suddenly bethought himself of his business-of the purpose he had in his mind-and hurried on. He cared then no more for the beautiful scenery, or the bracing air, than if their influences had not so suddenly refreshed him. 
               Reaching the door of the hut, Marshall motioned the Indian to remain outside, while he himself entered. Regardless of ceremony, and perhaps desirous of making as sudden and deep an impression upon the fears of the young girl as possible, he lifted the latch and opened wide the door. There was no one there, whom he could detect. He looked steadily all about the apartment-there was no one. 
               Just stepping over the threshold upon the oaken floor, he raised an echo that appalled him. Nor did it fail to have the effect he could most have desired; for the moment she heard it, Mary-the beautiful grandchild of the witch-opened the door of her bedroom, and stood contronting the intruder. Her face at first turned ashy pale; then the color rushed to it in terror; and then she grew white and livid again. A single glance only at the person standing before her, sufficed to satisfy her as to who he was. She had not seen him since the fiendish black cat had given him such an unmerciful excoriation. She knew him now, however, well enough. She knew that face-those eyes-that expression, sinister, fiendish, forbidding! 
               He gazed for a moment steadily and impudently in her face. Her eyes dropped to the floor, both unable and unwilling to stand so searching and severe a test. Then they wandered off to another quarter of the apartment-any where, to any object-so they should not meet those awful eyes of his. She bit her pallid lips in confusion, praying inwardly that words might be supplied her in this moment of her need. 
               "You are all alone this mornin'," remarked the tory, stepping a pace further in and allowing the door to fall to after him. 
               The maiden looked, or nodded, an affirmative. She could not answer-she dared not answer with words, fearing that the very first syllable she uttered might work to her greater harm in the end. 
               "I knew that you was," said Marshall; "I saw the old hag clearing with her black devil for the woods. I've been on her track this long while! I know when she's to home, and when she's not to home! I have eyes, miss!" 
               Mary certainly, would have been willing to admit that he had, and such eyes, too, as she cared not to dwell long in contemplation of. But being a young girl, timid as a fawn, too-she held her peace. 
               "Now that that damned black devil and her mis, tress are gone," continued he, elevating his voice a little, "I want to ask you two or three questions, my little puss. Set down, if you want to, for I'm a-goin' to!" and he proceeded without further ceremony to appropriate to his use the chair that stood unoccupied near him. "You love that youngling of a Cap n Howe, don't you?" 
                
               "Am I bound to tell you all my thoughts?" replied she, firmly, though it was a mystery to her how the words came to her lips. 
               "Really! Quite gritty, for a mountain lass!" exclaimed the tory, his eyes flashing, and his face becoming more animated in its always fierce expression. "Who's been firing you up in this manner? The young Cap'n, I conclude! Oh, yes! a very pretty thing, this marrying a Cap'n-a rebel-and a base coward! a very pretty thing, indeed!' 
               "You speak that of which you are ignorant!" exclaimed the girl, her face becoming suddenly flushed with excitement. "If William Howe were here, you would not dare to use such words as these! He would teach you that not a drop of coward blood runs in his veins! If he is a coward, he certainly does not show it by toryism-that meanest species of cowardice!" 
               "Bravely spoken, indeed, my little maid!" replied he, still successful in keeping back the passion that boiled madly even now within him. "A very courageous maid you are indeed! No wonder you aint afraid to live alone-or what's worse, with a black devil and an old witch-on a mountain! No wonder, I say! If they could but have you in the reg'lar army, by jove!-what a commander they'd make of ye!" 
               The girl condescended to make no reply, such as words could have offered, to this. It was astonishing, however, to see how, in a few moments, her whole nature seemed to have changed. There appeared to be nothing of the girl-nothing of the timid maiden about her now. She had suddenly grown into the full stature and dignity of womanhood Bending the full expression of her dark eyes upon him, she gave him a steadfast look before which any one but a villain must have quailed. But such was not its effect upon the tory. He returned it with one of his own as long as he could preserve his equanimity, and then he broke out with: 
               "You're a strange baggage, at any rate! What mean you by such looks?" 
               "Ask your own conscience, sir, if you yet have one!" she replied. 
               "But you are not civil! You do not treat me well! You-" 
               "How should I, when you come here professedly to insult me!" said she. 
               "I came to ask you a few questions," rejoined the tory, "and, by heavens!"-here he raised his voice to a very high pitch-"I will have them answered!" 
               "Haven't I answered one already?" asked the girl. 
               "Yes, in your way; and you have called me coward beside! What for an answer is that, from a young miss, too" 
               "I answered you as I thought you deserved to be answered," she replied, mildly, but firmly. 
               "Answer me this then; do you intend to marry that young Cap'n Howe?-the scapegoat!" 
               "You will sit in that chair for an answer to such a question, until you grow old and turn gray!" 
               "Do you think to marry him? Of course you do!" said he, seeing how useless such forcing was on his part, and relapsing into a monologue. "I know all about your plans! I know them all-" 
               "What are they?" 
               "I've heard your valiant warrior talk; but there be others who can talk as big as he! I know what his plans are; but there be others that know how to plan as deep as he! You may believe me or not, as you please; you will live, however, to see these things come to pass!" 
               "I wish he were here," replied she, "to hear you talk as you do. I do not know why you come and put it into my ears, when I can neither help nor hinder any thing you choose to do! Why do you not talk with him? I have no doubt that he would be glad to have you speak your sentiments to him in the plain manner you have seen fit to speak to me!" 
               "Yes, I shall have my day of reckoning with him! Never fear you for that! His time is to come! I have sworn it-and what I have sworn, that will I do!" 
               "I presume he will be ready at any time to meet your vengeance," said she. 
               "Girl!" cried the outlaw, advancing a single pace with a heavy stride, "girl! this is not what I come here for, this morning!" 
               "I care not what you came here for! Of course it was for no good purpose, or you would not have watched your opportunity when I am defenceless and alone!" 
               "You must think of leaving," said he, calming his tone considerably 
               "I wish you would leave me yourself!" said she, impetuously. 
               "That I shall never do again, while you are in the hut of this old hell-cat!" 
               "What!" shrieked the pallied girl, "what!" 
               "You must go with me!" replied he, more calm than he was before. 
               "I cannot-I shall not. Indeed, I shall never leave my grandmother's house with you. Begone! Away from me, I say! I cannot bear your presence!" 
               "No, but I can yours; you may get yourself ready just as fast as you can! Haven't many clothes, I reckon, livin' up here out of society so! Get yourself ready! There's no black devil here now, in the shape of a cat!" 
               "I wish there were! I really wish there were!" she cried, throwing up her hands in wild astonishment. 
               "I know you do, and I didn't mean to gratify you so much as to come when she was here. I looked out for this thing! But come along; time grows short!" 
               "I tell you, Jim Marshall," said she, standing firm and erect, and bringing down her little foot with much force upon the floor, "I tell you that I shall not go! I will not leave the house of my grandmother. Do you hear me? Begone-begone!" 
               The enraged tory stepped backward to the door which he opened a little way, giving a low, shrill whistle as he did so. The eyes of the astonished girl were rivetted to the spot, to see what could mean this significant sound. What could express her surprise at beholding the lithe form of the Indian enter-a sight to which her eyes were unaccustomed. He stepped boldly into the room, and advanced to lay hold of her. The moment she comprehended his purpose, her strength utterly failed her-her head swam round and round to her vision-her senses left her, and she swooned away upon the floor! 
               "Jest the thing! Take hold of her, and we'll soon have her out o' the way!" said the tory to his red companion, proceeding to take her up by her arms, shoulders and back. The Indian bent himself over to the task, and, taking the lifeless body between them, they bore it away, with no ordinary haste, and much less reference to gentleness. They pursued the shortest route through the forest to the cabin they had just vacated, after arriving at which place, they carried in the body and deposited it upon the bunk the tory had so lately left. The Indian, barbarian though he was, could not refrain from taking a long and steadfast look at her countenance, which he pronounced one fit to grace the war-dance of the greatest braves he ever knew. He indulged in many poetical expressions in relation to her appearance, and added that he wondered none that the pale face was enraptured with so much beauty in a single person! Though his encomiums were simple, they were none the less truthful and worthy for that. 
               Marshall stood over her, exerting himself as he best knew how for her recovery. It was some time, however, before she returned to her senses, and then she appeared bewildered and feverish. She tossed her arms about restlessly, glaring continually at every part of the close and darkened cabin, and asked frantically where she was, and what she was there for. Marshall at once saw that no good could come to her by answering her inquiries, and suffered her to pursue them as she felt inclined without interruption. 
               "But why am I here?" she demanded, endeavoring to rise, and falling back more exhausted with each effort-"why am here? Where am I? Is William here? Is he coming too? Oh, mercy, mercy-take me from here! Let me begone! Why is that monster here!" were exclamations that constantly passed her lips. 
               "There's no need for you to call on William," said the tory, firing at the sound of the word. "He'll come when he gits ready-and that'll be a long while after you git out o' his reach! He can't help you none-so best be as quiet as you can!" 
               With these and similar words from the lips of the monster, she grew alarmed the more, and seeing that all her protestations were of no avail, the woman returned to her again, and she buried her face in both hands, and shed scalding tears. The tory looked on with a delight he seemed never to have known before on any occasion. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               JOURNEYS BY NIGHT-ESCAPE-A WELCOME ROOF TREE. 
               EVEN when Captain Howe returned to the village and visited, with Buff, the hut of the witch, Mary was concealed still in the rude cabin where she had been forcibly carried the third day before. Had the young man only suspected such a propinquity, the forest would every foot of it have been beaten, but that she should have been discovered by him. It was only too evident, from the abrupt exclamations in which he indulged on taking his leave of the witch, that he felt satisfied that some harm had befallen the girl, and that it had come from no other hands those that had been raised against her before. But he could entertain no suspicions that Mary was still so near her home-so near him. On that point, her present locality, he was all in a state of bewilderment. 
               The second night after her forcible abduction, although in a state of great exhaustion from eating little or nothing for so long a time, the tory unfastened the door of the cabin, threw in a poor suit of men's clothes, and ordered the girl to disguise herself in them as soon as possible. He added nothing further, but she saw already enough to assure her that he was bent upon something. Fearing to do otherwise than obey, she accoutred herself as he desired very shortly, and he returned before long and bade her follow him. 
               "But whither?" she ventured to ask-"where are we going?" 
               "No matter!" replied he, sharply, and in a tone most calculated to impress her heart with fear; "ask no questions, and I will tell you no lies." 
               The maiden fetched a deep groan on hearing his words, but dared say nothing in reply. She stepped, obedient to his command, to the door, and looked upward through the darkening trees at the sky. It was densely filled with black headed clouds, driving to the northward before a fresh wind, and shadowing everything in gloom. Her heart sank within her, as she contemplated the dreary prospect, and she had half a mind to return to her rude couch and refuse to stir from it again But just then she saw the piercing eye of the tory upon her, and heard the voice of the Indian advising him to be in as great haste as possible, and she felt only that she was within his power, and that he had the will to carry her wherever he listed. It was, truly, a pitiable sight-that fair girl, going forth in her unseemly disguise on the night in question, protected (if protected at all) by a nefarious, vagabond tory, and a roving, wily Indian! She crossed the threshold, stepped her feet upon the ground, and she then felt that a great Future-all untried, and all unseen-was before her. The thoughts, and feelings, and doubts, and fears, that crowded themselves so rapidly and promiscuously upon her brain, were those to which she had hitherto been a stranger. 
               With a heart heavy yet trustful, she commenced or journey. She had been threatened with instant death by both the Indian and the tory, if she uttered a cry during its progress, or even made a sign for as sistance to any whom chance might throw in their way. Feeling the weight of such threats constantly pressing upon her heart, she had not courage even to hope for, even had she dared so much as to plan, an escape. 
               They journeyed on, the greater part of the time in silence, during the whole of the first night, and stopped not until the gray streaks of coming morning admonished her inhuman captors that their safety, while yet they were within the American lines, depended entirely upon their keeping clear of discovery. For this purpose, they rested with early dawn, and all prepared to take a breakfast together. A bit of cold vension, and a couple of dried biscuit, were laid before Mary, as her matutinal meal, and the Indian hunted about until he found a fresh spring from which he brought her clear water in a drinking horn. The food was anything save inviting to her in its aspect, and her natural appetite would have refused to partake of a morsel of it; but the severities she had been called to undergo had created so inordinate an appetite within her, that she fell to eating what was set set before with a downright, hearty relish. The tory regarded this evidence-as he deemed it-of her gradual compliance with his wishes, with favor; and he forthwith proposed to himself a thousand plans and projects for making her possession feflect to his highest advantage. 
               The Indian passed some considerable portion of the time in scouting about the neighborhood. On one occasion during the day, a party of men, dressed as plain farmers, yet having guns across their shoulders, passed him while he was secreted among the branches of a tree above their heads, and he gladly gathered from their conversation what was then going on in the American camp. He learned that General Putnam was quartered farther up among the Highlands, and was at that time engaged in the supervision of the works at West Point-a station of defence upon which he had recently himself pitched. This was of course cheering news to the tory, for the he knew that the American pickets did not now extend very far below him, and he would be obliged to travel in this manner but a little way farther. 
               The tory himself likewise took his turn at strolling about the place, and during the day had pretty well concluded his arrangements in his mind in relation to the route he should pursue. There was but little anxiety in his mind respecting a safe arrival now within the lines below. As the American camp had been moved higher up the river, the plans for preventing a free passage to doubtful and suspicious characters, like himself, would not be as perfect or in as vigorous operation as he had reason to remember they once were. 
               At early nightfall, therefore, they were ready to resume their march. Marshall signified his intention of moving to his fair prisoner in the same un feeling and brutish manner that had hitherto characterized him. To her the intelligence was particularly agreeable; for so long a rest upon only the damp ground, immediately after a whole night's tedious and painful tramp, was but a sore trial to the muscular powers, while her spirit was impatient to know the very worst that was yet to befall her. And taking up the bundle which contained the garments of her own, for which she had temporarily assumed those she wore, she put her delicate feet in motion over the rough, stony, untrodden ground. At first, it was excessively painful to her; for her ankles were considerably swollen with the unusual journey of the night previous, and the halt they had observed through the day had not had the effect to refresh her taxed and overstrained powers. But still, she felt the clouds of gloomy despondency lift, in a measure from her heart, while she kept in motion. Anything was preferable to sitting still in the trackless Highland forests, and sadly contemplating the dismal prospect. 
               Several times was she ordered by the hardened tory to mend her gait and increase her speed, for that their time was precious to them. To these barbarous urgings she offered not a syllable of protest. From what she had already seen of the character of her captor, she was persuaded that no words from her lips could avert or stay the doom he had determined for her. She painly saw that she was to expiate the hatred her captor had, for some unknown reason, imbibed against her lover. If she had a hope at this dark hour, it was based upon nothing that she promised herself she could do; she looked upon no human aid for her salvation, whenever it should come; the only light that gleamed across the dark future for her eyes, was that which her trustful and tried spirit looked for in Heaven. 
               Unable to reach a point as far below as he had at first thought, by the next morning-for their route was necessarily so devious and difficult as to baffle all calculations in respect to the relation between time and space, while on foot-they came to a second halt not long after midnight, and the tory and the Indian succeeded in collecting boughs sufficient to afford quite a respectable shelter, with the assistance of the favoring rocks and ledges. Not a moment was suffered to elapse during which their prisoner was not closely watched and guarded, else she might have dared to raise timid hopes in her mind of an escape from them. Even during the still and dull hours of night, the one watched while the other slept, neither feeling willing to trust themselves in to the enjoyment of that luxury simultaneously with the other. But towards morning, as the hours began to wear slowly and heavily away, and while the other was standing his own watch, he felt a drowsiness and a torpor gradually steal over him which it seem that no human power could control. It affected him strangely, drawing down the lids of his eyes as if heavy weights were attached to them, and so benumbing his limbs, that he found he had no use for them. This was all the consequence of fatigue and exposure; yet he thought not but that he could bear all that, and still remain watchful as any. But here was his mistake. 
               In a few minutes he began to snore. Mary, who had at no time any more than feigned sleep, now that she saw her most hated enemy sound in the arms of a deep sleep, cautiously looked all about her and surveyed her chances for an escape. She was not bound, for her captors thought she could not escape them even should she attempt running. Her own bundle of clothes was at her hand. The night was dark, and she lay somewhat concealed from the tory by the boughs they had set up about her. It was a sudden thought to rise from that hard bed and move stealthily away. As she rose to her feet, she glanced at the form of the tory. His head still rested upon his chest, and she could hear the deep comings of his difficult breaths. She was satisfied that he was asleep, and that now was her time of salvation. She paused not to consider experiences, or to set at rest doubts. Had she done so, her whole time would have been consumed. She moved at once from her rude couch, and by a triflingly circutious route departed from the presence of the strange beings she so much feared. 
               Knowing nothing of the course she should take in that trackless wood, upon the side of a high declivity, she happened to direct her steps southward, instead of northward. She kept on her way with astonishing perseverance, ignorant herself that her powers of endurance were so extensive. It was quite early morning when she struck upon the road far below, out far from which she re-changed her dress, taking the precaution to hide her cast-offs, lest her pursuers might stumble upon them and be at least satisfied of the direction she had taken. In the dress of a female she feared no interference, no insults from any one. If she continued to travel in her disguise, however, it must inevitably be discovered in the day-light, and the honesty of her purpose would certainly be questioned. It was, therefore, the wisest and the safest course for her to do as she did. It discovered the native sagacity that was in her. 
               She had now travelled some five or six hours steadily. In that time she had made considerable ground, and at about nine o'clock in the morning-a clear and beautiful spring morning-she walked up to the little roof of Mrs. Flood, and sought admission. 
               "It's a long ways you ve come, sweet miss," said that woman, gazing at her with unbounded astonishment. "I'm sure, I should know you had travelled far, from the looks of your dress. But come in, and rest you! You look tired and worn! I can't give you that to eat which I wish I could, but I'll go with you to a place where there's enough to be had, and a welcome with it." 
               The beautiful countenance of the girl had struck Mrs. Flood at once, and left a deep impression upon her mind. She had not had an opportunity hitherto to witness an example of the same distress she had once suffered herself, and now that an object of similar suffering had presented itself to her, she felt all her unborn sympathies quicken and her warm heart expand. She thought she loved the wanderer already, for she seemed to have suffered what she had herself. 
               "Almost any place will be welcome to me," said the maiden, with one of those sweet and sincere expressions upon her countenance which came and went at times like brief glimpses of sunshine through clouds. 
               "I wish, indeed, I had a better roof to offer you," replied Mrs. Flood, looking sadder than before, if possible. "There was a time"-here she was compelled to pause a moment to suppress her rising emotion-"there was a time," she continued, "when I was not obliged to apologize to my friends for the humble character of my roof. I have not always been just what you see me now, bless God! No, no-sweet miss! I was once all happy. I knew not what suffering meant, until the tempter came!-but you do not care to hear it; nobody cares to hear it. My friends are all gone now except these kind friends at the house I speak of;-they are all the friends I have left!" 
               "How far do they live from here?" inquired Mary, anxious to change the current of a conversation she saw was productive of so much sorrow. 
               "Oh, it's only a short distance from here!" replied she, suddenly brightening. "Shall I show you the way there? Shall I go now!" 
               Mary signified to her in her gentle manner that she should be glad to go to the house as soon as she would find it convenient to accompany her. 
               "Mercy me!" exclaimed Mrs. Flood, "it's no trouble at all-no trouble for me to go over there; I suppose I go there full twenty times a day, in such pleasant weather as this is; besides, I've been thinking all the morning of getting over there sometime before noon. I know that Miss Ellen will be so glad to see you too; you'd be such a companion to her!" 
               They were just on the point of departing, when her son came upon the threshold, and, seeing the fair countenance of the girl, he exclaimed- 
               "Why, mother, here's my sister-my lost sister!-isn't it, mother? Where could she have come from, this sweet morning-out of the dew-drops, think you? How thick they hang, though, on the bushes, this morning! Aint you my sister, miss?" 
               Mary strove hard to hide her blushes, but they got the mastery of her. She was afraid to look the young man in the face again, for since his eyes had laid upon her with so much interest, they were unaccountably changed in their expression. 
               "Come, Tim my son!" said the woman, "sit you down here, until we go to the other house; we will be gone but a short time-only to see Miss Ellen, you know." 
               "Then won't you bring my sister back again?" asked he. 
               "If she chooses to come," replied his mother; "but I imagine she'll never want to, after she sees the roof they've got up there to shelter bodies with! It's a good home up there for anybody, miss," continued she, directing her address to Mary. 
               Tim was persuaded to remain behind, and his parent accompanied the fair wanderer over the road that conducted them to the house of Mr. Wilson. She should have gone by the path through the little orchard, she said, but it was so much more dry to walk in the road that early in the morning. It took them not long to reach Mr. Wilson's mansion, before whose door Mrs. Flood did not stop to perform any ceremonies preparatory to admission, but walked immediately in, followed by Mary. The latter, however, could not be persuaded to go farther than the hall, her native modesty stopping her at that point, and her eyes wandering restlessly over signs of comfort, and even magnificence, such as she had never known before. 
               In a moment Mrs. Flood came walking briskly back with a young lady. Mary saw, at a glance, that she was a hunchback, though she scarce remembered the distortion when her look rested on her countenance-so sweet, so placid, so heavenly, its whole expression! She seemed formed only to perform the enviable office of charity. 
               "I am a stranger here," ventured to urge Mary, "having just completed a long and tedious walk. If you could afford me a shelter for a brief time, you will do me a favor I shall never forget." 
               Mrs. Flood immediately spake something to Ellen, in a low voice and a hurried manner, and the latter addressed Mary in reply. She was already smitten with her charms herself. 
               "You are welcome to this roof, if you are a wanderer, or in any way a sufferer. We know not what real suffering is here, and it always gives me the greatest satisfaction to alleviate it when I can;" and with these words, she proceeded to take off such outer garments as the stranger had worn in her travels, while the face of the latter looked so much more radiant and heavenly out of her hood, that she could not resist the temptation to impress upon her cheek an affectionate kiss. Mary's face instantly glowed with color. It was in thing to which she was wholly unused. She never knew what love was-a true, deep, abiding, sisterly love. 
               Taking her by her hand, Ellen led her visiter into the breakfast room, where the table was still standing. She insisted on Mary's sitting down to table at once, knowing that she must be weary and famished after the long walk she supposed she had taken. With a true delicacy that was peculiarly hers, she forebore making any inquiries relative to her friends, or her destination; preferring to wait until a farther acquaintance should unbend the formalities that then eat, in a manner, upon the mind of the girl. 
               The breakfast was eaten with a hearty relish. Never, it seemed to Mary, had she heard of such food. The rich-colored coffee was as nourishing quite as it looked. The spoons were embossed, and beautifully carved, The dishes were beyond, far beyond any conception she had ever had of such things, bred as she had been to the woods, and unused as she totally was to the sight of such things. When at length she had finished, a sense of returning vigor came over her again, and she felt quite another being. Following her friendly guide, she proceeded to the parlor, and there both of them sat down, side by side, upon the sofa. 
               Mr. Wilson himself was in New York. Consequently, the entire charge of his house was left to his daughters. The vagrant tories that infested the "neutral ground," dared not approach his premises, for he was too well-known to them, and his domains lay altogether too far below the outskirts of the British lines. The two girls had not been sitting long in the parlor, the windows thrown up and the fresh fragrance of expanding flowers floating like clouds of incense within the room, before Miss Alice, made her appearance. Ellen was at a loss how properly to introduce the stranger to her sister, but without embarrassing her so much as by asking her name, she explained to Alice in what manner she had come there, and what was her desire in respect to obtaining shelter and refreshment. Alice appeared to be as deeply interested in her as was Ellen. She saw much to admire in that beautiful face-those deep dark, expressive eyes-and the arch, yet perfectly innocent, look of that finely cut mouth. On the other side, Mary was quite as much charmed with Alice; and between the two sisters, upon the strength only of her first impression, she felt that there would be a difficulty in establishing a preference. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               LIFE IN THE COTTAGE-LOVE AND HOPE. 
               MARY narrated as much of the history of the sufferings to Ellen-with whom her confidence seemed to have better established itself from the first-as she deemed proper, and likewise all she herself knew concerning her grandmother. As there was no particular name attached to the place where her hut was, of course she was unable to satisfy her respecting the exact locality whence she came. In reply to her repeated and anxious expressions of her desire to return to her mountain home again. Ellen attempted to successfully urge the impossibility of her passing over the ground between the two lines with any degree of safety, and really convinced her that there could be little doubt of the war's terminating within a very brief time. Whichever party was victorious, she said, neither would consent to fight much longer. 
               When Mr. Wilson returned from the city, Ellen used all the powers of her persuasion with him to allow Mary to remain where she was during the summer, for, that there could be nothing but danger for her while the war continued, and furthermore, she had begun already to be such a companion for her as she had long desired Mr. Wilson was much too indulgent a parent with his children to refuse to accede to so slight a request; and with a kiss on each cheek of his sweet child, while he affectionately held both her hands in his own, he bade her believe that so fair a stranger was sent her for some particu la good. Mr. Wilson was a believer, somewhat, in special providences; besides, he was a man of the kindest and most tender feelings by nature, and could not have seen even an enemy suffer for the want of those necessaries, or attentions, which he could as well as not supply. 
               It was far into summer, and Mary was still the guest of the house of the Wilsons. Every day since her arrival there, had she grown more deeply attached to them all. Alice she could not help secretly admiring; she had such stately and elegant manners; her words were always so full of music to her ears; her smiles were always so wreathed with roses. But it was Ellen which she had learned to love Ellen displayed none of that elegance that belonged more naturally to her sister. Her misfortune had the effect to drive the pride out from her heart. To be sure, she was exceedingly sensitive regarding every remark, and even every look, that seemed to reflect upon the peculiarity of her form, but aside from this quite common idiosyncracy with persons in her condition, her heart was as soft as the summer breeze that swam through the jessamines into their parlor window. 
               The intimacy between the two girls grew more marked every day. Ellen loved a ramble in the woods and among the ledges back of their residence, and what companion better schooled for entering into all new plans, and interests, and feelings, than was Mary! She had been living in the woods. Her breaths had chiefly been drawn upon the mountain side, where extended views and bracing air combined to impart to her soul a freshness and vigor it never could have obtained elsewhere. By Alice, this intimacy between the girls was regarded with no sort of disfavor, for she was too sensible to allow the natural preferences of any one for another to under her happiness. On the contrary, she seemed to take a pleasure herself in recognising such a fact, and that only served to endear her still the more to the lovely Mary. 
               Mr. Wilson continued to have the gentlemen of the British army visit his dwelling during the summer, to all of whom the presence of three such companions as were the three girls under his roof, afforded no unpleasant variation to the routine of their duties in the city. These gentlemen ever preferred the charms of the country-when, too, such multiplied attractions were about them-to the monotonous round of their duty below, and when they left to return thither, it was always with vain regrets at the rapid passing of time, and many self-extorted promises to visit the lovely spot again. Never, in fact, looked Mr. Wilson's place so inviting as it did in mid-summer. The house was deeply shaded with trees, and bushes, and climbing vines, The Piazza itself was a harmonious bower, all entwined, too, with the glossiest and the darkest leaves. There was an enticing quiet within the depth of their spacious parlor, with the high windows raised, and the inner blinds thrown back. At evening, especially, was this suggestive of quiet and heavenly thoughts to such hearts as ever entertained them-though they came as angels, unawares, The low hum of voices, the drowsy chirp of the cricket in the meadow, the melancholy wailing of the whip-poor will-all these subdued the thoughts, and set them in a sweetly saddened flow. 
               Ellen and Mary were sitting down together on a gray rock in the grove behind the house, one day, conversing in their familiar way respecting the war and its multitude of consequences, near and remote, when the conversation, by some very natural, but unforseen, remark, turned upon the subject of love. Ellen acknowledged, in her guileless way, that she had ever craved the undivided sympathies of some one heart, and now she was happy in saying that she believed that heart had been found by her at last. Then she turned to Mary and assured her by the most endearing words that she only meant herself by her allusion, while the blushing girl acknowledged the compliment only by silence. 
               "I have long known my misfortune," continued the hunchback, "and sometimes I have been made to keenly suffer from it. Oh, there is no anguish-there can be no anguish, like that of a slighted, or a bruised heart! I have seen persons turn from me to a contemplation of my sister, with feelings that I could not control, and such as I never thought I had; and in my innermost heart. Mary, I have prayed God that I might be blind to such things!-that my misfortune might never be the cause to me of so much misery!" 
               "It ought not to be," answered Mary, brushing back the straggling locks of her companion from her pale and ample forehead, while she imprinted an affectionate kiss upon the cheek next her; "it ought not to be so! Your misfortune-if so you think it-only makes you the more dear to me you are a different being-your heart is more susceptible to tender influences-than if you had no check to your pride. It must be so with every one that is as first gifted with a warm heart." 
               "Your love, Mary, compensates for much that I might otherwise be unhappy, nay, miserable, about. I feel, since, you have come here, directed by the providence that brought you here in safety-I feel as if my heart had been doubled already. It is not the same heart it was before you came. It seems as if there were a response to all its beatings!" 
               "You certainly praise me much more than I deserve," replied Mary, blushing, and taking one of Ellen's taper hands within her own. "I shall always think that it was a good spirit that brought me here to you; what should I ever have known of such a heart as yours, if the most cruel accidents-cruel in themselves, but happy in their results-had not brought me so directly in your way? But I am too grateful for the kindness you have so steadily shown me since I came here, to think that I could have done any less than love you all for it." 
               "I would not have you place your regard for me on 
                  that ground," said Ellen; "I am always ready to do what kindness lies in my power, I hope; and-" 
               "I do not altogether; indeed, I do not, Ellen," interrupted Mary, fearing that she had been misunderstood. 
               "I love you, Mary," continued Ellen, "for what you are. I am frank to tell you that I loved you as soon as you came into our house with Mrs. Flood. I knew what your heart must be, from only looking in your face. That decided the matter in my mind at once. I had seen never any one before, either, to whom I felt that I could tell all my thoughts, as I can to you; no one who seemed to listen so attentively, or to sympathise so deeply, or to give up her own heart in return for mine so immediately. This is why I loved you, Mary, and the only reason." 
               "I most certainly do love you," replied Mary, "as I never loved-" she was going to say, "any one else;" but the words were cut off short at that point. 
               "I know that I am selfish, Mary-all selfish, in trying to exact so much of you," said Ellen. "I know that I do a wrong. I ought not to expect so much-I, a poor diminutive cripple. But I cannot help it. Mary! I cannot help it, Mary, or I would! You love another more? Tell me if you do not!" 
               Mary could not reply to the question, but sat gazing upon the ground in evident confusion. 
               "Does my heart deceive me? Can I be deceived!" exclaimed Ellen, in an outburst of grief. "I knew that I asked too much-I, a poor cripple! Who ought to care for me? Who will ever love me as my own heart burns to be loved?" 
               "My dear Ellen," said Mary, soothingly, "I do love you! I have always loved you! There is not a single thought of yours, that is not quite as dear to me as to yourself! Do not think that I shall ever cease to love you, Ellen!" 
               "No, no, no! but you cannot love me as I would love you-wholly, deeply, without hesitation! I am selfish! I ask too much! I do not think that there are many waiting, to gain but a place in a corner of your heart, while my misfortune only-" 
               The hunchback was here so overcome by the sudden flow of her feelings, that she clapped her hands suddenly before her face and buried it in the lap of her astonished companion. Mary at once lifted her up gently and affectionately in her arms, and, kissing her pale forehead many times, assured her that she did her great injustice in thinking thus of her; that she ever had loved her most devotedly, and ever should continue to: and that she should be most happy herself, if she thought she could ever possess a heart so good, so kind, so full of love as her own. With these and similar expressions she endeavored to soothe her troubled spirit, and although she found the waters of her soul deeply stirred, yet she was not altogether unsuccessful in her endeavor. 
               Ellen at length raised her drooping head, and, trying as hard as she could to smile through her tears, humbly craved her dear friend's forgiveness for the selfishness she had displayed. She still kept alluding, however, to the fact that she now believed no heart would ever be wholly her own; that she was destined to go through the world with no sympathies  linked in with hers. It made Mary exceeding unhappy, because it was a grief she could not heal. 
               "I will confess to you, Ellen," said she, "that love another beside you-" 
               "I knew it! I knew it!" interrupted Ellen. 
               "He is not near us now; he is in the army." 
               "In the army! In the regular army?" exclaimed Ellen, her face seeming to brighten a few shades. 
               "No," the beautiful Mary was obliged to reply-and the color mounted to her cheeks and forehead as she did so-"he belongs to the-to the-" 
               "The rebels?" inquired Ellen, with a look more of surprise than of inquiry simply. 
               "No, not the rebels-they are not-" 
               "But what then?" interrupted the impatient girl. 
               "To the continental army," answered Mary, feeling a load off her heart. 
               "But father says they are all rebels," remarked Ellen. "He says they were a band of them that surrounded our house one night, and carried off several British officers who happened to be here." 
               "I cannot help that," said Mary; "I have never thought William a rebel-I always thought him a patriot. He loves that land that gave him birth, and he says that he fights for its freedom!" and here the advocate-girl dropped her eyes to the ground, ceased her conversation, and fell to deep musing. 
               "I thought that such a generous heart as yours could not go long unloved," said Ellen. "I knew that you must at some time have one on whom you could lean for sympathy. I knew it could not always be so. I knew, that I could not claim all; that it was too selfish in me! But I love you none the less, Mary, for this discovery-not a whit the less." 
               "I should hope not," replied Mary. "I am our that my regard for another, like the one now absent from me, can never in the least diminish that I entertain for you. I shall ever love you, Ellen, I shall never cease to do so!" 
               The girls seemed the better to understand themselves. So sincere, so strong, so direct had been the affection which Ellen had suffered to grow up in her heart for her stranger companion-in such a little time, too-that she had grown to the idea that Mary on her part could reciprocate the feeling in the same degree. But the heart of the latter had been schooled differently. It had never suffered from that leprous disease that had already shrivelled and weakened whatever of Ellen's it had touched. It was still free, clear and healthy. 
               Mary had had her feelings born into a world of which her pitiful companion had never heard even the name. A thousand strings were drawn across the heart of the former, each one giving out the sweetest music to the slightest breath, that the latter knew not the existence of. True, the fibres of her affection were exceedingly fine, and it took but a single sweep to set them all in vibration; but that motion of them gave not out such harmony as did that of the heart of Mary. She dwelt in a world-all in the future, to be sure-in which she delighted to gaze upon the pictures her own imagination had hung about her, and wherein she loved to dwell at times entirely alone. At such times solitude was her best friend. She eschewed the society even of her most intimate companion-Ellen. She took solitary walks in the woods; gave herself up to long reveries; often discovered an otherwise inexcusable absent-mindedness; and at times was exceedingly downcast and saddened. Through the causes of all this Ellen was unable to penetrate; and the thought gave her great unhappiness. She began to half fear that Mary's heart had been in a degree changed towards her; but the moment she began to think of proposing a question in relation to it to Mary, the latter addressed her in the same endearing manner as she ever had, and exhibited to her the same affection she had ever entertained. Ellen, to say the least, was perplexed; but it could not have been the fault of Mary. It was surely her own, if indeed there were a fault about it. 
               The summer wore away, calmly and pleasantly. They heard but little of the skirmishing that had heretofore been carried on upon the 'neutral ground,' Mr. Wilson holding himself as much aloof from all interference in the quarrels as possible. Though thoroughly loyal-as it was in that day called-to his king, he was content to give his opinions only a peaceable expression, not desiring to interest himself personally in any of the conflicts in which the two great parties indulged. His was a desire for peace, under some conditions; he did not care so much what they were, so that a stable peace could be effected. He never indulged in strong or bitter expressions towards the American party, except in the bosom of his own family; and there he had no fears that his very excusable excesses would ever be betrayed to his disadvantage. 
               It was a delightful summer for Mary, and quite as much so for Ellen. Mary never before knew what life could really be made. Her ideas respecting happiness had been early he aged in by her grandmother, and she thought there was no world-or at least a very trifling world-beyond the precincts of the old cave on the mountain. As it was, what Mary had become acquainted with was a very, very trifle in itself, but it was a great deal to her. She had had her heart expanded under its influences. New thoughts, new hopes, new feelings, new desires, had severally breded and already begun to expand into a healthy bloom. There were tints-some of them gorgeous tints-about her horizon on every side. She did not forget her grandmother. She did not suffer her attachments of earlier days to pass out of her mind. She by no means refused to remember the many claims that that aged relative had upon her affection. But still she cherished a hope. It was a hope that kept itself alive. Once rooted, once fairly in the way of growing, nothing could check its health or curtail its existence. 
               Ellen saw the change that had sprung up in the heart of her companion; but though she could not altogether subdue that feeling of selfishness respecting her affections, which was in truth only a part of her nature-partially deformed, like her body, as it was-yet she tried to love Mary all the more for her candid and sincere feelings. She knew that this trial was the schooling through which her heart must be made to pass, and she struggled, and kept struggling on, until at length she achieved the victory for which she had so long labored and undoubtedly prayed. And after that, it gave her the most unalloyed pleasure to sit and converse with Mary upon the very topic that had once only been the cause of her undivided misery-so great is the change which a thorough, patient prayerful discipline can effect! Mary now seemed more dear to her than ever. Her own selfishness had stood in the way hitherto of her loving her as she should; now that was removed, and they were more inseparable friends than ever. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               OLD PUT QUELLING AN INSUBORDINATION. 
               It was already late in the fall of the year 1778-that bloody year of the whole Revolutionary years, when the white settlers were slain without mercy by the cruel savages, and the more cruel Britons. The division of the army under the immediate command of General Putnam, went into winter quarters at that time at Reading, a town in western Connecticut, and but a few miles north-east from Ridgefield. In that division were included General Poor's brigade of New Hampshire militia, two brigades of Connecticut militia, Hazen's infantry corps, and a corps of cavalry under Shelden. This post was more particularly pitched upon for the purpose of covering the country from the British lines in New York, east-ward along the sound. It was-and still is-a charming New England village; its houses much scattered, and its chief street beautifully shaded with elms and maples. 
               On the road leading from Norwalk to Danbury, and at the distance of about three miles from the old Congregational Church in the village, General Putnam made his headquarters. The house was one peculiar to those times, having a short and precipitous roof in the front, and an exceedingly gradual and extended one in the rear. There was little in its vicinity to attract the eye of the seeker after pleasant scenery, yet it no less answered the purpose to which it was put, in quartering the person of that sturdy and impetuous defender of American rights and American liberty-Israel Putnam. 
               His men had for some time been in a state of discontent on account of their bad food and scanty clothing, as well as the scantiness of their pay; for, being paid in continental money, its constant depreciation was a source of vexatious loss to them. Their murmurs had reached the ears of their General in different ways, at different times; yet he saw himself unable, either by personal exertion or pecu niary ability, to allay the causes of their dissatisfaction. It galled the old man's spirit sorely, to see such brave and devoted patriots absolutely cheated out of the small pittance they had so richly earned by their efforts for their country, and to know that there was no possibility for him to prevent it, nor even any power in his hands to promise them better times. The ferment at times reached an alarming height, and every day only served to augment it. Unlike most disorders, it could not be healed by the slow process of time. On the contrary, it only grew worse for being left with such a remedy. 
               General Putnam was sitting in his chamber, one morning, engaged in reading over some dispatches that had just reached him from the commander. The morning was cold and frosty, and the ice that had formed on the window-panes had not yet begun to acknowledge the influence either of the fire from within or the sun from without. The General sat at a plain and small round table before the little fire, shivering half the time, and reading the other half. The purport of the dispatches was nothing of more than the most common interest, they relating chiefly to the disposition of general affairs for the winter that was then upon them. 
               He had finished his reading and laid his dispatches down upon the table beside him. Giving his elbow chair another hitch towards the fire, he kicked back the forestick with his foot and drove a shoal of sparks up the chimney. Settled more deeply and comfortably in his chair after this manuvre, he began a few moments' cogitation upon the state of affairs around him. 
               Nothing occurred to interrupt the even flow of his reflections, until he suddenly heard heavy footsteps on the stairs, and a moment after a hearty rap upon his own door. Giving the comer, whoever he might be, the usual summons, the door opened, and a voice cried out: 
               "My dear General! My dear General!" 
               The General hastily wheeled in his chair to see who could be the author of such an exclamation, as well as to read its pregnant meaning, and beheld the long, lathe form of his faithful friend-Verd-Antique. Instantly he replied to this, his unusual form of salutation: 
               "John Horton! What is the matter? What news do you bring!" 
               "Bad! bad, every way, General!" was his reply. 
               The General was well enough acquainted with his old friend's various peculiarities to know at a glance that the news he had brought could be of no ordinary character-whether it were good or bad; and rising without further ceremony to his feet, he turned round and advanced quite into the middle of the room before he stopped. Then he demanded: 
               "Tell me what it is, John! Tell me at once! What news do you bring? Where comes it from?" 
               "From the camp only,' replied Verd-Antique, trying to keep himself calm, and allowing his General to get excited. 
               "What's there?" demanded Putnam. 
               "A mutiny, General a reg'lar, downright mutiny! All the Connecticut troops are under arms, and are goin' to march jest as fast as their legs 'll carry 'em to the legislatur' at Hartford! They swear they'll have their pay-money, and somethin' extra for clothes, too! There's no stoppin' 'em, Gen'ral; they're sworn to go through to Har'ford! The officers are at their head, and they 'll be under march now, before anything can save 'em! Oh! my God! Is this what our liberty's got to come down to, arter all! Have we got to give up the whole business now?" 
               "No, no!" shouted General Putnam, a firm and vigorous purpose suddenly seizing his soul; "they'll not go to Hartford, if I can get to them before they start!" 
               Saying this, he rushed to the head of the stairway and called to his servant-Dick Fortune-and ordered him to have his horse at the door in the half of a minute's time. The negro hurried away to obey the order of his master, and the latter returned at a rapid pace across the entry to his room. 
               "How can you think to stop 'em, Gen'ral?" inquired the deeply anxious John Horton 
               "I shall try it, at any rate," replied he, "and I know but little of the real character of my men, if they will not allow themselves to be influenced by me a little in this matter!" 
               "I hope you may-in God's name, I hope you may, Gen'ral! 'Twill be too bad to fling all away now!" said John Horton, while he left the room, in which his brave commander was hurrying on the necessary apparel for a ride out on such a morning. 
               The General reached the door before his negro Dick had brought the horse round from the barn, and his impatience would not allow him to wait longer. Hastening to the rear of the house, he met the negro, and mounted his horse as soon as he could grapple the bridle reins in his hand. Then driving his spurs into the spirited animal, he rushed over the road in the direction where his troops lay quartered, at the top of his beast's speed. When he arrived on the ground, his horse was exceedingly warm, although the distance ridden was but about three miles. The second brigade of the Connecticut troops were all under arms, and drawn up in marching order! The appearance of the lines at once smote General Putnam's heart, for he was convinced by the very best of proof-his own eyes-that the grievances of which they complained needed greatly to be redressed. Still, the manner proposed was not the one in which it could be best done. 
               Riding up at once at full speed to the head of the brigade, he settled himself firmly in his saddle and cried out in his honest, and impulsive manner: 
               "My brave lads! where are you going? Do you intend to desert your officers, and invite the enemy to follow you into the country? Whose cause have you been fighting and suffering so long in? Is it not your own? Have you no property-no parents-wives-or children? You have behaved like men, so far All the world is full of your praise, and posterity will stand astonished at your deeds; but not if you spoil all at last! Don't you consider how much the country is distressed by the war, and that your officers have not been better paid than yourselves? But we all expect better times, and that the country will do us ample justice! Let us all stand by one another, then, and fight it out like brave soldiers! Think what a shame it would be for Connecticut men to run away from their officers!"
                     The above are the Words actually spoken by General Putnam, so far as a careful tradition has been able to preserve them.
                  
                
               The electric words had hardly passed the lips of their beloved General, when all the discontented regiments set up a shout of approbation that made the welkin ring. Their General then rode slowly along the line; the drums began their steady rolling; the soldiers all presented their arms; and Old Put by his good natured countenance assured them of the grateful feelings towards them, that then welled up in his heart. 
               As soon as he had reviewed the entire line, he called out to the brigade-major to order the troops to shoulder their muskets. 
               "Shoulder arms!" rang along the line from the lips of that officer. 
               In an instant, every gun was at its owner's shoulder. 
               "March!" ordered the officer. 
               And the steady tramp of human feet-none too well covered from the season, to be sure-began to sound all along the line. 
               The major marched them all away to their regimental parades, where he ordered them to lodge their arms; which order was obeyed with the same willingness and alacrity that ever before and since characterized the conduct of the troops of Connecticut-herself a noble sister of the self-sacrificing thirteen of our revolutionary times. 
               The arrest of one soldier, who had been most active in exciting the insubordination, and who still showed symptoms of a mutinous spirit, was obliged to be effected, for the safety of the plan thus far successful. He was confined in the quarter-guard. During the night he attempted to make his escape from the place of his confinement, and was shot dead in his tracks by a sentinel 
               The sentinel was himself one of the most active in the insubordination of the day previous. 
               It is for the readers of this day, and for our posterity to say, whether Israel Putnam's course with his dissatisfied troops was not fully as considerate, while it proved far more effectual, than that pursued toward the disaffected Pennsylvania troops, two winters later. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               OLD PUT'S RIDE AT HORSENECK HILL. 
               It was February in the new year-1779. General Putnam had left his quarters at Reading, and with but a handful of men was visiting his various outposts. About the 25th of the month, he was advanced as far as West Greenwich, and was stopping at the house of General Ebenezer Mead. On the morning of the 25th, quite early in the morning, too, the General stood before his glass, occupied in shaving. While in this position, he saw strange reflections in the mirror, and looked closer to detect what they were. On the instant he was persuaded that they were human figures, habited in those 'red-coats' every American soldier so much hated! They were marching rapidly up the road from the west. 
               Immediately he threw down his razor upon the dressing table, wiped off the soap that yet remained upon his face with the back of his hand, hastily buckled his sword around his waist, and rushed for the stable.
                     A well authenticated fact.
                   Mounting his horse, he rode round the quarters of his few men, calling out in his stentorian tones. 
               "To your arms, my lads! To your arms! The infernal red coats are coming! To your arms! To your arms!" 
               The men hurried out and soon satisfied themselves of the ground of the sudden alarm. Nearly a thousand and a half British regulars and Hessian troops were advancing along the road. With his baker's dozen men, what could Putnam do to obstruct their passage? He knew of but one thing that he was certain he could do-he could try!
                
               It appeared that Governor Tryon-the same who had already laid waste many of the fair places of Connecticut-had (with this force) left the British lines near Kings-Bridge the night before, intending to surprise the troops and destroy the salt-works at Horse-neck landing-a part of Greenwich. The enemy were discovered at New Rochelle in the night, by Capt. Watson, who had been previously sent out with a body of thirty men to scout the country near the enemy's lines. By daylight the British had reached Rye Neck, and at that place a skirmish followed between their advanced guard and the party under Capt. Watson. The latter were driven back to Sawpits-a place on the Byram River, that divides Westchester county, at that part of it, from Connecticut-and thence to Horseneck, closely pursued by the enemy. 
               As soon as General Putnam had advices from these scouts in relation to what was going on, he formed his men as best he could upon the brow of the hill near the spot where stood the old congregational church, and where the present church stands likewise. Two old iron field pieces were planted on the brow of the hill, and the soldiers all stood awaiting the approach of the enemy. 
               In solid column they marched slowly on up the hill. Old Put was all the while encouraging his men-of whom, by the by, he had not more than one hundred and fifty-and ordering them to hold their fire until the enemy were close upon them. Onward came the British and Hessian troops, their uniforms brilliant, their bayonets glistening in the morning light, and their tread as steady and firm as that of veterans. They did not discharge their pieces, but determined to drive back the Americans in another way, if they could not outflank them and gain their rear. To secure the latter object, detachments broke off from the main column, as soon as they had come within musket shot of the enemy, while the dragoons, supported by a large body of infantry, made ready to charge them in front. Putnam ordered the men to fire the cannon and their muskets; but the effect of such discharges was trifling, and resulted none the more in checking the enemy's steady approach. In the rear of the detachment of Americans was a defile; and the British commander immediately saw that if he could turn the American flanks and gain their rear, the whole body of the latter must inevitably become his prisoners. 
               General Putnam, however, understood at a glance what they wanted. He hardly expected to hold an enemy so greatly outnumbering his own men in check with a couple of iron field pieces, without even horses or drag-ropes, but it was a principle of his always to 'show fight' when such an exhibition could be supposed to create an impression. He had accordingly set men to watch the movements of the enemy, so that when his position became hazarded by an attempt on their part to gain his rear, he should have full warning of it 
               The old field pieces were loaded and fired by his brave little band some two or three times, and as many volleys of musketry were discharged at the enemy. Putnam saw, however, that no impression was made upon them, and while yet in doubt as to what might best be done next, the parties stationed on the American flanks came in, saying that the British were running at the top of their speed to gain their rear. 
               "Give them what you've got!" shouted the General to his men. "They're coming! They're on us! Every man take care of himself! Take to that swamp yonder!" 
               No sooner had he uttered these words than the enemy's dragoons charged up the brow of the hill at the top of their speed. They were close upon the General's horse, and he yet remained to see his men safe. 
               "Seize him! Shoot him! Bring down his horse!" shouted the foremost of the dragoons, seeing who their mounted enemy was, and ambitious to earn the praise of capturing so brave a man. 
               Old Put drove his spurs into the flanks of his horse, and the animal set off at his utmost speed. The General looked over his shoulder-his mad pursuers were just behind him. Again the spurs went into his horse, and the animal bounded forward. A moment after, Putnam looked over his shoulder again. He had gained on the dragoons. They were farther behind him. Determined to make the most of his advantage, he again drove in the rowels, and the animal broke into a dead and almost uncontrollable run. 
               The soldiers of Putnam had hastily left their cannon at the last moment, and fled to the adjoining swamps, each man taking care only of himself. They knew the peculiar security of their places of refuge, and were satisfied that the enemy would not attempt to gain access there. Nor did they pursue them farther. Seeing how useless it all was, they halted on the eminence, while only the dragoons kept on their pursuit-the pursuit of that terror to the British army in and around New York, Old Put. 
               The General rode on to the northward, whither a road would round the brow of the hill on the route to Stamford-a town still farther east than Greenwich. It was his intention to follow this road and so effect his escape by hard riding alone. But just at the time when he glanced back over his shoulder again, he heard the shouts of the pursuing horsemen, encouraging each other and hallooing to one another to stop that runaway. He could see, too, that they were in a fair way to stop him, for already they began rapidly to gain on him again! His spirit would never allow him to be taken a prisoner-he was above that, while he had life to fight, or a body to fall! 
               Already they had driven him to the brow of the precipice. They were gaining on him-they would soon overtake him. On the brow of that precipice the road took a turn and made a broad sweep to the northward, and so went entirely round the hill. If he followed the road, he was gone. He knew the mettle of his horse, but unfortunately could not tell of what material those of the enemy were composed. The precipice was before him, and be could see the road in a straight line beyond. Should he plunge down the precipice, and risk the chances of his neck? or rather follow the winding of the road and be carried back to Tryon a prisoner? 
               The thought of such a disgrace as the latter supposition seemed to include, at once determined him. With Putnam, it was one and the same thing, to think and to act. The latter was never known to proceed the former, but it generally followed as closely upon its heels as possible. Never stopping to rein in his horse in the least, but rather urging him onward by voice and spurs, the bold General plunged headlong down the precipice just as the dragoons were on its brow, and within swords length of him. 
               "Good God!' shouted one, drawing up his horse so sudenly that he fell back upon his haunches. 
               "Fire! fire at him!" halloed others, unwilling that such a man should escape either dead or alive from them. 
               "Rush around by the road and head him off Bring him back a prisoner!" cried out others, while a few followed the road with all the celerity there was in their horses heels, intent on cutting off the bold fugitive's retreat. 
               "Fire! fire!" again shouted one on the brow of the hill. 
               They drew their pistols from their bolsters and discharged them at the old General as he went down the steep. One of them whizzed unpleasantly near his ear, while one passed directly through his military beaver! He could hear them striking against the ledges and broken rocks about him, as he sped down at this break-neck speed, and the sound to his ears was as the rattling of hail. 
               Down this precipituous declivity were laid from seventy-five to one hundred rude stone steps. They were calculated for the accomodoation of foot passengers, who preferred, in pleasant weather to go up the steps, to going the greater distance round by the road; and were chiefly used by them in going to and from the old Episcopal Church, that then stood near the top of the flight, upon the hill. It was down this long flight of steps, that the General spurred his horse! 
               Though he went at such speed down a declivity so threatening, yet he gained the road at the bottom in perfect safety; and, turning himself coolly round, he wintessed his astonished enemies upon the edge of the precipice, and looking speechlessly for a few moments upon the man who had dared so fearful an exploit. They had not the courage to follow him down that course. They halted, after discharging their pistols, and lost themselves in wonder. 
               "What a fearless devil!" exclaimed one, his words just coming to him. 
               "He's proof against all kinds of accident," remarked another. "There's no such thing as taking him, dead or alive; and I shall be certain to tell Cunningham so, just as soon as we get back again to the city! If he wants him, let him come and catch the old fellow himself." 
               "Has he gone? Have you lost him?" now inquired Tryon himself, just coming up. 
               "Look there!" pointed the men. 
               The Governor just glanced his eye down the haz ardous steep, and a shudder ran over his frame. 
               "The devil!" muttered the Governor, giving a long whistle with the same breath. 
               "There they are! There they are! They're after him now! They have him yet!" cried out some of them quite lustily. They pointed over toward the road. The dragoons who had made the circuit of the hill by the regular road, were rapidly scudding away hill by the regular road, were rapidly scudding away after the escaped hero. The General looked over his shoulder and saw them coming; but they were yet at some distance from, and he had quite a start to begin upon. Urging his horse all the time to his greatest exertions, he drove along the road to Stamford-a town five miles farther east. The horsemen followed him but a short distance, and soon returned to their companions, giving up the chase after such a man, as a job altogether beyond their power to carry on with any hope of success.
                     General Eben Mead, at whose house Gen. Putnam made his quarters while in Horseneck, or West Green wich, stated that he was standing within a few feet of the latter when he wheeled his horse from the road and took the perilous plunge down the precipice. He said the General was cursing the British terribly!
                  
                
               Tryon then gave orders to his troops to plunder and destroy to their heart's content. In consequence they took from the inhabitants everything that was valuable, destroyed the salt-works about the place, burnt a small sloop and a store, and did what injury his nefarious disposition could plot against the whig inhabitants. 
               General Putnam reached Stamford in a very brief time. There were a few militia posted there, which he collected together at once, and just then being joined by a few of his own fellow fugitives, he hurried back to pursue and harrass the enemy in turn. The latter were then on their retreat to Rye. Hovering about their rear with his men, Putnam succeeded in capturing thirty-eight prisoners, and in retaking a wagon-load of amunition and plunder, which they were carrying off with them-the latter belonging to the inhabitants of the town, to whom he made due restoration of their articles. 
               Some of the prisoners he captured were wounded, and they were all well cared for. On the very next day. General Putnam dispatched an escort with all of them to the British lines, that they might be exchanged for American prisoners. In return for this act of generosity and humanity, a messenger was dispatched to the American General soon after, bearing a complimentary note from Governor Tryon, in which he urged him to accept form him the accompanying present of a suit of clothes, in return for his kindness toward his prisoners.
                     It has generally been supposed that General Tryon sent the suit of clothes to Gen. Putnam, in compensation for spoiling his hat; but such was not the real fact.
                  
                
               The British reached Rye, on their retreat, the same evening, and early the next morning arrived at their own lines near Kings-Bridge. 
               General Putnam despatched the following account of this expedition to the Commander-in Chief: 
                     CAMP AT READING, March 2d, 1779.
                  
                
               "A detachment from the enemy at Kings-Bridge, consisting of the 17th, 44th, and 57th British regiments, one of the Hessians, and two of new levies, marched from their lines for Horseneck on the evening of the 25th ult., with the intention of surprising the troops at that place, and destroying the salt works. 
               "A captain and 30 men were sent from our advanced lines from Horseneck, who discovered the enemy at New Rochelle, in advance. They retired before them undiscovered as far as Rye Neck, where it growing light, the enemy observed and attacked them. They defended themselves as well as possible, and made their way to Sawpits, where they took advantage of a commanding piece of ground and made some little stand; but the superior force of the enemy obliged them to retire over the Byram-Bridge, which they took up, and by that means had an opportunity of reaching Horse-neck in safety. 
               "As I was there myself to see the situation of the guards, I had the troops formed on a hill by the meeting-house, ready to receive the enemy as they advanced. They came on briskly, and I soon discovered that their design was to turn their flanks and possess themselves of a defile in our rear, which would effectually fectually prevent our retreat. I therefore ordered parties out on both flanks, with directions to give me information of their approach, that we might retire in season. In the mean time a column advanced up the main road, where the remainder of the troops (amounting to about sixty) were posted. We discharged some old field pieces which were there, a few times, and gave them a small file of musketry, but without any considerable effect; the superior force of the enemy soon obliged our small detachment to abandon the place. 
               "I therefore directed the troops to retire and form on a hill at a little distance from Horseneck, while I proceeded to Stamford and collected a body of militia and a few continental troops which were there, with which I returned immediately, and found that the enemy-after plundering the inhabitants of the principal part of their effects, and destroying a few salt-works, a small sloop and store-were on their return. The officer commanding the continental troops stationed at Horseneck, mistook my orders, and went much farther than I intended, so that he could not come up with them to any advantage. I however ordered the few troops that came from Stamford to pursue them, thinking they might have an opportunity to pick up some stragglers. In this I was not mistaken, as your excellency will see by the enclosed list of prisoners. Besides these, eight for nine more were taken and sent off-so that I cannot tell to which particular regiments they belonged; one amunition and one baggage wagon were taken. In the former, there were about two hundred rounds of canister grape, and round shot, suited to three pounders, some slow matches, and about two hundred tubes; the later was filled with plunder, which I had the satisfaction of restoring to the inhabitants from whom it was taken. As I have not yet got a return, I cannot tell exactly the number we lost, though I don't think more than ten soldiers, and about that number of inhabitants, but a few of which were in arms. 
               "List of prisoners taken at Horseneck, the 26th ult-18th regiment, 15th privates; 44th do., 5 privates; 57th do, 3 privates; Loyal American regiment, 5; Emmerick corps, 9; first battalion of artillery, I; Pioneers, 1.-Total, 39. 
               "N. B. Seven deserters from Emmerick's corps." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               ESCAPE FROM PRISON-AN AGREEABLE SURPRISE. 
               IT was an evening of a day in the spring of the year alluded to in the last chapter-the year 1779-that a man entered the "Eel Pot" tavern in the city of New York, and looked inquiringly about him. The little bar-room was as well peopled as usual, and the bar itself was in the receipt of its usual patron age from thirsty and idling men. 
               The new comer was dressed in a suit of blue woolen, much worn, and supported a remarkably poor hat upon his head. It looked as if he carried it round more in the character of a curiosity, than of a needful protector. There was a curious expression about his face, and he seemed rather to avoid, than to desire to attract observation. Perhaps this noticeable peculiarity of his was ascribable altogether to his years; for he appeared yet to be a young man, and of course might be supposed (in those days, at least) to be possessed of some share of modesty. 
               Three or four times he walked slowly about the room, looking sharply into every countenance he saw; yet there was nothing that served to brighten his eyes, or lighten the sadness of his look. The door of the room before long opened again, and another comer entered. Stepping briskly up to Paul Potter, the landlord, who stood behind his bar, he whispered a few words in his ear, and then retired among the crowd that knotted themselves about the stove in the corner of the room. 
               The young man was standing at a little distance from the rest, attentively surveying the whole group. He appeared abstracted; yet his eyes were quickly turned upon the door, every time he heard it open and shut. He was startled, at length, to see this same stranger who had just come in and spoken secretly with the landlord, post himself directly before him and share unmercifully in his face, while the color left in entirely, from fear. Still the stranger kept steadily gazing at him, and at last spoke out the words: 
               "Can I be mistaken?" 
               The young man, not desirous of showing so much fear as might betray the secret that served to weigh upon his heart, looked the speaker full in the face in return, and replied: 
               "Who do you think I am?" 
               "Henry Byram!" was the stranger's reply. 
               "Great God! I am betrayed!" was the exclamation of the young man. 
               "Not by me are you," replied the stranger, "not by me! But you are not safe here, Lieutenant Byram! I wonder you think you are! You are liable to be taken for a spy at any moment, and hanged by morning!" 
               "Who are you?" asked the young man, in a perplexity and fear that almost overcame him. 
               "Come with me, and I will show you!" answered the stranger. "Appear not to follow me; but be certain to go in at the same door with me! Careful, now!" 
               All this ran through the brain of the young man like an electric shock. He had not expected to be thus early discovered-perhaps, even at that moment, on the point of being betrayed! Following the stranger closely, however, in at the door at which he saw him enter, he felt relieved at being at length clear from the gaze of the multitude outside. Pushing on into another room, just at the end of a small entry, he saw the stranger who had accosted him, sitting down in an arm chair before a fire of wood. 
               "Sit down here," said he to the young man, 'sit down here! You are in great danger in there! Besides, I want to see you a trifle, too!" 
               "First tell me who you are!" replied Lieutenant Byram, anxious most of all to clear up that mystery. 
               "Do you know Verd Antique?" significantly asked the stranger. 
               "Merciful heavens!" exclaimed the young lieutenant, raising both hands. 
               "Not one word! No-not a single syllable! You can't be too careful what you say here! Remember you're right in the heart of the enemy!" 
               "I know it-I know it too well," responded young Byram; "but tell me where you came from to get here! How came you here? Where are you going?" 
               "I am one of those who are just as much at home in the camp of one army as in that of the other," answered Verd-Antique to his questions, "for the whole belongs to my country! I have carried not a few plans out of this city against the Americans in the Highlands, and I have in two ways been the means of occasionally doing the cause I love some little service, thank God! But this must not be spoken aloud," continued he, dropping his voice. "The walls even must not hear it! Our only safety here lies in our months; if we can only keep them shut, except to get in something to kind o' keep alive the system, I predict that we're safe enough! But now, Lieutenant Byram, I want you to tell me in a few words how you came here? Where came you from? Speak low'-you can't speak too low for safety!" 
               "About one year ago," answered the youthful officer, "I was taken prisoner near Sawpits."
                     This is a place for the landing of streamboats, on the N. Y. side of Byram River.
                  
                
               "So long ago!" exclaimed Verd-Antique. 
               "It was a quite a year ago," said Byram; "I was in the company of Lieutenant Barber, of Groton, who was shot dead with the bullets of the devilish tories. Not happening to be harmed myself, I was at once surrounded and made prisoner. From that place I was brought to the city." 
               "By the tories?" asked Verd-Antique. 
               "Yes, by the tories all the way; I found out who one of them was, and if I ever get clear beyond these British lines I think I shall have his name registered at head-quarters!" 
               "Who was he?" 
               "They called him Jim-Jim Marshall," answered the young officer. 
               "It isn't possible!" exclaimed Verd-Antique, it now coming his turn to be astonished. "Jim Marshall!" 
               "Why? Do you know him? Have you ever seen him, or heard of him?" asked Lieutenant Byram. 
               "Heard of him! Seen him! Yes, I know him all the way through! Nobody can tell me anything about him, that I don't know already!" 
               "Where? When? How?" asked Byram, confusedly. 
               "Henry Byram," answered Verd-Antique, with emphatic deliberation, "do you remember the time when, a year or two ago, we passed a gang of Skinners, while we were travellin' down through West chester?" 
               "And you were taken, and came near being hanged by them?" inquired the young man, in turn. 
               "Why, yes! Don't you remember it all?" 
               "Certainly-certainly!" 
               "Wal, the leader of that bloody gang was Jim Marshall! the same fellow, I s'pect, that brought you down here!" 
               "Do you tell me so?" 
               "Every word on't is true! Every word! But where have you been ever since? Here in the city?" 
               "Yes-a prisoner in the Provost Prison, until this very evening," replied Byram. 
               "But they have not discharged you? How did you get out?" 
               "I escaped in this disguise which I had an opportunity to steal. I passed myself off for a tipsy loyalist, going by two sentiments, and being challenged by each one of them! But they did not succeed in stopping me. I am here; now, how, to get on-is the question!" 
               "True enough! It's an important question, too. Where had you thought of goin', lieutenant?" 
               "To the safest place," answered he, "I wanted to pass the lines to night, if possible-" 
               "No-no! that can't be done to-night! Not to-night!" 
               "Why not? They will be on the watch for me, perhaps, by to-morrow, and I ought to make all the speed I can while there's no alarm spread." 
               "But there's a scout out to-night in just the direction you want to go! To-morrow all will be quiet." 
               "Where shall I stay in the meantime? I am not safe here, by any means!" 
               "You're sale only here!" replied Verd-Antique. "Paul Putter is a personal friend of mine, though I am not known to him by the same name that I am to you. Paul Potter is the landlord of the 'Eel Pot,' and a generous friend he is, too! If he agrees to keep you here safe, he'll do exactly as he says-he'll be sure to do it!" 
               "Dare you accompany me out of the city?" asked Byram. 
               "I happened to be about going up into our own to ritory myself, just as soon as I thought the ground between this and there got a little quiet. To morrow night, then, I'm your pilot; but as you love your own life, do not stay one syllable that may expose you while you are here! The landlord I'll answer for he's safe with any secret I have to trust with him! To-night, however, I have different work to do!" 
               "Where?" the lieutenant was incited to inquired. 
               "In the city-with Cunningham and others." 
               Byram could not help staring at the wonderful coolness and assurance of the man, who seemed to feel the safest when in the thickest of danger. He wondered, too, how he dared to enter the presence of Cunningham, the very man whose tyranny he had just broken away from. 
               "I do considerable private business for Cunningham," said Verd-Antique, seeing the surprise of his youthful companion; "but it's under quite a different name from the one you know me by." 
               "What?" 
               "Kit Clemm. Did you ever hear the name!" 
               "Yes." 
               "Where, tell me?" 
               "In camp, at the time 'twas said that he headed a gang of villains who tried to capture Old Put," 
               "Ha! ha! ha!" laughed the disguised man; "but wasn't that a good one, by the royal George! How I fooled poor Cunningham that time! He was made to believe that I was really captured by the Americans before they took our party, and that I was sent a deal of a ways up into the Highlands, from which I escaped finally! He believes it all till this very day!" 
               "It's strange how you got so among these fellows," replied Lieutenant Byram. "I shouldn't dare risk my face in sight of them, after such a stratagem as the one you practised upon them." 
               "Reason enough for that; you wasn't bred to such things-I was! I've made such things my business! Once in a great while, I find my neck in a collar, as it was when you had the goodness to take it out but such lessons don't generally go unremembered by me, and the second hangin' for them is always harder than the first was for me!" 
               "Shall you go into Queen street to-night?" asked Byram, slightly coloring as he spoke. 
               "I shall go right through there," answered Verd-Antique. "Why?" 
               The young man hesitated. 
               "Any messages to send any where? Ah! I forgot, I forgot! There's a Miss-Miss-Miss Somebody along there, eh?' 
               Byram was still confused, but he was able to reply: 
               "If you would carry a note for me-" 
               "Yes, to any door you'll mention in all the street." 
               "Get me pen, ink and paper, then! It will not do for me to move from here!" 
               "No," replied Verd-Antique; "and while you are drawin' up your writin', I'll be talkin' the subject in to Paul. It's highly necessary for Paul Potter to be in the secret, if there's to be any secret kept! I'll get pen, Ink and paper!" and with these words he started out of the room. 
               The young man was left to his reflections for but a few minutes, when his elder companion returned, bringing such rude and rough materials for drawing up one's sentiments on paper as the "Eel Pot"-by no means a literary depot-furnished. Byram was satisfied, to procure even any implements, which would assist him in the state in which both his mind and body were, in that emergency. He leaned on the table, and began to write. It was to Laura Edwards-the love of his early youth. 
               While he was engaged upon this, Verd-Antique went into the bar-room, and held a confidential conversation with the landlord. That person was at once made acquainted with the state of matters, and of course exhibited no backwardness in acquiescing in every safe plan Verd-Antique was disposed to bring forward. It was then and there agreed that Lieut. Byram should be safely kept, in a place of scretion, about the premises of the "Eel Pot," until the next evening; and after Verd-Antique and Paul Potter had pledged each other, as they very often did, in a glass of old Holland each, the former walked back into the room where his young friend was sitting and announced himself ready to depart with the message. He took it from the hand of Byram and read: 
               
                  "MISS LAURA EDWARDS, 27 Queen street."
                
               "I know the place!" remarked he, instantly. 
               Byram looked at him earnestly for an explanation. 
               "I've been into that house," said Verd Antique. 
               "You!" 
               "Yes. I've been in there with Cunningham, and other officers. They make much of her father." 
               The young lover looked more surprised than ever. 
               "I'll carry your letter," continued the partisan. "Don't be afraid but it will reach her! Her father'll think it's from some of the British officers, at any rate; and he'll not be at all surprised! So never worry but what she'll get the letter! Miss Laura Edwards!-quite a name, to be sure! While I am gone, Paul will show you where my room is. It is not safe to go in there now. I shall be back in the course of the night, likely, and then you'll have a chance to hear a good deal I havn't told ye! Keep your mouth shut close, and your ears and eyes open! That's all!"-and with this specimen of volubility, Verd-Antique hurried out of the room. 
               He went the rounds he had marked out for himself, drained Cunningham of his latest plans and projects, delivered the note at the door of Mr. Edwards into the hands of the maid-servant, Susan, and returned to the "Eel Pot" in time for a respectable night's rest. We will pass over the succeeding day and hurry on to the starting point of the travellers. 
               At about eight o'clock the next evening, two travellers might have been seen emerging from the tavern aforesaid, and turning their steps northward. As the reader knows already, they were Verd-Antique and lieutenant Byram; the latter in the enjoyment of coveted liberty after so long a confinement. They pursued their way unmolested to King's Bridge, Verd-Antique answering for both to the call of the few strolling guards with whom he fell in. On they travelled until the break of day; when, not yet being beyond British lines, they secreted themselves in a small ledge of rocks not far from the road and prepared to await the covering of the night again. It was a spot which commanded an exceedingly pleasant view, and after the daylight grew glaring and broad, they discovered that they were in the vicinity of a mansion. It was evidently the property of refined, if not elegant people, and young lieutenant Byram began to nourish the fear of a discovery before the day was over. But the self-assured manner of his companion served to quell these unpleasant uprisings before long, and he gave himself up to musing on the strange past, and his prospects and hopes for the future. 
               During the day-it was in the afternoon-a young and beautiful girl walked away from the mansion into the grove, near which they were secreted. Both the fugitives-if Verd-Antique could be called such-watching her with the most unchanging interest. Occasionally she read in a low and dreamy tone from a book which she carried with her, and to which she appeared to refer often. Then she sang the chorus of some sweet ditty she had caught, and knew only "by ear," and it seemed to them that the words were alive with melody. Verd-Antique could not avoid hunching his companion once in a while, as the girl moved in a new grace in some different direction, or some particularly sweet expression stole over her countenance, or the tones of her musical voice thrilled a heart not at all unused to emotion-and that, too, of the tenderest character. At length she rose and strolled back toward the house again. But young Henry Byran declared that if he should live a hundred years, he should never forget the expression that sat on the face of that unknown angel. 
               At early nightfall the two travellers stole forth from their coverts again, and pressed their way to the northward. The sky was gemmed with a million stars, and the air, though cool, was bracing and healthy. They struck into the road at a little distance above their hiding place, and pursued their way with as much unconcern as if tories, and skinners, and marauders of all descriptions, did not infest the very track over which they were thus travelling. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               THE TORY AND THE INDIAN AGAIN. 
               DURING that spring, Captain Howe received a furlough of several weeks, and determined to improve it at and about the house of his uncle. He had not been there during the whole year past, and of course knew not what had become of his Mary. Anxious most of all to satisfy himself whether she had yet returned to the hut of her grandmother. He procured his temporary release as soon as it could be granted, and set out for the vicinity of Ridgefield Mountains in company with Verd-Antique. The journey was made in a brief time on horseback, and the young Captain again found himself at home-for such his uncle's residence always secured to him. 
               The old gentleman was overjoyed to see him, receiving even his travelling companion with as much delight as if he were only another part of the same nephew. He asked him a hundred questions; made the oldest and craziest remarks; flung in congratulatory speeches by bunches; and finally grasped the hand of his young nephew again and yet again, as if he could not get enough of him in an hour. 
               The conversation turned on all subjects, more particularly those connected with William's last year's experience. He ran over a list of all the engagements in which he had been, retailed the usual quantity of camp narrative and camp gossip, and at length began to talk of his own hopes of speedy promotion. 
               "I do not want to get an appointment," remarked he, "by walking over the dead bodies of my comrades in arms, but I should like none the less to receive promotion. Perhaps I do not deserve it, but I am at least ambitious of it." 
               This was a new strain for his beneficent uncle, and he found that his zeal was suddenly enkindled. His ambition was certainly after the warlike order-so far as it related to his tender nephew-and be hoped he might see the day when the manly epaulette should dangle from his manly shoulder. The old gentleman happened to be just of that age, temperament, and health, to be readily influenced by gaudy trifles; and he conscientiously, and seriously thought that the glitter of a bright epaulette surpassed every other goal of ambition, in respect of height and glory. 
               To Verd-Antique, who had grown to be quite a favorite with Captain Howe since the day the latter had so fortunately rescued him from his perilous situation among the skinners, this was a time of peculiar enjoyment. The Captain daily received hints and suggestions of eminent practical value to him, and gladly did he avail himself of the teachings of so thorough-bred a master. Verd Antique, to be sure, was not a military character, in the strictest, or even in the strict sense of that word; but he well understood the value of the work required by his country in her extreme exigency. He was no theorist; no schemer; no dreamer; he was in all respects a worker. His heart had long been given up to the cause of his country's freedom, and he counted his time, his labor, ay-his life, as nothing in comparison to the value of the holy crusade upon which he had entered. And he seemed to regard those who fought with his own sincerity, with a feeling of peculiar friendliness. On several occasions this feeling had been openly exhibited to young Captain Howe. 
               The old gentleman grew much interested in the companion of his nephew, since the latter had hinted to him of what stuff the man was made; and indulged in questioning him as closely as he had the young Captain. He sat listening with delight to the many adventures Verd-Antique was so willing to relate, wondering of what material a person must be made who could do, dare, and suffer so much as he. The old gentleman's face glowed like a furnace of coals, when Verd Antique narrated to him the particulars of the Captain's releasing him from his thralldom in the halter, and he was driven to get up from his chair-lame as he was-and pat the boy, as he called him, on the back-and they were no very gentle pats, either. Every thing that he had heard from either of the two unexpected comers, delighted him. He had not words, out of which he could form whole sentences to express the various feelings, of joy, congratulation, gratitude, and the like, that swelled up from his bosom. His hands he rubbed together until it seemed as if the skin must peel off from them in rolls. Then he threw back his head exultingly in his chair, and kicked up his feet as if he never knew what the gout was. 
               As soon after their arrival as they could do so without exciting any special suspicion, the Captain, his friend Verd-Antique, and the negro Buff started on an excursion over the mountain and through the wood. Captain Howe acquainted Verd-Antique now, for the first time, with the object of his expedition thither, and the reader may reasonably presume the latter was surprised almost beyond expression to find that the same evening he had already had such extended dealings with, made his impious power felt even up there. When Captain Howe told him of the sudden disappearance of Mary, and acquainted him with his suspicions in relation to Marshall's connexion with it, it seemed as if the latter could scarce control himself. He clenched his fists and gritted together his teeth, as if it would have been a special delight to have met with him at that very moment. The words of the young man were powerful to excite him to do something by way of bringing the tory to his just punishment. 
               After a walk of more than an hour, it being yet early in the day, they reached the plain that stretched out before the old witch's hut. Verd-Antique looked at the latter with the most deeply excited curiosity. He was not so free from superstitious fears, as to keep out of his mind the possibility of the old woman's cat being in reality the devil himself in disguise: and though he faltered none in approaching the habitation, yet he could not entirely rid himself of the fear that lurked within his breast. 
               With cautious tread they moved directly up to the door. Captain Howe was in advance and he laid his hand upon the wooden latch to raise it. The door opened to his pressure, and he had scarcely time to look within, when a bullet whistled fearfully just above his head. Verd-Antique was close on behind him, and, springing past the surprised Captain, he rushed into the room and fell upon the person of a man who was sitting upon the cheerless hearth. 
               The man was Jim Marshall, the tory! 
               There was another form that instantly rushed into the adjacent apartment-the former bed room of Mary-while Verd-Antique called out to his companions-"After him! shoot him! take him, if you can!" It was Lariko! 
               The wily Indian darted out of the window, but old Buff was ready for him there. He had run round to the corner of the house, prepared to stop his escape in that direction. The Indian went through the narrow window just as Captain Howe laid his hands upon his heel, kicking his would-be captor backwards upon the floor. 
               Back went the Captain for the door again. While he was re-crossing the floor, he heard the loud report of another musket. It was that of Buff. He had discharged it at the Indian, just at the moment he struck the ground. It did not bring him down, however, merely maiming him in his hip. The wound greatly retarded his running, but for all that he kept on as well as he could. He seemed to have a horror of being taken alive. 
               "I'm after you! Stand, or die! shouted Captain Howe, as soon as he reached the door and saw how the matter was going. 
               Still the Indian kept a running. The Captain kept on after him, and Buff was doing his very best with the muscular power that was yet folded away in his legs. He made headway very fast, and the Indian looked over his shoulder to see that he would soon lay hold of him. Determined not to be taken alive, he wheeled and pushed for the edge of the precipice. It was but a few rods from the door of the hut, and he was there before his pursuer. The Captain regarded his manuvre with horror, and stood still in his tracks, unable to proceed farther. Just as Buff thought to lay hold of the fugitive and draw him back from the perilious declivity, the latter raised his face to the sky uttered a shrill and piercing cry,-a cry of the deepest agony-and made a plunge downwards into the pond that slept beneath! Buff dared follow no farther. He was stupified already with what he saw, and halted. But as soon as they recovered a little from their surprise, both hurried round to a point whence they might look down upon the water of the lake. They could see the broad circles-each one growing broader-but they watched in vain for any signs of human being. For some moments they continued looking; but the Indian never showed himself. Believing that so fearful a plunge, combined from the loss of his strength from the wound he received, had destroyed him forever, they returned to the hut again. 
               As soon as they looked within they saw what had been done by their very efficient co-adjutor, Verd-Antique. He had already secured the tory with cords, and was then sitting over him, while he lay stretched upon the floor. The Captain heard but this last fragment of their conversation just as he entered: 
               "Let me go! I beg you!" pleaded the tory, looking beseechingly up into the face of his stout captor. 
               "Let you go!" replied Verd-Antique, "in course, I shan't let you go! Didn't you never git my neck in a halter, hey? Didn't you never set me to begging for my life?-and was you goin' to spare me at all, if my friend Cap'n Howe hadn't come up jest then! Tell me that, will ye!" 
               "But I got my pay for that," replied the tory. 
               "How got your pay?" asked Verd-Antique. 
               "Didn't I and a dozen more of us get our backs all cut up with them birches? Have I forgot that?" 
               "You never got your pay," said Verd-Antique, "but I'm thinking you will, though! There's no more get away for you this time! We shall take pertickler care that you don't leave us a minnit! You don't know nothin' about this gal, eh? Don't know nothin' about shootin' down an American officer over at Sawpits, eh? Don't know nothin', nuther, about carryin' a prisoner you took into New York, and there keepin' him shet up in that cussed Provost, eh! Don't know nothin' about all this-nothin' at all, eh!" 
               "Let me go but this once, and I'll promise you anything," said the tory. 
               "So the devil promised some one onst!" replied Verd-Antique, "when he got up onto a place jest like this that we're on! He made big promises, too-but how much land did he own? Jim Marshall-you black-hearted tory-you promised Old Put onst! You promised him as solemn as ever any body promised anything, that you'd leave off your wicked works, and fight for your country and your brethren! He tried you; and how did you perform your promise?" 
               "Anything, oh anything, if you will but let me go!" said the tory, now beginning to fear more than he had before for the length of his neck: "let them catch the Indian! let 'em have him! Let me go, and I promise you, by all that's holy, that you shan't be the lose by it!" 
               "I'm to work in too good a cause, to let such an enemy to it as you are, slip from my fingers!" replied the partisan. "There's no use in your beggin' of me; if you've got any beggin' to do, you'd better save all your breath till you get where Old Put is! He's the one, I reckon, what you'll have to do your business with! So keep your power to yourself! Don't seek to influence me! I'm above it, I tell you! I can't be bribed, and I despise you the more for thinkin I can!" 
               "Good!" exclaimed Captain Howe, now stepping up to the prisoner and his captor. "Now lift him up into that chair, John, and let him get his breath a trifle. This is no specially new work for him, but it may be before he gets all through with it." 
               Verd-Antique helped to raise his prisoner from the floor. As soon as the latter saw the face of Captain Howe, his sworn and implacable enemy, he preserved a silence, and gazed sullenly down upon the floor. 
               "Where's the t'other one?-the Injun?" inquired Verd-Antique. 
               "In the bottom of the pond," replied the Captain. 
               "What! Below that precipice!" exclaimed the astonished partisan. 
               "Yes," answered Captain Howe. "That's the place for him! He'll do very little more mischief there!" 
               "Heavens! Did he jump off there?" 
               "Yes-he took but a single plunge! He's deader than the rock he jumped from, by this time." 
               "No question about that," returned the amazed partisan, looking at his prisoner. The latter showed every sign of excessive fright, on hearing that his companion in iniquity had come to so fearful an end. His face was paler than the ashes that yet remained upon the hearth. He looked wildly round the room, and seemed able to rest his eyes permanently upon no particular object. How his cruel heart must have sunk within him, at knowing that his doom was now so close upon him! How must all his nefarious deeds have crowded themselves upon his memory, while he turned and saw that the time for their reward had finally come! How worse than a really condemned man must he have felt himself, as he looked forward to the single faint ray of hope that fell across his brief future, and then backward into his own heart, to find that he deserved the very retribution he already began so much to dread! 
               Captain Howe stood before the guilty-looking prisoner, and addressed him: 
               "Jim Marshall, as you hope for final pardon for the great wrong you have done, tell me what you have done with the girl whom you abducted from this place, a year ago!" 
               The tory returned no answer. 
               "If you refuse to answer me now," continued he, "then you may be sure that it will go harder with you when you come to your trial before the competent authorities. Silence now, and punishment then!-is that your choice in this matter?" 
               The prisoner hesitated a brief moment whether to speak or not At length he replied: 
               "Cap'n Howe, I don't know nothin' of the gal?" 
               "You are a liar, if you say it!" said the young man. 
               At any other time, and under almost any other circumstances, the tory would have been inclined to resent ruch a charge as this; but either his courage had become so depressed by his unexpected capture, or his guilt boiled and bubbled so strongly within him, that he seemed to take no notice of the affront, and continued to gaze with his passionless look upon the floor. 
               "You know, as well as I do," continued Captain Howe, "that you carried that girl away from here by force! You know very well what you have threatened, again and again, respecting my making her my wife-all voluntary and needless threats, made only to annoy her and avenge yourself on me for a wrong you conceive I did you several years ago. Speak, and tell me if you did not carry her away!" 
               No reply came from the lips of the tory. 
               "Where did you carry her? In what direction?" continued the young officer. 
               The tory shook his head negatively. 
               "Where, then, is the old witch? Where is she?" 
               "I don't know," replied Marshall. 
               "You do know, I believe!" rejoined Capt. Howe. "Have you murdered her for what few valuables you suppose she possesses? Is this another crime, to be added to the long and black list?" 
               "Indeed. I have not seen her," said the prisoner. "We only came in here a quarter of an hour, or so, before you did. Nobody was here then; the house was all deserted. The fire was all out, too!" 
               "Do you tell me the truth?" asked Captain Howe. 
               "As I live," replied the prisoner. 
               "Where can she have gone?" 
               "I thought, ma' be, after her her gal. I didn't know that she was lost before, though" 
               Captain Howe stood and regarded his prisoner a moment in reflective silence. The miserable wretch had tripped himself in the very last sentence he uttered tered, and so palpable was nis wrong intent, that the mind of the young man regarding him was divided between anger and disgust. 
               "You lying, malicious monster!" finally exclaimed the young man. "You do know where the girl has gone, and you shall be made to tell me what you helped do with her! I have feared the worst from the beginning about her! I feared that your mercenary, malicious heart would not hesitate to sacrifice her for your purpose, at any time; and I now know that I have not been disappointed in my fears! Wretch that you are!-you shall give up all you know of the girl! You shall be made to do it! Come along with us!" 
               Verd-Antique was at the prisoner's elbow to help him to a start. He seemed reluctant to go, and would have plead hard for his release, or for even the privilege of being carried in another direction; but he knew too well the determined character of the men who had him in their power, and his tongue refused its wonted office. 
               Poor, miserable man! Going as straight and as surely to the outlaw's grave, as if he had dog it with his own hands, and with care prepared his own shroud! Wretched outcast! who on earth was there living with a throb of sympathy for him-him the forgotten, loathsome being he had but made himself by his own course! 
               The three persons marched away their prisoner to the house of the Captain's uncle, where he was secured and properly guarded. It gave old Buff a peculiar satisfaction to sit and watch the enemy he hated so much. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               THE TRIAL AND EXECUTION. 
               ON a lovely day in June, there was quite a stir at the head-quarters of General Putnam, at Buttermilk Falls, on the Hudson. There was a company of soldters, under arms, drawn up before an old building near the one where the General quartered, and the excitement all around the spot was fast increasing. Men looked up at the windows, and wondered what would be the next thing to happen, and then spake their convictions to one another in low and cautious voices. 
               But to know the legitimate cause of this unusual parade of the militia, let us go into one of the rooms of the house. 
               As we enter, there are to be seen the figures of General Putnam and others of his officers behind a long table, upon which are placed pen, ink, and paper. A man sits in the middle of the room, directly before them, his arms secured behind him with a rope, or small cord. Around the room are ranged several officers of various grades, looking on as deeply interested spectators in the affair. Among the rest, are to be seen Captain Howe, Lieut, Byram and Verd-Antique. 
               The man sitting bound was Jim Marshall-the tory! 
               "Marshall," began General Putnam, "you are no new comer to our board! We have had an acquaintance of some long standing with you, and know you now pretty well! You are brought here to-day, charged with the crime of belonging to a party, who, at Sawpits, waylaid and shot one American officer and carried another a prisoner into New York, within the enemy's power. This is the principal offence with which we now charge you, yet there are many others that are not far off. Answer, then, to this one-Are you guilty, or not guilty of the crime of murdering an American officer?" 
               "General Putnam," replied the wretched prisoner, "I am not guilty of murder! I never did the thing!" 
               "They you deny the whole of this charge, do you?" asked the General. 
               "I aint guilty of any such thing, General Putnam. You may hang me, if you will, but I never did it!" 
               "Lieutenant Byram," called out the General, "will you step forward!" 
               The young man at once advanced to the middle of the room, where he confronted the prisoner. 
               "Have you ever seen this prisoner before?" asked General Putnam. 
               "Many times, General," was his reply. 
               "Where?" 
               "The first time I ever saw him to know him, he was at the head of a gang of scoundrelly skinners. He suffered my friend, John Horton here, who was with me, and myself to pass; but we had gone on but a few yards, before he and his men drove on after us. They caught my friend, but I escaped that time. The next time I saw him-but it is not essential to recapitulate this. I will only testify that I was walking near our outposts at Sawpits, a little more than a year ago, with Lieut, Barber, when we were suddenly surrounded by a concealed party of tories and fired upon. Lieut, Barber fell dead upon the spot. I was taken a prisoner, and carried off to New York, and there confined in prison for a full year. I have just escaped." 
               "Was this Marshall one of the party who fired upon you, and who murdered Lieut, Barber?" asked one of the officers sitting on the right hand of General Putnam. 
               "He was," answered Lieut, Byram. 
               "Should you be able to identify him without any fears of a mistake?" inquired another member of the court. 
               "I should. Not only did I hear the prisoner's name called, but, as he assisted in conducting me away, I became well acquainted with his personal appearance." 
               "Is this prisoner the same with the Marshall who fired with others upon you, and, after killing Lieut, Barber, carried you off a prisoner to New York?" asked General Putnam. 
               Lieut, Byram looked steadily for half a minute in the face of the prisoner, while the latter just as steadfastly kept his gaze fixed upon the floor, and answered- 
                
               "It is the same person." 
               "It is enough," replied General Putnam, "Gentlemen, I see no need of any further testimony. The case is already made out, so far as I can see. Guard! clear the room!" 
               Instantly the room was cleared, and the several members of the court proceeded to lay their heads together, preparatory to arriving at a fixed conclusion in the matter. Certainly, the testimony was direct enough, while there were no circumstances that could be presented as calculated to palliate the offence charged upon the prisoner. The latter still sat in the middle of the room, able to overhear their loud, buzzing whispers-each of them full of meaning with reference so his own fate-yet unable to catch more than occasional words, far apart, and fragmentary. 
               It took them not long to decide upon a question of which there seemed to be but one side to present. The court resumed their seats and their gravity; the room began to fill with those who had left it; and General Putnam, looking the prisoner directly in the face, pronounced the decree of the court. 
               "Marshall," said he, in a most earnest and impressive manner. 
               The man's eyes were rivetted on him. 
               "You well understand why you have been brought here, as you likewise know the difficulty already experienced in getting you here: Twice have you deceived us, and deceived us grossly. This time is no time for deception. What have you to say for yourself, that sentence should not be pronounced upon you for the crime of murder, of which this court doth find you guilty?" 
               The unhappy man, still not altogether brought down to a sense of his wickedness and crimes, paused and hesitated a moment. The General, seeing the effort he made to speak, interrupted him with- 
               "We are all disposed to be lenient towards you, Marshall, and will allow you to say anything you can properly say in exculpation of yourself." 
               "General-General Putnam!" began the prisoner, and here he faltered. 
               "Say on!" encouraged the General. 
               The hearts of every one in the room at that moment beat wildly with excitement, and their very breaths were hushed to hear what the man might have to say for himself. 
               "I am no murderer, General Putnam," continued he swallowing as if with exceeding difficulty, "and I never hope to be! I did not shoot the officer you charge me with shooting! I know that I have broken my promise to you- 
               "Yes, your solemn Bible oath!" interrupted Gen. Putnam. 
               "I broke it, and deserted from your corps just when I might have been of great good to them; for I know where to find them skinners, and if I'd been a mind to, I could ha' carried your men right to 'em! I done wrong, General, I allow! I'm sorry for it, and it you'd but try me agin, I'd do better!" 
               At this point he paused a moment. 
               "Is that all you would say?" inquired the commander. 
               "No-no!" responded the man, anxious to ward off his impending doom to the last possible moment. "I've got much more that I could say, General-much more! I know that folks call me a tory, but I don't know why I should be punished on that account!" 
               "You are not to be punished for that," replied the General; "you are to be punished for the crime of murder-not for having been a tory! You was punished for that, as your back will probably show this very day! You are an American soldier, for you once took the oath of allegiance to this country-to your country! And while sworn to support that cause, that ought to be dear to your heart-if ever you had a heart-you have assisted to commit the crime of deliberate murder! That is the offence for which the time of your retribution has at last come!" 
               "I've no more to say, General," added the prisoner, looking down upon the floor, while his face grew suddenly more pale than ever;" no more, General! I've said and done all I could! There be those here who could save me if they would! But they won't-no, I know they won't!" and he shrugged his shoulders and settled himself down deeply in his chair, as if in a fit of despair and sullen gloom. 
               "If you have nothing more to say," replied General Putnam, "you have but little to oppose to the judgment of this court. It is the unanimous opinion of this body, that you are guilty of the crime of murder. There is no doubt on that subject in the mind of any one of us. Neither are there any mitigating circumstances, so far as you have shown, of which you may avail yourself in your critical situation. Being found guilty, it is therefore the decision of this court that sentence shall be immediately passed upon you; which sentence is-that you be taken from your place of confinement between the hours of seven and nine o'clock to-morrow, to the gibbet, and there be hanged by your neck between the heavens and the earth! And may God have mercy upon you!" 
               All seemed to breathe freer, after this sentence was pronounced. They began to whisper to each other about the room, and in a brief time the entire apartment was a scene of confusion. 
               The prisoner sat calm and unmoved. No one could see that he had any feelings, so stolid, and cold, and indifferent seemed he to everything going on around him. His eyes still were fixed upon the floor, yet no signs of penitence or sorrow exhibited themselves at their lids. He looked the same man he would have looked, had he been assured of a prolongation of his life to fifty years more. 
               "Remand the convict to his quarters!" ordered the General. 
               The guard at once proceeded to remove him from the room. When they both reached the door, the former conducted the latter into the hollow square already formed by the soldiery, and, closing up at once, all marched off silently to the place where the condemned man was to be imprisoned, Arrived at the door, the guard conducted him up a pair of stairs, and secured him within one of the rooms of the upper floor. 
               The windows of this room, of which there were two, were strongly barricaded, to prevent the escape of just such prisoners as Marshal was, whenever they might be inclined to hazard a trial of it. Marshall's arms and legs were properly secured as soon as he entered the room. If that were not precaution enough, a sentinel was constantly pacing before his door-back and forth-while another kept up the same form of exercise beneath the windows, Even if the prisoner had succeeded in getting clear from his letters, he would have been sure to receive a ball in some tender part of his body, the moment he showed it beyond the precincts assigned him. 
               Standing by the window of his room-for his fetters, though abundantly secure, still left him ample liberty to move about his apartment-he gazed off over the distant hills with the strangest feelings he ever had any knowledge of. There was he-a condemned men! All about his eyes was his own country, that ought to have been dear to him. Instead of being respected by those who lived on the same soil on which he was born, he was chased, captured, and condemned by them! and on the morrow, he was to be hung in their presence! How bitter were such thoughts! How they stung his heart! How they lashed him, worse than a thousand scorpions! What would he not have given at that hour, had he the power to destroy himself-to crush out his very existence! What, that be had never even been born! But why come these rushing, boiling, scorching thoughts, just at this moment? Why were all these hellish phantoms kept in reserve to torture his soul at this last hour of its earthly existence? Why were there so many fingers pointing at him our of the viewless air-why so many plain handwritings on the very walls of his room, every time his eyes turned upon them-each finger, each letter, each sentence telling him how black was the character he had been all his life in earning; and how dreadful, yet just, the doom that yawned like a fathomless abyss before him? 
               Was there no comfort for him even in solitude?-none in his own thoughts? No consolation for his pricked heart in being shut up out of the sight of the enemies he had been all his life time in making? If none in this, then where could he look for it, expecting to find it? On earth-now here! Then in another world? Should he find it there-any shelter there? 
               He trembled from head to feet, as the thought flashed across him! He dreaded that future, because it was unknown to him-because he certainly could not promise himself that he would escape the same harrowing thoughts that rent his heart in pieces even here! He should be himself-the same Jim Marshall-after he was gone; certainly. Then if so wretched now, how expected he to be free from the same reproaches after his body should have been cut down and flung away to-morrow! 
               He got but a glimpse of his awful situation-he could not have comprehended it all. That single, fearful glimpse alone sufficed to bring him back to the nature that had been first implanted in him, though now overrun with the foulest weeds and the wildest briars. He remembered of being once taught to pray could he pray now? 
               He essayed it. It was in vain. He had no words-no thoughts-he knew not how the great God that made us all should be addressed! 
               He strode across his room, as fast as his fetters permitted him, and threw himself on the cot that stood in its corner. There he lay for a long time, extended upon his back, his eyes rolled up imploringly to the dingy ceiling. His lips occasionally moved, and be muttered broken sentences. But he could not pray. He knew nothing of that. His was a soul that was for the first time smitten; but so much smitten with fear, that he sunk exhausted under every effort to rally his thoughts upon other and higher purposes. What a wreck was he! A spy-a deserter-an abductor of defenceless females-a robber-a murders! Had he not faithfully reached the end of the fearful catalogue? 
               It was late in the evening, when he expressed to the sentinel a desire that Captain Howe be sent for. Complying with the dying man's request, the guard dispatched a messenger to the quarters of that officer with the intelligence that the prisoner could not close his eyes in sleep until he had seen him. The Captain obeyed the summons with alacrity, his heart refusing not, and hesitating not, in such an hour as that, to afford the condemned man all the consolation and assistance within his power. 
               He arrived in a few moments at the door of the convict's apartment, and requesting the sentinel to enter with him, went in. They found the condemned man sitting on the edge of his cot, groaning deeply. The moment his eyes rested on the countenance of Capt. Howe, he exclaimed, 
               "Captain, I have wronged you, and I want to make you all the reparation I can." 
               Captain Howe merely remarked-himself deeply touched by the manner and tone of his old enemy-that he was not conscious of having sought to do him any injury, but that in everything he had done towards his capture, he had consulted only the common good. He assured him that he did not allow his personal feelings to influence him in the matter for which he was so soon to suffer, but had already tried to forgive him for all his wrong; and if his heart had not greatly deceived him, he had forgiven him, as he hoped himself to be forgiven for all his own many shortcomings. 
               Such a sentiment touched the tender point in the nature of the criminal. His voice faltered, while he tried to speak, and tears moistened his eyes. 
               "I told you a lie, Captain Howe," said be, at length, "about that gal! I did take her from that hut of the old witch by force! The Indian was with me, and he helped me! We carried her to another hut we had of our own in the words, not more than a mile from there! The same night we went off to the southward with her, bearing direct for New York! We didn't reach the British lines the first night, and had to halt till the next one, before we could go on! Then we travelled on as long as I thought 'twas best-for I knew we sh'd have to make another day of it, at the slow rate we was goin', and then we all halted, and the Indian and I built her up a sleepin' place of brush, and boughs, and leaves. By some means, while I was left to watch her, I fell asleep. And when I woke up again, she was gone! We never were more astonished than to lose her; but we didn't know what was to be done but start of in pursuit. We reckoned she'd come back home again, and so we started back northward; but never have I seem her since, nor has the Indian either. We reached the hut as soon as we could again, but we saw no girl there. She hadn't been there, and we havn't thought she ever come back again, where she went, or where she is, God only knows! I wish I did, for I would like to ask her forgiveness for the wrong I've done her'" 
               "Are these all words of truth?" asked Captain Howe. 
               "Captain," replied the criminal, "I've no need to lie now no longer! I'm a dying man, and feel that my sands are fast runnin' out! What I've told you, God above knows is the truth-the whole of it! I only wish I could ask the forgiveness of the girl. Captain Howe! But you may see her agin-God grant you may! and tell her that I died, a sorrowing man for the wrongs and insults I'd heaped upon her!" 
               The young officer assured him that he should execute his last wish with all possible haste, after once he had got a clue to the where about of Mary. He regretted most of all, however, that he was not able to learn from the prisoner's lips where she was. 
               "When you do find her, Captain, "said the wretched man, "do you marry her!-and may God bless you with her! She's every whit worthy to make you a wife! She'll prove all that's good to you. God only assist you in finding her!" 
               Captain Howe, perceiving that this was the chief matter upon which the prisoner wished to see him, did not protract his visit beyond the time when he saw that the convict had communicated all he wished. Taking, therefore, his hand as he rose to go, he bade him a truly affectionate, yet saddening farewell, expressing the hope that they would meet again in a world were all temptations to violence and wrong were not known. 
               At an early hour the next morning, while the chaplain was still administering all the consolation in his power to the wretched prisoner, the drums began to roll near the guard-house, and the soldiers appointed to do duty on the occasion began to form in line. Going through such simple evolutions as were necessary, they stood in order before the door of the guard-house, ready to receive the prisoner the moment the chaplain had offered him his last comforting and admonitory words. 
               It was a calm, beautiful morning, the air sweeter than if perfumed with all the spices from Araby. Fragrance rose to the nostrils from a million flowers that raised their heads over the deep green meadow, or on the outskirts of the dense forests. Gusts of fresh air swept up from the noble river, invigorating those on whom they fell. There was a glory in everything created. 
               But there was a sad scene to be inserted in all this glorious frame-work. The death of a criminal on a beautiful morning in June! What a contrast! 
               The doomed man marched slowly down the stairs, his eyes red with weeping. Either fear, or remorse, or sorrow of the most poignant character, had softened him. His heart had been smitten, and the waters began to flow from that heart so long of stone! 
               The soldiers received him in their midst, and then closed up around him. He was clad in a long white robe, and wore the cap of death, the gallow's cap, on his head. He walked at a slow pace, firm and undaunted. Could courage-true courage-have been infused into that coward heart, at the last hour? 
               When they reached the place of execution, all the troops were drawn up about it, and the General and his officers were grouped at their head. The prisoner gave but a single look at them, and then at the preparations for his end. As he did the latter, a convulsive shudder ran over him, and his face grew bloodless. Yet his step continued firm, and his eye lost none of its wild expression. Perhaps it had become softened a trifle in its tone, but that was all. 
               Slowly and sadly his funeral escort marched on until they rested at the foot of his gallows. There they halted, and the condemned man had time to contemplate the awfulness of his situation. That he might do, but he could never understand it fully. A man in his place cannot fully comprehend the doom that hangs over him, with its endless and numberless consequences. 
               To the right and left the soldiery opened the way, and the unhappy man marched through with apparently as firm a tread as ever. His cheeks were blanched; but if with fear, certainly he betrayed no fear by any other sign. The executioner, whose duty it regularly was, conducted him to the foot of the rude gallows, and thence up the stairs. Arrived on the top stair, he adjusted the noose about the prisoner's neck, drew down the black cap below his eyes, and himself descended the stairs. General Putnam then called out from his saddle- 
               "Sentence of death will now be executed upon this criminal, who had been convicted of murder! Hangman! do your duty!" 
               In a instant the frail temporary scaffolding was level with the ground, while the body of the outlaw and the tory swung high between earth and heaven! He struggled with the throes of departing life for a few moments, and then all was still, the body was suffered to remain suspended for some time, after which it was cut down by the executioner, and laid in an exposed position within the coffin ready to receive it. Then the drums began their rolling again, and the word was given by the commanding officer for all to march. The whole body under arms was marched round in single file by the corpse, that they might, every man of them, detest toryism and its consequent crimes. 
               The outlaw was no more! He had gone to his last account! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               UNEXPECTED INTERVIEW 
               Anxious to frame any pretext by which he might possibly regain his lost one, Captain Howe assiduously waited upon General Putnam, until he had extorted permission from him to take a force of thirty men and scout in the country below, even to the enemy's line, if it should not be too hazardous According he mounted as fine a horse as he could then command, well trained to all manner of hardship, and marched silently out from headquarters at the head of his command, early one morning not long after the execution recorded in the last chapter. 
               They pursued their way with no special interruption through the whole of that day, and at night encamped but a few miles above the "neutral ground" The men lay on their arms to guard against surprise, and faithful sentinels were posted about to give timely alarm of the approach of any object threatening danger. The night passed, however, with no incident calculated to excite their fears-if any they had-and at early morning they commenced their irregular march again over the road. Each man consulted chiefly his own case in getting along, yet none were so careless as to forget that a sudden summons might call them to their posts. 
               Just at evening, when the stars first began to peep through the deep azure sky, they found themselves quite upon the edge of the British lines, yet had they alarmed no picquet or advanced guard of the enemy. Unwilling to proceed any further then, Capt. Howe ordered his men to halt and refresh themselves; and all at once sat down by the road side. A guard was stationed in their front and rear, to give notice of any approaching enemy. 
               They had not long been in this position, when the sentinel in advance hurried back to them, informing them that a small party of British were at that moment coming up the road. Their commander, he said, was mounted, and they were coming along at a pretty brisk pace. Immediately the word was given to all the men to form and retire to a defile, or gorge in the road, some thirty or fifty yards in their rear, and there lay in wait for the enemy when he should advance. In an instant the entire body were upon their feet, hurrying away in good order to the point commanded. 
               They took their position upon both sides of the road, concealing themselves behind trees, rocks, and stumps, as they most conveniently offered themselves. What made their position still a more favorable one, it was in a sort of dell, down to which the road was for a short distance somewhat precipitous, or what might more expressly be termed pitchy. They awaited, with suppressed breathing, the word of their commander, who had stationed himself as much out of view, likewise, as possible. 
               Before many minutes, they distinctly heard the tramp and the voices of the approaching party, unsuspicious of the ambush that had been laid for them. Their commander said nothing that they could hear, but the inharmonious voices of the men were distinctly audible, and so were their words. 
               "A gang of skinners!" whispered one of Captain Howe's men to another. 
               "No-cow, boys, as I live!" was the instant reply. 
               "I can charge into them with a better will than if they were a party of outright British!" remarked the first. 
               "Forward, men! Forward!" rang through the defile from the lips of Captain Howe. 
               On the instant, the muskets were discharged obliquely into the advancing body, and before they had time to recover themselves from their sudden alarm and consequent confusion, the bayonets of the American party were close upon them. Heedless of the excited orders of their commander, they took to their heels-those who had not fallen before the discharge of musketry, and fled with precipitation. Their commander turned, and, seeing what his men were about, immediately wheeled entirely round and rods after them. 
               "Back to your places! Form again! In God's name-form and charge on these rebels!" he commanded with all the power that yet remained to lungs excessively hoarse; but not a man heeded his words, and in a moment the rout became general, he himself joining in it from a necessity he could not have foreseen. 
               Captain Howe at once put spurs to his horse, and led on his men at the top of their speed. He had his keen eye upon the flying commander of the cow-boy troop, and had suddenly formed his determination to take him and carry him up to head-quarters. He would form a trophy worthy to be put on exhibition there. 
               On and on he rode, leading up his excited men with a voice of encouragement as well as by his own example, and shouting to them not to suffer a single fugitive to escape. They followed closely on after him, halloing at the top of their voices. Their yells and shouts made the woods ring with echoes. The enemy drove on. So likewise did the Americans Once or twice Captain Howe thought he had his man-the mounted commander of the gang-and just at that moment he slipped him. In a brief time each man of the American party seemed to have single out his object of pursuit, and the race seemed to have become a personal one-one after another. Seeing how it was, Captain Howe again drove the rowels into the flanks of his horse, and hurried on after the flying leader of the enemy. 
               The pursuit was kept up hotly for more than a mile. At length they came in sight of a mansion, standing back upon somewhat elevated ground, by which the road swept in a broad curve southward. Seeing no other possible chance of safety, and forgetful entirely where he was, the hotly pursued fugitive leaped suddenly from his horse and rushed up the gradual ascent to the house. Flying by a small party-chiefly of ladies-who sat upon the piazza, he entered the hall and drove into the parlor. 
               By if he thought to escape from his active and persevering pursuer in this way, he had certainly omitted to count the cost of his undertaking. Captain Howe's horse was just upon him as he entered the gate, while his rider ordered him sternly to stand. Seeing that his command was not obeyed, he leaped suddenly from his steed and rushed past the company sitting on the piazza into the house. He had not gone far, when the entire company followed him along in great haste and wonder. 
               Captain Howe burst into the lighted parlor, and saw his fugitive standing and trembling lest he should be discovered. 
               "You are my prisoner!" exclaimed the Captain, advancing hastily and laying his hand upon his shoulder. 
               "To whom do I deliver my sword?" asked the prisoner, somewhat astonished to find his captor so youthful a looking man. 
               "To Captain Howe, of the 17th Regiment of the New Hampshire Brigade," replied the Captain. 
               The prisoner immediately drew his sword from its scabbard, and presented its hilt to Captain Howe. The latter took it, and returned it to him again, saying. 
               "From whom do I receive it?" 
               "From Major Templeton!" was the reply, "of the 54th King's Regiment," 
               Captain Howe turned himself partially round, and saw that the room was filled with those to whom the premises more properly belonged; and bowing slightly to the gentleman, remarked to him, 
               "I hope you will excuse my seeming rudeness, sir! It is one of the unpleasant conditions of war, that even those who would enjoy peace by themselves are too apt to be robbed of it without any warning. I have been in pursuit of the officer who has just surrendered himself to my command, and thought of nothing but his capture. I beg that you will pardon me, ladies, and you too, sir, for my unmannerly interruption to-night. Be assured that you shall be annoyed by us no longer than may be necessary for us to prepare for a safe retreat." 
               The gentleman was about to reply to this very frank and courteous apology of the young officer, when the ears of the latter were saluted by the tones of a voice he knew full well, 
               "Is it he? It is! Yes-it is! it is he!" 
               He looked in the direction whence the voice came, and descried the form of a female entering at the door from the hall. She was clad in a flowing robe of white, and her appearance was as that of a sylph. The dark plaits of her profuse hair contrasted superbly with the pure white of her dress, while her face was crimson with a sudden excitement, of which none knew the cause. 
               "It is! It is William!" exclaimed she, advancing toward him. 
               "Mary! My own Mary! Have I found you again! Blessed be God for this favor!" replied he, with deep and almost unutterable emotion, while he rushed forward to meet his own betrothed, and folded her closely in his arms. 
               The reader already knows that this was the residence of Mr. Wilson, and that the gentleman to whom Captain Howe had proffered the apology for his rude interruption, was no other than Mr. Wilson himself. 
               When Mr. Wilson and the ladies saw this unexpected scene between Mary and the American officer, they were overwhelmed with astonishment. Ellen, it is true, had some intimation of the person on whom Mary's love had centered, and while she witnessed this ebullition of feeling or the part of her companion, her heart beat more hastily, and her cheeks became flaming red. She gazed, too, at the form of the young man with a feeling of admiration. There was that in his figure, his carriage, his manner, that delighted her-uniting grace and true manliness as he did in every particular. And while he pressed Mary closer to his heart, and blessed God that he had been allowed to meet her again. Ellen could not find it in her heart to wonder that the girl was so much carried away with such a lover. 
               The embrace of the delightful couple was long and ardent. As soon as Mary could recover herself sufficiently from her excitement, she turned to Mr. Wilson, and, looking up at him through her tears-they were but tears of joy-she said. 
               "Mr. Wilson, this is Captain Howe!" 
               She could say no more. 
               The Captain at once offered his hand to Mr. Wilson, grasping his warmly, and a second time going through an apology for his intrusion there that evening; although, he added, he could not but rejoice at the unlooked for event that had brought him there. Major Templeton sullenly and silently withdrew to a seat in the farther corner of the room, of whom no one took any notice. Once or twice Mr. Wilson glanced at him, but it was plain that he intended to take no notice of him. He had already had him in his house before, and entertained him under altogether different circumstances. He would even now have thrust him violently from his house, save for the reason that he was in the keeping of Captain Howe. 
               "Mr. Wilson," remarked the Captain, "I think I once met you under entirely different circumstances." 
               "When? Where?" asked Mr. Wilson. 
               "Do you remember the night, a couple of years ago, when your house was surrounded, and several British officers made prisoners?" asked Capt. Howe, in reply. 
               "Perfectly well, sir! Perfectly well! The prisoner you have taken to-night was here; but he succeeded in making his escape before you entered the house." 
               "Is it possible?" exclaimed Captain Howe, while the eyes of Miss Alice stole scornfully in the direction of the silent captive. "Do you furthermore remember," continued he, "that you begged that you might return to the house, for your daughter was in a critical situation?" 
               "Very well, sir; but pray tell me, were you of that party?" 
               "I was the commander of that party," replied Captain Howe. 
               "Then I thank you again, and again, for your kindness!" exclaimed Mr. Wilson. "You the man! I couldn't have believed it! But stranger things than that have happened in this long war!" 
               As he spoke, he again seized the hand of the young man, and, lending him to Miss Alice, said: 
               "This is my daughter Alice, sir!-the same whom your generous forbearance toward me helped to save. She will thank you for it more deeply than I can And this is my other daughter-Miss Ellen," said he, turning to the little hunchback, who had already found her way to the side of her dear friend Mary. "And this one," added he, looking at the overjoyed Mary, "you seem to have become acquainted with elsewhere, and at some long gone time!" Then he introduced him to the housekeeper-his sister-who, he said, had it in her power to make any guest comfortable and happy, who was predisposed to such a state of feeling. 
               As soon as these formalities were gone through, and the ladies had found themselves seats-Mary and Ellen upon the sofa-there was heard the sound of human feet up the walk and upon the piazza. Mr. Wilson instantly hastened to the door, and saw three men bearing along the body of a fourth. He had not time to retreat, or even to ask them what was the matter, when one of them called out: 
               "Help! For God's sake, help! Save a dying man!" 
               "Quick-quick, then!" cried out Mr. Wilson, in a frenzy of excitement. "Bring him in this way! This way!" 
               The voices alarmed those within, and while no one of the ladies dared to go to the door for fear, and Captain Howe dared not leave the presence of his prisoner for caution, the noise kept growing louder on the piazza, and then it was heard in the hall. 
               "This way!" said Mr. Wilson, throwing open the door of the parlor, and beckoning them in. "There are ladies in here who may be able to do something for him!" 
               As he spoke, the door opened, and the three men entered, supporting the body of the fourth. They at once stretched him out upon the floor, and fell to rubbing him. Captain Howe touched one of the men, bidding him look well to his prisoner in the corner. Obedient to his order, the man rose from the floor, and went and sat down by the side of the sorely strickened and deeply humiliated Major Templeton. Captain Howe, as soon as he bent down over the body of the man just brought in, saw who it was. He knew at but a single glance that it was-Verd-Antique! 
               He had not been killed-he was only wounded by some sudden and fearful blow. He lay insensible, yet faintly breathing. 
               "Bring some restoratives!" said Captain Howe. 
               At that moment Mrs. Flood entered the door, attracted thither by the sound of voices. 
               "What do you want?" asked she looking only at the prostrate body, and not daring to look about the room already full. "Restoratives, do you want?" 
               "Yes, yes! Be quick! He needs help the most now! His life is worth a dozen common lives to his country! Be quick as you can!" 
               "There's an old woman come to my house this evening-just at dusk-and I know she's a nurse, she's had so much to say about herbs and bruises! Let me go and get her! She'll do as well, perhaps, as any doctor!" and she flew out of the room to go after her. 
               Knowing that some immediate application was of the greater need, Miss Wilson, the sister and housekeeper, ran for brandy and other cordials, while the young ladies with Mr. Wilson began looking round in every other direction for something else that might be of service. It was not long before application of the medicines found was made to the insensible man, and he appeared relieved. His breathing was freer and more easy. He tossed one of his hands out, too as if he craved the assistance of just such friends as were at that moment around him. By the time that Mrs. Flood returned with the old woman who was her guest for the night, the injured man was evidently in a fair way of recovery. 
               Mrs. Flood entered again bringing the stranger with her. There was so much confusion in the room that no one noticed her at first. She immediately bent down over the body, muttered a few unintelligible syllable to herself, and said: 
               "When he recovers a little more-some hot cordial, and soak his feet in hot water, and bathe his temples! Mind and keep them well wetted!" 
               She stood on her feet again, after examining the man's pulse, and gazed about the room. There had been such an unwonted confusion before and around her, that it took her a moment or two to recover herself. When at length she did, she directed her attention most naturally to the young ladies first. Her keen eyes glanced over their countenances, and quicker than thought almost, she stepped out before her, exclaiming, while she threw up her shrivelled hands- 
               "Mary! Mary!" 
               The girl truly had found her grandmother-old Bet Miffles! She reached out both hands, while she still sat on the sofa, and responded in a faint voice: 
               "Grandmother! How did you find me?" 
               Captain Howe, who had temporarily gone out of doors to take a survey of what might be going on, at at this moment came in again. Bet Miffles saw him and at once broke out with- 
               "I have found her at last! Think not, William Howe, that you can carry her off and hide her from me!" 
               "I have done no such thing!" replied the astonished young man, wondering where she could have come from at that time. "I have done no such thing. You girl was carried away by other hands than mine!" 
               "Yes-yes'" added Mary 
               The old witch stood stupified. 
               "If you will hear me," continued Captain Howe, "I will tell you the whole in a few words. The men who carried her away from you were Jim Marshall-the infamous outlaw-and the Indian Lariko!" 
               "How know you? How know you?" quickly demanded she. 
               The Indian is dead-and so is the outlaw-" 
               "Both dead!" exclaimed the old woman and Mary together. 
               "Yes. The Indian was driven to the verge of the precipice before your hut, and took his last plunge into the water below. The other one, Jim Marshall, was but lately hung in camp for the crime of murder. He died as all such characters die. Only the night before he was to be executed, he sent to me, wishing to see me. I complied with his request and visited him in his confinement. At that time he confessed to me the part he had taken in the forcible abduction of Mary, and prayed that I would forgive him." 
               "You!" interrupted the old woman. 
               "Yes: and he begged me to spare no labor in finding Mary, and securing her forgiveness for him, too. He then said he should die comparatively happy. If I would not promise him this, he said he should not rest easy in his grave-if he was allowed one for his despised body. I promised to do all he asked me; but little did I think, when I made him that promise, that I should so soon be able to state the matter truly to Mary, or even to you! God has been good indeed, that I have found Mary so soon!-that you have found her, too!" 
               The old witch stood mute under the influence of the words, although it was easy to see that she was inwardly struggling with contending emotions. Those in the room were deeply interested spectators in what they saw. 
               "Can you take care of this man to-night, Mr. Wilson, and have no report of his being here spread over the neighborhood?" asked Captain Howe. "I fear it may be asking too much, sir, but he may himself one day be able to renumerate you in quite as serviceable a way" 
               "You are at liberty to do all you will, Captain," said Mr. Wilson, "that is calculated to restore so good a friend to you again. He may, too, be better in the morning-very much better. 
               "So I think," replied Captain Howe. "With this permission, then, I will take my prisoner back with me. My men undoubtedly await me at this moment" 
               As he spoke, a couple of men opened the door. They belonged to his company, and, seeing his horse at the door, knew he must be within. 
               "Tell them I will be back shortly!" said he to them, anxious to make the confusion for Mr. Wilson's family not any greater. "How many prisoners have you taken?" 
               "Full a dozen, Captain," was the reply, as they turned and hurried back to their comrades. 
               "Major Templeton!" said Captain Howe, advancing towards him. 
               The old witch at once caught the words, and appeared wonderfully excited. 
               "Are you ready to accompany me?" added the young Captain, in his pleasant tone. 
               The curiosity and excitement of the old woman being not in the least abated, she advanced within three or four steps of him, and looked wildly in his face. 
               "Is he a British officer, Captain Howe?" inquired she, looking with a deep anxiety into his face. 
               "He is," answered Captain Howe. 
               "And Major Templeton?" continued she. 
               The Captain bowed an affirmative. 
               "Yes-yes-yes!" shrieked she, in a cracked and harsh voice, advancing still nearer him and glaring fiercely in his face. He stood the ordeal tolerably well, although he could not but feel mortified beyond common endurance by the gaze of the entire assembly. 
               "I know that face well-ay, those features,-those eyes,-eh! hellish eyes! I know him well-too well! Major Templeton, indeed! Have you followed me here then? Shall you always be on my track!" 
               Every one in the room stood confused beyond expression to be witnesses of such a scene. From the incoherency of her manner, Mr. Wilson thought she might be insane, and was about to interfere to prevent any further excitement. But Captain Howe just then demanded of her what she meant by her conduct. 
               "What do I mean!" answered she, shrieking it out more loud and excitedly than ever,-"what do I mean! I mean that nigh upon twenty years ago, that man stole away the affections of my daughter from me,-my only child! I mean," continued she, waving her skeleton hand back and forth in his face,-"I mean that after he got her affections, and got her to promise him everything, he ruined her! Then he cruelly deserted her-cruelly, wickedly! He is a villain before you! I know him for such! I remember him well! Major Templeton! speak, if such be not your character! My poor-poor girl! For years I followed on in pursuit of her, for she had left me for very shame, and summer and winter I waited and watched for any tidings of her! And she has not come yet! no, not yet!-and I never expect to see her again in this world! Oh, that I had the power to punish such a villain as I would!" 
               Mrs. Flood stood bewildered at the conduct of the woman whom she had introduced to Mr. Wilson's house. When, however, her words felt on her ear, her eyes seemed suddenly opened. She rushed toward the old woman, crying, as she did so- 
               "Mother! my own mother!" 
               "What! what means all--" the old witch was about to utter. 
               "Your own child! Behold your penitent Margaret!" said Mrs. Flood, her eyes dropping hot tears. 
               "Do my eyes deceive me? Am I not mistaken? Is this all a reality?" asked the astonished old woman. 
               "Mother' oh, mother! If you can but forgive me! That man was my destroyer-but I am saved now! I again behold my mother!" 
               So unaccustomed had the old woman become, during a long course of dreary years, to be influenced or affected by such scenes, that she was unable to discover any of those deep and strong emotions that really dwelt in her breast. She shed no tears, there fore-not even tears of joy. For years she had shed none at all. Seizing hold of her overwhelmed daughter, she, with the help of the other ladies, which they now proflered, conducted her to the sofa, and they sat down together. 
               There ensued a pause of a few minutes, after which, Captain Howe remarked that he should be obliged to break up the interview which had resulted so strangely. 
               "Stay!" cried out the old witch, rising to her feet and placing herself in his way. "I have more to tell you! More that will interest you, and your prisoner, too!" 
               "What?" asked the young officer, anxious to remove his prisoner to a place of more undoubted security. "I must begone soon; my men wait upon the road now; besides, there's a sick one to be taken care of!" 
               "Let me tell younow-now! It will not do to wait! You have said to me that Mary is not my grand child-she is not!" 
               "What! I said so! I always said so!" exclaimed he. 
               "She is the child of Major Templeton!" cried the witch. "When my Margaret left me because of her shame I vowed that I would have my revenge as soon as I could upon the man who had done my child such a wrong!" 
               "And you-" 
               "I waited. He married, as I knew he would! But it was a wealthy lady whom he married-never thought he to have the poor, frail creature whom he betrayed! When this child was born to him, I stole it from his roof and fled!" 
               "Oh, my God! My God!" exclaimed the agonized prisoner, pressing his hand to his forehead. "Is this then my child? Do I see my own child? Come here, my Mary! Let me look into those eyes again, which I have never seen since you were a child! Come to me, my Mary!" 
               "I swore,' continued the old woman, "that if my child was ever restored to me, his should be restored to him-if I could have it done! Thank God-it has been done this very night! Take back your child, sir! She is yours-all your own! I own that I love her; but not as a mother may love her own child! Take her to your bosom again, and thank God for the gift! She is a sweet child, and you are her unworthy father!" 
               Both Mary and her father wept tears of joy and sorrow-of joy at such a re union-sorrow, at the parent's deserved shame; a shame which he had wrought for himself with his own hands! 
               Then the old witch-now no longer a witch, but the old Mrs. May-fell to caressing her daughter, and lavishing upon her such expressions of joy as she could command. The daughter, however, was more affected with the meeting than was the mother. At least, she showed the evidences of it to those around her. 
               While this was the situation of affairs, who should enter at the door but Tim Flood-the reputed lunatic. 
               "Aha! I've come just in time to see my sister again, havn't I, mother?" exclaimed he, glancing at his mother and at the graceful figure of Mary, now standing by the side of her father. "My pretty sister! I always loved her, from the time she first came here! But what is this? Dead!-is he dead?" he asked, pointing at the prostrate form of Verd Antique. "Dead? No-no-no-no-! There's no death there! He'll get well! He's only sick!" 
               The situation of Mr. Wilson and his entire family was certainly peculiar. The ladies could do nothing; they had no power to alleviate any sorrows, or to heighten any of the joys of that strange occasion. It was left for them to look on, and wonder at the marvellous changes that this mutable world is constantly working in human affairs. They sympathized deeply for Major Templeton, even though they despised him at the same time. Even Miss Alice could not refuse from her heart to feel a deep pity for the man had so long played a false part to himself, thinking that the world might possibly be deceived! 
               Young Captain Howe was, of all others, however, in the most unwelcome predicament. His soldier's heart was divided between love and duty. He felt the sting in being obliged to carry away the father of his own betrothed, a captive-yet it had got to borne by him. Rather than separate father and child, he went out to meet his men and ordered them to encamp near the mansion of Mr. Wilson for that night and thus were the long estranged parents and children able to pour out to each other the feelings that had been dammed up in their breasts so long. 
               Mrs. May went to her daughter's cot with her and her melancholy wreck of a son-that sad evidence of the poor young mother's shame. Capt. Howe had it not in his heart to separate Major Templeton from his daughter, and they all three sat up late that night, forming better and more enduring acquaintance one with another. Before they separated for the night, Major Templeton had freely given away his daughter to her brave lover and defender, and he had accepted the gift with a heart overflowing with gratitude. 
               Verd-Antique was also removed to a cot in one of the chambers, where he received every such attention from the entire family as would tend to reinvigorate him and make him comfortable again. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               CONCLUSION. 
               AS early as was practicable on the ensuing morning, they all sallied forth from the house of Mr. Wilson. Anxious to remove Mary to a place of greater safety, Captain Howe had prevailed upon Mr. Wilson to send along his small carriage with Mary and her father, while his company of soldiers formed the escort. 
               The parting between the sisters and Mary, was touching in the extreme. They had had her so long in their midst, that they parted with her with quite as much reluctance as if she had been one of their own family. They loaded her with blessings and presents, and prayed that she might long be spared, a source of happiness to one every way so generous and brave as Captain Howe. They consented-more from regard for Mary's feelings than anything else-to wish her father a pleasant journey, wherever it might be his fortune to go: and Mr. Wilson refused not to join his daughters in the expression of so proper and respectful a wish. The body of men closed about the vehicle, and the entire cavalcade passed on to the northward, hastening now to reach the head quarters of General Putnam. 
               When the prisoner was brought into the presence of the General, together with the ten or dozen others whom the men had taken, he ordered him, at Captain Howe's private suggestion, into the country, promising the latter officer that if he would engage to keep him properly guarded, he might retire with him, under a proper escort, to the residence of his uncle, in the little village near Ridgefield Mountain. Verd Antique having been able to come along with the body, too, he offered Captain Howe his constant services as sentinel over the prisoner, thinking moreover that his health would be greatly re-established thereby. Accordingly, the arrangement being fully understood, while Captain Howe dismissed Mr. Wilson's carriage to its owner again, he started with such conveyances as he could procure for the residence of his uncle-himself privileged with a whole month's furlough, for the good service he had just performed. When old General Putnam dismissed the two lovers from head quarters, sagaciously understanding what must be the sweet relation subsisting between them. he blessed them with one of his fervent blessings, and trusted from his heart that the young lady would live many years to make some one happy!" 
               That was the last campaign in our Revolutionary war that General Putnam went through-the campaign of 1779. While posted during the whole of that spring and summer near West Point, it was assigned him to supervise the construction and fortification of the works at that place-the place he had himself selected as the strongest point upon the Hudson. 
               When, late in the fall, the army left the field and retired into winter quarters at Morristown, General Putnam went for a few weeks into Connecticut, where his family resided. After having finished his visit in the bosom of that family, he commenced his journey by land to Morristown, by way of Hartford while upon the road between Pomfret and Hartford he felt the torpor that precedes paralysis creeping slowly over his right hand and foot. The numbness increased, until he had lost the entire use of his limbs on that side of his body. Unwilling to believe his disorder was what his friends too truly knew it to be, he made increased and constant exertions to shake it off from him; but this he found to be impossible. His reason and philosophy united soon to reconcile him to his fate. 
               Though he had thus partially lost the use of his body, yet he never ceased to enjoy the full vigor of his mind under this infliction. His memory continued sound and retentive. His relish for domestic and social enjoyments was as keen as it had ever been. And, in truth, all his faculties still remained to him unimpaired. While still confined in his retreat at his fireside, and upon his farm, he heard the noise of the conflict and longed to be a patriot soldier again; but it was ordered that he rest now from his almost superhuman efforts, and live in retirement to witness the glorious result of that contest upon which he entered at the first with such zeal and courage. A single extract of a letter to him from Washington, while he was thus living in peaceful retirement, will best give the estimate in which he was held by the great commander of our armies at that eventful day:- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "HEAD-QUARTERS, 2d June, 1783. 
                              DEAR SIR-
                            
                           "Your favor of the 20th of May I received with much pleasure. For I can assure you, that among the many worthy and meritorious officers with whom I have had the happiness to be connected in service through the course of this war, and from whose cheerful assistance in the various and trying vicissitudes of a complicated contest, I have been much benefitted, the name of a Putnam is not forgotten; nor will it be but with that stroke of time which shall obliterate from my mind the remembrance of all those toils and fatigues through which we have struggled for the preservation and establishment of the rights liberties, and independence of our country. 
                           "Your congratulations on the happy prospects of peace and independent security, with their attendant blessings, to the United States, I receive with great satisfaction; and beg that you will accept a return of my gratulations to you on this auspicious event-an event, in which, great as it is in itself, and glorious as it will probably be in its consequences, you have a right to participate largely, from the distinguished part you have contributed towards its attainment." 
                         
                      
                  
                
               On the 17th day of May, 1790, General Putnam was attacked with a violent inflammatory disease, which, from the first, he was satisfied would prove fatal. "Calm and resigned," says Col. Humphreys, his friend and biographer, "he awaited the approach of death with joy, as a messenger sent to call him from a life of toil to everlasting rest." On the 19th, he ended a life which had been spent in cultivating and defending the soil of his birth. As the Clergyman who delivered the eulogium over his remains said, "He pitied littleness-loved goodness-admired greatness, and ever aspired to its glorious summit! The friend, the servant, and almost unparalleled lover of his country-worn with honorable age and the former toils of war-PUTNAM 'rests from his labors!'" 
               On the 21st of May he was buried. His tombstone still remains in the churchyard of the quiet little hamlet where he yielded up his breath, and upon it is the following inscription, written by the esteemed President Dwight, of Yale College, who knew the old hero intimately, from an army acquaintanceship:- 
                     Sacred be this Monument to the memory of ISRAEL PUTNAM, ESQUIRE, Senior Major-General in the armies of the United States of America; who was born at Salem, in the Province of Massachusetts, on the 7th day of January, A. D. 1718, and died on the 19th day of May, A. D. 1790 Passenger, if thou art a soldier, drop a tear over the dust of a Hero, who, ever attentive to the lives and happiness of his men, dared to lead where any dared to follow; if a Patriot, remember the distinguished and gallant services rendered thy country by the Patriot who sleeps beneath this marble; if thou art honest, generous and worthy, render a cheerful tribute of respect to a man, whose generosity was singular, whose honesty was proverbial; who raised himself to universal esteem, and offices of eminent distinction, by personal worth and a useful life.
                  
                
               The old hero sleeps undisturbed. 
               After the war was ended, the General received a letter from Captain-afterwards Colonel-Howe, inviting him to attend upon the ceremony which was to unite him to the maiden he had lover so long and so well-Mary Templeton; but the health of his old comrade was too much impaired to admit of such a journey, and he returned them his heartfelt thanks for his kind and thoughtful invitation, while he craved innumerable blessings on the heads of those about to enter on the new relation. The wedding came off at the house of the young officer's uncle, and immediately a trip was made by the newly married couple and Major Templeton to England. The former returned not long after, and settled themselves down in the place of their beneficent, gouty uncle, which he had just before vacated by death. 
               Bet Miffies, the old witch, returned, not long after finding her daughter, to New York, whence they found an early opportunity to embark in a transport ship for England-her native land Tim Flood accompanied them also, perhaps less a lunatic each year than ever. 
               Mr. Wilson and his interesting family continued to live in their old place, where, not long after the close of the war, Alice married a merchant of the city. Ellen remained to her aunt and father, the same hunchback, and the same angel of goodness she had ever been. Her intercourse with Mary Templeton was long and steadily kept up, greatly to the happiness of both. 
               Buff continued to make Col. Howe a faithful servant-just as he had been for his uncle before him. The Colonel and his beautiful wife occasionally ramble up the mountain height to visit the ruins of the old but, and reflect upon the change that a few years wrought in each of them. Buff used to stand and gaze at the cabin in which Mary was once confined by the Tory and the Indian, and to wish that he could but have had a hand in the punishment of the infamous wretches. 
               When the war was ended, the father of Laura Edwards saw matters with different eyes, and changed the hue of his politics. After that date, it was nothing difficult for Captain Byram to visit frequently at his house, and finally marry his daughter; yet both agreed that Henry's agency in placing Mr. Edwards in the guard-house should never be disclosed to him on any condition or pretext. 
               Paul Potter continued the landlord of the "Eel Pot," and Verd-Antique, now that he was much worn with the toils of war, assisted him in his business, after the style of a partnership. The old tavern haunt still stands in the city, and there be many who enter its door, regardless of the many strange histories that might be read upon its inner walls, and ignorant of the important part it bore in the trying days of the Revolution. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
       
          
             
            AN ORIGINAL STORY BY HARRY HAZEL. 
            SYLVIA SEABURY, 
            OR YANKEES IN JAPAN. 
            THE ROMANTIC ADVENTURES OF A SAILOR-BOY. 
            
                
             
            THE WHALER, KING PHILIP, OFF THE COAST OF JAPAN. 
            BY HARRY HAZEL, AUTHOR OF "YANKEE JACK," "THE THREE PIRATES," "GALLANT TOM," "RED KING," ETC. 
            ILLUSTRATED. 
            A tale of romantic and stirring adventure by sea and land. One of those thrilling stories which always attain popularity. Robinson Crusoe, in his lonely island of the Pacific, never experienced more romantic vicissitudes than did the hero of this amusing narrative among the far-off Orientals. 
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
            CINCINNATI. H. B. PEARSON & CO., 17 EAST FOURTH-ST. 
            PRICE, 25 CTS. 
             
               Just published, the following Sea Tales: 
               THE THREE PIRATES. By Harry Hazel. Illustrated Price 25 cts. 
               BEN BRACE, or The Life of a Sailor. Illustrated 50 cts. 
               ADVENTURES OF PAUL PERWINKLE. Illustrated 50 cts. 
               JACK ARIEL, or Life on board an East Indiaman 25 cts. 
               GALLANT TOM, or The Perils of the Ocean 25 cts. 
               FLYING DUTCHMAN, a Mysterious Tale of the Sea. Illustrated, 25 cts. 
               RED KING, the Corsair Chieftain 25 cts. 
             
          
          
             
            NEW ILLUSTRATED EDITION-JUST PUBLISHED, 
            Price Twenty-five Cents, 
            THE MYSTERIES OF MARRIAGE! 
            THEIR SOCIAL, MORAL, AND PHYSICAL RELATIONS. Addressed to both Sexes. With Hints in Choosing a Husband or Wife. By MICHAEL RYAN, Member of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons, Physician to the Metropolitan Free Hospital, &c. 
            THERE IS NO SECRET IN THE NATURAL OR THE MORAL WORLD SACRED FROM THE INVESTIGATION OF MAN. ALL THAT HE HAS TO GUARD AGAINST IS ERROR.-Essays on the Pursuit of Truth. 
            To give the reader an idea of the value and importance of this great work, we give the Table of Contents, simply assuring him that every subject is fully and scientifically treated. 
            CHAPTER I.-Prevalence of Erroneous and Demoralizing Publications; Necessity of an antidote; Views of a Modern Divine; Eloquent Remarks of Mrs. Jamieson; Marriage without Means; Fallacies of Mothers and Miss Martineau: Checks upon the increase of a Family-The subject considered; Degradation of Females in London; Startling Facts; Punishment of the Seduced and Adulterer by the English law, Illustration; The end of Marriage. 
            CHAPTER II.-Origin, nature, and purposes, and duties of Marriage; Felicities of the Married State; Illegitimate Offspring; Necessity of Maternal Care; Proper age for Marriage; Evil Results from too early Marriage; Duration of Productive Powers; Instances of Virility in Old Age; Valuable Precepts in regard to Marriage. Powers of Conception; Is Marriage conductive to Long Life? 
            CHAPTER III.-The Consummation of Marriage; Evils of Violence on the part of the Male: Too frequent conjugal intimacy; The most appropriate time for sexual commerce; When abstinence is proper; Instances of death during coition; Proper proportions of the sexes in marriage; Imperativeness of the genital function; Developments in Children; Pernicious habit of Masturbation; Case related by Gall; Female circumcision; Singular operation; Cure of the habit. 
            CHAPTER IV-Perils of Premature Cohabitation; What is the proper age for Marriage; Laws upon the subject; Statistics; Juvenile Parents; Opinions of the early Legislators. Plato on the period for Propagation; Aristotle; The Jews; The customs of different Nations; Irish Chastity; Disproportionate Marriage; Consequent Immorality; Young Women and Old Men; Parental authority in regard to Marriage; Evils to be Avoided. 
            CHAPTER V.-Evils of an Unhappy Marriage; One based on Sensualism, Fortune, &c.; The true basis; Masculine Women and Effeminate Men; Men more deprayed than Women; The great Conjugal Duty; Irregularity in Marriage; The chief end; Study well the Character of your Intended Partner; An Irreligious Husband; Temper; Cares of Matrimony; Gisborne on Marriage; Love at First Sight; Foundation of True Love. 
            CHAPTER VI.-Polygamy; Law of Nature in Temparate Countries; Lycurgus's Method of Preventing Jealousy; Curious customs; Polygamy in Africa; Signs of Virginity; The Mosaic Laws; What Physiology Teaches; Extraordinary Case of Seduction; The Signs of Virginity may be absent, and yet the Female be a virgin; Incentives in Civilized Life to Amorous Indulgences; Women dislike men, who are gregarious in their Amours; The minor morals of Women; Their importance in retaining a Husband's Affections. 
            CHAPTER VII.-Requirements of Conjugal Fidelity; Grounds for refusing Cohabitation on the part of a Wife; Curious laws of Muscovy; when the Conjugal Debt ought not to be paid; Opinions of the Primitive Fathers; Conception during Lactation; Danger of Incontinence on the Husband's Part; Sympathy between the Womb and Bosom; Abstinence from the Conjugal Rite on account of Poverty, &c.; Adultery; Lax views on the subject of Conjugal Fidelity; Napolean; Extraordinary views of Luther; Man's Power of Procreation; Popular Fallacy; Other Causes of Conjugal Infidelity; Delicate health of Women after Pregnancy; The causes considered. 
            CHAPTER VIII.-Changes in the System as Puberty Approaches: Development of the Brain; Effect on the Female Organization: Nature points out her Rights, Predominance of Voluptuous Ideas: The Sexual Passion; The Progress of Lovers; Increase of Physical Love: Advice to the Young of both Sexes; Secretion of the Sexual Fluid: Full Development of the Male; Perils of Incontinence and Unnatural Excitement Puberty considered; Origin of Life; Physiology of the Sexual Organs. 
            CHAPTER IX.-Causes of Fecundity; Aliment, situation and climate; Affluence and Poverty; Temperament, Passions, Volition; Impregnation during Sleep; A Mother of sixty-two Children; Happy reply of Napoleon. Causes of Sterility; Does Impregnation depend most upon the Male or Female? Impotence and Sterility. 
            CHAPTER X.-The Seasons most favorable to Conception; The Months most abundant in Births; Popular superstitions on the subject: Influence of Aliment; Aphrodisiacs; Coition during Drunkenness; Retort of Diogenes; Case related by Combe; Effects of Mental Exertion; Complete Efforts on the part of the Male; Conception; Curious Facts in regard to Prostitutes; Abstinence Favorable to Fecundity; Anecdote of Newton; The Abuses of enjoyment. 
            CHAPTER XI.-New views of Marriage; A Woman is most attached to the man who has initiated her into the Mysteries of Love; Does age dull its Pleasures? The Conjunction of Souls; The Sense of Love ultimates in the Touch; Propensity to touch the Loved Object; Platonic Love, a Fallacy; Apathy after Marriage; Coldness on the Wife's part; A Husband's Duty Hints to Wives; The twain shall be One Flesh. 
            CHAPTER XI.-Further details in regard to the Reproductive Economy in Men and Women: Chlorosis, Perverted Appetites in Young Girls; Means of cure; Natural Defects; Effects of Extinguishing the Generative Organs; Castration; Its Effects; Origen; Italian Castrati; Anecdotes of Eunuchs; The Catamenia, or Monthly Affection of Women: Useful information on the Subject. 
            CHAPTER XIII.-Nubility; State of mind previous to Love; Phenomena observable in Young Women; Analysis of Love; Chastity; Natural Coquetry Rousseau's Comparison; Anecdote of Montaigue; Is Modesty Natural? Attractions of the Sex; Hints to Parents. 
            CHAPTER XIV.-Want of offspring; Matrimonial Disqualification; Distinction between Impotence and Sterility; Proper Mode of Treatment; Singular case of Impotence cured; Other cases; The true Principles of Restoration, Danger of consulting Quacks, The end. 
            H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-st., N. Y. 
            Copies mailed, on the receipt of 25cents, post paid, addressed as above 
          
          
             
            REYNOLDS' NEW POPULAR ROMANCE. 
            PRICE 50 CENTS. 
            MARY PRICE; 
            OR, THE ADVENTURES OF A SERVANT-MAID. 
            
                
             
            BY G. W. M. REYNOLDS, 
            Author of 'The MYSTERIES of the COURT of LONDON,' 'KENNETH,' 'COURT of NAPLES,' &c. 
            The immense sale of this deeply-interesting work fully proves the hold it has taken on popular favor. It is inded one of the most fascinating novels that has recently been published, and exhibits the trials, the light and dark shades of a servant-maid's life, in a manner at once powerful, and such as to absorb the intense interest of the reader. It is in fact a domestic mirror, in which the reader will behold, depicted with truth, all kinds of masters and mistresses of families, and the many good and evil ways in which households can be managed. It is one of Reynolds' best efforts.-The Times.
             
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-street. 
            Just published, "THE MYSTERIES OF THE COURT OF LONDON," in 2 vols, paper, Price $1,-22000 of this interesting work has already been published. 
            Copies mailed on receipt of $1, post-paid, addressed as above. 
          
          
             
            A TALE OF PERSECUTION AND SUFFERING. 
            EVELEEN WILSON, 
            OR THE TRIALS OF AN ORPHAN GIRL. 
            THIS is a thrilling and interesting narrative of facts, which, startling as they may appear, have actually occurred within the last few years. Few can read the story without feeling deeply interested in the career of the noble-minded, but sorely-tempted EVELEEN. We do not recollect ever having read a work more calculated to rivet the attention. The reader feels himself one of the series of characters, and watches the fortunes of the heroine, and rejoices in her eventual success and her triumph over her enemies, as though she were an intimate friend or a beloved relative. 
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
            CINCINNATI:-H. B. PEARSON & CO, 17 EAST FOURTH-STREET. 
            PRICE 25 CENTS. 
          
       
   
