
    ----CITATION----
        Hazel, Harry, (1814-1889). The Three Pirates, or, The Virgin of the Islet .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6945
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               CHAP. I. Sunset at Sea-The becalmed Merchantman-An interesting domestic Event-Oceana Bertine, the Child of the Ocean The Shot-Sail ho!-A Suspicious Craft-Red Martin, Black-beard and Scarlet Jack-A Sea Fight-Victory of the Buccaneers. 5-12
                
               CHAP. II. Victory not won-Captain Stark contemplates an awful Sacrifice-Dismay of the Three Pirates-Noble Conduct of Haidee, Red Martin's Bride-The Oath-The Capitulation. 13-19
                
               CHAP. III. Interview between Red Martin and Haidee-Her views in regard to the Americans-A Spanish Galleon descried-The Pirate Chief resolves on making her his Prize. 20-22
                
               CHAP. IV. An Evening Scene on the Ocean-Haidee's Superstition-Preparation for attacking the Spanish Galleon-The Combat-Bold Conduct of the Female Leader-The Capture and the Booty. 23-29
                
               CHAP. V. Midnight-Red Martin's proposition-Haidee's Reply-A Conspiracy concocting on board the Raven-The Cheat of Blackbeard to obtain command of the Fleet. 30-38
                
               CHAP. VI. Mungo, the Cunning Slave-His visit to Red Martin-An Unlooked-for Revelation-Haidee determines on defeating the Plotters-Mungo pretends to be in Trouble. 39-42
                
               CHAP. VII. Disappointment of Blackbeard-The Invitation-San Malo seized for a Traitor-His Doom is pronounced by Haidee. 43-48
                
               CHAP. VIII. The Plotters circumvented-Conduct of Haidee-The Goblet of Blood-red wine-The Toast-Amazement of the Conspirators. 51-55
                
               CHAP. IX. The Tornado-Peril of the Pirate Fleet-An Interesting Interview-A Speck upon the Ocean. 56-60
                
               CHAP. X. The Perils of the Ocean-The Bark Adriatic in the Gale-Her awful Situation-Terrors of the Crew-The Raft-Abandoning of the Bark-The Tempest subsides-Morning-A Sail descried-An Unexpected Surprise. 61-64
                
                
               CHAP. XI. Description of Virginia Gorda-How the Pirates became possessed of it-The Capture of the British Gun-brigs-The Prisoners. 67-70
                
               CHAP. XII. The Missing Schooners-Treason Triumphant-Death of Davila and Ximenes-Expedition for freeing the Traitorous Prisoners of Red Martin-The Dungeon, the Sentinel, and Deceit of Daredevil-Mungo's Counterplot-Red Martin's Enemies in a Predicament. 71-77
                
               CHAP. XIII. Mungo and his Master-Desperate effort of the Prisoners to escape from the Dungeon-A torturing mode of Defence-Escape from the Cave and the awful Consequences. 78-83
                
               CHAP. XIV. Blackbeard is scented out-The exciting Chase-Life and Death at Issue-Exertion of the Hunters-A desperate Man-The Fearful Leap-The Explosion-The Pet of the Islet. 84-87
                
               CHAP. XV. A lapse of Ten Years-The Avenger and the Triton-The Prisoners-The Death-plank-Firmness of Bertine-The dread Alternative-A new Proposition-The Prisoners become Pirates-A grand Carousal-The Cunning Mungo-Escape of Bertine. 88-95
                
               CHAP. XVI. A Yankee Brig-The new Recruit-The Chase-The Escape-Arrival in the United States-An Expedition fitted out against the Buccaneers. 96-99
                
               CHAP. XVII. Red Martin's Prisoners-Oceana, the Virgin of the Islet-The Strange Sails-Blackbeard's Arrival off Virginia Gorda-Preparations for Defence. 100-104
                
               CHAP. XVIII. And the last of this eventful History. 105
                
             
          
       
      
         
            The three pirates, or, The virgin of the islet 
             
            THE THREE PIRATES: 
            OR, THE VIRGIN OF THE ISLET. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
                
                  Sunset at Sea.-The Becalmed Merchantman.-An Interesting Domestic Event.-Oceana Bertine, the Child of the Ocean.-The Shot.-Sail ho!-A Suspicious Craft.-Red Martin, Blackbeard and Scarlet Jack.-A Sea Fight.-Victory of the Buccaneers. 
                
               BEAUTIFUL and breezy had been a bright autumnal day. The sun in all his refulgent splendor was sinking beneath the ocean's swelling bosom, imparting a golden glow to the sky of the occident and gilding the crests of the billows. And as the bright golden shield disappeared beneath the surface, the light wind died away, leaving the ocean like a mirror of burnished steel, in which the blue arch above, now studded with the first stars of evening, and the crescent queen of night were distinctly visible. 
               Fifty leagues south of the Great Antilles, a noble vessel lay becalmed; a cloud of canvas hung uselessly from her spars, and a score of sailors lay idling away the time upon her upper deck. She proved to be an American merchantman from Canton, bound to New York, richly laden with silks, spices, teas, specie, and other valuables. On the quarter deck were the officers of the ship, and a young gentleman, a passenger, of pleasing address, who walked to and fro with an anxious expression upon his handsome countenance, and scarcely heeding some pleasant sallies of wit which were directed towards him by the fat, jolly, companionable captain. Presently, a pretty quadroon girl emerged from the cabin, and whispered in his ears. He followed her into the cabin, and after a lapse of a few minutes he returned, and again paced the deck with the same troubled and impatient look as before. 
               "Come, come, Harry, cheer up," said the captain, "you're as dull as this confounded calm. What news from below.?" 
               "Captain, I am in no humor for foolish jests," replied Henry Bertine. 
               "Avast there, my friend," said the captain; "do you call that a jest? If so, tell me, how is your good lady?" 
               "I trust she will be better soon," said he, soberly. 
               "Fear not; our physician has the reputation of being skillful in that particular branch of his profession; therefore, my friend, cheer up! cheer up! Here has a whole half day passed, and you've been gloomy as a Dutch skipper in a fog! Not so much as a smile has been seen on your features to-day. If you wear that sorry figure head much longer, we shall all have the blue devils!" 
               The young man made no reply to the good natured remarks of the captain, and it was doubtful whether he was aware of being addressed, so intent was his mind upon the cause of his anxiety. 
               "If it should happen to be a boy, Harry," continued the jocular captain, "I claim the right of giving it a name. Let me see-yes, it shall be named after the old ship-Admiral Bertine!-excellent!-an honorable name-a title without the station; but if it should be one of the other kind, which is altogether probable, for my wife has presented me with seven of 'em to one boy, why we'll christen it-let's see-I can't think of a good one-ah! I have it-Oceana!-Oceana Bertine! Beautiful! isn't it, Harry?" 
               A faint smile did for a moment illumine the features of the young man, but it was unperceived by the captain. 
               Some ten or fifteen minutes more elapsed, when the physician appeared. 
               Henry Bertine seized him by the hand, and without uttering a syllable, looked anxiously into his face. A smile of satisfaction greeted him. 
               "I give you joy," said the physician. 
               "Is it a boy?" ejaculated the captain. 
               "How is my Isabella?" asked the anxious husband. 
               "I'll wager my best bower it's one of the other kind," interrupted the captain. "That's always my luck." 
               "Is she well--" 
               "As can be expected," said the physician, finishing Harry's sentence. 
               "Ah! there comes Sybil," said the captain, as the quadroon servant came on deck, bearing something with tender care in her arms. "Now Sybil, my yellow beauty, let's know what you've got there." 
               "Missis' babby, massa," answered the maid. 
               "What is it, Rose?" 
               "A babby, massa." 
               "What sex, I mean?" 
               "Fair seck, massa captain," said the delighted quadroon, as she proceeded to unfold the richly embroidered blanket which concealed the little innocent. 
               "I told you so!" exclaimed the captain. "I would have wagered my third of the old Admiral's cargo that it would turn up a girl. Well, it is a chubby, rosy little creature," he continued, peeping over the servant's shoulder, while she pointed out its infantile perfection to the newly-made father and the physician. "Harry, I congratulate you-give us your hand, and no more of that brown study. Rather let us have some brown sherry, and be merry. Here, steward, bring up a bottle of that old golden sherry. We must have a christening." 
               "With all my heart," said the now delighted father, "and I agree to the name I heard fall from your lips. It is highly appropriate." 
               The steward now appeared with a bottle of most excellent sherry, and wine glasses, which he arranged on a portable stand. 
               "Now, steward, draw that cork steadily," cautioned the captain; "handle it with as much tenderness as Rose does the infant. Ah! that will do; now, Harry, Doctor, let me fill your glasses with a wine fit to christen an angel with. Here, Mr. Sampson and Mr. Kay," said he, addressing his two subordinate officers, "join with us in christening this child of Neptune." 
               All the glasses being filled, the captain proposed the following: 
               "Here's to the health and happiness of OCEANA BERTINE! God bless her!" 
               The glasses were scarcely emptied, when a faint flash was seen, the report of a gun came booming over the sea, and a shot came whizzing over the heads of the officers, perforating in its course the mizzen and main top-gallant sail, and spending its force against the fore-topsail yard! 
               "In heaven's name, where's that shot from!" shouted Captain Stark, dropping his wine glass upon the deck, which shivered to atoms, and springing into the mizzen rigging. 
               "Sail, ho!" cried out a man from the mast head. 
               "Where away!" demanded the captain. 
               "Directly astern!" was the response. 
               "What is she?" 
                
               "A brigantine, with boats out, towing down upon us. 
               "Steward, my night-glass!" shouted the captain. "Be lively-I smell mischief." 
               The glass was handed him, and after surveying the suspicious vessel for a few moments he leaped upon deck, and said to his chief mate,- 
               "I can't exactly make her out. There are but few men in the boats, and two only visible upon her deck; but I like not her looks. Pipe all hands on deck, and prepare for the worst." Then turning to his physician and passenger he said-"Gentlemen, I wish to create no unnecessary alarm, but as certain as my name is Stark, I believe that we shall shortly be attacked by pirates!" 
               "Merciful God, what's to be done?" ejaculated Bertine, as he thought of the helpless condition of his wife and child. 
               "Fight to the last! Fight like demons!-like pirates!" promptly answered the bold commander. "If they do not outnumber us they shall not be masters of the Admiral while I have power to wield this right arm. Mr. Kay," he continued, addressing the second officer, "see that our swivels are mounted, muskets put in order, muster on deck every pistol, pike and cutlass!" 
               "Ay, ay, sir," responded the second mate. 
               "Then hoist up a few kegs of powder!-roll two into my cabin! If necessary I'l give the devils a warmer reception than they dream of!" 
               There was a terrible meaning in the captain's last words, which caused his subordinate to quail with terror. 
               "You surely do not intend--" 
               "Question me not!" interrupted the courageous man. "I know my responsibility and my duty. See that my commands are obeyed to the very letter! Have every man armed, swivels and muskets loaded, and every necessary preparation to fight to the last!" 
               The officer went forward to put into execution his superior's orders. In half an hour's time, all available means of the ship were brought into requisition to give the pirates battle. 
               Meanwhile the suspicious craft gained slowly upon the merchantman, occasionally firing a salute, which did no other damage than to carry away the main royal yard, and parting some of her light rigging. 
               As Captain Stark predicted, the chase was a pirate, and commanded by the devil incarnate, RED MARTIN, the noted chief of a piratical squadron, consisting of three vessels, called the Thunderbolt, the Raven, and the Shark. The two latter were at this time in command of two pirates who were known by the pseudonyms of BLACKBEARD and SCARLET JACK. As these personages have conspicuous parts to enact in our drama, we shall here give a brief description of each. 
               The Chief of the Thunderbolt, Red Martin, was none other than the celebrated Martini Benavides, a man of herculean frame, and whose exploits on the coast of South America and in the Gulf of Mexico, had made his name a terror to all the navigators of those seas. He acquired the name of Red Martin, not so much from his sanguinary career, as from a regular practice of besmearing his face, hand and arms with red paint, whenever he went into an egagement, in order to make himself as hideous as possible in the eyes of his antagonist. He wore a sabre of immense length and weight, one that could not have been wielded by an arm less powerful than his. At one blow, in his right arm, this formidable blade had severed in two a hempen cable of three inches diameter. He also carried in his belt a pair of huge pistols, either of which would send a ball through an oaken plank. Thus armed, no living man could oppose him in combat. He was feared by his crew, and even by his compeers in crime, Blackbeard and Scarlet Jack. Never had his courageous soul quaked with fear, although desperate and bloody had been many of his encounters. Red Martin had a wife, who accompanied him on all of his piratical expeditions. She was a woman of noble mien, courageous, and, although she could cheer on men in the conflict, yet after the victory was won, she would do all in her power to prevent any cold-blooded barbarities from being committed. Her maiden name was Anne Bonney, but having married Red Martin, she was after-ward's called Haidee, the Fearless. She exercised a powerful influence over her husband, and had not only frequently subdued his ferocious temper, but whenever she exacted from him a promise, she never permitted him to break it. [For a Portrait of this remarkable woman, see engraving, page 17.] 
               Blackbeard, from the fact of his having invaded the Carolinas, had gained more notoriety in the world than even Red Martin, although in every particular, he was very much his inferior. His real name was Teach, but he gained the appellation of Blackbeard from the fact of his wearing a long, bushy black beard, that encircled his chin from ear to ear. Bristol, England, claims to be the birth-place of this renowned buccaneer, and at the time we find him commanding the Raven, a schooner of eighteen guns, it was in the early part of his career as a corsair. His history, subsequent to the incidents of this narrative, is already known to the world. 
               Scarlet Jack, the chief officer of the third vessel in Red Martin's squadron, was a Portuguese by birth, a young man of pleasing manners and genteel in person; he was mild as a lamb when in the society of his associates, but when the battle raged, he could exhibit all the ferocity of a hungry tiger. For two years he was Red Martin's lieutenant and confidential adviser, and when the Shark was added to the squadron, she was placed under his command. He gained the sobriquet of Scarlet Jack, from constantly wearing, when on duty, a richly embroidered scarlet cap, and a scarlet jacket trimmed with gold lace. He boasted of having been descended from one of the most noble families of Portugal, but having committed a high political offence, was obliged to seek a refuge from his family and his country. He boasted, too, of having received a collegiate education at Madrid, which was most probably correct, for he was not only master of the Italian, French and Spanish languages, but was familiar with the Latin and Greek classics. There were several peculiar traits in his character, which developed themselves during many incidents which will be introduced into these pages of romantic adventures. 
               Twilight had passed, and night, made beautiful by a clear atmosphere and innumerable stars, came over the scene, when the piratical brigantine had come within hailing distance of the merchantman. 
               "Ship ahoy!" shouted a voice through a speaking trumpet. 
               "Hallo!" was the loud response of Captain Stark. 
               "What ship is that?" 
               "The Admiral, of and bound for New York. Who are you?" 
               "The Thunderbolt! For further particulars look aloft!" and at the moment Red Martin's dread flag was run up to the main truck. "Send your chief officer and papers aboard!" demanded the pirate. 
               "I acknowledge no authority under the black flag!" replied Captain Stark. 
               A shot from the pirate, which passed over the quarter deck of the ship, was the reply to this denial of the pirate's power. The two boats, which had been towing the brigantine, were brought alongside, and were quickly filled with pirates, armed with cutlasses and small fire-arms. Commanded by the lieutenant of the brigantine, the attacking party set off, anticipating an easy capture of the ship. 
               "No quarter!" cried the chief to his lieutenant, as the boats put off. 
               All was silent as death on board the ship. The crew, with the exception of two who had charge of the swivel, were ranged along the bulwarks, each armed with a musket and boarding-pike, and an order was given not to fire a gun, until the word should be heard. Onward came the buccaneers, elated with the prospect of securing so rich a prize as they supposed the merchantman to be, little imagining how warm a reception they were likely to meet with. 
                
               The boats were within six rods of the ship. The pirates were full of exultation and glee; but suddenly these were changed to groans, death-struggles, and blasphemous anathemas! A well directed volley of musketry, including a shower of deadly missiles from the swivel, had caused dismay, death and destruction in the attacking party. One of the boats was stove, and sunk immediately with more than half the crew, while the remaining were floundering about, with Death staring them in the face! In the other boat, several were killed, including the lieutenant, while many were severely wounded. Those of the crew who were not disabled, picked up several of their comrades, and rowed with all possible dispatch towards the brigantine; and of the two boats' crews, consisting of thirty men, only nine returned, and two of them had received mortal wounds. 
               Red Martin stood on his deck and watched the terrible destruction of the expedition, which so sadly decimated his force. He raved and cursed like a madman, and vowed the most summary vengeance; and no sooner was the returning boat out of range of his guns than he poured a whole broadside into the ship, which stove in her starboard bulwarks and carried away the mizzenmast; but the quick apprehension of Captain Stark caused him to order every man below, thinking that the corsair chief would aim to rake the ship's deck by a whole broadside, as soon as the boat was out of the way of his guns. Again and again was the broadside repeated, doing considerable damage to spars, rigging and sails, but as yet only one man had fallen. 
               Expecting that the brigantine would range alongside for the purpose of boarding, Captain Stark made every preparation to repel such attack, and in case they succeeded, he had his swivel mounted aft, and loaded to the muzzle with bullets, to sweep his own deck. He, as well as all on board, had determined to die in defence of the ship, rather than surrender to the pirates, and to sell their lives as dearly as possible. There was hope, faint to be sure, that they might be the victors, or at least to beat off all the attacks of the ruthless foe; but this hope vanished when two other vessels, each with the corsair flag flying, were descried in the dim distance, coming down with a light breeze which had sprung up. 
               Red Martin signalized to the Raven and Shark not to fire into the hull of the ship, thereby endangering the prize so dearly won, but to board her simultaneously on the larboard and starboard bows. 
               This order was obeyed. The Shark came down to windward, while the Raven beat up to leeward. The former having come alongside first, they could not act in concert. 
               Scarlet Jack, himself, led on the boarders, and like so many devils they seemed as they clambered over the cat-heads, bulwarks, &c. Now the deadly strife was renewed with a vigor too terrible for description. The pirates fought with heavy cutlasses and pistols, and were met with pikes, swords and muskets. Captain Stark and young Bertine were in the foremost of the fray, and fought like chafed lions; many a pirate lay weltering in his gore by their well directed blows. Inch by inch was that bloody deck contested, until only seven persons, besides the Captain and Bertine, of that ship's company remained. These fought with desperation, and for a time successfully coped with four times their number. They had retreated to the quarter-deck, as Blackbeard's crew of devils, uttering hellish cries, came clambering over the starboard bulwarks, eager to participate in the fight. 
               The swivel was now brought into requisition, and the captain, himself, applied the match. The discharge swept all before it-the carnage was so great that for a moment or two the pirates were staggered; but perceiving only half a dozen men contending against their scores, they rallied and impetuously rushed on to the attack, and a large body of pirates was directly in the midst of the brave ship's defenders, when another discharge of the swivel did terrible execution, not only in range of the piece, but on all around-for the gun had burst, and the fragments of iron did their worst-the havoc was awful! 
               Four only of that resolute crew remained, standing on that purple-dyed deck; these were seized with weapons still in their hands, dragged forward and lashed to the windlass, to receive a tortured death thereafter. 
               The pirates looked among the slain for the body of the commander of the merchantman, but it was nowhere to be found. He had disappeared during the confusion incident to the bursting of the swivel, and the pirates conjectured that he must have been blown overboard. 
               The chief of the squadron now came on board, and the pirates gave three loud huzzas for the victory they had so dearly achieved! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
                
                  The Victory not Won.-Captain Stark contemplates an awful Sacrifice.-Dismay of the Three Pirates.-Noble Conduct of Haidee, Red Martin's Bride-The Oath.-The Capitulation. 
                
               THE BATTLE, which had raged with interruptions for nearly two hours, was now over. All was peaceful as were the elements of sea and air before the conflict. The corsair crew were now apparently in undisturbed possession of the merchantman. Every part of her had been visited by the pirates, with the exception of the quarter-deck cabin, for Red Martin held it as an offence in his squadron for any man to precede him into the cabin of any prize which might fall into their hands, unless the extreme emergency of the case absolutely required it. 
               The door of the cabin was closed, and Red Martin stepped forward to exercise his prerogative. He found the door bolted upon the inside; he unsheathed his sabre and with one blow of the formidable weapon the bolt gave way and he crossed the threshold. 
               Here a scene presented itself, wholly unexpected to the Pirate Chief, and struck amazement to the soul of him whose indomitable courage was never known to desert him. 
               There sat on a raised seat, in the centre of the cabin, the yet unconquered captain of the Admiral, as firm as a statue upon the foundation of a rock. A few feet in front of him stood a cask of gunpowder, and, forming a half circle around him, was a thick train of the same exploding material, which had been poured from another cask. In his right hand he held a pistol, and in his left a flaming torch. His hardy features were calm, rigid and resolute. He sat with all the firmness and dignity of an enthroned monarch! Satan in Council, with an orb for a throne, as portrayed by Milton, looked not more terribly dignified than this man of courage! 
               Even the huge form of Red Martin, that never recoiled in confronting an adversary, started back at the scene before him. He gazed for a few moments into the captain's stern countenance, and he saw, as if it had been stamped with dies of fire, DETERMINATION on every lineament! 
                
               A pressure of the finger upon the weapon's trigger, or a fall of the bright flambeau in his hand, would blow the ship to atoms, and send into eternity every soul on board! It was an awful catastrophe even for contemplation. 
               While the captain's facial muscles moved not; while not the slightest expression of fear was detected, the Pirate Chief's whole frame trembled with terror! Bold and hideous as the monster looked, with his painted visage, and bare, blood-dyed arms, he lacked the valor to advance a single step, or give utterance to a single word! He trembled, who trembled never before! He beheld for the first time a mortal whom he feared! The mighty weapon which had never been stricken from his powerful grasp, fell from his tremulous hand by its own weight! 
               "Senor Capitan!" exclaimed a familiar voice behind the awestruck chief. "Are you hurt? What is the matter?" 
               Red Martin, with faltering step turned around, and his two compeers, Blackbeard and Scarlet Jack, stood before him. 
               "Look! behold!" exclaimed the trembling chief, pointing to the scene which had struck consternation to his hardened soul. "We're'on the brink of hell!" 
               "I see!" said Blackbeard, as he advanced a step; "but it amazes me not so much as to behold the mighty heart of Red Martin subdued by a scarecrow! This is a coward's device, brave chief! The d--d poltroon has not the nerve for such a deed. Be this business mine. Hell and furies! I'll have this braggadocio quartered alive, and each quarter dangling aloft, if in five minutes he does not surrender to our power!" 
               Then advancing a step or two more, Blackbeard stood before the man who had made a coward of his chief. 
               "A cunning device, truly," said he, with a demoniacal grin, addressing Stark. "Surrender! or by all the demons of the infernal regions I'll have you dismembered alive!" 
               The captain sat unmoved and made no reply. 
               "SURRENDER!" again shouted Blackbeard, in a tone of thunder. 
               "NEVER! to mortal man! much less to an inhuman butcher like thee!" said Stark, with a solemn and determined voice. 
               "Mark this! I can send you into eternity in a moment!" said Blackbeard, drawing from his belt a pistol. 
               "And in an equal time I can send you and all your hellish crew to Satan, your master!" replied the undaunted captain, brandishing the dreaded flambeau above his head! "Fire! blood-thirsty monster, if you have the courage! With my fall, falls this blazing torch into that combustible train, which not only encircles me but leads to a vent in the cask, and thence to a well-filled powder magazine beneath your feet! You shall all be blown to hell's blazes together, where you belong! Think you that I have made this preparation to awe you and thereby save my life? I have made my peace with God, and now stand on the brink of eternity! I have put it beyond your power to torture me, so that all your threats are vain! It is I who yet am commander here, and will command to the last gasp!-and when Captain Stark surrenders unconditionally, it will be only to Him who sits in judgment above! Now, damned devil, as you are, I command you to surrender!" 
               These sentences were uttered in a firm, deliberate and solemn manner! and each word fell like a stone upon the damned soul of the Pirate. He, like his chief, was appalled-dismayed! He felt that it were vain indeed to attempt to resist one who could look Death so calmly in the face! Decision was expressed in every sentence that was uttered! He might as well have attempted to change the destructive agent before him into so many grains of sand, as to change the determination of that resolute man, who had him and all on board in his dread power! Blackbeard, like Red Martin, was subdued!-he, too, shuddered with fear! Had he been in the presence of Lucifer, instead of a resolute mortal, his dread would not have been greater. The cutlass which he held in his right hand loosened from the Pirate's grasp, and it fell across the huge sabre of the Chief. 
               "Extinguish the flambeau, and your life shall be spared!" at length said Blackbeard, with forced utterance. 
               "Think you I would take the word of a merciless wretch like yourself; or the word of any one of your hell hounds?" ejaculated the immovable man. 
               "Our oaths!" 
               "The oath of Satan should have the preference! Besides, my life is not to be considered, when I can make such a glorious sacrifice of it!-when I can by a single movement free the world of a ruthless band of cut-throats!" 
               "What would you, bold man?" said Blackbeard. 
               "Summon your compeers in crime, if they dare stand in my dread presence!" said Stark, with the air of a sovereign; "and here I will reveal to your wondering gaze a sight that should move to pity a heart harder than adamant! Be quick! for I am ready for eternity!" 
               Blackbeard retired from the cabin, and the three pirate commanders held a consultation over the capstan of the ship. They then returned to the cabin, and made an obeisant sign to their superior in power. Meanwhile the pirates were absent, Captain Stark had put aside the folding doors which divided his cabin into two apartments, the smaller one being occupied by all save one of his family of passengers, and the missing one was the brave Bertine, who, he supposed, perished in their last effort against the enemy. This being done, he reseated himself, reassumed a kingly dignity, and held his pistol and flambeau as before. 
                
               "Behold! but approach not another step!" said Stark, pointing to the scene he had disclosed to view. 
               On a luxurious couch, with pallid cheeks, weak from confinement, and unconscious of the terrible events of that night, reclined a young and beautiful lady, and nestling on her immaculate bosom, was an infant scarcely four hours old. Beside the couch, sat Sybil, a quadroon maid, watching tenderly with tearful eyes her charge, and ready to render every service in her power to the helpless ones;-and when the bloody buccaneers looked upon this living table an, she fell upon her knees and in a prayerful attitude gazed imploringly upon the savage brutes. 
               "Spare! oh, spare these helpless ones!" was her only exclamation. 
               "Look upon that moving picture!" resumed the Captain; "and if you are not in reality the hell-hounds of Lucifer, let compassion once find a place in your stern hearts. In this night's bloody work, you have rendered that helpless woman husbandless, and that innocent babe fatherless! Look, I charge you, with eyes of sympathy and mercy! If not with mercy upon them, gaze upon me as their dread Avenger!" 
               A profound silence for a few moments ensued. 
               "Let me now be answered," said Stark; "shall they be spared from harm-all harm, I say?" 
               The Pirates looked at each other, and said: 
               "They shall!" 
               "Then, listen; order your crews to abandon the ship forthwith, and return to their respective vessels; and, mark me, harm not my four men whom you have lashed to the windlass. This done, your own lives shall be spared; you shall return in safety to continue your ruthless business until the vengeance of Heaven shall overtake you; but there is another condition: ere you leave, each of you shall take a solemn oath upon the Holy Evangelists, that you will not fire a single shot into the hull or rigging of this ship, or otherwise strive to do us evil! Perform all this, and I will withhold executing my great and glorious purpose!" 
               The Pirates again looked at each other and nodded assent. 
               "All of this we promise," said Red Martin. 
               "Impossible!" cried a female voice; and a handsome heroic-looking woman, who had stood in the rear of the Pirates and had heard and seen all, now stepped before them with an air of superiority. 
               "Silence!" cried Red Martin, the husband of the heroic Haidee, who knew full well what his wife was intent upon revealing. 
               "Be silent, thyself!" commanded Haidee; "it is my will that you shall not deceive that brave man, and thus ensure the destruction 
                   
                     HAIDEE, THE CORSAIR'S BRIDE. 
                  
                  
                   struction of that poor lady and child. Know, courageous man, that in less than two hours this ship will have sunk beneath the ocean's surface! She is scuttled!" 
               "Traitress!" muttered Red Martin. 
               "Ah!" cried Stark; "then is it time we should make the sacrifice! Prepare for the Life Eternal!" he loudly exclaimed, brandishing the dread flambeau above his head. 
               "Hold! in mercy's name, hold!" implored Haidee, falling upon her knees; "not for my sake but for the sake of those innocent beings whom you, in your nobleness of soul, would sacrifice all to save! The Pirate Chieftain's wife can save them! I, Haidee, can save them! There is great hope! Here, Martin! and you, Blackbeard! and you, Scarlet Jack! swear upon this cross, the oath I will dictate!" 
               Haidee, while speaking, arose from her kneeling posture, and taking a golden cross from her bosom, which was suspended from a rosary about her neck, she held it up before the inhuman butchers. 
               "If you would spare your own lives, the lives of your crew, and the life of Haidee, repeat after me the oath I will dictate." 
               The terms of the oath were dictated by Haidee, and repeated by each of the Pirate Captains. In substance it was as follows: 
               "By the Holy Virgin-the immaculate mother of Jesus-we solemnly swear that to Haidee, we will give all authority concerning the disposition of the surviving crew and  of this ship, and will refrain from all interference which would allow any person under our authority to interfere with said charge; and we also swear that we will assist Haidee to the utmost of our power, in the furtherance of her plans in regard to said persons." 
               The oath being concluded, the Pirates reverently kissed the golden cross, as commanded by that resolute woman, whom all had a superstitious awe of, for she had, in their sight, more than once worked what they supposed to be miracles. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
                
                  Interview between Red Martin and Haidee.-Her views in regard to the Americans.-A Spanish Galleon descried.-The Pirate Chief resolves on making her his Prize. 
                
               "MARTIN," said Haidee, drawing her husband aside after the administration of the oath, "have I not done well?" 
               "What has just passed is so strange, I am at a loss what to think. No living man ever cowed the soul of Red Martin until encountered by that dare-devil!" 
               "You do not answer me, Martin," resumed the fearless woman; "have I not saved your life, ay, the lives of your formidable band from destruction?" 
               "You have, Haidee." 
               "And you will keep the oath?" 
               "Did Red Martin ever break a vow to Haidee?" 
               "Never! but will Blackbeard and Scarlet Jack be as faithful?" 
               "They dare not be treacherous. Should they falsify an oath made to thee, my counsellor, my heart's treasure, the insult should be avenged with my own right arm." 
               "'Tis well, Martin." 
               "But tell me, my wife, why you manifest so ardent a desire to save those of our enemy who have survived this night's bloody battle, when we have ourselves suffered so severely? We have had a terrible enemy to cope with." 
               "To save thee, Martin. Other reasons I have which you shall hear anon." 
               "Prithee, tell me, what disposition do you propose to make of your charge?" asked the chief. 
               "Take them to Virginia Gorda, our lovely island home." 
               "What then?" 
               "There must they remain and dwell with us," she answered. "They cannot escape, neither can they do us harm." 
               "And will that dare-devil captain submit to such a fate?" 
               "That is his only alternative." 
               "And what of the four men?" 
               "They must be prevailed upon to join the fleet. If they consent not, their fate is in my hands-remember that, Martin." 
                
               "I do, Haidee; I believe you are right; your wisdom is our chart, our compass; and more than once has led us clear of shoals and quicksands to a port of safety." 
               "Now, my husband, it is my will that you order Blackbeard and Scarlet Jack, with their men, to repair to their own vessels forthwith. Plunder enough has already been secured. This done, have the Thunderbolt's barge prepared for the reception of the lady and child, and see that it is manned by your own most trustworthy men." 
               "It shall be done," said the chief, and he set about obeying the behests of that strange woman, who alone had power to control his daring spirit. 
               The necessary preparations having been made, the mother and child were removed to the barge, followed by the brave Captain of the Admiral, who with great reluctance left the ship. The thought had more than once flashed across his mind that it were better to die upon his own deck, than to make any terms with a desperate band of sea robbers; but the sight of Bertine's wife and child caused his better judgement to prevail; it occurred to him that it yet might be in his power to do service for the helpless ones. At least he might avenge any harm or insult that was offered her; therefore he determined to remain by her to the last in weal or in woe. 
               Tears trickled down the ruddy, weather-beaten cheek of that heroic mariner, as the barge was rowed away from the doomed vessel; and after he had been transferred to the piratical craft, he gazed with sorrow upon his own ship as she gradually settled into the water, and finally disappeared beneath the surface of the ocean. 
               Morning came apace; the majestic orb of day arose from the sea in unclouded splendor; a six knot breeze was now blowing from the southwest, which waited the three buccaneering vessels toward their place of destination, Virginia Gorda. 
               Nothing occurred during the first day of the voyage, but on the morning of the second, just as Old Sol arose from his golden bed, the look-out, stationed at the mast-head of the brigantine, descried a sail off the lee-bow. He reported to the officer of the deck, who immediately signalized to the Raven and Shark the discovery, and in a few moments these two vessels were coming down under a full press of canvas. 
               Red Martin now appeared on the Thunderbolt's deck, and ordered every sail to be set. The three vessels sailed in a line, and looked like three snow-white clouds gliding over the blue billow. 
               "What do you make her out?" sang out the chief to the man at the mast-head." 
               "She looks like a Spanish galleon!" answered the lookout. 
                
               "Fortune be praised, if that fellow is not mistaken!" said Red Martin to Antoine Davila, a young Spaniard, now acting as first lieutenant. "Now if that sail should turn out to be the Fernando of Lisbon, from Portobello, Antoine, she's a prize worth capturing." 
               "How know you that, Captain?" asked the lieutenant. "I've seen many a galleon arrive at Lisbon, with not a maravedi's value worth our taking." 
               "Ah, but I learned when in Panama, some months since, that the Fernando was expected to arrive at Portobello, to transport to Spain a large amount of treasure belonging to the Spanish government." 
               "Then depend upon it, we shall have to fight desperately for her," replied Davila; "the Spanish monarch ventures not the crown's treasure in lightly armed ships." 
               "True, very true," said the chief, "but were she the heaviest line-of-battle-ship in the Spanish navy, instead of a clumsy galleon, I'd give her battle; and are we not three to one? Galleons are dull sailers, and easily out-manuvred. Rest assured, if she is, as I suspect, the Fernando, she will be our prize before sunset!" 
               "I apprehend we shall find her too heavily manned for us," suggested Davila. 
               "Antoine, if I had not often seen your lion spirit put to the test, I should accuse you of cowardice. The Fernando, if it is she, probably carries one hundred and fifty men, and I think I have heard it said she was pierced for eighteen guns; more than that number of heavy pieces she could not well carry." 
               "Her complement of men, then, we may safely calculate, nearly doubles our three crews combined. You forget, chief, our immense loss in the recent conflict." 
               "I remember well, Antoine," said the chief, thoughtfully. 
               "Besides, the crews of the Raven and the Shark are in a worse condition than our own, if possible; the men are greatly fatigued, and hardly in spirits for action." 
               "Then will we devise some stratagem, for have her we must, if she's the craft I take her for," said Red Martin, and then clapping his trumpet to his mouth, he cried: 
               "Mast head, ahoy!" 
               "Hillo!" 
               "What of the strange sail?" 
               "A Galleon, sir!" 
               "What's her course?" 
               "Due north." 
               "Are we gaining upon her?" 
               "Ay, ay, sir-very fast." 
               "Mr. Davila," said Red Martin, turning to his lieutenant, "order sail to be shortened throughout the fleet, so as to keep even pace with our intended prize." 
               Giving this and a few other commands to his young subordinate, the chief went below to meditate upon the best mode of securing the prize he had determined to risk all to gain. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
                
                  An Evening Scene on the Ocean.-Haidee's Superstition.-Preparation for attacking the Spanish Galleon.-The Combat.-Bold Conduct of the Female Leader.-The Capture and the Booty. 
                
               NIGHT came, and as the shades of twilight deepened, the gentle breeze gradually died away-a dead calm succeeded, and the unwieldy galleon, at two leagues' distance, lay "like a painted ship upon a painted ocean." The moon the planets and the stars shone out with undimmed lustre, while the vast ocean itself emitted a phosphorescent light, the remarkable phenomena adding great brilliancy to the scene. It was, indeed, a lovely night-too serene and beautiful for the commission of the horrid barbarities contemplated by the chief of this formidable band of ocean robbers. 
               As Davila had suggested to Red Martin, the crews were in a bad state for coping successfully with the well-armed and well-manned galleon; besides, the pirates', ammunition had nearly become exhausted in the action with the Admiral; and each of the vessels, more particularly the case with the Raven and Shark, were considerably crippled in their armament. But Red Martin, despite all obstacles, determined on the rich prize; that obtained, it would serve his ambitious purposes for years; and what cared he then about the great loss of life that must ensue in the fight, providing he came off the victor; the more killed, the fewer shares to divide, and the greater would be the lion's share of the golden spoils. 
               The calm which prevailed was unfortunate for the pirates, inasmuch as it would fatigue the men to pull at the oars for several hours at least; but, notwithstanding this, Red Martin ordered his boats to be lowered and manned, and signalled to Blackbeard and Scarlet Jack to do likewise. This done, he repaired to his luxuriously-furnished state-room, to hold converse with his proud, ambitious and courageous lady. 
               "How fare your prisoner guests?" asked Red Martin, seating himself on a sumptuous couch, beside his noble, his beautiful Haidee. 
                
               "The mother sleeps, and the sweet child, with its angel eyes open, nestles quietly on her bosom. Ah, Martin, would that I could call that blessed babe mine!" 
               "'Tis yours, Haidee, if it be your will and pleasure." 
               "Think you, Martin, that I have the in human heart to tear it from its beautiful mother's arms? No, to save my own life, a piratess though I am called, I could not be guilty of such an act. Yet, I confess I envy the mother of that child." 
               "Haidee, make not yourself unhappy on that account; our union may yet be blessed." 
               "Impossible." 
               "Why impossible?" 
               "You forget that the fortune-teller of my own dear native village, when I was but a simple maid predicted that I should ever be childless. This I told you before our nuptials were celebrated." 
               "Superstitious nonsense! I marvel, Haidee, that a great soul like thine should heed the babblings of a fortune-teller!" 
               "Marvel not, my husband," said Haidee, seriously; "did she not foretell, ere I set eyes on your face, that I should elope from my father's house with an outlawed lover? Was not that prediction fulfilled?" 
               "A matter of chance, simply; there are many outlaws, as they are termed, in the world, and such a thing might happen many times in a year." 
               "Did she not predict that my husband would become a pirate? Has not that, too, come to pass?" 
               "The circumstance is remarkable, I admit, but--" 
               "And did she not prophecy that you would become the commander of a buccaneer fleet?" 
               "The old beldame made a lucky guess that time, truly." 
               "And did she not predict truly when she said--" 
               "No more of that old woman's nonsense, Haidee," interrupted Red Martin. "Let's talk of the future. If we are fortunate enough to make a prize of that richly-freighted galleon, our fortunes are made. We can then set sail for that for off isle, which I have so often described to you; where power awaits us; where luxuries, pleasures, and every desire of our natures will be within our reach. Once safely there, we shall no longer be leagued with desperadoes, and subject to the mercy of the tyrannical laws of European and American nations. There we can abide in peace and plenty, and be happy." 
               "Such a much wished for fate, for Haidee, was not predicted by the fortune-teller!" 
               "Damn the fortune-teller!" exclaimed Red Martin, indignantly. Do not, Haidee, if you love me, prate more of her!" 
               "It is because, Martin, you, as well as myself, have faith in her prediction, that you wish my silence on the subject." 
                
               "By h-! I have not!" he exclaimed, with increased ire. "You wrong me in the accusation." 
               "Your anger, Martin, proves that I speak truly. I know your nature better far than you know yourself. You are extremely sensitive whenever I touch upon this matter of prophecy." 
               "Then, Haidee, I conjure you to beware trifling with what you deem a weakness. I beseech you say no more regarding those damned mysterious hags, who prowl about making accursed pretensions of power to foretell events, but who, in fact, can see no farther into the dark vista of the future than ordinary mortals. For sixpence, they will send your soul to hell or to heaven, as it may suit their pleasure. I would speak of the galleon, and for that purpose I have left my post on deck. I would have your counsel, Haidee. You are aware of the condition of our vessels and crews." 
               "Is she the vessel you supposed?" 
               "Without doubt, she is the Fernando," answered Red Martin. "The man aloft knows her well, and reports as I believe." 
               "Are you certain that her treasures belong to the Spanish government?" 
               "From the information I gained at Panama, I have no reason to question it." 
               "Then give her battle, and trust to consequences," said the courageous woman. "Far more humane and respectable is it to plunder governments than private individuals. But, Martin let us not act the part of demons; let not more blood be shed than is absolutely necessary to gain the victory! Better far is it that the survivors tell the world of Red Martin's prowess than that we should make butchers of ourselves. The world cannot do us harm, if we are so soon to repair to the island paradise you have so glowingly pictured to my imagination." 
               "It shall be as Haidee commands," said the chief, rising to go on deck. "I will forthwith signalize to the Shark to begin the attack." 
               "No, Martin, lose not an iota of that confidence which all the men repose in you. The Thunderbolt is in better condition for action than either of the two vessels. Begin the battle yourself if you would make victory doubly sure. I will be with you in the heat of the conflict, to inspire the men with courage!" 
               "Risk not your life on deck, Haidee," said the chief. "I apprehend a severe, a bloody contest." 
               "Then is there more necessity for my presence. I shall be well armed, and be assured I will be in the thickest of the fray for it was not predicted that my husband should fall in bat-" 
               "Curse all predictions!" exclaimed Red Martin, cutting short Haidee's speech, and hurriedly making his way to the deck. 
                
               The boats' crews had now towed the Thunderbolt towards the galleon, within the reach of her longest guns. 
               "Now, boys, for a golden prize!" said the chief, addressing his men; "I have almost positive knowledge that that vessel contains untold treasures. She is stoutly manned, and her armament is heavy and complete, but it is in our power to take her if we fight like men-like devils!" 
               Three hearty cheers followed this announcement. 
               "We must quickly test her capabilities!" resumed Red Martin. "Every man now to his station-double shot every gun, that our first broadside may tell. Square all the yards-have the catfall overhauled-man the capstan bars-out with your tompions-stand by, and be ready for the word!" 
               These and a number of other nautical evolutions were ordered, and the men set about their duty with a zeal and alacrity which they seldom displayed. Their incentive was the floating mine of wealth before them. 
               The pirates were soon in readiness for action. The double missiles were rammed into every gun; and each man on that deck gazed almost breathless upon their chief, to hear his first command. He passed along both sides of the deck to see that all was in readiness for action. 
               "Aim high, gunners!" he continued. "We must not get a shot between wind and water; we can't afford to sink such a prize. Let the shot tell on her spar-deck! That's the way, my lads, to cripple her!" 
               The brigantine was on the starboard quarter of the galleon, and with a night-glass Red Martin perceived that there was a large body of men on her upper deck, and that all was clear for action, in anticipation of an attack. He saw, too, that the matches were lighted, awaiting the word. Red Martin quickly assumed his post. 
               "A broadside, my boys! Be ready! Fire!" he shouted. 
               Instantly, every larboard gun of the pirate bellowed in reply. Streaks of livid fire, like so many streams of electric fluid, darted forth, sending missiles of death and destruction to the decks of the galleon. 
               "Hard starboard!" cried Red Martin to the man at the tiller. 
               The helmsman promptly obeyed, but before the brigantine could show her starboard battery to the galleon, a heavy broadside was returned. Most of the shot fell short, and did no material damage, while the broadside of the Thunderbolt sent terror and dismay to the defenders of the galleon. The taffrail of her high quarter deck was completely carried away, presenting to the eye of the chieftain a view of the entire deck of the unwieldy vessel. 
               "Stand ready for another broadside, my brave lads! wait for the word!" cried Red Martin. 
                
               "Shall I down with that main-top, captain?" said an old gunner, leaving his piece for a moment. "You see it's full of musketeers, and when we get within reach of their muskets, they'll pepper us, as if we were so many wharf rats." 
               "Do it, Gaspardo, and by St. Paul, we'll drink together the first bottle of the galleon's best wine." 
               The old pirate touched his hat and resumed his place at a long eighteen pounder, stationed just abaft the cat-head. 
               "Fire!" bellowed the captain through his trumpet. 
               The response of the starboard battery was equally terrific and much more effective than the larboard; for when the smoke cleared away, the galleon's main-top-mast hung by some loose rigging, the cap of the mainmast was shattered, and not a live man was left upon it! 
               "Bravo! bravo! Three huzzas for Gaspardo!" shouted Red Martin. 
               The pirates yelled like so many savages at the great feat of the old gunner. 
               More than half of the guns on board of the galleon were silenced after this last broadside still she kept blazing away with those in working order, aiming at the Thunderbolt and the Shark, which latter had now come into the action a short distance astern, and had brought one of her batteries to bear upon the high quarter of the ship. The first broadside razeed it in a manner that allowed Scarlet Jack a view of her upper deck from stem to stern. 
               The battle with cannon continued but a few moments longer, for the pirates had effectually silenced every gun aboard the galleon; and now her crew were making every preparation to repel the pirates should they attempt to board, at the same time Red Martin's voice was heard, ordering every man to prepare for boarding. 
               A light breeze had sprung up, and wafted the brigantine slowly down upon the doomed vessel. As she neared, the chief hailed her through his trumpet: 
               "Fernando ahoy!" 
               No answer was heard from the galleon, but a musket shot was discharged as if in defiance. 
               "Surrender! or, by Heaven, quarter shall not be given to a man of you!" demanded the chief. 
               "To whom?" cried an officer from the galleon's deck. 
               "To the devil!" responded Red Martin, and he ordered down the flag of the fleet, and in its place was immediately flying the bloody ensign of the pirates. 
               At this moment a new commander appeared on the deck of the Thunderbolt. It was Haidee, the Fearless! She had doffed her feminine apparel, and now appeared in a complete French naval uniform, armed with a sabre and a brace of pistols. 
                
               Three hearty cheers welcomed the pirate's wife, her who had come on deck to lead the boarding party in the attack; for seldom was it that this brave woman donned her male attire for the conflict; but whenever she did so, the buccaneer crew felt certain of a victorious result. 
               As soon as the brigantine had ranged within pistol shot of the galleon, a volley of small shot was poured into her; the damage in consequence was trifling, for every pirate had, in obedience to Haidee's orders, crouched himself beneath the bulwarks, with boarding-pike and cutlass ready in hand to follow her. wherever she might lead, or go wither she might order. Volley after volley was fired by the Spanish crew, yet the buccaneers sustained each volley well; they had learned a dear lesson from the heroic Captain Stark, and now they profited by it. 
               "Follow, my brave men!" cried Haidee, as the brigantine's larboard bows touched the galleon's side. 
               She seized a rope, which hung at the ship's side, drew herself up, and was the first person that stood upon the enemy's railing. Here she encountered a Spaniard, armed with a heavy broadsword; but her superior skill with a much lighter weapon, wrenched it from his hand, and in a moment more he lay bleeding upon the deck. She took her station upon a heavy piece of ordnance, wielding her cutlass with deadly effect upon all who had the temerity to come within its reach, and directing the battle at the same time. The Thunderbolt's crew, as well as several boat loads from the Raven and Shark, boarded almost simultaneously, and a general combat with sabres, cutlasses and pistols ensued. The voice of Haidee, commingled with the reports of pistols, clashing of steel, oaths, curses and groans, was heard, inspiring the crew with renewed courage: Red Martin stood near the gun, on which Haidee had taken her position, and with wary eye he watched each stroke directed towards her person, and in guarding the simultaneous onslaught of three of the enemy upon his brave wife, he received a severe cutlass blow which felled him almost senseless to the deck. He who dealt the blow paid dearly for his temerity, for Haidee drew a pistol and sent a ball whizzing to his heart. 
               She then engaged a sturdy, heroic-looking Spaniard, who handled a formidable blade with consummate skill, and with it had already laid low nearly half a score of the buccaneer crew. He was an old Castilian, and in a hundred single combats had never been defeated. The pirate's wife parried his heavy blows with all her skill; but soon found that she had met a foe more that her equal. He drew up his powerful weapon with the intention of cleaving her skull; but it only served to knock the cap from the head without inflicting the least injury, yet exposing ing her beautiful tresses of black, glossy hair which now fell over her shoulders! The Spaniard raised his steel to strike a surer blow, but his arm fell as if he had been panic-stricken! 
               "Dios de Cielo! un muger!-God of Heaven! a woman!" was the exclamation of the astounded Castilian. "God forbid that I should ever be the death of a woman!" 
               As he stood thus wonder-stricken, with his sabre hanging by his side, one of the pirates, who stood behind her, made an attempt to run him through with a boarding-pike, and would have succeeded, had not Haidee, quick as thought, struck the weapon aside, and dealt the pirate a blow which killed him on the instant. 
               "Muchas gracias!" exclaimed the old Castilian, scarcely knowing how to account for such strange conduct. 
               "Let not a hair of that noble old man's head be harmed!" commanded Haidee, as she leaped from the gun to the deck. The victory was now won, and the rich prize in undisputed possession of the buccaneers. 
               There were no barbarities committed upon the persons of the few surviving Spaniards, for such was the Amazonian woman's order. They were all disarmed, and ordered into the hold, with the exception of the old Castilian. The hatches were then fastened down, and the pirates set about searching the cabin and state-rooms, where the most valuable portion of the treasures was supposed to be deposited. 
               In their researches, the wealth discovered far exceeded Red Martin's most sanguine expectations. There were chests of coined gold and silver, bars and ingots of the same precious metals, boxes of gold-dust and pouches of quicksilver, together with several caskets of jewels, including diamonds, pearls, rubies and opals, of immense value. 
               These were all transferred to the Thunderbolt; the Spaniards were then released from the hold, to continue, without further molestation, their homeward voyage. The pirates left the plundered galleon, repaired to their respective vessels, and in the happiest mood possible, once more set sail for the island of their destination. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
                
                  Midnight.-Red Martin's proposition.-Haidee's Reply.-A Conspiracy concocting on board the Raven.-The Cheat of Blackbeard to obtain command of the Fleet. 
                
               THE hour of midnight had passed, when the piratical fleet was under weigh, and parted from the galleon, which they had plundered of every portable article of value the pirates could lay their ruthless hands upon. The deck of the Thunderbolt was fairly encumbered with the rich spoils, originally intended to enrich Old Spain's well nigh drained treasury. Red Martin stood on the deck superintending the stowage of the valuables, while most of his crew, overcome with the fatigues of the conflict, were snugly stowed in their hammocks below, and quietly reposing, as if their blades had never been dyed in human gore. 
               When all was safely beneath the hatches, the residue of the crew with the exception of the man at the wheel, and the lookout, were ordered below by Red Martin, who stood at the gangway, apparently meditating upon some newly conceived idea, while he gazed into the rippling water, as his gallant vessel glided smoothly onward toward its destined haven. 
               Presently, with light step, a female figure arrayed in loosely flowing robes, issued from the companion way. It was Haidee. 
               "What keeps my husband so late from his couch?" she asked. "The night is bright and beautiful, and no indications of a storm; the ocean is wide, and our vessel is fleet-there are no dangers to apprehend. Come, Martin, let's retire; a couch of luxury, after the fatigues of the night, should invite us to repose." 
               "Ah, Haidee, so it would seem," answered the chief; "but sleep I cannot; my mind is busy with a project, great and glorious." 
               "Let Haidee share your thoughts." 
               "I was thinking, my love, of that new home I have so often described to you." 
               "Well?" 
                
               "I am sick of this buccaneering life; and now that there is sufficient wealth within my grasp, gladly would I emancipate myself from the fleet which by a bloody oath I am bound for another year to command!" 
               "That oath was conditional, and made only to Blackbeard and Scarlet Jack." 
               "True, Haidee; but how can I be absolved from it? as yet they have conformed to those conditions. Could I but once catch them on the hip, I'd abandon them at once." 
               "Then bide your time, Martin, for that oath was a fearful one." 
               "But, Haidee, consider what a mine of wealth now lies beneath these hatches?" said he, with a significant expression. "Within three days after our arrival at Virginia Gorda, that treasure will be divided, and but a sixth of it will be ours." 
               "A sixth will amount to no inconsiderable sum," replied the wife. 
               "I would have it all, Haidee!" he exclaimed. 
               "That is impossible!" 
               "Not so; despite the oath, I am strongly tempted to watch the opportunity to escape with vessel and treasure, from the fleet!" 
               "Martin!" said Haidee, sternly; "did I think you had a heart to be so treacherous to those, with whom you are leagued, woman though I am, I'd have the will to strike a dagger hilt-deep into your faithless bosom!" 
               "They are but wretches, all, and had the least treasonously inclined among them such a golden opportunity as I have, they'd not be long, rest assured, in availing themselves of it!" 
               "Then let me conjure you not to render yourself the equal of those whom you deem wretches! Corsair though you are, keep your solemn vow! maintain a little nobleness on soul! cling to one human trait, that will enable you ever to say, I am a man!" 
               Red Martin gazed upon his wife with wonder and admiration, though he hoped that she would applaud and not condemn the traitorous project he would have carried into execution; but to attempt to do it, independent of her potent will, he dared not. 
               "You are right, Haidee-we'll think no more of it-let's below," said the chief; and after summoning on deck the officer of the watch, he repaired to his state-room, followed by his wife. 
               Meanwhile this interview was going on, there was treason hatching on board of the Raven. In the luxuriously furnished cabin of the second vessel of the pirate fleet seated around a table, on which had been prepared a sumptuous repast, were Blackbeard, Scarlet Jack, and the lieutenant of the former, Vasco San Malo, a Mexican by birth. The commander of the Shark had been invited on board of the Raven by Blackbeard, ostensibly for the purpose of drinking a bottle of wine with him, but actually to broach to him a subject which had for some time been brooding in the pirate's mind, and in which he desired to enlist the interest and co-operation of the youngest commander of the fleet, as he had already secured those of his lieutenant, San Malo. 
               "Curse that damned she-freebooter!" exclaimed Blackbeard, in continuation of the topic on which they had been conversing.-"She is our chief, and not Red Martin, whom she rules with easy sway; she has more than once caused him to act like a fool and a coward! If our necks are ever stretched by a halter, we may thank this woman's clemency for it!" 
               "Sacre!" exclaimed the Mexican, clutching the hilt of a poniard, and grinding his teeth; "I'd like to have her heart's blood!" 
               "Still, comrades, she is a brave woman," said Scarlet Jack; "and I admire her for it." 
               "Bravery in a corsair is no merit, when the possessor extends mercy to a foe," said Blackbeard; "what has a pirate to do with mercy? does he not know that if he is ever captured, no merciful eye will look upon him? The pirate must die-aye, and ignominiously too-he must swing on a scaffold-or be gibbeted in chains, as was the great master-spirit of our profession! In my opinion, he who is most to be applauded by buccaneers, is the man who conquers that silly weakness, mercy, and in cold blood, with a steady arm, can butcher and hack in pieces his captured enemy, and smile while he does it! Oh! for the good, old days of the great Kidd, when every living thing on board a captured vessel was made to walk the plank! when free-rovers adopted and acted upon the truism, that "dead men tell no tales!" 
               "Bravo! bravo!" shouted the Mexican cut-throat. 
               "Who knows that the whole Spanish navy will not be dogging us at our very heels in less than three days?" ejaculated. Blackbeard. "If so, would not Red Martin's she-devil deserve to dangle at the fore-yard-arm, for her interference in sparing a half score of Spaniards to blow us to the world?" 
               "Pshaw, Blackbeard!" exclaimed Scarlet Jack; "the government of Spain could not, if it would, spare a single gun-boat from its crippled navy, especially while she is at war with a superior power." 
               "It matters not," replied Blackbeard; "had they been Englishmen or Frenchmen, our petticoat chief would have spared them." 
                
               
                   
                     THE BUCCANEERS ATTACKING A SPANISH GALLEON. SEE P.29. 
                  
                
                
                
               "Si, captain; and Red Martin would not have dared to say nay," said San Malo. 
               "Her power over the chief is, indeed, wonderful," remarked Scarlet Jack. 
               "And it is now high time that that power should be destroyed!" added Blackbeard. "I'd be a mine slave rather than be domineered over by any woman that lives!" 
               "Talk not so loud," whispered Scarlet Jack. "Some of your crew may overhear us." 
               "There's not a man of my crew, but understands the whole project," said Blackbeard. 
               "Indeed?" 
               "Aye, indeed! and not one of them all is there, who is not ready and willing, at a moment's warning, to free themselves from this petty tyranny. We only wait your cooperation, captain. Be assured there are matters, of which I suspect Red Martin, that you little dream of." 
               "Suspect our chief!-of what?" ejaculated Scarlet Jack. 
               "Of robbing us!" 
               "You slander him!" 
               "Nay not so-hear me," said Blackbeard, "and be your own judge. Did you not mark with what care he commanded all the treasures of the galleon to be removed to the Thunderbolt?" 
               "I did.' 
               "And when San Malo ordered a single box of dust to the Raven's deck, did he not countermand the order, and had it forthwith conveyed to the brigantine?" 
               "It was so," replied Scarlet Jack; "but it did not occur to me that it would not be as safe under his hatches as ours." 
               "Would it not be equally safe under your care or mine?" 
               "Certainly." 
               "And why is this?" interrogated Blackbeard. "He either mistrusts our honesty, and that it is our intention to conceal treasure which belongs to all, or we are constrained to believe that he intends to appropriate it to himself. If we view it in the former light, it is a gross and unpardonable insult to us. If in the latter, he would cheat us; therefore, he deserves condemnation!" 
               "By heaven! I thought not of this before!" exclaimed his compeer. "But he is bound by a fearful oath to deal justly by every man of the fleet!" 
               "Humph!-his oath!" said Blackbeard, sneeringly. "A keg of dollars would induce him to break it! Ay, a word from Haidee, his bold wench, would make him falsify it!" 
               "Think you so contemptously of him?" asked Scarlet Jack. 
               "By Pluto, I do; and I hope to have the opportunity, ere long, to tell him so to his teeth!" 
                
               "Then is it high time to intrust the command of the fleet to more honest hands!" declared Scarlet Jack. 
               "Spoken like a bravo!" exclaimed Blackbeard. "Give us your hand-we'll drink to your opinion. Here, Mungo," said he to an Ethiopian slave, belonging to Red Martin, who was in attendance, "open a bottle of that fine old port-fill up the goblets to the brim." 
               The slave promptly obeyed his temporary master, and each of the trio held in his hand a goblet of the deep scarlet, delicious beverage. 
               "Here's to the brave, the noble commander of the Shark!" said Blackbeard. 
               Scarlet Jack responded to the toast, and gave his full adhesion to the conspiracy thus formed against their chief. 
               "Now, gentlemen," said Blackbeard, rising, "fill up again, and I'll give you a toast, which, if ye have the heart and courage to drink, a glorious consummation of our wishes will surely ensue." 
               "The toast-the toast!" cried both of his interlocutors. 
               "Gentlemen," said Blackbeard:-"Here's death to Red Martin!-death to that she-devil, Haidee!-and an equitable division of all plunder!" 
               His comrades arose, repeated the toast, and drank the contents of the goblets at a toss. 
               "Fill again!" said Blackbeard; "here's to the future commander of the Thunderbolt-Scarlet Jack!" 
               "One glass more," added Scarlet Jack; "I propose San Malo to the command of the Shark!" 
               "Well said," responded Blackbeard. 
               "And I," said San Malo, "propose Blackbeard for our chief!" 
               "Agreed!" said Scarlet Jack. 
               "Gentlemen," said Blackbeard, "I cannot thus assume the command; but on three throws of the dice by each of us, I propose that the chief command of the fleet shall be decided." 
               "I am unwilling to take so responsible a post," said the lieutenant; "the height of my ambition has already been proposed to me-I waive all claim to the post of chief so long as there are abler hands in the fleet." 
               "Then the game lies between you and me," said Blackbeard to his compeer. "Ho, Mungo-the dice-the dice!" 
               They were quickly placed before them by the alert negro. The captain of the Shark threw first and counted seventeen, sixteen, nine forty-two in all! 
               "It is almost useless for me to throw against that count," said Blackbeard. "Forty-two is high-the chances are more than five to one against me." 
                
               While he spoke, however, the dextrously managed to change the dice, unperceived by any except the quick eyes of Mungo. At the first throw he counted seventeen-at the second thirteen-and at the third, up came three sixes!" 
               "Forty-eight, by Jupiter!" exclaimed the winner. 
               "A lucky throw," remarked San Malo. 
               "I am content," said Scarlet Jack. "The command, by right of seniority, was yours; and now it is doubly yours." 
               "I accept it, and may I prove worthy the great trust," said Blackbeard. "One thing is certain, comrades;-so long as there's life in me, I'll be a true pirate! But we're counting the game before we have had a fair shot at it." 
               "What's to be done?" asked Scarlet Jack. 
               "Board the Thunderbolt when all but the deck-watch are below-massacre all who dare offer the least resistance-spare only those who will swear allegiance to us!" 
               "What disposition shall be made of that bold Yankee captain-the prisoner-guest of Red Martin's wife?" 
               "Cut him down at once!" 
               "What with the woman, child and servant?" interrogated Scarlet Jack. 
               "Butcher them all, and give their bodies to the sharks!" 
               "Shall we not spare the beautiful quadroon, called Sybil?" asked San Malo. 
               "No, by Pluto, not one of the Thunderbolt's prisoners!" answered the wretch, Blackbeard. "The four sailors on board of my vessel, having nearly consented to join us, shall not be harmed. One of them-a fellow of undaunted mettle-I take quite an interest in. He is capable of making a capital officer. If I can only work a weakness out of him, which he calls a conscience, then are we sure of him." 
               "When shall we carry into execution our plans?" asked Scarlet Jack. 
               "The first gloomy night," replied Blackbeard; "the barometer is sinking low, and I have perceived to-night other indications of a rain-storm within forty-eight hours. To-night, let the work of preparation commence on both of our vessels-secretly, lest our doings be watched, and our designs be suspected by some of Red Martin's men. Let not our plans be developed even to our own crew until the hour of action shall have arrived.-We'll have in the meantime another interview. And now, gentlemen, as it is well nigh morning, suppose we turn in and get some rest." 
               "One word more before we separate," said Scarlet Jack. "This servant here is privy to all our plans." 
               "Ah! you never need fear Mungo," said Blackbeard. 
                
               "Golly, massa, no-neber fear tell Mungo ebery ting," interposed the slave, rolling up the whites of his eyes. 
               "Although he is one of Red Martin's bondmen, he hates his own master and mistress as heartily as I do." 
               "Ees, massa Blackbeard, it am a fac," declared Mungo. 
               "At his own request, Red Martin allowed him to become my servant." 
               "Why is this, Mungo?" interrogated Scarlet Jack. 
               "Massa Martin, he beatee me; missee, she beatee me; and now Mungo would hab rebenge." 
               "What would you do, Mungo, providing you had a good opportunity?" asked Blackbeard. 
               "Golly, massa, me would chop dar heads off wid this!" replied Mungo, displaying a heavy hanger which he wore at his side. 
               "I am satisfied; our secret is safe enough with him," remarked Scarlet Jack. 
               "If it were not, there's naught to fear," said Blackbeard. We'll have no communication with the Thunderbolt's chief or crew. Besides, Mungo is no swimmer; he has a horrid dread of wetting his skin, to say nothing of his fear of being swallowed whole by a hungry shark." 
               Scarlet Jack now arose and left his coadjutors of the conspiracy. Calling his rowers, he entered his barge, and was quickly conveyed to the Shark, which vessel at the time was within hailing distance of the Raven. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
                
                  Mungo, the Cunning Slave.-His Visit to Red Martin.-An Unlooked-for Revelation.-Haidee determines on defeating the Plotters.-Mungo pretends to be in Trouble. 
                
               THE subsequent night was a cloudy one; the moon and stars were obscured from the earth, and early in the evening a thick veil of fog enveloped the ocean. The breeze was light, and in consequence of the thick atmosphere, the three vessels were ordered to keep within hailing distance, lest in the night they might unintentionally part company. Eight bells were struck, when Blackbeard and his first lieutenant. San Malo, embarked in the schooner's barge for an evening's visit to Scarlet Jack, and to partake of an entertainment that had been prepared for the occasion. Thus was Mungo, the slave, for that evening relieved from duty in the cabin of the Raven. 
               Scarcely had the barge, containing the two conspirators, left the schooner's larboard gangway, than Mungo dropped silently into the sea from the opposite side, and like a dolphin-despite his apparently innocent declaration that he could not swim-struck off in a bee line for the brigantine. The black object was visible, but for a moment, by one of the watch, but thinking it some monstrosity of the vasty deep, he took no further notice of it. By the time the Raven's barge had reached the gangway of the Shark, the negro's head was seen rising above the larboard cat-head of the Thunderbolt. 
               "Who goes there?" ejaculated one of the watch, standing near, and at the same time leveling his carbine. 
               "Hus-s-h-h!" essayed the Ethiopian, in a loud whisper. "Don't shoot poor Mungo-me do no harm," and leaping on deck, he whispered a single word in the ear of the sentinel, and was permitted to pass aft. He met Red Martin, his rightful master, in the companion way. 
               "Ah, Mungo! is that you?" ejaculated Red Martin. 
               "Ees, massa-'tis Mungo!" replied the wet Ethiopian. 
               "You look more like a drowned baboon, than a dark specimen of humanity!" 
                
               "Ees, massa, I duz," he replied, his teeth chattering with the cool bath he had taken. 
               "Well, Mungo, what is your errand here?" interrogated the chief. 
               "Oh, Massa, de bery debil hesef's broke loose!" he replied in an emphatic whisper,-"Me come to tell you all 'bout' im, massa." 
               "The devil you have?" 
               "Ees, massa." 
               "Then come below, Mungo," said Red Martin. 
               The chief led the way, and the faithful Mungo, who by the way was one of Red Martin's spies, was quickly ushered into the presence of Haidee; and there, in his own peculiar vernacular, related to them every word he had heard touching the plot to destroy his master and mistress. 
               "What think you now, my wife, of my suspicions regarding these traitorous devils' fealty to us?" ejaculated Red Martin, enraged at the vile plot formed against him. 
               "They have shown themselves monsters, and dearly must they pay for their treason!" exclaimed Haidee. 
               "By heaven! they shall not live!" 
               "No Martin, they yet must live, solely for our purposes!" said the bold woman. "Leave all to me; and though I appear lenient, in allowing them a short lease of life, yet I will so work upon their minds that they shall ever after tremble at the power of Haidee. My will shall be their law; and if I but make it known, these slavish curs shall obey! Martin, we'll have a banquet to-morrow; these three traitors shall be our chief guests. Then they shall be taught a lesson they little wot of." 
               "I comprehend, Haidee," replied Red Martin. "Your wisdom only is surpassed by an indomitable courage. Do as seems to you best. I leave these damned villains to your superior judgment." 
               "Mungo," said Haidee, turning to their slave, "after our counterplot has succeeded, demand of us your freedom; and you shall thereafter have for your own use a steward's share of all our undivided plunder." 
               "Tankee, missee," said Mungo. 
               "Be vigilant-be active," she continued; "and conceal, if possible, your visit here to-night. To-morrow, should you discover a crimson scarf flying from the mainsail peak, contrive secretly to spike every gun aboard of the Raven. Here," she resumed, after taking a package from a drawer, and placing it in Mungo's hand, "are two dozen rat-tail files-force one into each cannon's vent with all the strength of your hand, and then snap them off so as to let no stem remain above the metal. Do you understand me?" 
                
               "Ees, missee," answered Mungo, chuckling at the very idea of doing so much mischief so easily. 
               "Now go-be cautious. Should you be discovered in the water, contrive some expedient to make them believe that you had fallen overboard!" 
               "Ees, missee, Mungo make 'em beliebe ebery ting." 
               "And should you discover that any demonstration is to be made against us sooner than first contemplated, place this blue ribbon around your hat, and show yourself in the main rigging." 
               "Ees, missee." 
               "Now, Mungo, good night." 
               The negro took the hint, and bowed himself out of the cabin. Once more he quietly slipped into the water by a loose piece of rigging, and darted through the water with all the skill of a Triton. As he neared the stern of the Raven, he heard the sound of oars, and supposing that Blackbeard's barge was returning, he swam with all his might, and in doing so caused the water to plash about him. The man at the wheel, discovering an unusual motion in the water, he cried out- 
               "Lights! ho, lights here! Somebody must be overboard!" 
               Mungo, hearing the cry, and comprehending the cause, began to utter most piteous exclamations:- 
               "Help! help! sabe poor Mungo! me will drown! a rope! a boat! for God's sake do someting to sabe poor Mungo!" 
               While he shouted, he imitated the gurgling sounds of a man drowning, and floundered about as if making the most desperate efforts to save himself. 
               A line was thrown towards him. Mungo had seized hold of it just as Blackbeard's barge rounded the schooner's stern. 
               "You damned nigger! what's all this yelling about? how came you here?" were the first ejaculations of the boatswain. 
               "Me-fall-overboard!" said Mungo, appearing almost exhausted. 
               "Swim, you damned fool! why don't you swim?" 
               "Me-no-swim, massa!-help-quick-shark-eatee poor Mungo!" 
               "Do you imagine that a shark would be such a consummate fool, as to take into his mouth such a sooty, greasy, unpalatable-looking morsel as you are?" said the boatswain. "I have a great mind to sever the line and let you drift to kingdom come." 
               "Take him in, boatswain," said Blackbeard; "you've tormented him sufficiently to pay for all your trouble." 
               The men, after they had soused him three or four times, deep into the water, hauled him aboard the boat, and finally took him to the deck of the schooner. 
               "Now tell me, you thunder-cloud, how came you overboard!" demanded Blackbeard. 
                
               "Me got fass sleep, mass, on de taffril, and me rolled off," said Mungo. 
               "It's a pity you ever waked up again," said the boatswain. 
               This invention of Mungo was sufficient to allay any suspicion in the mind of Blackbeard, that he had uttered anything but the simple truth. He ordered him to go and change his wet cloths for dry ones, and then to attend him in the cabin. 
               "Every thing goes as we could desire," said Blackbeard to San Malo, after they were again seated in the cabin of the Raven. "Scarlet Jack and all his crew are as ripe for the mischief as we are. We shall soon show this presumptuous, ambitious chief, and his cunning she-devil, the power of our sway. Hell! I am impatient for the coming of another night!" 
               "And so am I!" said the lieutenant. "But, by St. Jago, I cannot dispel from my mind some misgivings that that damned witch may yet circumvent our plans!" 
               "There's blessed little fear of that," replied Blakbeard. "Our plot is so perfectly formed, I can see no possible chance for counterplotting. As for Red Martin's tigress, she is but mortal like the rest of us, and our crew will get over their superstitious notions regarding her after they have the evidence of their own senses that she is as vulnerable as the rest of us. But, if I knew, lieutenant, she were the consort of Lucifer himself, and had all the power of hell to back her, I would not recede from my purpose! The blow shall be struck!" 
               "But, should we not succeed--" 
               "We cannot help succeeding-if we do but our duty to each other. There's not a man of the two schooners' crews, but what feels that our cause is his. That treasure on board the Thunderbolt will not make them rest easy so long as it is in the hands of Red Martin and his wife." 
               "You are right," said San Malo; "in that idea lies the-chief element that will ensure us success." 
               "Well, lieutenant, I'm for hammock to-night; I'm getting drowsy; see that all is right above, and hurry along Mungo to my state-room," said Blackbeard, as he arose to retire. 
               The night passed quietly, and the conspirators slept as soundly as if the contemplated events of the night following were banished from their minds. 
               Patience, reader; another chapter will show who were masters. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
                
                  Disappointment of Blackbeard.-The Invitation.-San Malo seized for a Traitor.-His Doom is pronounced by Haidee. 
                
               BLACKBEARD'S prediction in regard to the near approach of a storm was not verified; for with the first grey streaks of dawn, the mist which had veiled the ocean gradually arose, and ere the King of Day, like an orb of molten gold, appeared in full above the horizon, the whole expanse of heaven, to mortal ken, was undimmed by a single cloud. It was, indeed, a lovely morning, and while nature rejoiced at the smiling heavens, the inhuman buccaneer conspirators cursed that the heavens did not frown. 
               At eight bells, the chief of the conspirators and his lieutenant, simultaneously appeared on the Raven's deck. 
               "A pleasant morning, captain," saluted the lieutenant. 
               "How can we call that pleasant which to us is hateful?" queried Blackbeard, looking frowningly upon the azure sky. "A damned morning, say I!" 
               "I merely alluded to the pleasantness of the weather," remarked San Malo. 
               "To what else did I respond. I say, to us the morning is NOT pleasant!" 
               "But the evidence is before you. See how brightly the sun--" 
               "Curse the sun and his brightness!" interrupted Blackbeard. "To carry into execution our great purpose, we want no sun. Rather let the whole ocean be covered with thick black clouds! the rain descend in torrents! ay, let even the forked lightning play in the murky vapor and the thunders roll than that we should have been cursed with all this brightness! You forgot San Malo, if the night is pleasant, we must forego executing our well-laid plan, and perhaps not another opportunity, so fair, will again offer; for, before the rising of another sun, we shall in all probability be safely moored in our inlet of Virginia Gorda! Therefore, again I say, curse you shining light!" 
               "Now, by St. Christopher, I have caught your meaning!" said the lieutenant. 
                
               "Methinks you were dull not to comprehend me before." 
               "You talked oddly." 
               "Ay, but meaningly." 
               "True; and I now can curse the sun with as good a heart as yourself," said San Malo; "and if a prayer to Lucifer could be heard and answered, I'd pray for a black mantle to hide the sky from now till noon-day!" 
               "Bravo! spoken like a true pirate," said Blackbeard. "But how's this?" he ejaculated, looking at the position of the Thunderbolt and the Shark. "Red Martin has sailed ahead of us, and Scarlet Jack is far to leeward of him." 
               "We are gaining on the Thunderbolt now," said the lieutenant; "for see, the mainsail peak is dropped. The chief is shortening sail to allow us to come up." 
               "You're right-I see," said Blackbeard, looking through his glass. "I had a sudden, though faint suspicion that the fellow was endeavoring to show us a clean pair of heels. I shall be suspicious henceforth of every odd movement I discover in him, his crew and his vessel." 
               "They are now lowering the chief's barge, I perceive," remarked San Malo, after a brief pause in the conversation. "I take it there's nothing odd in that?" 
               "That's but an every day occurrence," was Blackboard's reply. 
               "They have hauled it around to the gangway-and, now, two of his men and the boatswain's boy are getting into it. 
               "There's nothing odd in that, either," said Blackbeard; "perhaps Red Martin will visit us." 
               "No-the boat has shoved off with the men and the boy," resumed San Malo, "and it is now heading for us." 
               "Some dispatch, doubtless, from Red Martin. He will, I'm thinking, have but few more to transmit to us; for, in spite of wind or weather, we must make the attempt to-night!" 
               "To night, then let it be," responded the lieutenant. 
               The conversation continued a few minutes longer, when the chief's barge ran alongside, and the boy spoken of, who served Red Martin in the capacity of cabin-boy, came aboard and was met at the gangway by Blackboard, to whom he handed a sealed a note. 
               "Wait one moment, and, I will ascertain if an answer is to be returned," said the conspirator; and turning upon his heel he rejoined the lieutenant on the quarter-deck. "It looks like a love billet-doux, or an invitation to a wedding," he continued, breaking the seal. "It is scented, too-bah!" 
               He ran his eye over the contents, and exclaimed- 
               "By all that's savory, it is an invitation to dine on board of the Thunderbolt! Read it." 
               San Malo took the note. The contents were as follows: 
                
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              On board brig Thunderholt, Saturday morn'g.
                            
                           Red Martin's compliments to Capt. Blackbeard and Lieut San Malo. Their company is particulary desired on board the brigantine, at 3 P. M., to dine. The galleon's pig will be served up, a la Francaise. Fair not to be punctual. 
                           
                              Yours,&c. 
                              RED MARTIN.
                            
                         
                         
                           P. S. If the lieutenant is disengaged, he will oblige me by coming on board the brigantine this morning. I desire his judgment in a matter of some moment. 
                           
                              R. M.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "By St. Iago, lieutenant, you are highly honored," said Blackbeard. 
               "What can the postscript mean?" asked San Malo. 
               "Oh, it is in regard to those four prisoners." 
               "How know you that?" 
               "I know it well, for he intimated as much to me the last time we spake together," replied Blackbeard. 
               "Yet I care not about acceding to his request, just on the eve of-" 
               "Go, by all means, lieutenant. It is the very thing-for you may have an opportunity to sound his men. If not, you can contrive secretly to spike a gun or two at least." 
               "Capital-I'll go, captain," said San Malo, decisively. "But you, too, will dine with him?" 
               "If I don't eat of that pig, I'll make a baked dish of Red Martin's head!-of that be assured. I'll feast my appetite on his meats and his wines, and then I'll glut my vengeance by hacking him limb from limb! Yes, lieutenant, go, and make answer for me, with my compliments to himself and his mistress, that I shall be proud of the honor, &c.," said he, in sneering tones. "You understand me." 
               "Ay; you will be prompt?" 
               "You'll find me thus." 
               "And act your part well, I doubt not-ha, ha, ha!" 
               "I'll be damn'd if I don't!" said Blackbeard. "You'll see me grace the table with all the politeness and suavity of a polished gentleman. I'll smile and say as many pretty things as a jack-dandy. Haidee shall deem me a true ladies' man, while I shall be devising the most genteel mode of cutting her throat!" 
               "Ha, ha, ha! captain," laughed his subordinate; "you're in glorious spirits in spite of your disappointment in funding a sunny instead of a stormy morning." 
               "Ah! the very thoughts of that baked pig and the incidentals, makes me facetiously disposed. Depend upon it, we'll have some rare sport." 
                
               "Ay, that we will," said the lieutenant; "but I'll not keep the barge longer in waiting; so, good morning, Senor capitan." 
               "Good morning, lieutenant." 
               San Malo, after buckling on his sabre belt, and providing himself with the weapons he was accustomed to carry upon his person, took a seat in the barge, and after a few moments was landed on the quarter deck of the Thunderbolt, where he was received cordially by his chief. 
               "My thanks, lieutenant, for your promptness in attending to my wishes," said Red Martin; "indeed, your haste to serve me prevented my being ready for the matter on which I wish to confer with you. In the course of half an hour, I shall be prepared for you; meanwhile, amuse yourself by examining our armament. Antoine Davila shall accompany you." 
               "Thanks," said San Malo. "Nothing could make a half hour pass more pleasantly." 
               It was in fact just what the Mexican desired, with the exception of being accompanied by the Thunderbolt's lieutenant, who he knew was as wary as he was brave. However, he expressed not that he would prefer no companion, and accepted his compeer's guidance. Davila was in the secret and well he knew his cue. He escorted him to every part of the vessel, with the exception of the main cabin and state-rooms. San Malo expressed an unusual interest in the brass guns upon the deck, as well as every thing pertaining thereto; and while the back of Davils was turned, he contrived to stop the vents of two guns of the starboard battery, by adroitly inserting in each the small end of a rat-tail file, and breaking it within the vent. They were now examining a long eighteen-pounder, and he was about to put into temporary disuse this likewise; but Davila having suddenly turned his eye upon him, detected him in the very act. 
               "Ah! somebody has been endeavoring to spike this gun!" exclaimed San Malo, as he now strove to extract, what he had a moment before inserted, in order to avoid the suspicion of Davila. 
               "Villain! what do you there?" demanded Davila. 
               "Villain I am not!" exclaimed San Malo, seizing the handle of his sword. 
               "I denounce you as a traitor!" said Davila. "I charge you with an attempt to spike that gun!" 
               "'Tis false as hell!" exclaimed San Malo, wrathfully. 
               "'Tis true as heaven!" exclaimed a female voice behind him. 
               The traitorous lieutenant turned, and beheld Haidee's majestic form standing before him. 
               "You, too, speak falsely!" 
                
               "Liar!" returned Haidee. "I saw you do it! I knew your evil intent, and have watched your every movement since you stepped upon this deck. Think'st, vile traitor, you can deceive Haidee!-her who reads every thought of your hellish brain? Ha, ha!-you would partake of our hospitality, and betray us into the sanguinary hands of your chosen master!" 
               San Malo shrunk back in amazement. He was powerless-he quailed and trembled before the woman, who, he would have sworn, possessed more power than is usually given to mortals. 
               "Seize the audacious wretch!" she commanded. 
               A dozen bold buccaneers with weapons drawn, leaped forward and obeyed her stern bidding. 
               "Bind him fast-below with him!" she continued. "Men, you all have evidence of his treason-he would render our armament powerless. Look, here-these two guns were spiked by his hand!" and she pointed to those, the vents of which he had stopped, as he supposed, unobserved. 
               "Shall we string him up to the fore-yard arm?" asked a veteran buccaneer. 
               "No," she answered. 
               "He deserves no less than an instantaneous death!" 
               "Peace, Roy!" commanded Haidee. "The traitor has not long to live-of that be assured-let my word content you!" 
               "Long live our noble mistress!" shouted the pirates. 
               "Thanks! Below with him!" commanded Haidee. 
               "Mercy! mercy!" cried the wretched culprit. 
               "You plead for mercy who have none?" she said, tauntingly. "You, who had foully conspired against my life-against the life of your chosen chief-and against the lives of many of this brave crew! Ha, ha! it becomes you not, aspiring San Malo." 
               "Oh, spare me-in mercy, spare me-and all shall be confessed!" prayed the merciless wretch, sinking upon his knees. 
               "What would or can you confess that I do not know?" ejaculated Haidee. "All confession, when all is discovered, would be gratuitous. Already I know all-more even than the knowledge you yourself possess; for had you succeeded in your diabolical plot, your master would have sold his miserable tool, San Malo. No, I'll hear no confession from your lips, for it will avail you nothing. Your life is forfeited-doubly forfeited! I have known you long for an unscrupulous villain! and villains so infamous deserve not to exist!" 
               "Let me, I beseech you, reveal the whole plot!" again entreated San Malo. 
               "Once more I tell you there is no occasion for it," replied Haidee. "You can only relate to me that the Satanic Blackbeard, the ruthless Scarlet Jack, and the unscrupulous San Malo, have formed a conspiracy to murder the greatest of those with whom you are leagued by a solemn and a fearful oath; and that to night you were to execute your fiendish purposes. Your master, Blackbeard, on a throw of the dice, won the chieftainship of our band. Scarlet Jack was named as commander of the Thunderbolt, while you were to be promoted to the command of the Shark. My noble husband, myself, my prisoner guests, and all on board of this vessel who should refuse to espouse your cause, were to be summarily and mercilessly massacred! Can you deny this, wretch?" 
               "It was so, I confess," said the conspirator, "but--" 
               "I'll hear no more!" interrupted Haidee. "Drag him below! I cannot bear to gaze longer upon so monstrous a lump of wretchedness. Here, boatswain, one word with you," she continued, turning to that officer. She then whispered a few words in his ear, unheard by any other person. 
               "Your commands shall be promptly obeyed," was the boatswain's reply. 
               The traitor, firmly pinioned, was now borne from the deck to a place below designated by the boatswain. 
               We draw the curtain upon the scene that was there enacted, for we have not the heart to indite it. 
             
             
                
               
                   
                
                
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
                
                  The Plotters circumvented.-Conduct of Haidee.-The Goblet of Blood-red wine.-The Toast.-Amazement of the Conspirators. 
                
               AT two bells, precisely, on that eventful day, the Raven's barge was seen coming towards the Thunderbolt, and in a few minutes came alongside, as also did the barge of the Shark; and, almost simultaneously, Blackbeard and Scarlet Jack, arrayed in full uniform, were met at the gangway by Red Martin, who had also taken more than ordinary care to deck himself in the trappings of his high position. 
               "Gentlemen-welcome!" said Red Martin; "it gives me unusual joy to be honored by your company on this occasion. The day is an auspicious one, and betokens that we shall have a merry time of it." 
               "I doubt not we shall," replied Blackbeard, giving Scarlet Jack a significant wink; "and we thank you for our welcome." 
               "Our banquet is well nigh ready," said Red Martin. "I have a rare delicacy to tickle your palates with." 
               "Ah! that pig, taken among the plunder of the galleon?" said Scarlet Jack, with an inquiring look. 
               "The head, gentlemen-the head only," replied Red Martin. "I had it divided into three parts-the head I have chosen for my own table-the other parts of the carcase are for you." 
               "You are too generous," said Blackbeard. "You should have supplied your own table with it." 
               "Not so, captain," replied Red Martin; "our spoils must be spared. It would seem swinish, indeed, in me to claim the whole pig as mine." 
               "A good joke-a capital joke-ha, ha, ha!" laughed Scarlet Jack. "I did not know, you were a wag, chief." 
               "When you are better acquainted with him," remarked Blackbeard, "you will acknowledge our chief a right merry, companionable fellow." 
               "You flatter me, worthy compeers," said Red Martin. "But, let's below-our appetites must be whetted by a taste of that old aqua ardiente." 
                
               "Certainly, chief-such an invitation would be hard to refuse," replied the leading conspirator. 
               The guests followed their chief into his state-room, where they regaled themselves with a draught or two of most excellent brandy, which formed a portion of the spoils taken from a French brig, which the pirates had boarded and plundered but ten days previous, while pursuing her voyage to Buenos Ayres. 
               Dinner was now announced, and they were ushered into the cabin, where a banquet had been prepared of many sumptuous delicacies-the grand feature, however, being concealed beneath a massive gold cover. Upon a side-table stood many bottles of wines of the richest description; and several negro slaves, in oriental costume, stood in readiness to wait upon the guests. At the head of the table sat Haidee, arrayed as richly as an Indian princess, her arms, head and neck, sparkling with a profuse display of diamonds, rubies, pearls, and other precious stones, in costly settings. 
               "Welcome, brave gentlemen, to our banquet," said she, assuming a queen-like bearing. 
               Thanks, noble, courteous lady," said the hypocritical Blackbeard. "It gives me pleasure unbounded to meet you thus. Never did empress upon her throne shine with greater lustre, or possess a more dignified bearing than thyself, fair lady." 
               "No fulsome flattery, I beg of you, captain," replied Haidee, pleasantly, and with a smile of complacency. "But, allow me, friends, to pledge you in a glass of wine, ere the covers be raised." 
               The guests readily acquiesced by a courteous bow. 
               "What shall it be, gentlemen," she resumed. "We have here a golden sherry from Xeres, distinguished for its lightness, mellowness and richness; brown sherry, esteemed by connoisseurs for its age, and peculiar nutty flavor; a red wine from Greece, considered exceedingly delicious by the lovers of sweet wines; but here, gentlemen, is a rarity-a bottle of Mexican wine, supposed to be about thirty-seven years of age, but of excellent quality, you will admit; it has great body, its color is blood-red; it is said to have the remarkable quality of giving great courage to those who partake of it; and what is more singular than all, drink however freely you may of it, it never intoxicates, unless other liquor is mixed with it. Therefore, gentlemen, I freely commend it." 
               "After such an eloquent description of the qualities of a wine, from the lips of a fair lady, he must be a heathen, indeed, who could refuse it," said Blackboard, enthusiastically. "Wine from Mexico is a novel sound to my ears; but, speaking of Mexico, reminds me of my lieutenant, San Malo. If I mistake not, he was bidden to this feast of luscious things. I have not seen his face since I came aboard this vessel." 
                
               "You will, presently," replied Red Martin, with a peculiar emphasis. "He is arranging his toilet in Davila's state-room." 
               "I should be glad to hear his opinion regarding this Mexican wine you praise so highly," said Blackbeard. 
               "He will be here in time," said the chief. 
               "Come, gentlemen, let me fill up without delay," said Haidee, as she commenced pouring the liquid spoken of into golden goblets, and causing them to be passed, on a massive silver waiter, to her guests. 
               "It has, indeed, a gloriously rich complexion," remarked Blackbeard. 
               "I never saw its equal," said Scarlet Jack. "If it belie not its color and its body it will prove a nectar." 
               "Oh, you will find it above all the praise I have bestowed upon it," said Haidee. 
               "I doubt it not," said Backbeard. 
               "Will you drink also of this, Martin?" inquired Haidee. 
               "Nay, my love-that wine must only be served to our most honored guests," answered the chief. "Give me of the nut-flavored brown sherry." 
               Red Martin's goblet was filled, and Haidee poured into her goblet the golden sherry from Xeres. 
               "I propose that Haidee give the toast," said Red Martin. 
               "By all means," urged the guests. 
               "With pleasure," replied Haidee. She again arose, and holding the golden goblet above her head, said-Now, gentlemen, empty your goblets if you please, for the toast which I shall propose deserves no dainty draught! I give you-"The Free Rovers of Virginia Gorda!'-True to themselves-true to their profession! Whenever a traitor is found among them, he deserves no less a fate than summary death!" 
               "Bravo! bravo!" cried the two conspirators. 
               They raised the brimful goblets to their lips, and drank off the contents at a single draught. The effect of the blood-red liquid was instantaneous upon both of the conspirators; it was no sooner drank, than a stream of blood issued from their mouths! 
               "Damned hag!" cried Scarlet Jack, as soon as his throat was cleared. 
               "For God's sake, what is this?" demanded Blackbeard. 
               "The blood of a traitor!" answered the bold woman. 
               "Whose blood?" 
               "That of a Mexican wretch!" she replied. "Behold!" and she ordered the large golden dish cover to be removed. 
               Horror! what a hideous sight was there revealed! There lay, still dripping with gore, the head of San Malo-the hideous, ghastly countenance, yet retaining the expression it wore at the very moment when severed from the trunk! 
                
               The two living traitors started back in amazement, and vainly clutched the hafts of their sabres. 
               "Ha, ha!" laughed Haidee; "you have drunk deeply of your vile comrade's blood; and now will you partake of his gory head?" 
               "Revenge! revenge!" cried the amazed pirates, as they strove to draw their sabres from the scabbards; but vain was the effort-their arms had been seized by the immediate presence of some half a dozen of the Thunderbolt's hardy crew, and were forthwith pinioned by strong cords. 
               "What means this outrage-this damned insult?" demanded Blackbeard, in a violent rage. 
               "It simply means that instead of our being in a situation to be massacred by you to-night, you are now in our power, leaving us at liberty to do with you both as may best suit our will and pleasure," coolly answered Red Martin. 
               "I comprehend it all-we have been betrayed!" cried Scarlet Jack. 
               "No, ignoble monsters; you have betrayed yourselves," said Haidee. 
               "Answer me one question, and I'm content to say no more. Did San Malo say aught of us?" enquired Scarlet Jack. 
               "He say aught of his fellow-traitors?" ejaculated Haidee. "Let me answer emphatically, no! His head would not have been lying there, trunkless, had he come on board to expose a diabolical plot conceived by Blackbeard. We should have had much reason to thank him for his allegiance, rather than to have severed his head from his body." 
               "How know you then of any plot, you accursed witch?" asked Scarlet Jack. 
               "Ha, ha! rail on! whet my appetite more keenly, miserable wretches!" replied Haidee. "But you shall be answered.-I have power you wot not of. Your plans are as well known to me, as if I had stood bodily in your presence while they were concocted." 
               "Then thou art, indeed, a damned witch from hell!" exclaimed Blackbeard, trembling with terror. 
               "What I am I shall not reveal to you; but cunning as you profess to be, I am more than your match. I have power over all traitors in our fleet, and power to prevent the commission of treasonous or mutinous crimes. You have now some evidence thereof." 
               "We have, indeed," replied Scarlet Jack: "and on my knees I pray to this all-powerful woman for mercy." 
               "I shall be more merciful than you deserve," replied Haidee. "But your fate shall be made known hereafter. For the present you are our prisoners, and your commands are to be superseded seded by men who are more trustworthy. Officer, remove these traitors hence!" she commanded. "Their presence longer will make me unmerciful." 
               The two conspirators were forthwith removed from the cabin, and conveyed to the safe place assigned them beneath the hatches. 
               The temporary command of the Raven was given to Antoine Davila, while the command of the Shark was intrusted to the second lieutenant of the Thunderbolt, Pedro Ximenes, a young Brazilian. 
               What had taken place was communicated by Haidee, in person, to each of the crews, which were compromised in the bold conspiracy. Its effect was so great that every man, thus compromised, fell upon his knees, before his dread mistress, and earnestly supplicated for mercy, promising allegiance to her power, and to that of her husband. 
               The fleet sailed on its course as though nothing had occurred. The sun that night as it sank beneath the horizon, appeared like a ball of red fire, betokening, as the sailors said, some great evil near at hand. 
               If "coming events cast their shadows before," we have some thrilling scenes to describe. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
                
                  The Tornado.-Peril of the Pirate Fleet.-An Interesting Interview.-A Speck upon the Ocean. 
                
               WHEN the twilight hour of that quiet day had passed, and the starry sentinels of night took their places in the azure vault, the breeze fell, and there was not sufficient breath to toss the light curls of a maiden's brow. The surface of the ocean was undimpled, and lazily rolled its polished waves along. The vessels of Red Martin's fleet sleepily rose and fell upon the swell with graceful, swan-like motion. The hulls, spars, sails and line of rigging were painted in the mirror-like surface with all the accuracy of reality. For four hours this calm continued; but when midnight came, the howlings of the elements, at a great distance, struck the ears of the watch. At first it was a faint moaning sound, but gradually grew deeper and louder. A single dark speck, not bigger than a raven in its flight, became now visible to the eyes of those who stood watch aboard the corsair fleet. 
               "All hands ahoy!" cried the officer of each deck. 
               The boatswains' whistles screamed almost simultaneously, and in another moment, every available man was at his post of duty. On board the Thunderbolt, the heavy sails were lowered and furled firmly to their spars, while aloft, top-sail and topgallant-sail were clewed up and secured to the yards with an alacrity seldom seen, except on a well-disciplined man-of-war, after a three years' cruise. The men of the Raven and the Shark followed the example of the flag-vessel, and in less than three minutes the fleet sat idly in the water under bare poles, for as yet in their immediate vicinity the calm prevailed. 
               In the meantime, that small speck had expanded, and now spanned half the northwestern sky. Presently, far astern, its black shadow seemed suddenly to strike the waters, and came sweeping along with fearful rapidity, breaking the smooth billows in its path, and putting the whole ocean into angry commotion. Suddenly, almost like a bolt hurled from the clouds, the fearful tornado struck the pirate fleet, and buried the prow of each vessel beneath the wave, and lifted the stern high above the water! It was a fearful moment, but it was anticipated, and every man stood firmly at his post. The vessels quivered, and every timber from stem to stern quaked in sustaining the heavy shock. The light spars were torn from their strong fastenings, as easily as if they had been so many reeds confined by straws. The Shark's deck was washed by a heavy roller which threatened to carry her to the bottom, but the hatches and companion being fastened down, she gradually struggled to the surface, but every movable thing was swept from her deck, except her batteries. The men had clung to the rigging, and thus had escaped a watery grave. The foremast of the Raven had gone by the board, and with it two men who had lashed themselves to the shrouds, a most unfortunate precaution. The Thunderbolt sustained the dreadful blast with less damage than either of the schooners. Her top-gallant-mast, after bending for a moment like a reed in the hurricane, snapped off down to the cross-trees, and was whirled away. Besides Red Martin and Haidee, there stood on that quarter-deck the same commanding form who defended the Admiral in her hour of peril, and now he was manfully battling the elements to save the pirate brigantine. Not that he felt any sympathy for the buccaneers, but his soul-like energies were aroused only to save the helpless ones, over whom he had assumed a paternal care. Thus far had Captain Stark been treated more as a favored guest than as a prisoner, for he was allowed the freedom of the quarter-deck, and was permitted a seat at the chieftain's mess. Yet for all this they were pirates and enemies to all mankind, therefore, gladly would he have been elsewhere, if his self-constituted charge had also been out of their clutches. In the character of Haidee he saw much that was truly noble, but her good traits did by no means compensate, in his mind, for the fact that she was the wife of the chief-a being, but for the sway of her power, would have committed as many bloody acts as that devil incarnate-the merciless. Blackbeard. 
               But we would not, in the midst of a storm, digress from our tale.-On the first intimation of danger, Captain Stark leaped from his hammock, put on his weather-beaten apparel, and rushed to the deck. He it was who first declared the imminent peril in which the vessel would quickly be placed, and through his advice, orders were given that had the effect to enable her to sustain so well the bursting of the sweeping tornado upon them. Before the blast, under bare poles, the vessels were driven with fearful rapidity. The waves rolled mountains, high, threatening to swamp every object that floated upon the ocean's surface. For more than an hour the tempest raged as it had commenced, and then the elements began to abate their devastating fury. The night was fearfully dark, the binnacle-lights were out, and the vessels were ploughing onward at the mercy of the wind, whither no one could tell. 
               When the first grey streaks of morning became visible, the tempest had subsided, and only a fresh breeze blew from the northwest; the clouds became broken and scattered, and blue sky was again visible; the billows which had tossed those barks like so many corks upon their crests, gradually lessened, until they became like ripples compared to what they were in the height of the tempest. Morning came on apace, and Old Sol arose to gladden the hearts of all those who had sustained the raging of the tornado. On board the Thunderbolt, the well-nigh exhausted men looked upon each other with wondering eyes that they had survived the perils of the few past hours! 
               During the darkness of the night the piratical fleet had become separated, and when Red Martin came on deck, after an hour's repose below, no sail was visible within reach of his glass; Indeed, on no point of the compass could he detect a single speck on the ocean's surface. That they had not weathered the gale the pirate chief thought probable, and he began contemplating the effects of such a disaster upon his future prospects, when he was aroused by Haidee. 
               "You dream, Martin," said she. 
               "Nay, Haidee," he answered; "I was thinking of the probable fate of the schooners.-We have parted company." 
               "They surely survived the first blast, and in that one moment, methought, was the great peril." 
               "True; but it was fearful for more than an hour," replied the chief. "My two lieutenants to whom we gave the command of the two vessels were ill-experienced for so great an emergency. Even ourselves are mainly indebted for our present safety to the judgment and intrepidity of the Yankee captain." 
               "Have you ascertained our present position?" she inquired. 
               "If I have calculated rightly, we are within twelve or fifteen leagues, in a S. E. direction, from Virginia Gorda." 
               "Then why not change your course?" ejaculated Haidee. "Every moment is carrying us from thence." 
               "Think you it is best to visit that island again, now that, in all probability, we are for ever freed from those crews which had conspired against us?" 
               "Visit our island again!" reiterated Haidee, her eyes flashing with anger; "and have you again allowed the insinuating devil, Temptation, to put ignoble thoughts and desires into your ambitious brain? I blush with shame for your weaknesses!" 
               "And shall we lose this glorious opportunity of abandoning this adventurous life, and forego the temptation of a life of delights in the salubrious Isle I have so frequently described?" 
                
               "That isle, Martin, I tell you again, we shall never behold," replied Haidee, with emphasis. "The Fates have decreed it. Our destiny is marked out, and all our efforts to effect a change will prove futile. So, no more of this, Martin, but at once direct our course to Virginia Gorda." 
               "With reluctance I comply with your will," replied the chief; "but I fear we shall rue the hour that we neglected this favorable opportunity to pass." 
               "You forget, Martin, that Blackbeard and his treasonous associate are beneath our hatches?" 
               "But they are as secure as heavy chains can make them." 
               "You do not comprehend. You certainly have no desire to take these inhuman monsters to the paradise you have so long desired to reach?" 
               "No, by Heavens! they must die!" 
               "By whose hand? Not yours, I hope, Martin. What beast can have the desire to pollute his hand with the ignoble deed?" 
               "No blood, Haidee! They shall walk the plank!" 
               "By the holy Virgin, Martin! you provoke me by the bare mention of such an act!-Though they deserve an ignominious death, let us not be their executioners! We have had enough of such work. San Malo's death has satiated all my revenge against the conspiring traitors. Once more, I say, let's have no more butchery!" 
               The conversation was here interrupted by the loud cry of "Sail ho!" from the man Red Martin had sent aloft to see if either of his vessels could be descried. 
               "Where away?" shouted the chief. 
               "On our weather bow!" was the look-out's response. 
               "I can scarcely believe that the Raven or Shark could have outsailed us," remarked Red Martin to his wife, as he mounted the main ratlines with his glass, and commenced surveying the ocean in the direction named. 
               "By Pluto, I am right!" he continued; "it is no vessel, else my glass deceives me. Port your helm!-steady!" he cried to the man at the tiller. 
               "What then do you make of the object?" inquired Haidee. 
               "I cannot exactly make it out," he replied. "There's a signal of distress flying from a short spar. One more point to windward!" he cried, addressing the helmsman. "Steady, now!" 
               Taking another survey, he remarked to Haidee,- 
               "It is either a dismasted, water-logged vessel, or raft-I cannot yet exactly make out which. At all events, whatever it may prove to be, it is not of our fleet. Ah! now I can view the object more distinctly-it certainly belongs not to us-there was no swallow-tailed signal like that aboard of either of the schooners. It is a raft, and now I perceive the form of a man leaning upon the upright spar, and I see other moving beings upon it. If I mistake not, I now see a female form in a half-reclining posture. What's best to be done? Shall we go to their succor, or shall we--" 
               "Why do you put such a question?" interrupted Haidee, her brilliant eyes flashing with anger. 
               "They are not of our fleet; and there cannot be much plunder upon a hastily-constructed raft!" 
               "Shame on you, Martin. Were there so many dogs in peril, you could not do less than to relieve them. Because you have committed barbarities from your youth upward, does it destroy your capability of succoring the distressed? Cannot even a ruthless corsair, once in a life-time do a good action? You can lose nothing by occasionally acting like a human being, whose shape you wear. There may come a time, Martin, when it may avail you much; at all events, whatever may betide you, your enemies cannot say but you once did a noble deed!" 
               "No more, I beseech you, Haidee," replied Red Martin; "I feel the full force of all your meaning. You are my oracle-my very life-your advice shall be followed. Whoever those sufferers are, they shall be saved by the corsair, and have a corsair's protection!" 
               "Nobly spoken," said Haidee. 
               The chief immediately gave orders to set all sail, and bear up for the raft: the which will afford us matter for another chapter, which we commend to our readers, inasmuch as it will have a direct bearing upon the plot of this tale of adventures. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
                
                  The Perils of the Ocean.-The Bark Adriatic in the Gale.-Her awful Situation.-Terrors of the Crew.-The Raft-Abandoning of the Bark.-The Tempest subsides.-Morning.-A Sail descried.-An Unexpected Surprise. 
                
               THAT night of terrors, already described, a stately bark was tossed upon the billows of the turbulent Gulf, near the Carribean Sea. She was an Indiaman, of and from a once noted port of the old Bay State, and bound to Canton. She was commanded by Capt. Owen, with a crew of eighteen men, and there were, besides, seven passengers on board, three of whom were females. 
               When the devastating tornado swept over that wild waste of waters, the bark in one moment was raised on a mountain of water, and in the next was precipitated into an abyss, where she appeared to await the coming of another sea. The perpetual howling of the elements, echoing through the void, produced such terrible sensations in the minds of the seamen, that they seemed struck with a stupefaction; and those little inured to the dangers of the ocean, added wild shrieks and lamentations to this scene of misery. As if to complete their terrors, a heavy roller, which seemed like a mighty cataract approaching broke over her stern, carrying away the rudder, starting the stern, post from the hauden ends, and indeed, shattering her whole stern frame. Simultaneously, her main, fore and mizzen masts went by the board, and seven of that terrified crew, and two of the male passengers, were swept into the ocean. The pumps were now sounded and water, to the depth of three feet, was found in her hold. A gang of men was now ordered to work the pumps, which they continued for nearly two hours, notwithstanding the water increased rather than diminished. Although the violence of the storm had now greatly abated, it did not lessen the terrors of that dismayed ship's company. It was clearly evident to all that no human power could for many hours keep the bark afloat, and the captain began devising means by which they might save the lives of that decimated crew. The small yawl was ordered out-the long boat having been crushed by the weight of a falling spar-but Captain Owen having fears that the men might be tempted to make off in her, he ordered his second mate aboard, and giving him a sword and a pair of pistols, told him to cut down or shoot the first man who should dare even to suggest such a diabolical attempt. The boat, after exceeding difficulty, was got afloat and hauled up to the gangway; a raft was then ordered to be constructed of the floating spars which still adhered to the loose rigging. A faint hope now dawning upon the minds of the men, they shook off their dismay, and went to work with an alacrity almost incredible. In the course of half an hour they had succeeded in lashing many of the spars together, and there being, fortunately, a number of planks in her holds, these were hoisted out and spiked to the spars. 
               In the meantime the pumps had been worked for the purpose of keeping the hull afloat as long as possible; but now, the raft being constructed, the gang were ordered to get over several casks of water, beef, biscuit, and such other provisions as could be readily got at. Half an hour was consumed in this duty, and after the passengers, consisting only of one male and two females, had got upon the raft-the captain threatening the first man who should dare to precede them-the crew were ordered to abandon the bark, Captain Owen reluctantly following his men, he being the last to tread the deck of the sinking hulk. It was with equal reluctance that he caused the raft of safety to be cut adrift; and luckily was it that he delayed no longer, for scarcely had they floated from her a distance of thirty yards, when the stern settled beneath the ocean's surface, and down she plunged, stern foremost, the last object visible being the bowsprit. 
               It was now broad daylight, and after rigging up a jurymast and hoisting a signal of distress, the Captain took up his position beside it, with the hope of espying a chance sail, which was their only prospect of salvation in that broad ocean. 
               Before proceeding farther in our narrative, we must introduce to the reader one or two more characters, of some importance to the true course of our story. 
               Among the three female survivors of the wreck, was one of extreme beauty. She was the captain's only offspring, and had attained the age of seventeen years. Amy Owen had accompanied her father on one previous voyage to India, and her father, rather than leave her to the care of friends in her native town,-her mother having died while she was in a state of infancy-chose to be her constant guardian; therefore he took her to sea with him. Amy had a lover, unknown to her father, and this was her only cause of objection at leaving, but what was her surprise and delight upon ascertaining, after the bark had weighed anchor and got fairly to sea, that the dear object of her devotion, Charles Thorburn, was her fellow passenger. This joyful surprise, however, was concealed from her father; for the youth took good care to make known his presence to her in the cabin, while the old gentleman walked the quarter-deck. Thorburn, at his own urgent request, had been commissioned by his uncle, a rich bachelor who had acquired a fortune in India, to take passage for Canton to look after quite a handsome investment he had made in a company speculation out there. During that night of peril, Thorburn had performed the duties of a seaman, and had received the commendations of the father of Amy, which was a rich reward in the mind of the youth. He had become so exhausted with a toil to which he was not inured, that he sank upon the raft immediately on reaching it; but Amy's minisistering hand soon revived him, without exciting her father's suspicions touching the mischief Cupid had been doing to his beloved child's heart. The youth soon fell into a profound slumber, while the fond girl, in a half-reclining posture, watched him while he slumbered. 
               Soon the joyful tidings were announced by Capt. Owen, to that exhausted company that a sail was in sight. For an hour had he strained his eyes upon that ocean, ere he dared announce that it was a sail. Gradually it enlarged, the hull became visible, and he then saw that the vessel was bearing directly towards them. Slowly, indeed, to that impatient mariner did it approach; and now, when he discovered that it was an armed brigantine and in those seas, he began to wonder to what nation it could belong. More than once did the awful thought flit across his brain that she might be a pirate, and his soul shuddered, and he inwardly prayed to heaven to avert the calamity of having a ruthless band of buccaneers sent in among them. His fears he dared not give audible expression to; but soon his fear was changed to joy, for, in lieu of the expected black flag, the ensign of Portugal was run up to the mast-head. 
               With the first wave of the flag from the truck the brigantine hove to, and the loud hail of an officer was heard by Capt. Owen, who made a quick response, and in a few words explained the cause of his peculiar situation. 
               The Thunderbolt's barge was readily manned by four stout oarsmen, with orders to take the sufferers from the raft, and bring them aboard. This command was promptly obeyed, and scarcely had a half hour elapsed when all the survivors of the hapless bark were assembled on the brigantine's deck. 
               On ascertaining that they were the countrymen and countrywomen of Captain Stark, Haidee went below and called him to the deck, first giving him the precaution not to expose, at the peril of their lives, the true character of the vessel aboard of which the strangers had found a refuge. 
                
               At the companion way he met Captain Owen. Both were thunderstruck. 
               "In God's name, Captain Stark, how came you here?" ejaculated Owen, seizing the hand of his old shipmate and friend. 
               "Let me first ask of you that question, my old friend!" said Stark. 
               "I was wrecked in the gale last night, and here is my daughter, and the survivors of my ship's company. Alas, the Adriatic, and a dozen or more souls are beneath the ocean wave! Tell me the fate of the Admiral." 
               "Another time," answered Stark. "Be content now that you have not fallen into worse hands." This remark was made in a low tone. 
               Heartfelt thanks were now poured out to the commander of the Thunderbolt who promised them every protection. 
               The brigantine now bore away for Virginia Gorda, and ere night-fall this isle was in full view from the brigantine. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
                
                  Description of Virginia Gorda.-How the Pirates became possessed of it.-The Capture of the British Gun-brigs.-The Prisoners. 
                
               THE island of Virginia Gorda, to which we have so frequently alluded, is one of a small group, known at the period of which we write to all navigators as the Virgin Isles. That of Virginia Gorda, the lesser of the group, was not known to be inhabited at that time, although it was supposed to be the haunt of some of the numerous bands of buccaneers, which infested the tropical seas, and whose power was so great that no force sufficiently formidable could be concentrated to cope against them. Less was known of Virginia Gorda than of either of the group. No expedition had ever been sent to explore the face of the island, its harbors, inlets, &c. To the mariner it ever presented an inhospitable prospect; the shores were bold and rocky, and coral reefs extended out in almost every direction, like so many huge arms, menacing with destruction all vessels that dared approach within a league's distance of the rugged shore. The navigator, especially whenever the sky presented forebodings of a storm, always took good care to give Virginia Gorda a wide berth. In truth, it was considered but a barren and rocky excrescence upon the ocean, and therefore unworthy of exploration. 
               Yet, in spite of outward appearances, there were those who had made it an undisturbed refuge for years; and to them it smiled like a paradise upon earth. And it is not strange that they thought so, for a lovelier isle the globe scarcely contains. It is nearly of an elliptic shape, and a high, natural wall of craggy rock completely surrounds it, with the exception of a narrow, irregular inlet extending to a small bay, where vessels can ride safely at anchor in the most violent tropical gale, and perfectly hidden from the view of all outside. From the high borders to the centre the ground gradually slopes the soil is very fertile, and every description of tropical fruits then grew here in their greatest perfection, without the aid of cultivation from man. There were beautiful orange groves, the blossoms of which made fragrant the whole island. Figs, grapes, lemons, bread-fruit and nuts, of the most delicious varieties, grew in great abundance. 
               It was on this island that Red Martin, (and Haidee,) the most powerful of all the buccaneer host, now held undivided sway. It was he who was the second successor of Kidd, who first stepped foot upon its shores, and discovered its great natural advantages as a place of rendezvous, and of refuge in times of danger. As its discovery, as a haven of safety, was purely accidental, we will here introduce the incident, as tradition has handed it down; for the authenticity of which, however, we have no written or printed record. 
               Soon after the British government had received positive evidence of Captain Kidd's abandoning the king's service, and declaring himself a Free Rover, the king sent two gun-brigs for the purpose of capturing him. After a three weeks' cruise, they discovered Kidd's vessel on the very day that he had plundered and scuttled a large English merchantman, on her homeward passage from Valparaiso. The gun-brigs immediately gave chase; but Kidd's vessel being their equal in speed, he kept them at long gun-shot distance, for upwards of two days. On the third day, however, the chase gained upon him, and he saw that his vessel must fall into their hands, unless he made a desperate effort to avert it. He therefore made a run for the dangerous shores of Virginia Gorda, of which he knew but little, concluding that if he chanced to escape from being dashed in pieces on the reefs, the gun-brigs would not dare to follow.-In he steered, apparently among the breakers,-it was a fearful hazard, but a chance wave carried him, most luckily, into a narrow channel running between two reefs. As he neared the bold, rocky cliff, he found that the channel rounded through a glen, not much wider than the vessel. Through this he steered, and at the distance of ten rods he found himself entirely concealed from the ocean, and in a little placid bay, capable, perhaps, of admitting three or four small vessels. Here was a secure harbor and good anchorage. 
               Kidd, followed by half a dozen men, leaped ashore and ascended a bold promontory which overlooked the sea, to observe the movements of his pursuers. Contrary to his expectations, the gun-brigs continued on in his dangerous wake, but were less fortunate. With exultation the buccaneer saw the foremost of the chase, carried by a heavy sea broadside upon the breakers, and dashed to pieces! Many of her crew were lost, and the remainder were picked up with exceeding difficulty by her company, who ventured not so near the islet except in their boats. Nearly the whole of a day and the succeeding night were spent in the arduous and hazardous duty of getting off the survivors and articles of value from the wreck. Morning came, and ere they could make sail and get away, out from the rocky battlements, as they appeared to his enemies, the Pirate craft made her appearance with every preparation to give battle to the enemy who had dared so long to pursue her. In the midst of a constant cannonading by both vessels, Kidd slowly followed the channel he had so luckily discovered, and made his way into the open sea in safety. The British vessel, being now overladen and encumbered with articles from the wreck, saw no hope of escaping; and to offer resistance was equally hopeless; yet it was their only alternative. They, therefore, cleared the deck as well as possible for action, determining to fight their bloody enemy to the last. The contest was a brief but bloody one. The pirates first succeeded in dismasting the brig, and then raked her deck in the most unmerciful manner. Soon Kidd ran alongside, and when he had gained a footing upon her deck, there were not twenty of the brig's crew, but what were either dead or wounded. These were quickly dispatched by the cutlasses of the pirates. Not one was left to tell his comrades' fate! 
               Kidd now found himself the possessor of two vessels; he caused the brig to be towed into the secret inlet, where she was forthwith re-rigged and put in tolerable sailing condition. The armament from the wrecked brig, together with spars, rigging, &c., were carried into the newly discovered haven; for Kidd had not only determined to make this place his favorite haunt, but he absolutely fortified the only entrance by a formidable battery formed of the wrecked brig's heavy guns. 
               His crew then set about exploring the island, and to their great delight, they found it fertile, and teeming with the richest luxuries of a foreign clime. They found numerous caverns, some of which were converted into habitable apartments, and afterwards were sumptuously furnished with spoils from cabins of plundered vessels. 
               But as our story belongs to a much more recent period, we will not pursue Kidd's career farther, having accomplished our object of showing how the secret haven of Virginia Gorda was discovered, and how well it was adapted to the purposes of these sea-marauders. 
                
               At the period Red Martin with the Thunderbolt ran into the inlet of Virginia Gorda, there were but some half dozen pirates, besides his half score of slaves, upon the island. The former having become superannuated and unfit for sea, were left in charge of the immense property there accumulated. There was no fear nor even possibility of any one's escaping from the island, for the chief took the precaution, whenever he absented himself, not to leave a single boat behind. 
               Immediately on their arrival, Capt. Stark, Mrs. Bertine and the infant Oceana, together with the survivors of the Adriatic, were removed from the Thunderbolt to one of the pirates' caves. The one allotted to them adjoined that of the chief, and had several apartments which were fitted up in a tasteful, and even luxurious manner. A guard was placed over them, but they were permitted to walk forth, but obliged to confine their rambles to certain prescribed limits. 
               Blackbeard and Scarlet Jack, with the permission of Haidee, were removed from the brigantine to the pirates' prison, formed of a nook in the rock, just within the inlet. This prison was constantly guarded by one or more trusty sentinels; the inmates were loaded with chains; an iron-grated door closed the entrance and escape seemed impossible. 
               Having thus explained the situation of affairs upon the island, at this particular juncture, we must now look after the missing vessels of the buccaneer fleet, in order to render unbroken the chain of our narrative. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
                
                  The Missing Schooners.-Treason Triumphant.-Death of Davila and Ximenes.-Expedition for freeing the Traitorous Prisoners of Red Martin.-The Dungeon, the Sentinel, and Deceit of Daredevil.-Mungo's Counterplot.-Red Martin's Enemies in a Predicament. 
                
               NOTWITHSTANDING the predictions and the hopes of Red Martin, the Raven and the Shark rode out the gale, with but small damage to sails, spars and rigging, and as soon as they could make repairs, and ascertain their latitude and longitude, they stood for Virginia Gorda. Early in the morning they discovered that they had parted company with the Thunderbolt, and fears were entertained by the young commanders, Antoine Davila and Pedro Ximenes, that she had foundered during that night of terrors. Davila, desiring a consultation with Ximenes, signalized to that officer to come aboard the Raven. He complied with the request, and the two entered the cabin. No sooner had they done so, than the boatswain of the Raven gathered together, in the forecastle, the whole crew of pirates, with the exception of three or four men who comprised the morning watch on deck, and briefly addressed them in subdued tones. In substance the boatswain, who gloried in the significant sobriquet of Daredevil, spoke as follows;- 
               "Comrades-you have all had evidence that Red Martin, who has long been our chief, is no true corsair. He has, contrary to our wishes, superseded our noble Blackbeard and Scarlet Jack, by two contemptible striplings, who are his servile creatures. Now, the golden opportunity occurs that will enable us to glut our vengeance, take possession of the Raven and Shark, and sail to rescue our leaders, who are the close prisoners of Red Martin and that detestable beldame, Haidee. Do this, and a glorious reward awaits us. You that have the courage and the hearts to follow me, lay your hands upon this trusty cutlass!" Saying this, the boatswain drew his weapon, and not a man was there who did not promptly acquiesce in the boatswain's wishes. 
               "One by one call down the deck-watch!" he continued. 
                
               The men came and readily gave in their adhesion to the diabolical design, which had been suddenly conceived in the boatswain's brain. 
               "Comrades," he said, "we have not a moment's time to lose. Draw your cutlasses and follow one who swears to die, or throw off the shackles of the tyrant. Let us beard his creatures in their den. Show no quarter-they must die! Follow-one blow and the victory is ours!" 
               The boatswain and his men came upon the deck, and at a given signal, they ran aft, and rushed into the cabin, ere Davila and Ximenes were made aware of their perilous situation. They started to their feet, amazed at the menacing manner of their men. They seized their sabre hilts, but ere they could draw them from their scabbards, each officer received a blow which felled him bleeding to the cabin floor. They were then seized, dragged to the deck, and after mutilating their bodies in a barbarous manner, cast them into the sea. 
               A boat was forthwith manned by half a dozen or more resolute men, headed by Daredevil, the boatswain, and put off for the Shark. The returning of the boat excited no suspicions in the second officer of the Raven, but when it came alongside, and he saw that it contained only the men of the Raven, he readily divined the whole truth. Although a faithful adherent to Red Martin, yet he well knew that the major part of his crew were his bitter enemies, and were ripe for mutiny whenever a favorable opportunity should occur. He therefore saw that resistance was inevitable destruction to himself and all who would dare to stand by him, and that he could better serve his chief by yielding up his command on the first intimation of the mutineers' errand, and to pretend to sanction the justice of the cause. 
               Daredevil boldly came upon the deck followed by his men, and announced the death of Antoine Davila and Pedro Ximenes, and that both vessels were now in the possession of their rightful owners! 
               A loud shout of exultation followed this announcement, in which the officer of the deck seemed to join, as he, as a matter of form gave up his sword to the leader of the mutineers. Daredevil hereupon addressed the assembled crew, and suggested that their first business should be to select a proper man for their temporary commander. With one accord, Henry Lafitte, a Creole of New Orleans, was named and confirmed with shouts of approbation. He was a young man for such a post, being not more than twenty-one years of age; but what he lacked in years he made up in activity, shrewdness, courage and energy. He accepted the post and entered at once upon the discharge of its responsible duties. 
                
               The next matter, said Daredevil, which should animate all their hearts, was the delivery out of the hands of their tyrant chief, their favorite commanders, Blackbeard and Scarlet Jack. 
               This suggestion met with a hearty response, and they all swore victory and vengeance! or death and destruction! 
               Daredevil, with his followers, now returned to their own vessel. The same suggestions being made to the Raven's men, the boatswain was selected by acclamation to succeed the unfortunate Davila. 
               Both of the newly appointed officers selected their subordinates-all true men, of their inclining. Thus officered, the two vessels spread all their canvas, and continued on the course towards their favorite haunt. 
               On the night of the fourth day subsequent to the subversion of Red Martin's power, aboard the Shark and the Raven, the vessels hove-to off Virginia Gorda. The night was a misty one, which enabled them to approach within a half mile of the inlet, without any possibility of being observed from any part of the isle. An expedition had been planned by Daredevil to run up the inlet in a small boat, for the purposes of reconnoitering, and ascertaining, if possible, if the Thunderbolt had reached her haven, and also to learn the fate of Blackbeard and Scarlet Jack. The boat was manned, and with Daredevil as leader, they rowed cautiously up the narrow channel with muffled oars. Noiselessly did they glide along until they reached the inlet, when they were discovered by the sentinel who guarded the door of the rocky dungeon. 
               "Quien vive!" demanded the sentinel who was an old Castilian. 
               No answer was made. He leveled his carbine, and demanded in the English tongue, "Who goes?" 
               "Friends!" 
               "The word?" 
               "Death to Traitors!" 
               "Pass." 
               "Did not old Perez know a true pirate's voice from that of an interloper?" asked the boatswain, as the boat drew near the spot were the sentinel stood. 
               "Ah! by San Iago! Well do I know the voice of Senor Bosey Daredevil! There's not one like it in the fleet. But, by what good fortune were you fished from the vasty deep?" 
               "I've been on the sea, not under it, good Perez." 
               "Is all safe, then?" 
               "Ay, safe as the secret of a dead man." 
               "But it is thought by our chief that both of the schooners were engulphed during the tornado." 
               "Ah, then we shall disappoint our noble chief with happy intelligence," said Daredevil, knowing the sentinel's faithfulness to Red Martin. "For know you, good Perez, that both of the vessels are just outside the reefs; but it is so thick to night, we dared not try the channel." 
               "Red Martin will approve of your cautiousness." 
               "When did he arrive?" 
               "Two nights since. Pity it is you did not arrive a few hours sooner. We've had a grand carousal to-night; and 'tis less than an hour since the chief himself retired." 
               "Then I'll not disturb him with the news of our arrival tonight," said Daredevil; "but tell me, good Perez, what disposition has been made of those two traitor captains?" 
               "Safe-safe, Senor Bosey! ha, ha!" chuckled the Spaniard, as he significantly thrust his thumb over his left shoulder, indicating that they were within the prison, over which he supposed he was performing his duty as a faithful sentinel. 
               "I fully comprehend!" said Daredevil. "So good night, honest sentinel; but not yet, good Perez," he continued, as if a sudden thought had just entered his brain; "I had like to have forgotten the most important part of my errand ashore tonight. Perhaps, my old friend, you can accommodate us from your guard-house stores, with a few bottles of choice brandy. Every cask aboard has been stove, and every bottle is dry as a flour-barrel. We have had a dry as well as a rough time of it, good Perez." 
               "Wait till Gaspardo comes to relieve me, and upon my faith in the immaculate Virgin, you shall be supplied." 
               "How near to the time is it?" 
               "Not above thirty minutes." 
               "We cannot, good Perez, tarry so long." 
               "You know the penalty of leaving a post without a substitute?" 
               "Ah! that I do! and I commend you for your caution; but, I will be your substitute," said Daredevil, leaping ashore. "Give me your carbine!" 
               "But--" 
               "Oh, never you fear, my good, generous Perez. You hasten and bring hither the liquor that we are thirsting for, and I'll manage to prevent these rascally, mutinous captains from slipping through my fingers! Oh no! I'm too old a cat for that." 
               "It's contrary to orders," replied the sentinel; "but as I know Senor Daredevil, you've had a severe time of it, and the chief accounts you as one of his most faithful subjects, you shall have the good aqua ardiente, for we've abundance in store since the Thunderbolt's arrival, and 'tis but just that you should have a share of it." 
                
               "Ah! that's a good soul, Perez," said Daredevil, as he received the duped sentinel's carbine. "Now, hasten your steps." 
               But Daredevil well knew that Perez's old limbs would carry him but slowly up the steep ascent, or this last caution would not have been given. With all his exertions it took the veteran buccaneer some five minutes to reach the summit of the bluff, and then he had some seventy rods farther to go to reach a small cave, which served the band as a guard-house. 
               No sooner was the old man out of hearing, than Daredevil's men leaped ashore, and forced open the barred gates of the dungeon with their oars and weapons. This being accomplished, they hurried through a narrow, rocky passage, and having forced open the principal cell door, they stood in the presence of the objects of their search, revealed to them by a dim light which was suspended from the rocky roof of this dismal dungeon. 
               Joy beamed from the eyes of the prisoners, as they beheld their ally and friend, the fearless Daredevil, backed by a half dozen bold buccaneers, who had dared to espouse their cause, even at the hazard of an ignominious death. 
               "Ah! Daredevil! by all the lucky saints in the calendar!" exclaimed Blackbeard. 
               "How, in the name of fortune, did you deceive that vigilant sentinel, old Perez?" was the ejaculation of Scarlet Jack. 
               "Ask no questions-we have no time for answers," hurriedly replied the boatswain.-"Suffice it that we are here to remove this tyrant's chains which bind your sturdy limbs, and give you liberty." 
               This was easily done, for it had been a part of the boatswain's duty to enchain and liberate prisoners aboard ship, and he carried the requisite implements in his pocket. 
               "Now follow me," said the boatswain, upon the rising of the traitors once more to their feet; "tread cautiously, utter not a sound, and you shall once more breathe the fragrant air of our isle, which we may soon have undisturbed possession of." 
               They groped their way along cautiously towards the cavern's mouth; but ere we describe with what success, we must bring other actors before the reader, who played a part in the animated scene that ensued. 
                
               Again we are pleased to refer to our sooty friend, Mungo, who still maintained his situation aboard of the Raven, and was unsuspected of being any other than an allegiant to the conspirators. 
               When Daredevil set forth on the hazardous enterprise of liberating his masters, Mungo silently crept out of the forward port-hole of the schooner, and by means of a piece of loose rigging, silently slid into the water;-then sinking beneath the surface, he swam some twenty yards in the direction the boat had taken, without showing his head above the sea. By this means he gained a sufficient distance from the schooner to prevent any one aboard from observing him; and he also kept far enough astern of the boat to escape the observation of any one of the expedition.-Every yard of the narrow channel Mungo knew well; and his supple limbs and expertness in swimming, enabled him to reach the mouth of the inlet about the same time that Daredevil was challenged by the veteran guard; and here the first conversation between the latter and the boatswain fell distinctly upon his ear. Learning the full intent of their errand, he crept with stealth-like but nimble pace up the rocky height, and then with all possible speed, ran to intercept old Perez on his way to the guard-house. He ran up cautiously behind him, and tapping him on the back, he said in low but eager tones,- 
               "Back, back, for your life, Massa Perez! You've been deceibe by dat Daredebil!" 
               "Holy virgin, protect me!" uttered the old man, frightened almost out of his senses, and falling, as if he had been seized by an ague fit, upon his knees. 
               "You dam scarecrow!" exclaimed the negro; "let Mungo make you 'fraid! Get up,-your pris'ners will escape-gib me de dungeon keys, and run after me fass you can-make no noise, or de debil Bosey will hab bof our heads!" 
               The old sentinel began to recover from his affright, and knowing the faithfulness of Mungo, he began to be sensible of the error he had committed in leaving his post. 
               The negro snatched the bunch of keys from Perez's belt, and hastened towards the dungeon, followed by the sentinel with a speed he had not attained in ten years before. On reaching the edge of the bluff, Mungo looked down the steep, and to his great joy he saw that every one of Daredevil's men had entered the cavern! With an inward chuckle, he commenced descending with as little noise as possible. On his hands and knees he crept to the cavern's entrance, and finding no one guarding it, he cautiously closed the door, which swung outwardly. Unluckily, he discovered that the huge padlock was broken, but his quick ingenuity suggested to him a way to secure the door. He folded the hasp over the padlock staple; then, taking the heavy iron key, he thrust it into the loop, thus rendering the fastening quite as strong as before. Then, seizing one of the oars which lay at the cavern's mouth, he braced it as firmly as possible against the door. 
                
               By this time the old sentinel had reached his post, and resumed his duty as if nothing had happened, using his sabre for a weapon, instead of his old carbine he had so unwittingly put into the possession of Daredevil. 
               "Massa Perez! we hab got um all safe-ha, ha, ha, he, he, yah!" laughed Mungo. "Dat's what dis darkey calls one dam good joke-he, he, he! Dey tink Mungo dam fool like demselbes! But, Massa Perez, no you tell dem dam caged willains dat Mungo hab ben here-make dem tink you cotched dem yousef, wid not nobody's 'sistance! Dey tink you berry cunnin'-ha, ha, he, he, he, he!" 
               Uttering this caution, and giving a hearty chuckle, he jumped into Daredevil's boat, and sculled it up into the basin, and ran alongside the Thunderbolt. Being challenged by the officer of the deck, he answered Mungo, which was sufficient; for every man upon the island, when on guard duty, had instructions to let the the chief's faithful slave to pass ad libitum. Learning from the challenger that Red Martin was not aboard, he leaped ashore, and with his usual fleetness he directed his steps towards his master's head-quarters, and was soon ushered into his presence. 
               The result of this visit, and what befel the conspirators will be given in the chapter to follow. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
                
                  Mungo and his Master.-Desperate effort of the Prisoners to escape from the Dungeon.-A torturing mode of Defence. Escape from the Cave and the awful Consequences. 
                
               WITH a light step Mungo approached the couch on which the buccaneer chief was enjoying a profound repose, and tapped him softly upon the shoulder.-This was sufficient to arouse one who for so many years had been accustomed to awake on the slightest intimation. On the instant Red Martin leaped from his luxurious couch to the floor. In the complacent countenance of his faithful slave he saw nothing that indicated impending danger, though he was somewhat startled at beholding him, inasmuch as he supposed the Raven to be lost, and with her every soul on board. 
               "Ah! Mungo! I'm glad to see you!" ejaculated the chief; "I feared the Raven had foundered during the tornado." 
               "No, Massa," said the slave, his eyes glistening with some pleasing intelligence; "but I'se cotched um, Massa, I has!" 
               "Who? what?" 
               "Dem villains, massa." 
               "What villains, Mungo?" 
               "Well, massa, I muss fuss tell you some bery bad news," said the negro, a sad expression stealing upon his features; "poor Capen Dabila and Capen Ximenes--" 
               "Well; what of them?-let's have your news at once!" 
               "Dey be bof murdered by dem debil conspiriters, and dey hab now de possession ob bof de schooners!" 
               "Hell and furies!" exclaimed Red Martin, almost choking with rage; "they shall be fearfully avenged!" 
               "Ees, massa; and dey be already cotched for you!" 
               "What! are the schooners retaken?" asked the chief, eagerly. 
               "No-not zacly, massa-but de leaders am-you see, massa, dat Bosey Daredebil wid some oders come ashore dis night in de boat-I know'd dey comin' for mischief-so I swim arter de boat, and when dey stop at de dungeon, I hear dar plan to set ole Blackdebil and his bruder, Scarletdebil, free. Dey come de wool ober ole Perez eyes, and he leabe his poss to get dem some liquor-I run arter him, and tellee him to follow arter me-he bery much 'fraid, but he come-when dis chile creep to de dungeon, he fine de door broke open, and dey all had gone in to bring de big debils-so I juss shut de door, fasten it on de outside, jump in dar boat, and run away to tellee massa all about um!" 
               "Mungo, you shall be well rewarded for your ingenuity and your faithfulness; but where is the sentinel now?" 
               "He be dar, massa." 
               "Any body with him?" 
               "No, massa." 
               "Then there is some danger of their escaping; so many inside might break the door down, in spite of all the sentinel could do." 
               "Zacly, massa-Mungo didn't tink ob dat," said the negro, scratching his thick, woolly pate. 
               Uttering these words, Mungo darted out of the entrance, while Red Martin attired himself quickly, and went forth to summon the crew of the Thunderbolt, whose rendezvous when ashore was in a spacious cavern but a few yards distant. 
               But let us follow the negro. With his usual nimbleness he retraced his steps towards the prison. Instead of availing himself of Daredevil's boat, he plunged into the basin and swam to the opposite side. On reaching his destination, he found old Perez closely contesting with the whole of the opposing force, who stood just within the iron-grated door of the dungeon, while he stood without. They had no power of doing him harm while the door stood between them; but he, with sabre drawn, fought valiantly-now thrusting the blade between the interstices of the grate, and now severing a finger or a hand of him who unluckily exposed either to the stroke of the sabre. Those within were making superhuman efforts to make their egress; but now a second person, whom they were unable to distinguish, had come to the assistance of the sentinel, rendering their success still more hopeless. The same novel warfare that old Perez was making Mungo adopted, and with equal effect. The prisoners were enraged to an inconceivable desperation by the torturing wounds which they received. They cursed and swore like so many madmen confined in Bedlam. At length they rested for a new and an undivided effort to burst the barrier between them and freedom. Simultaneously they rushed with all their force against the door, and succeeded in forcing it far enough ajar to insert the barrel of the carbine which Daredevil had taken from Perez. This renewed their hopes of escape, and gave them additional strength. One effort more, using the carbine as a lever, and they burst the door from its hinges, which snapped like the crack of a pistol when they sundered. 
                
               Before this was done, however, Mungo saw that the wretches would succeed, and having a good share of discretion as well as valor, he again plunged into the water and was half across the basin before the prisoners again stood in open air. 
               Daredevil, knowing that Red Martin and his followers would soon be apprised of their presence, darted for the place where they had left the boat, with the intention of reaching the schooner; but great was their consternation when they ascertained that it had been taken away, as they supposed, by Perez, whom they would have quartered alive, had he not shown sufficient sagacity to be timely among the missing. 
               In this dilemma. Daredevil's party, including the two freed captains, had no alternative but to creep cautiously up to the basin, and if possible seize one of the Thunderbolt's boats, and make off in her to the schooner. With great caution they proceeded up the inlet, and having all passed through the narrow passage, and espying a boat on the opposite shore, it was agreed that two of their number should swim across and bring it away. Two of the pirates volunteered upon this hazardous enterprise, and in a few minutes without molestation carried over the boat. With chuckles of exultation at their success thus far, they leaped into it, and rowed out of the basin into the outlet; but here, like so many mice in a cage, they were trapped! 
               During the time they had carried into execution their only scheme of escape, a party of Red Martin's men, well armed, had crept noiselessly down the opposite bluff, stretched a chain tautly across the narrow channel about two inches above the water's surface, and there awaited on each side the coming of the daring conspirators. The boat came on swiftly-it struck the chain and rebounded; and at the next moment, to their horror, a volley of musketry was poured in among them, producing frightful havoc! With an unearthly shriek, Scarlet Jack leaped into the air, and fell into the water a corpse, a bullet having pierced his heart! Three other men were also shot dead, and tumbled one upon another in the boat! Daredevil finding himself unscathed, took the precaution to dive beneath the surface, and swam past the chief's men without raising his head above the water, and in this manner escaped unperceived. Blackbeard, also, escaped the leaden shower. He immediately leaped ashore and dashed up the steep, and out of the reach of their shots before they could reload their carbines, but by no means out of danger. The remainder of the expedition who escaped death were taken and thrust into the dungeon, to await a certain death on the morrow! Blackbeard found a refuge for the remainder of the night, in the crevice of a rocky bluff which overlooked the sea. 
               Daredevil succeeded in reaching the Raven, but he was too much exhausted to relate to his companions the fate of that disastrous expedition. 
               Singular as it may appear, the first man who came to the gangway to assist Daredevil aboard of the schooner and into the cabin was Red Martin's slave, Mungo! How he came there we leave to the imagination of the reader. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
                
                  Blackbeard is scented out.-The exciting Chase.-Life and Death at Issue.-Exertion of the Hunters.-A desperate Man.-The Fearful Leap.-The Explosion.-The Pet of the Islet. 
                
               MORNING came, and Red Martin's men might have been seen in every direction, scouring the island for their most ferocious and formidable enemy, Blackbeard. The large masses of vapor which yet hung over the island, prevented the hunters from seeing at a great distance. By and by a breeze from the north sprang up, the sun arose, and the misty curtain began to lift itself from the earth, and breaking into a hundred fantastic forms, rolled one over another like billows of smoke-then scudded off in the dim distance like a troop of evil spirits, leaving that lovely isle as bright and beautiful as a houri's paradise. The sea too became clear, and objects were distinguishable to the naked eye at a vast distance; the waves glittered with the golden rays of the King of Day, as the white mist which intervened rolled away. 
               The two buccaneer schooners still lay moored in the offing. As soon as the atmosphere became clear, Blackbeard came cautiously forth from the secret crevice, and endeavored by signals to attract the attention of some one of the crew of the Raven or Shark, but all in vain. There were but two men on each deck, and they seemed rather to watch the inlet than the craggy place where he stood. He then ventured to ascend a high rock nearly above his head, one of the most commanding points upon that side of the island. Here he obtained a long staff, and taking off his jacket and appending it to the staff, he waved it above his head; but, unluckily for him, it caught the eyes of several of his pursuers ere it did either of those whose attention he wished to attract. 
               "Huzza, boys! huzza!" shouted Gustave, a proteg of Red Martin, espying Blackbeard upon the high rock. "There's our game! onward!" 
               These shouts reached the quick ear of Blackbeard. He turned, and saw his hunters approaching! His only hope to clude those by whom he was pursued, he thought, was to clamber down the steep and to plunge into the ocean; but, again turning, he paused-it would be certain destruction to any human being, who dared to venture on so perilous a descent. He stood-undecided which way to flee. The hunters were close upon him, ascending the rugged steep. Now was the moment for desperate action if ever! With staff in hand he rushed directly towards his enemies-broke through them, and gained the plain below ere they recovered their surprise at this bold movement. 
               But there were others on the alert, and the whole pack was immediately in full cry.-Swift were the limbs of the fleeing pirate, and he was aware that life or death depended upon his use of them. Could he reach the opposite shore of the island, he could enter a cave, which he had discovered years before, and which was unknown to any human being save himself. Away through orange groves, over plains and hillocks, through tangled vines and grassy fields fled the desperate traitor, hotly pursued. It was a chase of life and death-a sport and a duty where the destined prey wore the form of a human being. No cunning fox, no timid doe, no regal stag, was the object of the fierce pursuit. It was a man-one who was in the full vigor of his strength, and one endowed with more than ordinary human capacities-a man who felt that it required almost super-human exertion to save himself from being captured by a foe he had determined to annihilate, and to avoid a death of ignominy and torture! 
               The pursuers, however, gained upon the traitor, and getting his feet tangled, he fell headlong to the earth! 
               The hunters raised a shout of exultation at this accident, for they felt that he was now in their grasp. 
               "Quick, comrades, quick!" shouted the foremost of the pursuers. "We have him now! The wolf is caught!" 
               But the exulting cry came too soon. The pursued pirate was again upon his feet, and once more sped fleetly onward through bush and brake, and tangled thicket. For a few moments the hunters lost sight of their determined prey, but they again caught sight of him as he emerged from the thick grove. He reached a moss-grown rock, and stood for a moment in bold defiance! Again he darted onward, uttering a derisive shout, while the wild whoop of his adversaries sounded in his ears. Before him was a thick forest, which if he could reach, he might baffle his pursuers. He put forth his utmost energies-he tasked his muscles and strained his muscles to their utmost, and succeeded. In a few moments he was again out of sight of his resolute hunters, but they flagged not in the hot pursuit. Into the dark forest of palms dashed the infuriated spirits-one ward with fiercely-flashing eyes and rapid bounds. Before them they heard the crackling of dry sticks beneath the outlaw's heavy tread. Each moment the foremost of the pursuers imagined they descried his dark figure flitting in a devious course through the shady grove. "On, on!" they cried-"on to the death!" 
               But Blackbeard had, for the time being, eluded them; he halted and crouched beneath the wide spread leaves of an aloe. The hunters flew past him with a courier's speed. All was now still-they knew not the direction of the wily fugitive, nor the way they were themselves speeding, and they came to a sudden halt. 
               "Back-back!" cried one of the pursuers. "The ravenous wolf has concealed himself in our rear! Be cautious, comrades, and vigilant, and we'll start him from his covert!" 
               "Which way?" hallooed Gustave. 
               "This-this!" replied the first speaker, pointing back. 
               Slowly, silently, and with keen eyes penetrating every thick and shady spot, the pursuers retraced their steps. They had not proceeded but a few rods, when they saw their game suddenly emerge from beneath the huge aloe, where he had concealed himself, and dart again through the thicket. 
               Once more did the island resound with the whoop and yells of the hunters. He finally emerged from the wood near the spot where he had been driven into it! but now he took a course more to the southward in the direction of the inlet, hoping thereby to reach the channel, where, perchance, a boat from one of the schooners might be a waiting his approach. He gained the summit of a small eminence; yet farther was another ascent on the very verge of the cliff, but between the two there was a rocky chasm difficult to pass, unless at a moderate speed. Blackbeard on reaching the bottom of the chasm, saw his pursuers close at his heels; he clambered up the opposite side, and stooping down, he disengaged a huge stone from the loose earth, and sent it rolling down the steep, and ere it paused in its rapid descent, it struck the foremost of the party, and sent his body to the foot of the chasm a mangled corpse. A loud and hellish laugh of triumph was uttered by Blackbeard, as he saw the effect of the huge missile. The hunters paused but a moment to gaze upon their slain comrade, but fiercer than ever kept up the chase. The fugitive gained the high cliff above the mouth of the channel, and lustily hailed the men aboard the schooner. 
               "Quick!-quick!-we have the hell-hound now!" cried Red Martin. "There is no way of his escaping!" 
               Blackbeard advanced to the very verge of the cliff, and for a moment seemed to pause at the dreadful alternative. Almost certain death was before him, and a sure death in his rear! 
                
               "Fire upon him!" cried Gustave. "He intends to leap into the channel!" 
               In the next moment a bullet from a carbine whizzed through the air and pierced through his cap. He snatched it from his head, and flung it in a manner of defiance towards his pursuers, who were now within six rods of him, eager to seize their prey! But they were doomed to disappointment. 
               Blackbeard stepped back a few paces-threw his arms forward-and rushing again to the verge, gave a final spring, and took the fearful leap! In his fall he cleared the jutting crags, and feet forward descended into the channel! The water being deep, some moments elapsed ere he arose to the surface.-He was so benumbed by the desperate leap, after the fatiguing and exciting chase, that, when he arose, he had scarcely life enough to move his jaded limbs! 
               "We'll have him yet!" cried Gustave. "He is too much exhausted to swim." 
               But as he spoke, a light skiff, propelled by two lusty rowers from the Shark, came darting up the narrow channel, aided by the swiftly-flowing tide. 
               "Fire upon him!" shouted Red Martin from the cliff. 
               In a moment more three or four carbines were simultaneously discharged; but the order reaching the ears of the struggling Blackbeard, he sank quickly beneath the surface, and came up several yards from the spot where the bullets struck. 
               Presently the skiff came alongside, and ere the carbineers could reload their pieces, the rowers had dropped their oars, lifted the daring, half-drowned fugitive over the gunnels, and turned the prow of the light bark seaward. Away, like a bird, down the swelling channel, scarcely seeming to touch the water, it flew; now dancing over ripple and crest of wave; away through the splashing spray, and the hissing, seething sea, fled the boat of the bold mutineers. 
               Thus did Blackbeard finally escape from the clutches of the pirate chief, after braving death in so many forms. 
               The hunters looked upon each other with astonishment, when they saw how miraculously their intended victim had escaped their grasp. 
               Blackbeard immediately gave orders for both vessels to get underweigh and put to sea. The crews of each had been so terribly decimated, he dared not attempt to make an attack upon the island, and wreak his vengeance upon his mortal enemy; but he determined to escape with the schooners, and cruise among the West India Islands, make captures, and if possible, increase his armament, and obtain a full complement of men of the right stamp. Then would he return to cope successfully fully with his rival, and place the beautiful island under his tyrannical dominion. 
               Some time elapsed in weighing the anchors, making sail, and other preparations; and before they were ready to direct their prows seaward, the Thunderbolt, fully manned and equipped, was seen coming forth from the inlet. It was Red Martin's object, knowing the present force of the two schooners, to give them immediate battle. It being yet flood tide, the brigantine had to stem the setting in of a swift current, giving time for Blackbeard with the Raven to get beyond the reach of the Thunderbolt's gun. Not so fortunate was the Shark, though she had every inch of her canvas spread, and followed in the wake of the Raven, by the time the brigantine got fairly out of the channel. The chase now commenced in good earnest. A fresh breeze was blowing, and the three vessels in a line skimmed over the seas like so many white birds. Red Martin finding that he gained but slowly on the Shark, ordered a long eighteen-pounder to be manned and shotted, and, if possible, to cripple the fleeing vessel. Shot after shot was fired with but little effect. At length hot shot was resorted to. With unerring aim several pierced her hull; and flames and smoke were seen soon afterwards issuing from her hull. The crew made an effort to quench the fire, but all in vain! They lowered the boats, intending thereby to escape, or subject themselves to any death but that of being destroyed by fire! Quickly did they leap from the deck into their last means of safety; but before they could shove off from her side, a tremendous explosion occurred, which startled even the ears of those who had caused it! The fire had reached the powder magazine, and instantly the vessel and crew were blown to atoms! Every soul on board was sent into eternity in one dreadful moment! The sea far around was strewn with fragments of the vessel! The shattered hulk soon settled into the water and was seen no more by mortal ken! 
               From the quarter-deck of the Raven, unmoved and stern, stood that dark and relentless man, Blackbeard, viewing the destruction of half his power, without the thought entering his mind of running the slightest risk of his own life to save those who acknowledged his power! He trembled not, his lips were firmly set, and the expression of his countenance exhibited the utmost coolness when the terrific explosion occurred! 
               "Yah! yah! yah!" laughed a voice behind him, as soon as the roar of the shock was heard, and turning, Blackbeard beheld Mungo, with grinning expression, looking upon the scene. 
               "Why do you laugh, you lump of lampblack?" demanded the pirate. 
                
               "I was tinkin, massa, how I should lub to see de Tunderbolt sarbed de same sass!" replied the negro. 
               The truth was, Mungo had given vent to his joy on witnessing the destruction of the Shark by the hand of his acknowledged master, and thereby had very nearly betrayed his true feelings to his greatest enemy. His ready reply only saved him. 
               Blackbeard was now too far out of reach for Red Martin to overhaul him. The latter considering the case hopeless, gave up the chase and returned to Virginia Gorda, well satisfied with destroying half his enemy's force. 
               Through the influence of Haidee, Red Martin resolved on abandoning, for a time at least, the profession of buccaneering. With a portion of the Thunderbolt's armament he resolved to so increase his fortifications that no power could sail up the narrow channel with impunity. This accomplished, he would then turn his attention to the cultivation of the island, and if possible, render Virginia Gorda a substitute for that other island paradise which he had so often pictured to the mind of Haidee, and which, according to a superstitious notion of hers, it was destined he should never become the possessor of. 
               For a few years, a frolicsome life did the buccaneers lead. Red Martin was the King, and Haidee, the Queen of Virginia Gorda; and with so light a hand did they rule their subjects, that the most hardy of the buccaneers became reconciled to his most arbitrary law, viz.: that no person, under any circumstances, should be allowed to leave the island; and the penalty for making such attempt was a summary death. 
               Captains Owen and Stark, Mrs. Bertine and daughter, besides three or four other Americans, were yet held as prisoners, though in reality they had quite as much liberty as Red Martin's subjects, and in all things regarding their comfort, they were even better cared for. 
               Haidee's chief delight was to be in the society of Mrs. Bertine, who, though she sighed often for friends, home, and her lost husband, bore up against what seemed to be her destined fate, and was comparatively happy. Oceana, her little darling, who never wandered from her mother's side, grew in strength and beauty. She was the cherished pet of every human being upon the island, and all seemed to esteem it as a privilege to be near her, and hear her innocent prattle, and see her childish pranks. No ribald jest, no profane expression, would be uttered when the little Oceana was near. She seemed to exercise over those hard-hearted men almost an angelic, a divine influence; her very sweetness and innocence would cause the most callous heart to become softened and subdued in her presence. Diligently did the fond parent strive to educate her child with the slender means within her reach, and instill into her rapidly expanding mind those truths which tend towards human perfectibility. With joy she watched the continued success of her efforts; with joy she beheld in her the semblance of its father. In that lovely, budding offspring was a heaven of happiness! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
                
                  A lapse of Ten Years.-The Avenger and the Triton.-The Prisoners.-The Death-plank.-Firmness of Bertine.-The dread Alternative.-A new Proposition.-The Prisoners become Pirates.-A grand Carousal.-The cunning Mungo.-Escape of Bertine. 
                
               TEN long years had elapsed since the occurrence of the wonderful flight and escape of the relentless Blackbeard, before he felt that his force was sufficiently powerful to carry into execution his long meditated enterprise; that of making an attack upon Virginia Gorda, and seeking that revenge for which his soul thirsted. During this period he had cruised on the coast of South America, in the Carribean sea, and in the Gulf of Mexico, plundering and destroying every vessel that chanced to fall in his way, and murdering their crews, not allowing a soul to escape to tell the tale of his merciless barbarities. 
               His power now consisted of two large clipper-built schooners, called the "Avenger," and the "Triton." Their armament was heavy, and their equipments complete; and each was manned by sixty as bold buccaneers as ever scuttled a ship. Blackbeard commanded the Avenger, and Daredevil, his worthy compeer, the Triton. The negro, Mungo, still held his post under the former, without being suspected of having, in any manner, or at any time, betrayed him. 
               It will be recollected by those who have thus far followed us in the course of our narrative, that there were four prisoners taken by the pirates from the Admiral, and transferred to the Raven; one of whom was Henri Bertine, who, at the time of his capture, was attired in an ordinary sailor's garb; hence the reason of his not having been taken aboard of the Thunderbolt, with Captain Stark, and those with whom he was more dearly connected. Thus was the fond husband separated from his wife; the latter believing him to have perished, and he supposing her to have been murdered by the pirates. 
               On the day subsequent to Blackbeard's escape in the Raven from the Thunderbolt, he summoned the four prisoners who had been confined in chains since the capture, to the deck under a strong guard. The death-plank had been rigged out on the weather side of the schooner, and it needed no voice to explain to the condemned men for what purpose. There was one among them, whose pale and emaciated features told a tale of misery and woe. He started not back on beholding the awful preparations, as did his comrades, for death had no terrors for him! Death was welcome in any form!-he would embrace it without a single pang. This was the brave, the noble Henri Bertine, the husband of Isabella, the father of Oceana. 
               "Behold the death-plank!" said Blackbeard, addressing Bertine, as he saw no symptoms of fear in the countenance of the young man. 
               Bertine gazed steadily, but made no reply. 
               "It is hard that you should thus be cut off in the early years of manhood," continued the wretch. 
               "What have I to live for?" at length essayed the condemned 
               "For a long life and a merry one, among the independent rovers of the ocean!" 
               "What!-turn pirate?" ejaculated Henri, indignantly. 
               "That is your only alternative!" 
               "I spurn your proposition as heartily as I do you!" 
               "Be not rash, young man, standing as you are on the very brink of eternity! I would save you and your three comrades. I have marked your indomitable courage, and I like you for it. You shall have rank under me. Your comrades, too, shall fare well." 
               "Tempt me not, ruthless man!" replied Bertine. "Never will I consent, except in defense, to shed one drop of human gore!" 
               "I will not ask you to do even that," said Blackbeard. "You shall have posts that will not bring you in contact with our enemies." 
               "By Saint Dinnis!" said one of the prisoners, an Irishman, "I accipt the gintleman's terms!" 
               "So will I," added the second sailor. 
               "And I," acquiesced the third. 
               "Do as you please; but I WILL NOT!" exclaimed Bertine. 
               "Then, by Pluto, all shall die!" said Blackbeard. "For your services alone did I make the offer!" 
               "Save us, Bertine!-oh! save us!" cried the sailors, in piteous accents. 
               "Shame on you, men! Do ye fear Death? Are ye cowards?" ejaculated the courageous man. 
               Blackbeard perceiving that he had more eloquent pleaders than himself, said: 
               "I give you five minutes' time to confer together.-Boatswain, leave these men to themselves until I summon you." 
                
               Thereupon Blackbeard went into the cabin, and the boatswain withdrew the guard. 
               As the guard disappeared into the forecastle, Mungo, the cunning negro, came forth from the caboose, and whispered a few words in Henri's ear. 
               "Merciful God! are you not deceiving me?" ejaculated Bertine, at the startling intelligence communicated by Mungo. 
               "Hush!" warned the negro. "Come dis way-I tellee you all 'bout um;" and he led the surprised man a few steps apart from his comrades in difficulty. 
               "Did you say that she was living?" 
               "Ees, sah!" 
               "And the child?" 
               "Ees, sah! and de brave capun-I seed missee mesef, and de babby, too,-on de islan-all well-all safe!" 
               "But--" 
               "Say nuffin now-I tellee you more some oder time-sabe your life for de sake ob de wife and de babby. Better day cum bumby-Mungo 'll be good fren-no like old Blackdebil-say nuffin ob dat, coz poor Mungo hab to trot de plank, too!" 
               Uttering these words of consolation to the astonished Bertine, the sly Ethiopian glided into the caboose just in time to escape the observation of his master, who a moment afterwards appeared on the deck. 
               "One revolution more of this second hand," said Blackbeard, gazing on the dial of his watch, "and the die is cast! Your answer-have you concluded?" 
               "Yes," said Bertine; "on the condition last named-on no other!" 
               "You have my solemn promise which I will before my band proclaim on the first occasion of their assembling-my oath could not be more binding" 
               "Then, we are yours!" said the young man, almost bewildered with thoughts of those dearly beloved ones, separated from him by a cruel fate. The bright star of hope, though afar off, again beamed mildly upon him. 
               "Thanks, thanks! noble Bertine!" cried the sailors, whose lives he had saved by consenting to live himself. 
               Blackbeard summoned the boatswain and guard, and said: 
               "These men are ours!-off with their chains!-assign them comfortable quarters, and my further pleasure in regard to them shall be made known in due time." 
               Thus did Blackbeard gain over to the piratical crew his four prisoners; three of whom afterwards became as desperate, inhuman, and bloody as any of his gang. But not so with Bertine-he refused to listen to any overtures other than those by which he had ransomed his life. He ever refused to take part in their murderous business, and did only his duty as sailing-master, to which post he was promoted soon after he had recovered his health and his energy, and in this capacity Blackbeard found him so useful, that he overlooked what he termed a foolish squeamishness, and would on no consideration have consented to part with him. And for ten long years did Bertine suffer himself to look upon scenes of cruelty and woe, but take part in them he could not and would not. 
               At the lapse of the period named in the opening of this chapter, an incident occurred which we here introduce, as it is an all-important link in the chain of our story. 
               A grand carousal was no uncommon thing by the pirate crews of Blackbeard, particularly after the even of the capture of a rich prize; and on the occasion which we now refer to,-a Spanish galleon having been captured, plundered of treasures to an immense amount, her crew massacred, the ship scuttled and sunk. Elated with unexpected success, the vessels were run into an unfrequented bay of the Island of St. Christopher, where they were moored, for the purpose of having a glorious revel. It was scarcely dark when the buccaneers commenced, and until nearly midnight they made the evening hideous with their boisterous and frolicsome mirth. One by one they reeled and staggered to the deck, until with but one or two exceptions; aboard of each vessel they had become so basely intoxicated as to be completely helpless. The Avenger's crew, if possible, were in a worse condition than that of the Triton. Under this state of things, young Bertine who ever drank sparingly, was requested by Blackbeard to act as officer of the Avenger's deck during the night. He willingly complied, and three or four half-drunken sailors were detained to act as watch under him. By the hour of midnight every man of them was lying in a sound sleep, crouched together near the windlass. 
               Now all was silence in that lonely bay, and to the mind of Henri Bertine who sat on the quarter-deck, the scene was a solemn one. While he watched those bright and serene sentinels of the sky, his thoughts wandered back to other and happier days, when his companions wielded not blood-stained hands, and in comparison with those in whose society he had passed the last ten years of his existence they were angels, and worthy of esteem and love, instead of the absolute abhorrence he entertained for the wretches with whom fate had doomed him. But uppermost in his mind were those nearer and dearer allied to him-his beloved wife and child, from whom he had been separated in an hour, when a husband's and a father's love and protection were of more than ordinary necessity. He almost censured himself for not having made efforts to free himself from a thraldom far worse than negro slavery; it was not only a slavery of the body but of the conscience also. True, no feasible opportunity had ever presented itself to ensure a successful escape; and had he made the attempt without success, immediate death he well knew would have been his portion. 
               For an hour or more was Bertine's mind busily employed in thoughts of the past, and plans for the future. Now, it was suggested to him, that, had he the co-operation of two individuals, or even of one, they might lower the boat and make good their escape; for, once ashore, there would be little danger of pursuit, inasmuch as they could flee to the port of Bassaterre, a distance of only five miles-once there, all protection would be afforded. 
               While indulging in this idea of escape, he was startled by the touch of a human hand upon his shoulder. He suddenly turned, and beheld Mungo standing beside him. 
               So softly had the negro approached, even in that silent hour, that it was unheard even by the quick ear of Bertine. 
               "Ah! Mungo!-'tis you!" said he. "Your sudden presence somewhat startled me; but how is it, that you are not in the same condition of your comrades?" 
               "Kase, massa, you no drink nuffin-Mungo drink nuffin-you sober-Mungo sober, too," was the negro's ready excuse for not getting drunk. 
               "Well, Mungo, I think you are the only sober man aboard." 
               "I tinks so myself, I duz-'cept you, massa-he, he, he, yah! Ole Blackdebil he moss drunk, too!" declared the negro, elated at the thought. 
               "Why, Mungo, did you leave your comfortable hammock at this hour of the night?" asked Bertine. 
               "Kase, Massa, Mungo want to sarbe you-now am de time!" answered the negro, in a whisper. 
               "For what?" 
               "Your escape!" 
               "That's not so easily done." 
               "You can swim, massa?" 
               "A little-a hundred yards perhaps-it is a half a league to the nearest point of the shore." 
               "Not quite dat, massa; but you won't hab to swim more dan tree lengths ob de cable." 
               "How do you make that out?" 
               "Dat distance from de schooner 'tis no more dan tree feet-you walk nearly all de way in de shoal water." 
               "Are you certain of that, Mungo?" 
               "As true as dis chile am a nigga. Ees, massa Bertine, I knows dis place well-a big shark chase me here once-but he no kitch dis chile-me beat de ugly fish swimmin'." 
                
               "Perchance, if we should take a swim, another shark might be more successful." 
               "Dar am no danger, massa-dis am not de time ob year for sharks to come up inter de bay. Now 's de time, massa-I hab ben on de look-out for jess sich a chance for you.-De tide is ebbin' now-in one hour de flats will all be bare." 
               "Then will it be nearly time to call the morning watch?" 
               "Den 't will all be over wid you-you muss not wait for dat." 
               "But you will go, too, Mungo?" inquired Bertine. 
               "No, massa, dat can't be-dat would be disobeyin' my true master's orders. I must not leabe ole Blackdebil till his power am gone foreber!" 
               "I understand, and will not urge you against your will; but to go myself I am resolved. In which direction, Mungo, shall I soonest reach shallow water?" 
               "I show you-follow Mungo." 
               "Then you have changed your mind, and will accompany me, my honest friend?" said Bertine, inquiringly, and elated at the idea of having Mungo's company. 
               "I lead de way to de shoal water-but no farder. Come, dar am n't a moment's time to lose." 
               Uttering these words, the negro lowered a portion of a coil of rigging over the taffrail, and making it fast to a bolt, he climbed noiselessly over the rail, and slipped noiselessly into the water. Bertine immediately followed his ebony friend. Mungo forthwith struck out for the western shore, and after swimming less than the distance he had named, the negro halted and stood upright in the water several minutes before Bertine came up. 
               "Dar, massa, wot I tellee you?" 
               "You were right, Mungo; and now, how shall I re--" 
               "You see dat tall cocoa-nut tree yender on de high hill?" 
               "Yes, Mungo." 
               "Steer for dat tree fass as your legs will tote you; de water will be less and less as you come to de shore." 
               "But, my worthy friend, how am I to repay you for this no--" 
               "When you hab arribed at de big cocoa-nut tree," again interrupted the negro, "you den make tracks for Bassaterre." 
               "Be my companion, Mungo, and you shall never lack my friendship, and never want for--" 
               "Tank you, massa; Mungo know his duty;" once more interrupted the faithful negro, and reaching out his hand, he said, while tears started from his eyes-"good bye, Massa Bertine-'member poor Mungo-God bress you, whereber you go." 
               "God bless you, Mungo!-and--" 
               The negro tarried to hear no more, but plunging forward, darted toward the schooner like a dolphin, leaving Bertine to pursue his watery way alone towards the shore. The bottom was quite hard, and as he proceeded it grew more shallow. In half an hour he once more stood on terra-firma; and, though fatigued, he climbed the hill and travelled onward toward the port of Bassaterre. 
               Mungo reached the schooner in safety, and after changing his scanty wardrobe, he ran into the cabin, where Blackbeard was profoundly sleeping, and awoke him. 
               "What's wanting, Mungo?" demanded the pirate captain. 
               "I tink, massa," said the negro, appearing very much frightened, "dat somebody hab fallen oberboard, and drown hesef!" 
               "How know you that?" asked Blackbeard, as he rushed upon deck, with Mungo following closely at his heels. 
               "I heard de splash, an de cry ob de drownin' man-den I heard nuffin." 
               "Why didn't you leap overboard, and try to save him?" 
               "Kase Mungo drown, too-massa know Mungo no swim!" 
               "Who can it be?" 
               "Mungo didn't know de voice!" 
               "But how's this?" ejaculated Blackbeard, after he had traversed the deck. "What! no watch on deck? By h-l! somebody shall pay dearly for this!" he threatened, greatly enraged. 
               "Dere am tree dead drunk men at de winlass, massa-dey be de watch, yah!" 
               "The damn'd villains!" he exclaimed, rushing towards them. "The drunken wretches shall keep watch in hell hereafter!" and drawing his sabre, he stabbed to the heart every one of those miserable beings! Each uttered his death groan, and their guilty souls were summoned to the infernal regions, whither their satanic master of earth had declared his intention of sending them. 
               "Throw those carcases overboard, Mungo!" commanded the rash captain. 
               "Ees, massa," replied the negro; and he quickly performed the task. 
               "Now, Mungo," resumed Blackbeard, "where's the officer of the deck, Mr. Bertine?" 
               "Habn't seen him since lass night, massa capen." 
               "Go to his state-room and call him to the deck-instantly!" 
               "Ees, sah!" replied the negro, as he started off to obey his master; but in less than a minute he returned with the report that he was neither in his state-room, nor in the main cabin! 
               "Was he, too, intoxicated, last night?" asked Blackbeard. 
               "Ees, massa-arter you go below, he get drunk as de berry debil!" 
               "Then it must have been Bertine who fell overboard!" 
                
               "Ees, massa, now I tink ob it, dat voice did sound like his." 
               "Then is he drowned!" said Blackbeard, soliloquizing. "Poor Bertine-he had many great qualities-he was a good officer; and though he was no true corsair, I could have better spared any other man of the fleet!" 
               Turning to Mungo, he said,- 
               "Call up the morning watch!" 
               This having been done, Blackbeard, after giving several unimportant orders, returned to his couch, and fell asleep, as though nothing of importance had occurred. 
               Mungo imitated his master, and crawled into his hammock, but he could not so readily persuade himself to sleep, for he was too much elated with the success of his cunning adventure to quiet his excited nerves. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
                
                  A Yankee Brig.-The new Recruit.-The Chase.-The Escape.-Arrival in the United States.-An Expedition fitted out against the Buccaneers. 
                
               LET us now for a time follow the adventures of him who had in so singular a manner, escaped from the pirate crew, after having been in a state of semi-bondage, for nearly a dozen of years. 
               Before the sun reddened the eastern sky, on the morning which followed his escape, Henry Bertine, almost exhausted with fatigue, entered a sailor's boarding house, in the ancient town of Bassaterre. He applied for a lodging; it was granted him, and he retired to rest, and soon fell into a profound slumber, from which he did not awake until at a late hour in the afternoon. He then arose, sauntered through the town, and down to the quay. There was quite a fleet of vessels of different nations in the harbor, and from the mast-head of one floated the Star Spangled Banner.-With feelings of joy and pride he beheld the ensign of his own native land-his home, from which he had long been a stranger and an unwilling outlaw. 
               He was almost destitute of money, having but few maravedis left after paying his landlord for his lodging and some refreshments. The poor coins he gave to a boatman, to take him off to the vessel he had espied out, which was riding at anchor nearly half a mile distant from the quay. The boat was rowed alongside, and he ascended the gangway-stairs to the step. 
               "Is the captain of this brig aboard?" he inquired of a boy, the only person upon the deck. 
               "Captain Starling's below, sir," replied the boy. 
               "I beg the privilege of speaking with him," said Bertine. 
               The boy entered the cabin, and in a few moments the captain, a good-natured specimen of a Yankee sailor, appeared at the companion-way. 
               "If not impertinent, sir," said Bertine, approaching, "I would inquire if this brig is home-ward bound?" 
               "If ever I succeed in shipping a complement of men, I shall be off out of this. Two of my crew have deserted me," replied the captain. 
                
               deep shadows were never more joyfully welcomed by man, than by Captain Starling and his crew. 
               Morning came, and not a speck was visible upon the ocean from the brig. She had changed her course during the night, and thus eluded the ravenous wolves, which at that period scoured the ocean in every direction. 
               In fifteen days the brig arrived in Boston harbor, and Bertine, after accepting the thanks of the owners, accompanied by a substantial present for the services he had rendered Captain Starling, who had the magnanimity to give Bertine the whole credit of saving the brig. 
               On the following day he entered the town whence he had sailed fourteen years previously. None there were that recognized him, for he was much changed; and few only remained who remembered him when he made himself known. The Indiaman, on which he was a passenger, was supposed to have foundered at sea, and that all on board had perished. He remained but a few days, for he found not that sympathy among his wealthy connexions that he anticipated, but among his poor relations he found sympathy, but they were too poor to aid him in an enterprise he had projected. Baffled in his expectations in his native town, he set out for Washington-After a time he succeeded in getting an interview with the Secretary of the Navy, to whom he related his singular adventures. His description of Blackbeard's force brought forcibly to the mind of the official the many rumors he had from time to time heard respecting this noted pirate; and before Bertine had finished his narrative he inwardly resolved to do all in his power towards the fitting out of a proper expedition, to be sent against the noted buccaneer. The result was, that, after three months' delay, a corvette was put in trim for this service, at the Gosport Navy Yard, and placed in the command of a very young and gallant officer. Bertine would accept of no commission, preferring to go only as a passenger, and act as the adviser of the young commander, whose implicit confidence he had already won. Her peculiar service was not made known until she had fairly got to sea. When it was announced, the crew gave three hearty cheers, as an expression of their hearty approbation of the cause in which they were enlisted. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
                
                  Red Martin's Prisoners.-Oceana, the Virgin of the Islet.-The Strange Sails.-Blackbeard's Arrival off Virginia Gorda.-Preparations for Defence. 
                
               ONCE more, patient reader, with lightning-like dispatch, we shall carry you back to the isle of the pirates, Virginia Gorda. Though fourteen long years have winged their rapid flight into the oblivious past; though the island was inhabited during this period by some whose names were never profaned by a corsair's infamy, yet but little or no change had been made in its external appearance. It looked to the mariner as dangerous and as inhospitable as any rocky excrescence upon the ocean; and for this reason none sought to explore or even to attempt a landing upon it. 
               Red Martin and Haidee still reigned supreme; but through the influence of that strong-minded woman, the Buccaneer Chief had wholly abandoned the diabolical profession he had for so many years pursued. Each year during the period named he had made it a practice to visit several of the ports on the coast of South America, in the character of a merchant, for the sole purpose of purchasing luxuries and necessary supplies for the people of the island over which he claimed sovereignty. These voyages were made in the Thunderbolt, which had been re-named and re-modelled, so that her former character could not have been readily recognized. He sailed with no armament, and with but few men, and was generally recognized by those with whom he traded, as a wealthy merchant from one of the Spanish West-India ports. 
               The prisoners of Red Martin-or rather his forced subjects-had the freedom of the island, but were not allowed to leave it, and no inducement could gain his consent to permit a single individual, excepting of his original band, to accompany him on his annual voyages. The only point of egress or ingress was kept, strictly guarded.-The prisoners, however, had every other liberty which any of Red Martin's old subjects claimed, and they all lived such a life of luxury and ease that it was by no means insupportable. 
                
               The face of the island, notwithstanding their indolence, constantly improved. It was one of nature's gardens, and it teemed with fruits and flowers, spices and nuts, and every luxury of the clime. The greatest changes, however, were visible in that small community. Red Martin had lost the power and vigor of manhood, and with it much of his ambition. Haidee was now a noble robust-looking woman of forty years. Captain Stark was well nigh a septuagenarian, while Captain Owen was his junior only by a few years. Their dark hair had changed to a silvery whiteness, and the deep wrinkles in their cheeks and foreheads indicated that they were "in the sere and yellow leaf." Isabella Bertine, though some thirty five years of age, retained almost the bloom of those years, when she reigned as the belle of a New England village. She was, indeed, a handsome specimen of a matron lady, such a one as the most distinguished might well be proud of. But what shall we say of her daughter-the child of the ocean-the "Virgin of the Islet," Oceana Bertine. If true beauty ever visits this sublunary sphere in female guise, it was made manifest in that fair being whose cradle was rocked by the billows of the ocean, and whose first hours in this world were amid scenes of carnage and deadly strife. Her loveliness was not heightened by accomplishments, and presented not those dazzling points of attraction which blaze for a season and then grow dim. She was not made to shine in the crowded assembly, the cynosure of all eyes. She was far better fitted for a conservatory of Flora's gifts to earth, the silent dell, the shady grove, or the domestic fire-side-for Oceana was Nature's child, unadorned by art or fashion. Her gentle, loving soul was made eloquently apparent in her softly-flashing, mildly-beaming eyes of ocean-blue; while the tender sentiments of her unsophisticated heart were expressed in every action of her agile and symmetrical form, and in every sentence which fell from her sweet cherry lips. Graceful as Titania in her movements, her figure presented that lightness of mould, in which artists depict the fairy beings of their imaginations.-Her features were delicately moulded, softly chiselled, and sweetly expressive. Her hair was of a light color, but of that beautiful hue which conveys the idea of sun-beams woven into tresses. Pearly and clear was her complexion, but upon her cheeks the many shades of the rose rested, varying in their depth with each passing emotion of their soul. In her society, young as she was, all hearts were captivated-none could resist the gentle influence of the Virgin of the Islet. Amy, too, had a voice like the Nightingale; the pretty ballads, which had been taught by her mother, she sang so expressively and so sweetly, that even the birds were charmed with her delicious warblings. Those who have listened to the flute-like voice of the Swedish Nightingale, can form, perhaps, an idea of the syren notes of the girlish maiden of Virginia Gorda. Such was Oceana Bertine, the heroine of our "plain, unvarnished tale." 
               It was at the hour of sunset, of a lovely eve in May, that Oceana, in company with her mother, Captain Owen and his daughter Amy, Charles Thorburn-whom we have not quite lost sight of-together with the venerable Captain Stark, had rambled from their quarters to the highest bluff of the island, for the purpose of enjoying the salubrious sea-breeze, and to witness the gorgeous scene of a sunset in the ocean. Just as the golden orb had made its magnificent exit, two vessels were descried near the western horizon by Oceana, who immediately exclaimed: 
               "Mother, I see two sails which look like a pair of white birds! How prettily they look-the sun's rays just tip their masts with a golden light!" 
               "Sails!" ejaculated Captain Stark. "I see not even a speck." 
               "Look, in that direction," said Oceana, pointing with her taper finger toward the glowing western horizon. 
               The old captain strained his eyes in the direction named. 
               "I see now, my child; and sure enough, they are a pretty sight. Tell me, darling, what is their course? These top-lights of mine are getting rather hazy." 
               "Oh! they must be sailing this way, for they grow larger each moment," replied the girl. "I hope they are coming here to take us to that New England home which you so often have told me about, mother!" 
               "Ah! my daughter, that is too much to hope!" replied Mrs. Bertine, while a tear glistened upon the matron's cheek. 
               "What a happy day, my dear Amy, that would be for us!" said Charles Thorburn, aside, to Amy Owen. "Then would our happiness be consummated." 
               "Don't speak so loudly, Charles," said his betrothed; "my father has sharp ears, and he won't permit us to talk of such things, you know." 
               "Captain Owen," said Stark, "do you perceive those vessels?" 
               "Very distinctly, and they are bearing down for this island," was the reply. 
               "That is an unusual course for any craft now-a-days," resumed Captain Owen. 
               By this time their hulls had begun to loom from the ocean's surface, and soon became quite distinct. 
               "Whether for good or for evil, unless they change their course, they will soon be nearer the island than I ever saw a vessel before, excepting that which brought us hither," observed Captain Owen. 
               "True, my friend," replied Stark; "and they wouldn't be bearing down before the wind, unless their destination was here. Oceana," he continued, turning to the girlish maiden, "can you distinguish any thing upon their decks?" 
               "Oceana placed her open hand over her eye to screen it from the bright red horizon, and gazed intently upon the strange vessels for a few moments. 
               "I see," said she, at length, "men moving to and fro." 
               "Do you perceive many?" 
               "Six or seven on one, and as many more on another, if my eyes do not deceive me," she answered;-" and now I can see a row of guns!" 
               "Guns! are you sure?" ejaculated Stark, surprised. 
               "I am quite certain, sir!" she replied. 
               "Guns!" he repeated, turning to Captain Owen, with an enquiring gaze; "these are armed schooners?" 
               "So I have been thinking," said Owen; "and it is my opinion they are pirates!" 
               "My mind exactly!" said Stark. "They are Red Martin's old enemies, I'm convinced!" 
               Meanwhile this conversation was taking place, Red Martin, and several of his old followers, had been watching the approach of the two vessels from the bluff at the inlet, where his formidable battery was planted. 
               With the aid of a glass the Chief had readily made out the character of the approaching vessels. He knew that his old compeer in crime, but now deadly enemy, Blackbeard, was coming to seek his promised revenge, and if possible to wrest the island from his power. Already had he commenced making preparations to give them a warm reception. The guns of the battery were double-shotted, and piles of ammunition, of which he had an almost inexhaustible store in his magazine, were collected at a convenient distance from the battery. Every available man upon that sea-girt isle was summoned to the only possible point of attack, and they were protected by an almost impregnable wall of masonry with every facility of working the guns, which were mounted on carriages, and pointed through port-holes. 
               If Red Martin lacked any thing to defend the island from any force that could be brought against it, it was men; some of whom were well-nigh superannuated, and his entire force of effective men did not exceed thirty in all, a part of these having been brought from the ports in South America, which he had from time to time visited in a mercantile capacity. His prisoners he had not yet summoned in this pending emergency, and he was not fully assured that they would co-operate with him in repelling the invaders. Haidee was sent to confer with them. She met them coming towards the fortified point. 
               "If I mistake not," said Captain Stark, addressing the heroic woman, "your old enemy, Blackbeard, comes!" 
               "Yes; and to butcher us all, should he overpower us!" she replied. 
               "And if I guess aright, you have come for our assistance?" inquired Stark. 
               "That is my errand!" replied Haidee; "for the sake of your life, and the lives of your friends, you cannot hesitate as to your duty. We do not ask you to fight for us, who have so long held you in an easy captivity, but to fight against those who would enslave or murder you. You know the incentive which sends that hellish monster, Blackbeard, here. 'Tis not merely conquest, though that would follow, but bloody revenge!" 
               "We have already decided to fight for you," replied Stark; "not for Red Martin's sake-not for ours wholly-but for those of your sex who share our captivity; and, also, to show our gratitude to you, who have done so much to alleviate our sorrows during a long series of years!" 
               "Thanks-thanks-for your good will towards us!" replied Haidee; "Martin and his men you will find at the battery!" 
               Saying this, she hurried on after the females, who, considerably alarmed, had taken flight towards their quarters. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
                
                  And the last of this eventful History. 
                
               THE shades of evening were fast deepening. There was no moon, but the brilliant constellations of the southern hemisphere never shone out with more dazzling brightness. The wind had gradually died away, until only soft zephyrs ruffled the surface of the sea. All was silent, save the dull roar of the long ground swells as they broke one after another upon that rugged shore. 
               Silently, slowly and steadily, approached those strange vessels towards the island, their course being directed with unerring precision to the entrance of its only known channel. At length, one by one, the foresails, topsails, and top-gallantsails, were furled, until only mainsails and staysails gave motion to the schooners. When they had arrived within a few cables' length of the channel's mouth, they dropped anchor. Immediately afterwards a boat left the inner vessel, manned by ten stout oarsmen and a coxswain; they floated noiselessly up the channel, resting upon their oars, evidently for the purpose of reconnoitring the position of things upon the island; for Blackbeard was in doubt whether Red Martin, or any one else, inhabited Virginia Gorda. The boat was eagerly watched by the pirate captain from his quarter-deck, as it proceeded up the inlet. It had neared within twenty yards of the bluff, when one of the guns belched forth a sheet of flame, and a shower of iron hail which dealt death and destruction to that boat's crew! Not one escaped! and the boat was shattered into a thousand pieces! 
               Blackbeard, when he saw the terrible effect of that one discharge, raved and cursed like a madman, and swore that he would force his way into the basin, though opposed by a legion of demons! He forthwith summoned his subordinate officers to the cabin to decide upon a plan of attack, the result of which was, that the "Triton," under Daredevil, should sail up the channel, and make an attack upon the battery with all the guns he could bring to bear upon it, while two boats' crews should endeavor to force their way up, and make a landing under cover er of the Triton's cannonading. The Avenger, so soon as a landing could be effected by the boats' crews, was to go up the channel, pass the Triton, and if possible force her way into the inlet, where the guns of the battery could not be turned against her, thereby giving an opportunity for the men to land, and then to overpower the island. It was a bold project, as all admitted, and Blackbeard, in his extreme wrath, resolved to hazard all in the rash attempt. 
               It was near the midnight hour when the Triton got under weigh to lead in the desperate adventure. A breeze had sprung up during the night, and under mainsail and jib she sailed for the channel and bore up in a fine style. Only a sufficient number of pirates were on deck to manage the craft and work her guns. Half the distance was gained before a gun was fired. Three or four of the heaviest pieces now opened upon the battery, and was promptly returned upon the exposed vessel, doing considerable damage to the sails and rigging, and wounding several of the pirates. The cannonading now became general on both sides, and death and carnage strewed the Triton's deck. Under cover of the dense smoke, the two boats shot off for the shore, but in their passage one became stove, the other reached the shore, and twelve bold buccaneers effected a landing, yet they were kept at bay by huge missiles which were hurled down upon them! 
               While this was going on, another terrific scene was being enacted outside the channel, which struck terror to the hearts of the piratical besiegers! 
               Scarcely had the Avenger weighed anchor, when a vessel, under full sail, was descried bearing down upon her. Blackbeard was amazed, for he saw that it was an armed corvette, with the Banner of Stars floating proudly from the main peak! while at his own mast head waved the bloody flag of the Corsair! Here was a dilemma, unexpected as it was fearful! To escape was impossible! To fight was the only alternative! He shouted forth his orders in thunder-tones! and bade the men to fight for their lives! Death or victory was their cry! 
               As the corvette neared, she shortened sail, and hove-to in gallant style, presenting her larboard battery to the Avenger, and saluting her by a broadside! The shot told well-the schooner's mainmast went by the board-the fore top-mast was carried away-and her bulwarks were considerably shattered! 
               Blackbeard shouted to his gunners to return the fire! The matches were applied to the vent, but, to the consternation of the pirates, no explosion followed! 
               "The guns are spiked!-the guns are spiked!" cried the gunners. 
               "Hell and furies!" cried Blackbeard, rushing from the quarter-deck ter-deck among the men, in a great rage. "Show me the villain who did this, and I'll quarter him alive!" 
               "I suspect that infernal nigger, Mungo!" answered one of the pirates. 
               A moment afterwards a splash was heard in the water directly under the stern. 
               "'Twas he! the villain's leaped overboard!" exclaimed one of the pirates. 
               "Shoot him! curse him-shoot him! On your lives don't let that d--d traitorous dog escape!" cried Blackbeard. 
               Several loaded carbines were seized by the pirates, and they ran to the quarter-deck to fire upon Mungo-for he it was who had committed the bold deed-but there was nothing visible on the water's surface!" 
               "Poor devil! he's drowned!-he couldn't swim!" said one of the men. 
               "There he is!-there he is!-he swims like a porpoise!" cried another, as Mungo came to the surface to breathe the more vital element of air. 
               Three or four carbines were discharged, but they were a little late-for he was too cunning to make his head a target for more than one moment. After swimming a few yards farther he again came up, but the amphibious black had gained too great a distance from the schooner to be observed by those who watched for him. Mungo reached the corvette-clambered up the gangway-and, running to the quarter-deck, fell upon his knees at the feet of the first officer he met. 
               "What black apparition's this?" demanded the young commander, startled at the negro's singular appearance. 
               "Mercy! sabe poor Mungo! me spike ole Blackdebil's guns, so he no shoot you!" 
               "Ah! I now understand why the devils don't return our fire!" said Commander Pierson. 
               "By all that's merciful!" exclaimed Bertine, who now appeared on deck, "if I am not greatly deceived, this is my old and faithful friend, Mungo!" 
               "Goddee bressee you, Massa Bertin! I know'd it was you, I did, as true as dis nigga am alibe!" exclaimed Mungo, dancing round him in great glee. "Huzza! huzza!" 
               "Captain Pierson, this faithful man once saved my life, and he it was who enabled me to escape from the service of the buccaneers!" said Bertine, who was quite as much elated as the negro. 
               "I know'd dem stars and stripes, Massa Bertine," said the happy Ethiopian. "I know'd dey belong to your country! I know'd dis vessel cum to fight ole Blackdebil-I tought you'd come, too-so I help you-spile his fightin'-den I swim ober here!" 
                
               "You're a brave fellow, and shall be well cared for!" said Commander Pierson. 
               The pirates had, in the meantime, made every preparation for a desperate resistance, should the Americans attempt to board. In case they attempted to batter her to pieces or sink her with heavy shot, Blackbeard determined to abandon the schooner in the two boats, and, if possible, run up the channel to assist Daredevil. 
               The captain of the corvette, as she neared the pirate, saw a greater number of men, well armed, on her deck, than he had reason to suppose. 
               "Bear up a little!" said he to the helmsman: "we must strive to sweep her deck with a dose of grape, before we come to close quarters with those desperate fellows!" 
               Three or four guns were charged with grape shot, and when the corvette came within ordinary musket-shot distance, Pierson gave the order to fire! 
               The guns belched forth a shower of shot that was fearfully effective! When the cannon's roar subsided, the most hideous and frightful yells were heard, proceeding from the pirate crew! Death and carnage strewed the Avenger's deck. 
               "Now, away! briskly!" cried Pierson to the helmsman. "Prepare to board!" he shouted to the men forward. 
               So horrible were the slaughter and confusion aboard the Avenger, that they thought not of their boats, until the corvette had ranged alongside, and her crew, by dozens, had leaped upon her deck! The surviving pirates, maddened to desperation, fought like so many demons, and for a long time they yielded not a foot to their enemy. 
               But the tide of battle was soon in favor of that Yankee crew. In the very midst of the raging conflict, when the pirates were dealing deadly blows, Henri Bertine, attired and armed in a like manner as when sailing-master of the Avenger, suddenly rushed through the Americans, and appeared before those very men with whom he had been an unwilling associate. 
               The pirates started back aghast! They believed him dead! and they were superstitious enough to suppose that this was his spirit! But when they saw all, who had the temerity to oppose him, fall beneath his heavy blows, they thought that naught but flesh and blood could so wield a weapon of steel! He cut his way through their ranks, for he espied his formidable archenemy in their rear!-Blackbeard had recognized him, and at once penetrated the mystery of the sudden appearance of the corvette in that strange and dangerous place. 
               "Traitor! though I be conquered, thy death is certain!" said Blackbeard, as their sabres clashed, and crossed each other, while they stood firmly, and gazing with all the hatred each had power to express. 
                
               "Fiend of hell!" exclaimed Bertine, "I come now for vengeance! I risk all upon this trusty blade!" 
               "And I will try the virtue of this!" said Blackbeard, snatching with his left hand a pistol from his belt, and aiming it at Bertine's breast! 
               Quick as thought, he forced back his antagonist's blade, and with a stroke of his own, he struck off the hand which held the pistol, and both fell to the deck! 
               Blackbeard uttered one wild shriek of pain, and rushed upon his antagonist with a tiger-like ferocity! But his strength failed gradually, as his life's blood oozed out of his handless arm! The bloody buccaneer reeled and staggered, at the same time cutting and thrusting with uncertain aim! Bertine followed up his advantage, and wrenched his adversary's weapon from his hand! Another blow, and the head of the demoniac Blackbeard rolled upon that bloody deck! 
               The conflict aboard the Avenger was now at an end. According to his vow, each pirate fought to the last gasp! 
               Bertine seized a boarding-pike, and thrusting it into the mouth and through the skull of the head he had cleaved from its trunk, he held it up to the gaze of the victorious Americans! 
               "Behold!" said he, "the head of the veriest wretch, that ever encumbered earth or ocean! The noted sea-robber, Kidd, was a child in gentleness and humanity, compared with the demon, Blackbeard!" 
               It was now near the dawn of day, and preparations were immediately made on board of the corvette to run up the channel, which had been pointed out to the sailing-master by the negro, Mungo, who had also imparted to Pierson, the whole of Blackbeard's original plan of operations to overpower the force ashore, and to possess himself of the island and its treasures! 
               The scene at the battery had been quite as desperate as the action in the offing, and was yet raging. Daredevil, finding that it was but a useless waste of ammunition and men, to make further efforts to silence the guns of the besieged, or to make a breach in the rocky rampart which afforded them protection, forced the Triton, despite the constant discharge of heavy shot upon her, up into the inlet so far, that not a single gun could be brought upon her. Like so many devils, goaded to desperation, the buccaneers leaped ashore, and commenced clambering up the rocky steep, where so many of their comrades had already bitten the dust, by heavy missiles which had been hurled upon them! 
               Red Martin, notwithstanding he had fallen somewhat into the "sere and yellow leaf," battled manfully, and many a besieger paid dearly for his temerity by opposing him; but, finally, he was disarmed, and a heavy blow of a cutlass felled him to the ground. 
                
               The island prisoners defended the battery like men of true courage. Captain Stark-veteran as he was-seemed to be in his element; for he fought with a lion's courage, and with a lion's strength. But the handful of men now remaining, could not have held long out against the numbers and fury of the besiegers, had they not been reinforced from an unexpected source. 
               At the most critical juncture, Haidee suddenly appeared, followed by half a dozen other women, attired in male costume, and armed with swords and pistols! This little Amazonian band boldly made their appearance on the ramparts, from which the besiegers had been driven as often as they mounted it; but now they were clambering up in greater numbers, and victory looked doubtful. 
               The moment they again gained a footing upon the wall, the females discharged their pistols; then, drawing their light sabres, they rushed upon them, and succeeded in nearly clearing the ramparts. Several desperate fellows remained; one of whom engaged Haidee in single combat. He was the man who had struck down her husband, and was a skilful swordsman. She parried his heavy blows and thrusts with a dexterity which quite amazed her antagonist; and when, at length, he made an unlucky pass, she twisted the weapon from his hand-another moment, and he fell upon a heap of slain. 
               The sun arose upon that scene of blood, yet the conflict raged, and the besiegers were obstinate to the last. Each one of them appeared not to fight for victory, but merely to sell his life as dearly as possible. 
               Meanwhile the corvette had run up to the inlet, taken possession of the Triton and exterminated every man that they found aboard of her. A strong detachment, headed by Bertine, then went ashore, and hastened to aid those who still retained possession of the battery; but before they could climb to the summit of the bluff, the victory was won!-and the youngest of that Amazonian band stood on the rampart waving in triumph a white silken flag, with a blushing rose engraved upon its centre. 
               Bertine was the first man who gained the battery. 
               "Ah! whom have we here?" he ejaculated. "My old friend, Captain Stark! God be praised!" 
               "You have the advantage of me," replied the Captain; "but as you sail under yon glorious banner of stars, I claim you as a friend! Welcome to Virginia Gorda, which is now fully in our possession! So give us your grappler, whoever you are." 
               "Captain Pierson," said Bertine, addressing the young officer, who now made his appearance; "this is the brave Stark, of whom you have heard me speak frequently." 
               Pierson shook the hale old man's hand with a hearty good will. 
               "Now tell me, my friend, who are you?" said Stark, addressing Bertine. 
                
               "Don't you remember Harry Bertine?" 
               "God is merciful!" exclaimed the old man, a tear starting from his eye. "I thought you were dead-you are much changed!" 
               "What of my beloved--" 
               "Speak not of them here," interrupted the veteran. "Follow me to our quarters-until then, be patient." 
               "Then they are--" 
               "Give not up to despair in the hour of victory," again interrupted Stark. "You have much to live for. We are now masters of the isle, where we have resided for fifteen years. Red Martin is dead-that heroic woman, his wife, has received a mortal wound, and not more than three of all Red Martin's band have survived the struggle." 
               The Amazons bore away the wounded Haidee in their arms. Soon after followed Owen, Stark, Bertine and Pierson. They repaired to the cave which Red Martin had so long occupied, the apartments of which were furnished with princely splendor. 
               "Be seated," said Stark; "these comfortable quarters, for want of more rightful claimants, we may as well call our own." 
               "Were not those females, in male attire, whom we saw on the ramparts?" inquired the young commander of the corvette. 
               "You have judged rightly," replied Stark. 
               "And that light-haired, beautiful boy, who waved the flag, was, after all, a--" 
               "A FEMALE-exactly!" added Stark. 
               "By all that's beautiful, I never beheld a being with such an angelic countenance," said Pierson, with enthusiasm. 
               "You're a man of taste," resumed the veteran. "Why, bless her little sprightly heart, she 's the pet of us all. If it hadn't been for her, life on the island wouldn't have been half so endurable. You shall see her soon, in her own proper attire, as well as the other ladies of the isle." 
               A half an hour passed rapidly in congratulations and explanations, when the ladies appeared to pay their respects and to thank the strangers who had come to offer protection and assistance. 
               Amy Owen entered first, and was introduced to the strangers by her father. Presently Mrs. Bertine and her daughter appeared. The matron cast a furtive glance at the strangers, not one of whom did she recognize. 
               "Isabella!" said one of the strangers. 
               Hearing herself thus called, she was startled, and exclaimed wildly, 
               "That voice-sure, I--" 
               "Do you not know your husband?" he inquired with extended arms. 
               "It is-ah! it is, the voice of my long lost husband! my Henri!" 
                
               And the fond husband and wife, who had been separated for so many years, flew into each other's arms. This ebullition of sudden bliss having somewhat subsided, Captain Stark, taking Oceana by the hand, said- 
               "Bertine, I told you that you had much to live for; and here is another agreeable surprise for you; one who has claim to a large share of your affections. This is our darling pet-Oceana Bertine!" 
               The enraptured man was dumb with astonishment, as he gazed upon that bright and beautiful being. 
               "Yes, dear Henri, this is our beloved child-our daughter, Oceana." 
               Had an angel from Heaven appeared before Bertine he could not have expressed more surprise. Can it be within the bounds of possibility, thought he, that this angelic creature is our child? Yes-it must be so-for 'tis fifteen years since Oceana was born. 
               He embraced her, kissed her, and looked with joy at her perfections. 
               "In these moments of my existence, my friends," he said at length, "is contained enough of bliss to repay me for the years of bodily and mental suffering which I have had the misfortune to endure." 
               But we leave to the readers' imagination the details of this truly felicitous occasion. 
                
               We might add a chapter or two more of interesting events, that succeeded the stirring incidents already, narrated but as "the course of true love" DID, afterwards, run smooth with the younger characters of our story, we should but repeat an oft told tale. 
               A fleet of four vessels sailed from Virginia Gorda, in company, about one week after the island was freed from the buccaneers' power. These vessels were laden with vast treasures, and a great portion of it fell into the possession of those of our dramatis person, with whom we feel most interested. 
               In the course of eighteen days these vessels arrived safely at one of the principal ports of the United States. 
               Bertine, with his family, settled down in the town, in which Capts. Stark and Owen claimed a residence. As soon as the preliminaries could be arranged, the latter was pleased to bestow his daughter's hand on her constant lover, Charles Thorburn. 
               The Bertine family received frequent visits from Captain Pierson, and at the end of two years, his marriage with the beautiful Oceana was duly celebrated and proclaimed. Pierson was promoted for his gallant behavior in capturing the pirates, and he finally arose to the highest pinnicle of his profession. 
               Mungo, our especial friend, was well cared for by Bertine, with whom he lived happily until the day of his decease. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
       
          
             
            A NEW SEA TALE. 
            YANKEE JACK; 
            OR, THE PERILS OF A PRIVATEERSMAN. 
            A ROMANCE OF THE WAR OF 1812. 
            
                
                  PERIL AND JACK ABOARD THE PRIZE. 
               
             
            BY HARRY HAZEL. 
            This is a thorough-going sea tale, boisterous and stirring, startling, humorous, and rollicking. The ocean and the ships thereon, and the Yankee tar himself, are all depicted with a life-like reality that cannot fail to delight the reader, while his patriotism will receive a warmer glow from the deeds of American prowess on the ocean wave, described in "Yankee Jack" with a graphic power of language rarely excelled. "Yankee Jack," as a faithful reflex of ocean life, has not been excelled by any work of the same kind that has been recently published. 
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-street. 
             
               Just published, the following Sea Tales: 
               THE ADVENTURES OF PAUL PERIWINKLE. Illustrated. Price 50 Cents. 
             
            
               
             
          
          
             
            A COMPANION TO "BEN BRACE, OR THE LIFE OF A SAILOR." 
            GALLANT TOM; OR THE PERILS of the OCEAN. 
            
                
             
            AN INTERESTING SEA TALE. 
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "YANKEE JACK," ETC. 
            This is a lively and brilliant Sea Story, containing an interesting narrative of adventures on the great deep, which gives an excellent and correct idea of the perils of a life on the ocean.-Banner.
             
            Here's a jovial Sea Tale for you, reader, full of fun, frolic, and glee, with their inseparable concomi sants in a sea yarn, strange adventures, and scenes of peril.-Union Jack.
             
            "Gallant Tom" is one of the best Sea Stories we have read for many a long day; the author is at home with his subject, and familiar with the wonders of the deep.-Privateer.
             
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
             
               JUST PUBLISHED, THE FOLLOWING SEA TALES:- 
               The Adventures of PAUL PERIWINKLE. Illustrated. Price 50 Cents. 
               BEN BRACE, or The Life of a Sailor. Illustrated. Price 50 Cents. 
               JACK ARIEL, or Life on board an East Indiaman. Price 25 Cents. 
               YANKEE JACK, or The Perils of a Privateersman. Illustrated. Price 25 cts. 
             
          
          
             
            H. LONG & BROTHER, 
            would respectfully inform their Friends in the Trade and the Public, that their ESTABLISHMENT, 43 ANN ST., N. Y. will in future present greatly increased facilities for Publishing, selling at wholesale and retail, and especially for the most important department of their business, supplying the orders of Booksellers, Dealers in Cheap Literature, Agents. Postmasters, &c., with promptitude and dispatch, and upon more Liberal terms than any other house in the United States. 
            H. L. & B. wish to call the particular attention of every branch of the Trade to their own publications, consisting of many of the most popular works of History, Biography, Fiction, &c., over published in the United States. These works, now selling rapidly and in large editions, we will furnish on the most favorable terms, together with all other works, at Publishers' prices, a portion of which will be found in our Catalogue. The business of filling the orders of correspondents in the trade, and supplying Agents, Pedlars, &c., will claim, as heretofore our chief attention, and no pains will be spared to give continued satisfaction. 
             
               LIST OF BOOKS LATELY ISSUED. 
                
                  REYNOLDS' GREAT ROMANCES. 
                  Mysteries of the Court of London. 2 vols, paper. Price 50 cts. per vol. 
                  Rose Foster. OR, THE SECOND SERIES OF THE COURT OF LONDON. In 3 vols., $1 37. 
                  Caroline of Brunswick. 2 vols., paper, price 50 cts. per vol. 
                  Venitia Trelawney. 2 vols, paper, price 50 cts. per vol., containing 416 pages. 
                  Mysteries of the Court of Naples. Illustrated. 1 vol., paper, price 50 cents. 
                  Mary Price, OR THE ADVENTURES OF A SERVANT MAID. 2 vols., paper, price 50 cts. per vol., containing 416 pages. 
                  Kenneth: A ROMANCE OF THE HIGHLANDS. Illustrated. Complete in 1 vol., 75 cts. 
                  Lord Saxondale: OR, LIFE AMONG THE LONDON ARISTOCRACY. In 2 vols. Price 50 cts. per vol. 
                  COCKTON'S BEST WORKS. 
                  The Steward: A ROMANCE OF REAL LIFE. Beautifully Illustrated from the English ed. 1 vol., 50 cts. 
                  The Sisters: OR, THE FATAL MARRIAGES. Illustrated. 1 vol. paper, price 50 cts. 
                
                
                  DUMAS' GREAT WORKS. 
                  Three Guardsmen. 50 cts. 
                  Twenty Years After. 75 cts. 
                  Bragelonne. 75 cts. 
                  Forty-five Guardsmen. 50 cts. 
                  Iron Hand. 50 cts. 
                  Memories of a Marquis. 2 vols., Illustrated, price $1. 
                
                
                  BEST NOVELS OF THE AGE. 
                  Frank Fairlegh: OR, SCENES IN THE LIFE OF A PRIVATE PUPIL. With numerous illustrations. 50cts. 
                  Lewis Arundell: OR, THE RAILROAD OF LIFE. By the author of "Frank Fairlegh." Illustrated. 1 vol, paper, price 50 cts. 
                  The Marrying Man. A Tale founded on fact., By the author "Frank Fairlegh," &c. Price 12 cts. 
                  The Colville Family. By the author of "Lewis Arundel," &c., price, 50 cts. 
                  Harry Coverdale's ourtship, AND WHAT CAME OF IT. By the author of "Frank Fairlegh," &c., price 50 cents. 
                  Fortunes and Misfortunes of Harry Racket Scap grace. 1 vol., illustrated, price 50 cts. 
                  Ben Brace; A NAUTICAL ROMANCE. Equal to Capt. Marryatt's best. 1 vol., illustrated, 50 cts. 
                  Guerilla Chief: A ROMANCE OF WAR. Illustrated. 1 vol., price 50 cts. 
                  Mervyn Glitheroe. By W. Harrison Ainsworth, Price, 50 cts. 
                  Windsor Castle. By W. H. Ainsworth. With eight splendid Engravings. From the London edition. 50 cts. 
                  Adventures of Paul Periwinkle. Illustrated. 1 vol., 50 cts. 
                  Martin the Foundling. By Eugene Sue. Beautifully Illustrated. 2 vols., paper, price $1. 
                
                
                  Mrs. Hale's Great National Work. 
                  Northwood: OR, LIFE NORTH AND SOUTH. By Mrs. Sarah J. Hale. 23 Editions of this popular work have been sold, and the demand still continues. Beautifully Illustrated, in 1 vol., paper covers, 50 cts.; bound in cloth, $1. 
                  The Greatest Plague of Life; OR, THE ADVENTURES OF A LADY IN SEARCH OF A SERVANT. Illustrated. 1 vol., paper, price 50 cts. 
                  Tom Racquet and his Three Maiden Aunts Beautifully Illustrated. 1 vol., paper, price 50 cts. 
                  The Diary of a Pawnbroker. With nine Illustrations. 25 cts. 
                  The American Joe Miller. With over 100 Illustrations. 25 cts. 
                  Portiolios of the Young 'Un. A humorous book. Illustrated. Price 25 cts., containing 150 pages. 
                  Wau-nan-gee, OR, THE MASSACRE AT CHICAGO. A Romance of the War of 1812. By the Author of "Tecumseh," &c. Price 25 cts. 
                  The Seven Brothers of Wyoming, OR, THE BRIGANDS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION. By a Member of the New York Press. Price 25 cts. 
                  Jack Ariel, OR, LIFE ON BOARD AN EAST INDIAMAN. A thrilling Sea Story. 25 cts. 
                  Gallant Tom: OR, THE PERILS OF THE OCEAN. 25 cts. 
                  Yankee Jack: OR THE PERILS OF A PRIVATEERSMAN. Price 25 cents. 
                  The Three Pirates: OR, THE CRUISE OF THE TORNADO. Price 25 cents. 
                  The Brigand: OR, THE MOUNTAIN CHIEF. Price 25 cents. 
                  The Flying Artillerist: A TALK OF MEXICAN TREACHERY. Price 25 cts. 
                  The Flying Dutchman. A sea Tale. Price 25 cts. 
                  Life of John A. Murrell, the great We turn Land Pirate. With Illustrations. 25 cts. 
                  Life of Joseph T. Hare. Illustrated. 25 cts. 
                  Life of Col. Monroe Edwards. With numerous Illustrations. 25 cts. 
                  Life of Ellen Jewett. Illustrated. 25 cts. 
                  Life of Jack Rann. Illustrated. Price 25 cts., containing 144 pages. 
                  Lives of the Felons. Illustrated Price 25 cts. 
                  Life of Alexander Tardy, the Pirate, a Tale of St. Domingo. Illustrated. Price 25 cts. 
                  Ryan's Mysteries of Marriage. 1 vol., Illustrated. 25 cts. 
                  Mrs. Hale's New Cook Book; a practical system for private families in town and country, with directions for carving, arranging the table for parties, and conducting the affairs of the household with comfort and economy; also preparations of food for invalids and for children. By Mrs. S. J. HALE, with numerous Engravings, price $1, bound in cloth. 
                
                
                  Best Collection of Negro Melodies published. 
                  White's Melodeon Song Book. 12cts. 
                  White's Plantation Melodies. 12cts. 
                  White's Ethiopian Song Book. 15cts. 
                  White's Serenaders' Song Book. 12cts. 
                
               Agents, Pedlars, Booksellers, Canvassers, &c., throughout the country, who wish an assortment of Cheap Books, would do well to address H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-st., N. Y. 
             
          
          
             
            NEW ILLUSTRATED EDITION-JUST PUBLISHED, 
            Price Twenty-five Cents, 
            THE MYSTERIES OF MARRIAGE! 
            THEIR SOCIAL, MORAL, AND PHYSICAL RELATIONS. Addressed to both Sexes. With Hints in Choosing a Husband or Wife. By MICHAEL RYAN, Member of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons, Physician to the Metropolitan Free Hospital, &c. 
            THERE IS NO SECRET IN THE NATURAL OR THE MORAL WORLD SACRED FROM THE INVESTIGATION OF MAN. ALL THAT HE HAS TO GUARD AGAINST IS ERROR.-Essays on the Pursuit of Truth. 
            To give the reader an idea of the value and importance of this great work, we give the Table of Contents, simply assuring him that every subject is fully and scientifically treated. 
            CHAPTER I.-Prevalence of Erroneous and Demoralizing Publications; Necessity of an antidote; Views of a Modern Divine; Eloquent Remarks of Mrs. Jamieson; Marriage without Means; Fallacies of Mothers and Miss Martineau: Checks upon the increase of a Family-The subject considered; Degradation of Females in London; Startling Facts; Punishment of the Seduced and Adulterer by the English law, Illustration; The end of Marriage. 
            CHAPTER II.-Origin, nature, and purposes, and duties of Marriage; Felicities of the Married State; Illegitimate Offspring; Necessity of Maternal Care; Proper age for Marriage; Evil Results from too early Marriage; Duration of Productive Powers; Instances of Virility in Old Age; Valuable Precepts in regard to Marriage. Powers of Conception; Is Marriage conductive to Long Life? 
            CHAPTER III.-The Consummation of Marriage; Evils of Violence on the part of the Male: Too frequent conjugal intimacy; The most appropriate time for sexual commerce; When abstinence is proper; Instances of death during coition; Proper proportions of the sexes in marriage; Imperativeness of the genital function; Developments in Children; Pernicious habit of Masturbation; Case related by Gall; Female circumcision; Singular operation; Cure of the habit. 
            CHAPTER IV-Perils of Premature Cohabitation; What is the proper age for Marriage; Laws upon the subject; Statistics; Juvenile Parents; Opinions of the early Legislators. Plato on the period for Propagation; Aristotle; The Jews; The customs of different Nations; Irish Chastity; Disproportionate Marriage; Consequent Immorality; Young Women and Old Men; Parental authority in regard to Marriage; Evils to be Avoided. 
            CHAPTER V.-Evils of an Unhappy Marriage; One based on Sensualism, Fortune, &c.; The true basis; Masculine Women and Effeminate Men; Men more deprayed than Women; The great Conjugal Duty; Irregularity in Marriage; The chief end; Study well the Character of your Intended Partner; An Irreligious Husband; Temper; Cares of Matrimony; Gisborne on Marriage; Love at First Sight; Foundation of True Love. 
            CHAPTER VI.-Polygamy; Law of Nature in Temparate Countries; Lycurgus's Method of Preventing Jealousy; Curious customs; Polygamy in Africa; Signs of Virginity; The Mosaic Laws; What Physiology Teaches; Extraordinary Case of Seduction; The Signs of Virginity may be absent, and yet the Female be a virgin; Incentives in Civilized Life to Amorous Indulgences; Women dislike men, who are gregarious in their Amours; The minor morals of Women; Their importance in retaining a Husband's Affections. 
            CHAPTER VII.-Requirements of Conjugal Fidelity; Grounds for refusing Cohabitation on the part of a Wife; Curious laws of Muscovy; when the Conjugal Debt ought not to be paid; Opinions of the Primitive Fathers; Conception during Lactation; Danger of Incontinence on the Husband's Part; Sympathy between the Womb and Bosom; Abstinence from the Conjugal Rite on account of Poverty, &c.; Adultery; Lax views on the subject of Conjugal Fidelity; Napolean; Extraordinary views of Luther; Man's Power of Procreation; Popular Fallacy; Other Causes of Conjugal Infidelity; Delicate health of Women after Pregnancy; The causes considered. 
            CHAPTER VIII.-Changes in the System as Puberty Approaches: Development of the Brain; Effect on the Female Organization: Nature points out her Rights, Predominance of Voluptuous Ideas: The Sexual Passion; The Progress of Lovers; Increase of Physical Love: Advice to the Young of both Sexes; Secretion of the Sexual Fluid: Full Development of the Male; Perils of Incontinence and Unnatural Excitement Puberty considered; Origin of Life; Physiology of the Sexual Organs. 
            CHAPTER IX.-Causes of Fecundity; Aliment, situation and climate; Affluence and Poverty; Temperament, Passions, Volition; Impregnation during Sleep; A Mother of sixty-two Children; Happy reply of Napoleon. Causes of Sterility; Does Impregnation depend most upon the Male or Female? Impotence and Sterility. 
            CHAPTER X.-The Seasons most favorable to Conception; The Months most abundant in Births; Popular superstitions on the subject: Influence of Aliment; Aphrodisiacs; Coition during Drunkenness; Retort of Diogenes; Case related by Combe; Effects of Mental Exertion; Complete Efforts on the part of the Male; Conception; Curious Facts in regard to Prostitutes; Abstinence Favorable to Fecundity; Anecdote of Newton; The Abuses of enjoyment. 
            CHAPTER XI.-New views of Marriage; A Woman is most attached to the man who has initiated her into the Mysteries of Love; Does age dull its Pleasures? The Conjunction of Souls; The Sense of Love ultimates in the Touch; Propensity to touch the Loved Object; Platonic Love, a Fallacy; Apathy after Marriage; Coldness on the Wife's part; A Husband's Duty Hints to Wives; The twain shall be One Flesh. 
            CHAPTER XI.-Further details in regard to the Reproductive Economy in Men and Women: Chlorosis, Perverted Appetites in Young Girls; Means of cure; Natural Defects; Effects of Extinguishing the Generative Organs; Castration; Its Effects; Origen; Italian Castrati; Anecdotes of Eunuchs; The Catamenia, or Monthly Affection of Women: Useful information on the Subject. 
            CHAPTER XIII.-Nubility; State of mind previous to Love; Phenomena observable in Young Women; Analysis of Love; Chastity; Natural Coquetry Rousseau's Comparison; Anecdote of Montaigue; Is Modesty Natural? Attractions of the Sex; Hints to Parents. 
            CHAPTER XIV.-Want of offspring; Matrimonial Disqualification; Distinction between Impotence and Sterility; Proper Mode of Treatment; Singular case of Impotence cured; Other cases; The true Principles of Restoration, Danger of consulting Quacks, The end. 
            H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-st., N. Y. 
            Copies mailed, on the receipt of 25cents, post paid, addressed as above 
          
          
             
            The most Captivating Romance ever Published. 
            PRICE TWENTY-FIVE CENTS. 
            THE BRIGAND, 
            OR THE MOUNTAIN CHIEF 
            
                
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "GALLANT TOM," "YANKEE JACK," ETC. 
            Illustrated. 
            THIS work cannot fall to excite the deep interest of every one who opens its pages. The life and exploits of Alessandro Massaroni, the Robin Hood of Italy, have formed the theme of many a romance and song; but the career and character of that famous bandit have never been so fully and graphically exhibited as the reader will find them to be in the bold "Brigand, or the Mountain Chief." The work is powerfully written, and the scenes so life-like, that the imagination insensibly yields to the magic of the author, and the reader cannot help fancying himself among the picturesque mountain passes near Rome, surrounded by all the enchantment, the mystery, the terror and the chivalry which characterized that strange era of Italian brigandism, in which Alessandro Massaroni was the master spirit. It is a wonderful book. 
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
             
               Just published, the following Sea Tales:- 
               THE THREE PIRATES. By Harry Hazel. Illustrated Price 25 cts. 
               REN BRACE, or The Life of a Sailor. Illustrated Price 50 cts. 
               THE ADVENTURES OF PAUL PERIWINKLE. Illustrated Price 50 cts. 
               JACK ARIEL, or Life on board an East Indiaman Price 25 cts. 
               GALLANT TOM, or The Perils of the Ocean Price 25 cts. 
             
            
               
             
          
          
             
            REYNOLDS' NEW POPULAR ROMANCE. 
            PRICE] [50 CENTS. 
            MARY PRICE; 
            OR, THE ADVENTURES OF A SERVANT-MAID. 
            
                
             
            BY G. W. M. REYNOLDS, Author of 'The MYSTERIES of the COURT of LONDON,' 'KENNETH,' 'COURT of NAPLES,' &c. 
            The immense sale of this deeply-interesting work fully proves the hold it has taken on popular favor. It is Inded one of the most fascinating novels that has recently been published, and exhibits the trials, the light and dark shades of a servant-maid's life, in a manner at once powerful, and such as to absorb the intense interest of the reader. It is in fact a domestic mirror, in which the reader will behold, depicted with truth, all kinds of masters and mistresses of families, and the many good and evil ways in which households can be managed. It is one of Reynolds best efforts.-The Times.
             
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-street. 
            Just published, "THE MYSTERIES OF THE COURT OF LONDON," in 2 vols, paper, Price $1.-22000 of this interesting work has already been published. 
            Copies mailed on receipt of $1, post-paid, addressed as above. 
          
          
             
            SUPERIOR TO CHARLES O'MALLEY. 
            PRICE, ILLUSTRATED. 50 CTS. 
            THE GUERILLA CHIEF, 
            OR THE ROMANCE OF WAR. 
            
                
             
            BY CAPT. GRANT. 
             
               NOTICES OF THE ENGLISH PRESS. 
               All the vivid descriptions of the scenes of war, and the graphic picturing of the soldier's life, that lent surn a charm of Lever's "Charles O' Malley." are equalied, and in a great many instances surpassed by the "Guerilla Chief, or the Romance of War." There is more of the "wildness" of war, if we may so express it, in which the romantic during, the fierce cruelty, and the reckless bravery of the handit chief, are mingled in a thrilling manner with the achievements of the courageous and honorable soldier. It is the most intensely interesting episode of war that we have ever read.-Critic.
                
               We know not when we have taken up a book that has enchained our attention to so great a degree as has the "Guerilla Chief, or the Romance of War." The incidents throughout are of the most exciting nature, extending in their range from the field of battle, and adventures among Guerilla bandits, to the boudoir, where the notes of war are hushed by those of love. Monks, robbers, and brave soldiers, all pass in a panorama before us, drawn by the hand of a master.-Examiner.
                
               NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
               JUST PUBLISHED-"BEN BRACE: a Nautical Romance. By CAPTAIN CHAMIER." Beautifully Illustrated. Price 50 Cents. 
             
          
          
             
            The Greatest Romance of Modern Days! 
            THE MYSTERIES OF THE COURT OF LONDON. 
            BY G. W. M. REYNOLDS, ESQ. Beautifully Illustrated. 
            
                
             
            MYSTERIES OF THE COURT OF LONDON-This splendid Romance of Reynolds is having a most unprecedented run only to be compared, perhaps, with the early popularity of Eugene Sue's "Mysteries of Paris," which it excels in deep and thrilling interest. Indeed, of its talented author's numerous and well-sustained productions, it is decidedly the master-piece.-London Times.
             
            For deep, intense, and thrilling interest, this brilliant work is unsurpassed by any production of the day. The most exciting elements of Romance are blended with a skill and power possessed perhaps by no other writer of our times in the same degree.-Bell's London Messenger.
             
            It is surprising what life, energy and talent, Mr. Reynolds throws into his works; how like the canvass, which glows instinct with life and beauty beneath the touch of a master painter, the commonest scenes of life are invested with surpassing interest by his pen. The "Mysteries of the Court of London" is undoubtedly his greatest work, and as such evidently appreciated by the public, by whom the volumes are caught with an avidity we have seldom seen evinced for a work of fiction.-London Court Journal.
             
            Published in two volumes, containing 412 pages, at 58 cents a volume 
            H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET, N. Y. 
            Copies mailed, on receipt of $1post paid, addressed as above. 
            Just Published-"The Mysteries of the Court of London," and "Rose Foster," beautifully bound in two volumes, cloth, and illustrated with THIRTY-THREE ENGRAVINGS from easts of the original English. Price $ 3, complete. 
          
          
             
            A THRILLING INDIAN TALE OF THE WAR OF 1812! 
            WAU-NAN-GEE; 
            OR THE MASSACRE OF CHICAGO. 
            
                
             
            BY MAJOR RICHARDSON. 
             
               NOTICES OF THE PRESS. 
               This is a deeply interesting narrative of one of the most thrilling incidents of the war of 1812. The peculiarly romantic nature of Indian warfare is depious by our author with the truthfulness and life-like touch of a great artist.-The Review.
                
               The Author of Wau-Nan-Gee, since the demise of Cooper, stands unrivalled as a writer of the romance of Indian Warfare. The book now put forth is perhaps the most interesting story of the kind which has ever issued from the American Press.-Literary Journal.
                
               This is a work of intense interest, connected with one of the most thrilling scenes that ever occurred in the Indian warfare of this continent. The author has sustained, and even exceeded his previous high reputation-investing the terrible scenes of real history with a romantic interest that renders them fascinating to the last degree.-Western Journal.
                
               A powerfully drawn picture of Indian warfare-its cruelties, its atrocities, and also its strange wild romance. Literary Gazette.
                
               NEW-YORK: H. LONG AND BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
               In Press-THE FORTUNES AND MISFORTUNES OF HARRY RACKET SCAPEGRACE, beautifully Illustrated from the English edition. Price, 50 cts. 
             
          
          
             
            THE THREE GOLDEN BALLS; 
            OR THE DIARY OF A PAWNBROKER. 
            Illustrated with Nine Engravings. Price 25 Cents. 
            
                
             
            This work presents a glowing picture of that epitome of human suffering and misery-the pawnbroker's office! What a view of life it unfolds! Crime, dissipation, folly, and too often unmerited destitution, meet at the pawnbroker's counter. The high and the low, the virtuous and the depraved, are alike the subjects of the cold, heartless, cent-per-cent usurer; who weighs with equal indifference the cherished token of affection which want wrings from the reluctant hand of suffering virtue, and the ill-got prize which successful villany presents, and doles out his ducats with miserly hesitancy. Such are the scenes which, with the hand of a master, are portrayed here; and we venture the assertion, that it will be found a work of deep and intense interest.-Pathfinder.
             
            Copies mailed, on receipt of 25 cts., post paid, addressed as below. 
          
          
            JACK ARIEL; 
            OR, LIFE ON BOARD AN EAST INDIAMAN. 
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "THE POST CAPTAIN," "THE PIRATE," ETC. 
            
                
             
            This volume contains a clever, spirited, and interesting tale of the sea, by the author of "The Post Captain." We know not who the real author of the work just named may be; but we are aware that there are numerous claimants to the honor, and some of them would find it difficult to spell even the name without the help of a dictionary. We ourselves have met with at least half a dozen "literary gents" who mysteriously and confidently assured us that they were the real Simon Pures; and the same was the case in respect to the novel of "Godolphin," until Sir E. Bulwer Lytton stepped forward, at length, to acknowledge the paternity. The volume under notice was written to delineate life on board an East Indiaman. The object is executed in a manner that will prove satisfactory to the readers of nautical tales. Some of the characters are well sketched-the Nabob for instance, and the gallant Captain, who eventually marries the sprightly Cicely.-London Weekly Dispatch. Price 25 cents. 
            Copies mailed, on receipt of 25 cents, post paid, addressed 
            H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-street, N. Y. 
          
          
             
            A COMPANION TO FRANK FAIRLEGH. 
            PRICE 50 CTS. ILLUSTRATED. 
            THE FORTUNES AND MISFORTUNES OF HARRY RACKET SCAPEGRACE. 
            
                
             
             
               NOTICES OF THE ENGLISH PRESS. 
               ONE of the most sparkling books of the season. For vivid pictures of bold and reckless daring, and dashing adventure, it has never been excelled. The author has unrolled a glorious panorama, in which the palace and the hovel, the prison and the home of virtue, are all presented in striking colors.-Critic.
                
               A spirited and piquant romance, irresistibly enchaining the attention of the reader by a series of the wildest and most exciting adventures, in which tragedy struggles with comedy, and the extremes of life are graphically depicted.-Spectator.
                
               This is an intensely interesting narrative of the career of a gay youth. Once taken up, the reader will not be apt to lay it down until he has followed the "Fortunes and Misfortunes of Harry Racket Seapegrace" to the end. The chase after the Scapegrace, that the author gives to the reader, is an exciting and lively one.-Disp.
                
               NEW-YORK: H. LONG AND BROTHER, 43 ANN STREET. 
               Just Published-"KENNETH:A Romance of the Highlands." By G. W. M. REYNOLDS. Illustrated. In one volume-paper. Price, 75 cents. 
             
          
          
             
            A THRILLING TALE OF THE REVOLUTION! 
            A Most Curious and Thrilling Work, 
            THE SEVEN BROTHERS OF WYOMING, 
            AN AUTHENTIC HISTORY OF THE Brigands of the American Revolution. 
            
                
             
             
               CONTENTS. 
               CHAP I. The Man on the Mountain-The Declaration of Independence-The Gorge of the Valley-The Cottage on the Delaware. 
               II. The Spy and the British General-The Quaker Farmer-Foxy Joe. 
               III. The Council in the Cave-The Widow-The Bristol Farmer. 
               IV. The Farmer-Saddler-A Match for the Doans-The Miller of Manayunk, and the Battle in the Dark. 
               V. The Quaker and his Guest-General Howe and the Doans-General Washington and the Smiths. 
               VI. The Attack and the Repulse-The Wound-The Tragedy of the Inn of the Valley. 
               VII. The Ravine of the Valley-The Death-Bed-The Revel and the Indian. 
               VIII. The Notch of the Valley-The British Colonel and the Doans-The Alarm of the Valley-The Bristal and the Abduction. 
               IX. The Tragedy of the Precipice-The Feast and the Surprise-The Massacre-The Death Circle of the Rock. 
               X. The Expedition into New Jersey-The Pastor's Wife-The Midnight Outrage. 
               XI. The Disguise-The Conestoga War-The Sham Lord and Colonel-The Gathering of the Cloud. 
               XII. The Ruined House and the Tragic Revel-The Leaping Match and the Arrest-The Forest Whipping Post. 
               XIII. The Death of Moses Doan-The Letter-The Sister and the Felons. 
             
            NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
            Just Published-"WAU-NAN-GEE, or the Massacre of Chicago-an Indian Tale of the War of 1812. By MAJOR RICHARDSON." PRICE, 25 CENTS. 
          
          
             
            SUPERIOR TO CAPTAIN MARRYATT'S BEST WORK! 
            THE ADVENTURES OF PAUL PERIWINKLE. 
            
                
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "CAVENDISH," ETC. 
            Illustrated from the English Edition. 
            This is altogether one of the most interesting Tales of the Sea ever published. The scenes are drawn by a master hand, vivid, full of intense interest; they excel in their true and faithful delineations any on record, save, perhaps, those of Cooper and Marryatt.-Examiner.
             
            The author of "Cavendish" has long held high rank as a writer of Sea Stories, and, in the present work, vindicates his claim to rank with the best authors on those topics. "The Adventures of Paul Periwinkle," are unequalled in their varied and deep interest by any Romance of the Ocean we have ever read.-Lit. Gaz.
             
            Here is, perhaps, the most brilliant Sea Story ever published. The "hair-breadth 'scapes," and exciting adventures which it contains, would be past belief, if a certain air of truthfulness did not assure us "such  have been," even though they excite "our special wonderment." The author is as familiar with the  of the ocean as with its charms, and paints them both con amore, and with a master's skill.-Ct. Jour.
             
            NEW YORK: 
            H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
             
               JUST PUBLISHED-THE FOLLOWING SEA-TALES: 
               BEN BRACE, or the Life of a Sailor. Illustrated Price 50cts. 
               JACK ARIEL, or Life on board an East Indianman Price 25 cts. 
               GALLANT TOM, or the Perils of the Ocean Price 25 cts. 
               YANKEE JACK, &c. &c. 
             
          
          
             
            EVERYBODY READS JACK'S JOURNAL. 
            
                
                  "OLD SALTS" SPINNING YARNS. 
               
             
            THE YANKEE PRIVATEER, 
            A Weekly Literary and Nautical Journal, 
            DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION OF SEAMEN, AND THE PUBLIC GENERALLY; ILLUSTRATED WITH ELEGANT ENGRAVINGS, EDITED BY HARRY HAZEL. 
            The Privateer will always be freighted, from stem to stem, with a valuable assorted cargo, embracing Original Nautical Novellettes, Forecastle Yarns, Merry Stories, Tales of Sea and Land, Adventures, Humorous Sketches, Nautical Intelligence, Poems, Songs, Jokes, &c., besides a great variety of entertaining and useful matter, of peculiar interest to Seamen, as well as to those who love to read of Life on the Ocean Wave. 
            TERMS, $2.00 per annum in Advance. Single Copies, Four cents. 
            May be obtained at the Periodical Depots in the United States and in the Canadas. 33 percent. discount made to Clubs of six and upwards. 
            POSTMASTERS authorized to act as agents. 
            Address (prepaid) to J. JONES, Publisher, No. 2 Water St., Boston. 
          
          
             
            A Companion to "Vanity Fair." 
            TOM RACQUET AND HIS THREE MAIDEN AUNTS. 
            
                
                  TOM CATCHES SIGHT OF MR. BLINK 
               
             
            With Numerous Illustrations. 
             
               NOTICES FROM THE ENGLISH PRESS. 
               For wit and humor, we have seldom met any production which exceeds "Tom Racquet, and his Three Maiden Aunts." That peculiar vein of fun, drollery, and pathos, which is so difficult of attainment, and so fascinating  attained, has been developed by our author with rare perfection.-Athenum.
                
               This is a most delightful and amusing book; something in the mingled style of Thackeray and Hood-a work both to laugh, and cry over. We predict an unprecedented run for it.-London Examiner.
                
               A lively and interesting novel, full of humor and pathos, and as well calculated to drive away a dull hour as any book we have read in months. The author has achieved a rare and difficult style, and we angur brilliant success in his behalf.-Spectator.
                
               NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET. 
               Copies mailed, on receipt of 50 cents addressed as above. 
             
          
          
             
            THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF JOSEPH T. HARE, 
            The Bold Robber and Highwayman: 
            WITH 16 ELEGANT AND SPIRITED ENGRAVINGS. 
            
                
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN A. MURRELL," "COL. MONROE EDWARDS," AND "HELEN JEWETT." 
            The history of the above extraordinary criminal is well deserving a niche in the felon pyramid next beside the great marauder Murrell, whose wonderful career has become a part of the history of the West. Though widely different in character from the renowned late pirate, and though the scourge of an earlier generation, Hare possessed qualities scarcely less remarkable than his satanic prototype; and his exploits may claim even a stronger interest, from the fact that he figured as the first great freebooter of the Republic. If Murrell may be called the "Massaroni of the West," Hare may be designated as the "Ridaldo Rinaldini of America."-Price 25 cents. 
          
          
            THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF JOHN A. MURRELL, 
            The Great Western Land Pirate: 
            WITH 22 ELEGANT AND SPIRITED ENGRAVINGS. 
            
                
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "COL. MONROE EDWARDS," "JOSEPH T. HARE," AND "HELEN JEWETT." 
            The Publishers take the opportunity of saying, that the above work is at once a correct, authentic, and graphic account of the deeds of one of the most daring and prominent men that ever figured in the records of crime. In the South and West, he is still spoken of as without an equal for the energy, capacity, tact, and perseverance, which he exhibited in carrying out his stupendous villanies.-Price 25 cents. 
            Copies of the above mailed, on the receipt of twenty-five cents, post paid, addressed, 
            H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-street, N. Y. 
          
       
   
