
    ----CITATION----
        Downing, Fanny Murdaugh, (1835-1894). Nameless .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6321 wright2-0791
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               NAMELESS.
               A NOVEL.
            
            BY FANNY MURDAUGH DOWNING.
            
            
               
                  
                     "All life needs for life is possible to will."
                  
                  TENNYSON.
               
            
            
               RALEIGH, N. C.:
               WM. B. SMITH & CO.
            
            M DCCC LXV.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1865, by WM. B. SMITH & COMPANY, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
            
         
         
            TO THE OLD FRIEND WHO FIRST SUGGESTED THE WRITING OF THIS BOOK, IT IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED.
         
         
            
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. MY LADY. 9
               
               CHAPTER II. AT HAUGHTON HALL. 15
               
               CHAPTER III. TRAVIATA. 22
               
               CHAPTER IV. VIOLET. 32
               
               CHAPTER V. MR. OSBORNE BEGINS TO PLOT. 37
               
               CHAPTER VI. MR. OSBORNE MAKES A DISCOVERY. 44
               
               CHAPTER VII. THE VALUE OF A BRACELET. 50
               
               CHAPTER VIII. BLIGHTED HAPPINESS. 56
               
               CHAPTER IX. IN SOCIETY. 64
               
               CHAPTER X. THE MAGIC RING. 71
               
               CHAPTER XI. MR. HAMILTON LEAVES IT TO FATE. 80
               
               
               CHAPTER XII. COMING EVENTS CAST THEIR SHADOWS. 85
               
               CHAPTER XIII. MR. HAMILTON ASSERTS HIS MASTERY. 96
               
               CHAPTER XIV. MAM'SELLE PROCEEDS TO CRUSH HER LADY. 103
               
               CHAPTER XV. WHICH WINS? 108
               
               CHAPTER XVI. LADY HAUGHTON ABDICATES. 117
               
               CHAPTER XVII. LUCRE VERSUS LOVE. 125
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. UNDER THE SHADOW. 134
               
               CHAPTER XIX. LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM. 144
               
               CHAPTER XX. MR. OSBORNE'S TRIUMPH. 154
               
               CHAPTER XXI PSYCHE. 163
               
               CHAPTER XXII. LORD CHESTER RUNS AWAY FROM TROUBLE. 172
               
               CHAPTER XXIII. THE LUXURY OF REVENGE. 180
               
               CHAPTER XXIV. DE PROFUNDIS. 199
               
               CHAPTER XXV. CHRISTMAS GIFTS. 217
               
               CHAPTER XXVI. PERFECT THROUGH SUFFERING. 221
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Nameless
            NAMELESS:
            
               CHAPTER I.
               MY LADY.
               MY LADY was tired of London, and expressed her desire to leave it. So as my Lady's will was law in her husband's house, the grand establishment in Grosvenor square was broken up, its splendid furniture put into mourning in its dark holland covers, the supernumerary servants were discharged, and the house, which had been one of the gayest in all the city, was left shut up and untenanted, except by two old servants, while the household went down to Haughton Hall, the seat of the family.
               The family was a small one, consisting in fact of but three persons, Sir Everard Haughton, his wife, and Mr. Raleigh Osborne, nephew of the baronet, and failing any direct issue, his heir.
               Sir Everard, now considerably advanced in life, had not even in his youth, been much distinguished for personal beauty. That is to say, by that class of judges, who estimate beauty exclusively by symmetry of feature and fineness of coloring. Tried by these tests, the baronet was decidedly not a handsome man. Yet on his irregular features tures and dark complexion, rested the impress of a quality which commanded more respect and even admiration, than the most regularly beautiful face could have effected, wanting it. Perhaps the charm lay in his eyes, which were particularly fine, but it was more due to the soul, which shone through them and lightened up his otherwise ordinary face, with the reflex of its own nobility and greatness.
               Nature, while denying him, her outward graces, had cast him, inwardly, in her finest mould, and had implanted in his breast a spirit, in which the chivalry of the knights of old was blended with the refinement and polish of an English nobleman. Grave and somewhat reserved in his manners, and perfectly self-sacrificing as to himself, he was keenly alive to all that concerned the comfort or happiness of others. Though simple in his tastes, and unostentatious in his manner of gratifying them, he exercised a princely generosity to those around him, while the very soul of truth and honor, and deeply attached to his caste, he maintained its dignity with the devotion of a new Bayard.
               If he had a predominant fault, it was his blind idolatry for his beautiful wife, so many years younger than himself.
               "Marcia" to him, "My Lady" to the rest of the world, she was attractive enough to justify even the excessive devotion of her doating husband, all the more excessive from the fact, that it was offered so unobtrusively and with such evident self-depreciation. She was one of those glorious specimens of female beauty, that are sometimes times allowed existence as if to show, what the race must have been in its Eden days.
               To look at her, one was reminded of the world renowned beauties of antiquity, who swayed human hearts with resistless power. And in addition to her beauty of face and form, there was an indefinable something, an excess of femininity as it were, that would have been voluptuousness had it not been toned down and subdued by her coldness, which appealed to every pair of masculine eyes, that looked on her, with emotions not wholly spiritual.
               She moved on in her haughty beauty, receiving the homage so submissively offered her, as a queen might accept her lawful tribute, and as careless of the passionate admiration she excited as the summer moon sailing through the clouds of ether, is of the baying dogs, which bark in wild frenzy at her regal loveliness!
               Mr. Osborne, a man young as to actual age, but aged by right of worldly intuition and wisdom, was one of those natures, which under a calm and reserved exterior, hides a spirit of the deepest subtlety, capable of conceiving and executing the grandest designs, and containing the secretive element so largely, that those most intimately associated with him, would have no idea of his intentions until they had been carried into effect. Possessed of a keen, and ever restless spirit, his one object in life was his own advancement, and to this he bent all the energies of his mind. Having only a moderate fortune of his own, he looked forward to the time, that would place him in a position of wealth and importance, with a feeling of complacency not entirely free from impatience. He felt as sure of this wealth and its accompanying delights, as if it had already been in his grasp; for although Sir Everard had been married nine years, his intense desire for an heir had not been gratified. At last he had submitted to this bitter disappointment, as best he might, and treated his nephew in all respects, as the acknowledged heir of his fortune and estates.
               Of course, the surprise elicited by the sudden disappearance of one so much the idol of society as Lady Haughton, in the very height too of the London season, could not fail to give rise to a hundred rumors, particularly as no reason for it had been assigned, besides that of its being the lady's wish to do so. These rumors were as far from the truth as they usually are, were discussed with polite gossip, and lived through a brief period. After which, society forgot its idol as completely as if she had never existed, and her place empty for one moment, was filled the next by some other darling of the hour.
               What a strange thing society is, and how much its devotees might be benefitted by some reflections regarding it, which sad experience has proved but too true, So long as one is able to keep his footing in the mad race of pleasure, he is allowed all the rights and immunities of this privileged order; indeed its bighest honors may be showered upon him. But once let him fall, and those, who crowned him the moment before, will now trample on his prostrate form, without a thought or a care as to the sufferings they inflict. While if he can gather strength enough to drag his mangled form put of the highway, and wander off to die alone, he is entirely forgotten, or carefully fully shunned, friend, acquaintance, and lover passing by, on "the other side."
               Perhaps if Mam'selle Felice, my Lady's French maid had chosen to unlock her tightly closed lips, she might have given some clue to the cause of her mistress's caprice, which had afforded a three day's wonder for London.
               She could have told of a drive taken in Hyde Park with Lady Haughton, who leaning languidly back in her carriage, was the cynosure of all eyes. At one of the numerous turns of the drive, the carriage was brought to a stand by a party of horsemen, which occasioned some delay. During this, one of the gentlemen had started violently, uttered a passionate exclamation, and then riding to the side of the carriage, had seemed about to address Lady Haughton. But with an imperious gesture, she had waved him off, and ordered the driver to proceed at once.
               That evening, my Lady, who had hitherto been free from such feminine weaknesses, was troubled with an attack of head-ache so severe, that not only was she unable to appear at dinner, but was obliged to deny herself to all, even Sir Everard, who came with the most tender enquiries, and entreaties for admission!
               Mam'selle Felice drew the blinds, lowered the curtains, and placing a screen before her Lady so as to shade her from the light, left her lying in the darkness, and went to her own room to ponder these unusual incidents in her fertile French brain.
               Deducing from them one conclusion, which she determined to keep in constant remembrance: "Madame must be watched!"
               
               Next day Lady Haughton was so unwell that she was obliged to deny herself of all visitors, and did not leave her room until dinner was announced.
               She came to the table with a face which was totally devoid of color, and then with dark circles around her beautiful eyes, which had never been seen there before. Indeed she looked so wan and spiritless, and her manner was characterised by such an extreme languor, that Sir Everard became alarmed and feared that the fatigues of the season had proved too much for her powers of endurance.
               He felt that the obvious course to be pursued in order to regain her health, was to leave the city at once, but was withheld from proposing it to her, by the fear that his plan might prove an unpleasant one.
               To his great surprise and delight she expresesd a desire to leave London immediately. So the next day they left London and went to the country, where as Mam'selle expressed it, "one buries one's self alive."
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               AT HAUGHTON HALL.
               A very comfortable place of sepulture most persons would have considered Haughton Hall, the beautiful old place, which had been occupied at intervals by the Haughton family ever since the Restoration. It had been built long before that period, but having been tenanted during the unhappy civil wars, by one of Cromwell's bare-boned adherents, Sir Harry Haughton, who came over with King Charles, and was as jolly a follower as that royal scape-grace possessed, swore that having been contaminated by the touch of a vile Round-head, the house was unfit for christian occupancy.
               Consequently, he began to pull it down with the intention of building a new one on its ruins. But the charms of White Hall, and so scandal affirmed, too great an admiration for Nell Gwinn's bright eyes, kept him so constantly in London that he soon gave up the design, and the old mansion was left to the bats and swallows, its only tenants. Succeeding generations had repaired the mischief, which this hot-headed cavalier had caused, but the ruins of the old part of the house still remained, and stood in grim contrast to the modern and elegant buildings with which they were connected.
               Very elegant indeed was the part fitted up for the use of the present family, particularly those apartments set aside for her ladyship's especial use. She was so grandly beautiful, and had so much of the queenly element about her, that royal surroundings seemed to belong to her by divine right, and Sir Everard had no greater pleasure than in lavishing his great wealth on all that was rare and magnificent to lay it, as a fitting trophy, at her feet.
               She received it as she did every thing, with a listless indifference, that seemed to lift her above the ordinary feelings of humanity. Indeed she seemed totally devoid of all kind of feeling and exhibited no more trace of inward emotion, than does a magnificent mountain on whose bosom sleep eternal snows!
               Her husband's nephew had studied her in his silent way, without an idea that all unconscious as she seemed, she was perfectly cognizant of his scrutiny, and his secret verdict was not in accordance with the general one.
               This declared that beautiful and gifted as Lady Haughton was, nature in lavishing her richest gifts upon her, had yet left her workmanship incomplete, inasmuch as she had withheld a heart.
               "No heart," he said to himself, as he sat opposite to the lady, the evening after they had arrived at the Hall, "how short sighted they are, who suppose that woman is devoid of feeling? I know that cold as she seems, she represents the old fable of burning fire under snow, and that her heart beats with a wildness of passion in accordance with the beautiful form, which, enshrines it."
               He was somewhat justified in this opinion, by the appearance of the lady at that moment. It was the time of the arrival of the first mail since they had left London, and instead of a state of quiet unconcern, she was expectant tant, almost nervous on a subject, which she usually treated with supreme indifference.
               At last the letters were brought in and presented to Sir Everard, who adjusting his eye-glass, began to look over their addresses. Mr. Osborne rose to assist him, but Lady Haughton swept hastily by him, and leaning over her husband's chair, read out the names, scanning the writing with eager eyes. There was nothing for her, and with a look of relief, she turned to the man who had brought the mail from London, and fixing her large eyes on him, she said: "Austin, are you sure there is nothing for me?"
               "I received the mail direct from the office, my lady," he said.
               She still looked at him, and with her eyes, rather than by the motion of her lips, pronounced the word "wait."
               Then she recommenced her walk up the long room, and seemed to have forgotten all about the occurrence. After a while she stepped lightly out of one of the long windows, which opened on the portico, and Mr. Osborne was not too intent upon his letters to see the glance she threw towards Sir Everard and himself. She walked down the portico, descended the steps at the end of it, and walked quickly across the lawn, until she came to a portion of it thickly planted with flowering shrubs. Then she stopped, and turning so that she faced the house, she said in a low voice: "Give me the letter Austin."
               The old man came up to her, and while still concealed in the luxuriant shrubs laid a letter in her hand outstretched behind her. She walked forward and when out of sight of the man, placed the letter in her bosom, which beat so quickly that it seemed as if it would burst the silk and lace which confined it. As she ascended the steps, she stopped before a vase of the exotic Cape Jessamine, trusted in the open air of the hot July night, and breaking off a branch of it, walked back into the drawing room.
               Going up to Sir Everard, she showed him the beautiful flower she held, and seating herself by him, began to talk to him in a strain that she seldom deigned to adopt, ignoring the presence of Mr. Osborne entirely.
               That gentleman sat in silence, with a sort of half disdainful smile on his handsome, astute face and thought within himself, "What an enigma, that woman is—how she disdains me and how I hate her!"
               His moody looks and sinister smiles were all lost on the unsuspecting baronet, who was too happy in the unaccustomed attentions of his wife, to take heed of any thing but the delight they occasioned.
               At last Lady Haughton looked at her watch, and with a laughing remark at the agreeability of Sir Everard, which had made her forget how time had flown, extended her hand and bade him good night.
               Mam'selle fretting with ennui, and dying to gain her own room, that she might devour the third volume of one of Alphonse Karr's novels, was but too glad to be dismissed by her mistress and told that her services were not required
               Scarcely had the skirts of her voluminous dress disappeared through the door, than it was locked and bolted by Lady Haughton, who proceeded to take off the delicate silk dress she wore, and then sitting down by the curtained window she drew the letter from her bosom.
               There must have been some magic in the little white letter, which lay in her hand still warm from contact with the sweet spot from which it had been removed, for as she read it, her cheeks glowed and her eyes flashed until she looked like some priestess in the midst of her sublimest inspirations. She read the letter to the end and then sat in a reverie, which took off the proud, hard look from her beautiful face, and changed it almost to the aspect of a timid girl. Then she started up with a great cry, as if some sudden thought had stung her beyond endurance, and paced the room with short impatient steps, beating her beautiful bosom in the wildness of her emotion, while great passionate tears gushed from her eyes and fell unheeded on the letter she still held in her hand.
               After a while she grew calmer, the weeping ceased, and her fair white arms dropped listlessly at her side, as with head bent low on her breast, she continued to walk slowly up and down the room. Passing by a large mirror, she stopped, and stood glancing at the reflection it gave back, saying softly to herself, "Am I then so beautiful?" The image which greeted her in reply, was too glorious to admit of a doubt on the subject. Tall and with a figure cast in the finest mould of beauty, each exquisite limb as perfect as if chiselled by a master hand, eyes as black as night and with a wild fire burning in their starry depths; cheeks all flushed with vivid crimson, and a skin whose pearly whiteness shone in the strongest contrast to the masses of shining hair of almost purple blackness, which, fell on her bare shoulders and floated far below her waist.
               
               All these and still more her essential womanhood, that subtle charm, which hung round her heightening and intensifying every perfection of form and feature, made a dazzling combination, which impressed the lady herself, and with a glorious smile she whispered, "He is right, I am beautiful!"
               She walked to a table on which stood a lamp of gold and alabaster fed with perfumed oil and sitting by it she spread the letter out before her and began to read it over.
               After she had read it a strange smile crossed her coral lips, and she held, the paper towards the lamp. A low knock arrested her, and crushing the letter in her hand, she opened the door. Sir Everard stood there in his robe de chambre.
               
               "I was in my dressing room, my dearest," he said, "and hearing you stirring, I feared you were unwell and came to enquire. May I come in?"
               The blood receeded from her face leaving it as pale as marble, but pressing her hand on her heart she said gravely: "An unnecessary question, since you know that this room belongs to you, and that I have no right to refuse your entrance."
               Long after the baronet had retired and lay placidly breathing in a deep sleep, did she lie with her beautiful eyes wide open, staring at the wall. When assured that he was fast asleep, she slipped away and gliding to the table removed her writing desk. Seating herself where she was hidden by the curtain, she began to answer the letter.
               She wrote rapidly on with nervous haste, placed the writing in an envelope and directing it to "The Honorable Robert Hamilton," she dropped it into a secret drawer of her desk.
               Taking the other letter, she held it in the flame of the lamp till it was consumed and she had blown away the light ashes it made. Then with a face as wan and pain stricken as if she had burned away some intregal part of herself, she rose, extinguished the light, and lay down by the side of her still sleeping husband.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               TRAVIATA.
               The short, blustering March day was drawing to its close and night was setting in, with a coldness and promise of a heavy storm, which made all those who were not obliged to remain out in the air, seek a more congenial shelter. The wind swept over the moor in fitful gusts, which drove the rain against the window panes with almost the force of hail; while the branches of the old oaks and elms standing like giant sentinels around the farm house, creaked and groaned as if they had been sentient creatures, heartily tired of the world and by no means able to exist until another summer.
               Decidedly, it was a night to make people appreciate well lighted rooms, cheerful circles of friends chatting around cosy firesides, and all other forms of indoor enjoyments.
               So at least thought Mrs. Hardman as she swept up the hearth, set the arm chair in the most comfortable corner of the fire place and went to the window for the twentieth time to see if her husband was coming, wondering to herself what could keep him out so late.
               A very strong contrast did the snug room in which she sat, present to the gloom and discomfort without. It was long and low, heavily pannelled with oak, which by dint of age and constant rubbing had acquired a dark rich color and fine polish, which would have delighted the eye of an antiquary. The furniture and everything about the room was chosen with an exclusive regard to usefulness, but there were evident tokens, that a woman's hand and one of no ordinary refinement, had been at work, and this removed, to some degree, the stiffness and hardness which would have been otherwise unpleasant. A large fire of logs which played and crackled in the deep, old fashioned fire place, threw a ruddy glow over the oaken benches and settles which were mixed with chintz covered furniture of more modern date and comfortable construction. The rays played on the brass mouldings of the great clock, which ticked in the corner, and flashed over the oak ceiling and wainscotting until they shone again, and sent back the miniature reflection of a hundred fires. The table with its neat service for two, was drawn up in front of the fire, the kettle stood hissing and sputtering between the heavy handirons, and altogether the room presented an appearance of simple and homely comfort very pleasant to behold.
               Mrs. Hardman was a pale, subdued looking woman who looked, if she had ever possessed the faculty of being happy, as though it had ceased to belong to her. Her eyes heavy with the weight of unshed tears, were now red with actual weeping, and as she sat on a low seat by the fire, her thin hands kept pressing each other with nervously tremulous fingers, as if she were striving to press back some great and overwhelming sorrow. Her life, hard and grey, and uneventful as that which is lived by hundreds of women, who, deprived of all that makes life, except its mere breathing ing, dispirited by the monotony of their lives, and thoroughly despairing of any change in them for the better, patiently drag on existence without a murmur. A girlhood passed in hard realities had given place to a marriage with one many years her senior, and of a disposition as different as cold is from heat.
               An honest, upright, well to do man was Silas Hardman, kind too in his way, and possessed of a certain sort of feeling; but hard, stern and unyielding as the inheritance of the characteristics of a long line of Puritan ancestors could make him.
               Deceived into the thought that there might exist a congeniality of feeling between them, and glad of almost any change in her hopeless, purposeless life, Mary Cheswick had married, only to find that a person less able to afford her the sympathy for which her heart was yearning, than the man she called husband did not exist.
               So she locked up all the warm, gushing tenderness of her nature, put a restraint on all her bright and delicate imaginations, and settled herself to the hard, methodical routine of never ceasing duties, which devolved upon her as the wife of the rich farmer Silas Hardman. They had been married several years, and she had grown so quiet and torpid, she sometimes thought she must have lost all capability of feeling, when she was waked to new life and happiness by the birth of a baby. A feeble, delicate girl and so tiny that it had hardly the appearance of being earthly, but still the one thread of gold in the colorless warp of her life, and loved with an intensity known only to those, who have but one object on which to expend the wealth of their hearts. But the time came when this gleam of light must be relinguished and her life made all the darker by contrast. The baby always ailing, dragged through a few months of an uncertain existence and then faded away and was laid in its little grave under the willows of the village church yard.
               Mary Hardman was a quiet and unostentatious christian, but a true and faithful one, and she tried hard to bear this heavy bereavement in a manner befitting her high profession. But the trial was a hard one, all the more, that her husband seemed to feel it less in the light of a loss than of a positive gain.
               Had the child been a strong, sturdy boy, calculated to make his way in the world and be of service to himself and his father, the case would have been greatly different. Silas Hardman deified wealth, and cultivated every thing, that tended to its acquisition with assiduous care; while all that in any way militated against it, was looked on with disfavor or as he phrased it, "of no use" and was rated accordingly.
               Doubtless he would have felt shocked had any one told him, that he felt the death of his little daughter, a weak, sickly child, who would always have been a source of trouble and expense, as a relief. Yet such was the case, and Mary with her eyes doubly sharpened by her love and grief, saw and felt it most bitterly.
               She sat now with the fire light falling over her, dreamily keeping time with the clock and as it ticked on, in monotonous regularity, its sounds seemed to shape themselves into the words, which were forever running through her heart; "baby gone—baby gone."
               
               So lost was she in thoughts of the little head that used to lie on her bosom, and the tiny fingers which had just learned to clasp her own, that she did not hear the sound of the front door as it was opened and shut with no very gentle hand, nor the heavy foot steps of her husband as he came tramping through the passage.
               So when he came in and walking to the fire, held his large, work hardened hands over its inviting blaze and stood trying to dry his boots, completely saturated with the rain, she started up like one roused from sleep, half afraid of a chiding for being so idle; waste of time, like waste of everything else, being in the eyes of her husband, a crying sin.
               He looked so cold and uncomfortable as he stood there, that she half longed to go to him as other wives might have done, and as it had once been her hope, to do. But she shrank from the look of unthankful surprise, with which she knew he would greet any such demonstration, and contented herself with removing his wet overcoat to the hall and bringing a pair of dry shoes, slippers being a piece of "nonsense" he despised.
               After a while he enquired with more cordiality than usual with him, if supper were not ready, and when the neat servant girl had placed the meal on the table, he sat down and eat and drank, until becoming warm and comfortable he waxed communicative and for him, cheerful. Telling her with a kind of grim humor, of a piece of business he had transacted that afternoon and by which he hoped to be the gainer of several hundred pounds; in consideration of which he had thought nothing of a walk of several miles through a cold March wind.
               The tea things were removed, fresh logs thrown on the fire and the servant dismissed with an admonition from her master to go to bed at once, and not sit up to waste fire wood, and the husband and wife were alone again. Silas, who while deriding the use of luxuries in those about him, took great care to indulge in them himself, lit his pipe and lying back in his arm chair, gave himself up to reflections, which must have been pleasant ones, for he gave utterance to several grunts intended for a laugh, and rubbed his hands with great complacency. His wife brought her knitting, a huge pair of socks for Silas, and seated herself opposite to him on a low seat. And while her fingers seemed to fly through her work, she closed her eyes and thought how lonely she was, and of the happy time when she had so proudly "set up" the tiny sock of finest lamb's wool, which now half knit was rolled up on its rusty kneedles intending it for the little feet that now needed no earthly covering. The night wore away and the storm seemed to increase, for the wind had risen and shook every thing loose about the house with a force, that made it sound again, while the rain poured down and in exposed places froze as it fell.
               Mary totally absorbed in thought of her child as she had been in life, heard a noise, which rose above the war of the wind and made her start suddenly, and with a cry of "Bessie's crying," rush towards her chamber. Then remembering in a moment, her full desolation, she sank down in her chair again and burst into a fit of uncontrollable weeping, while her husband, who had fallen half asleep over his golden calculations, stared at her as if she had become crazy and roused himself to administer a severe reproof. But in a sudden lull of the wind, the noise which had so startled her came again, and this time so plainly as to be unmistakable. She sprang to her husband's side, forgetting in her agitation all her fear of him, and grasping his arm with both her hands she said: "Don't you hear it? Oh! Silas, it's my Bessie, and she's calling to me!"
               "Nonsense, Mary, you mope here in idleness until your head is as full of fancies as my wheat will be of tares. Do more and think less. I hear nothing."
               "There, there," she said, white in the intensity of her feelings, "I do hear it, let me go to my child?"
               She started up and ran with headlong haste through the passage to the front door, opened it and went out. Silas took up the lamp and strode after, shielding the flame from the air as well as he could with his hand; all in vain, however, for before he had gone half way to the door a puff of wind extinguished it. However, the moon was bright enough to show surrounding objects, and just at the bottom of the steps he saw his wife, bending over a large object. He went to her and found a large basket over which was thrown a square of oil cloth which effectually protected its contents from the weather. Without a word he lifted it up and followed by his wife, went back to the room now seeming doubly bright and comfortable. He laid the basket, from which now no sound proceeded, in front of the fire and removed the outer covering. Mary knelt by it and taking off a silk coverlet, and several fine blankets, she came to a square of fine linen; she removed moved it and there in its luxurious bed lay a lovely infant about the age of the one she had lost. But there was no other point of resemblance, for this child was the image of health and liveliness, and from its little head, crowned with its soft rings of rich golden hair, to its dimpled pink feet, was perfect in strength and beauty. Opening a pair of large blue eyes, it gazed steadily at Mary for a moment, and then held out two little white hands towards her. Mary lifted it from the basket, and kissed it with a fervor of feeling she had never expected to experience again. As she lifted the baby up a note fell from the folds of its delicate dress, which Silas picked up and seeing it directed to himself and wife, he began to read it:
               "You are good and humane, take this child and give her the care and attention which those who love her best are now unable to bestow. She shall be no burden to you. Enclosed is a sum of money which will be renewed at regnlar intervals. Her name is Violet. Be kind to her and and you will one day reap an ample reward. Tend her life most carefully, but if she should die, have published in the Times this line, "Violet is dead."
               Silas laid down the note and proceeded to examine its enclosure, the amount of which greatly exceeded his expectations and which he quietly transferred to his capacious pocket book.
               In the meantime Mary had removed the rich robe in which the baby was dressed, and bringing a simple night dress, which had been little Bessie's, she put it on her; warming some milk she gave it to the little one, and sat with it closely folded in her arms, chafing its delicate limbs and holding its little feet to the fire until warmed and soothed, it slipped its little hand in her bosom and fell asleep. Covering it carefully, and placing its basket close to the fire, she proceeded to examine its contents, which she had previously removed. There was a large wardrobe, all of the articles being of the finest quality and enriched with delicate embroidery, evidently the work of some loving hand; but no mark or token gave the slightest clue to any thing like a discovery as to the source whence it had all proceeded. Beyond an expression or two of surprise, Mary said nothing, for she was too much afraid of her husband and knew him too well to hazard the desire, which so strongly possessed her, by speaking of it. She felt sure that he was weighing the matter after his own fashion, and that if he found it would be to his advantage to keep the child, he would allow her to do so. And to give it up, would seem to her almost like loosing little Bessie over again; but she gave no signs of her feelings, and sat quietly knitting with her eyes fixed on the basket, while her heart was a scene of contending emotions, which made ti beat so violently as almost to impede her breathing.
               Silas sat with lips all puckered up, his large horn rimmed spectacles pressed closely on his eyes, examining the note and making mental calculations as to the amount it had contained. As last he said: "I suppose she'll not cost much to keep her, but understand she's not to be made a useless doll, teach her to work and don't make a lady of her."
               So saying, he got up, stretched out his huge frame, and taking up the lamp strode off to bed. Mary took the infant which she felt was her's indeed now, and sat with it in her arms for a long, long time, shedding tears of quiet joy and sending up fervent thanks to God for this great blessing which He had sent her.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               VIOLET.
               Nine years had passed since that night, and little Violet had grown into a strangely beautiful child; like her namesake she shed sweetness and delight on all around her. To Mary she was like a new life, and through this bright influence thus brought to bear on her, she had been transformed from a timid, self contained, apathetic woman, to a genial, active and energetic person, whose life was filled with a quiet happiness and diffused a blessing on all with whom she was associated.
               Even Silas, gruff and hard as he was, could not resist the charm of the child's presence, and passed over in silence many an his infringement of rights and infractions of what he considered duties, which in a less favored person, would have called down a storm of indignation and stern reproach possibly enforced by a Solomonic use of the rod.
               But one could have as easily chided one of the bright eyed birds that came hopping about the farm house porch, when the roses that covered it were all in bloom, as to have spoken one word of reproof to Violet. She had the charm of making everything that she said and did, appear the best and most proper that could be. And then she was so warm-hearted and affectionate, so truthful, and with all so beautiful, that even when she was naughty, one could not help forgiving the fault, in consideration of the pretty way in which it was confessed.
               Silas had insisted as she grew old enough to be trained, that his idea of bringing her up to work, and not to be a fine lady, should be carried out. But a more powerful will even than that of Silas, autocrat as he was in his own dominions, was at work and to it he was compelled to yield. Nature had made Violet a lady as clearly as she has stamped the rose as the queen of flowers, and any attempt to interfere with her designs was worse than useless.
               As to work, there seemed to be a profanation in making those exquisite hands perform any labor more difficult than pulling the flowers out of the old fashioned garden and arranging them in any vessel she could coax Mary into lending her for the purpose. Of course, such a purely ornamental article as a vase, was not to be found in the practical household of Silas Hardman. So the child grew in her beauty and winning loveliness, with a proclivity for everything that was good and refined and intellectual; subject only to her own fine impulses guided by Mary's careful tenderness, the wonder of the village, the pet of the rectory and the very life of the old farm house.
               The remittances for her board came with the utmost regularity, increasing in amount as the child grew older, and to such a liberal extent that Silas rubbed his hands and chuckled with complacency at the happy chance which had brought him such good fortune.
               When Violet was seven years old, with the money sent to her, was this notice: "Let Violet be taught by the rector of the village all that a lady ought to know," and an additional sum was enclosed for the expenses of her education. But with this exception, no notice had been taken of the child's existence, and the whole affair was shrouded in as complete mystery as on the night when she was left an infant at Silas Hardman's door.
               So the little girl was sent to Mr. Ramsay, the rector of the village church, and soon became on a footing, in all respects, with his own children. He was a highly refined person, a finished scholar and a perfect gentleman and withal so kindly and gentle that none could be better fitted for the office of teacher.
               With his son and two daughters, all older than herself Violet began to study, and her progress was so great, that Mr. Ramsay soon lost all feeling of the drudgery of teaching, and rejoiced at a task which enabled him to cultivate so fine a mind, and see its young beauties gradually unfold before him.
               Mrs. Ramsay, who was an accomplished musician, undertook the child's musical education, but confided to her husband, that before very long their relative positions as mistress and pupil must be changed; nature having been as prodigal of this gift to Violet as she had been of all others.
               Time flew rapidly by, marked to Violet only by the change in the seasons, and the difference it made in her sports and enjoyments. Now it was summer, and she and the Ramsays were playing in the heaps of freshly cut hay, or riding on the great ox cart, while Silas walked by its side, his gruff manner changed to something like enjoyment, under the spell of her irresistible joyousness, as she pelted him with the wild flowers, with which her lap was filled.
               Now the scene changed and she was seated at the cozy fireside of the rectory, chatting gaily with the Ramsays, or singing in concert some merry song, or deeply solemn hymn. Or she would be rolled up in some deep window of the old farm house, deep in the delights of some favorite book over whose contents she poured.
               It was not without some hard struggles that Silas had given up in regard to the child, for to yield his will to any one was a sore trial, and one which he resisted with all the force of his obstinate puritan nature. But after a while he became convinced that resistance was useless and left Violet to unrestricted freedom and Mary's firm and gentle management.
               When she was about six years old her beautiful hair, which hung in ringlets far below her waist, attracted the notice of Silas, and saying it was "no use" and only took up Mary's time to attend to it, he ordered it to be cut off.
               Mary, who did not dare to offer a remonstrance took up the scissors and with eyes half blinded with tears, was about to obey; but the little beauty who was quite old enough to be sensible of the charms of her bright curls, jumped out of the high chair in which she had been placed, and with crimsoned lips compressed and her tender forehead all puckered up in imitation wrinkles, folded her fat white arms over her breast, and stood before Silas swelling with indignation and childish rage, very much as one might imagine an angry butterfly about to expostulate with some huge ox.
               "Uncle Silas," she said, for it was her fancy to call him thus, "you have no right to cut off my hair—God gave it to me, and it is mine and I shall keep it. You want to shear me like a little sheep—I'll but you like one,'' she continued suddenly changing to a fit of glee at the idea and putting it into playful execution.
               He passed his hand over the rich masses of silky hair and with the characteristic remark, "In France they'd sell this," he told her she was a naughty sheep and should be sheared yet. But the beautiful curls were allowed to remain in undisturbed luxuriance.
               Mary had told the child all that she knew of her history, and though Violet never spoke on the subject, she would sometimes sit motionless, with a strange wistful look in her dreamy eyes that made Mary wonder if she was thinking of her unknown mother, and could be drawn by some mysterious instinct into a spiritual communion with her
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               MR. OSBORNE BEGINS TO PLOT.
               Mr. Raleigh Osborne had begun to find the Hall somewhat dull, for besides the traditional disagreeableness of playing the part of one in a trio, Lady Haughton showed him by many of those slight indications, by which, in a perfectly legitimate manner, a well-bred woman can convey her dislike, that she looked on him with any thing but favor.
               So the young gentleman absented himself as much as he could without exciting his uncle's attention, and busied himself in political studies, the benefit of which he would reap when, as the representative of Haughton, he would take his seat in the House. Ambition opened a glorious vista before him, and in fancy he saw himself swaying the councils of the nation with a resistless force, which would make him the popular idol, and finally assign him a place in the Peerage.
               But all this greatness depended on one circumstance, and his fears with regard to it were most uncomfortably excited. This was by the thought that in his doating fondness for his wife, which seemed to increase daily, Sir Everard might be capable not only of settling on her his large fortune, but of alienating the family estates, which not being entailed, were at his absolute disposal.
               True Mr. Osborne, since the death of his mother, the only sister of Sir Everard, had been brought up by him, and after the Baronet had abandoned all hope of transmitting the Haughton estates by direct line, had been indicated by many signs as his successor. Yet Raleigh, with his keen insight into numan nature, knew that it would need little more than a whispered desire on the part of Lady Haughton, to induce Sir Everard to transfer to her the unrestricted possession of the whole estate. In which case Mr. Osborne would be obliged to begin a life struggle with the world, for which the life of luxury he had led in his uncle's house, had rendered him all unfit, and a lasting farewell to all his dreams of ambition, which now afforded him so much anticipatory enjoyment!
               "If she only liked me," he soliquized as he sat one day among the books which he had laid aside for a more exciting study, "it would not be so bad! To avoid the talk which would be occasioned by so papable a breach of faith on the part of my uncle, which the world would attribute to its right source, she might consent to a union with myself, by which both could enjoy the undivided estate. Or failing this, she might be induced to a compromise by which I should be secured from total loss. At any rate, it will be my best policy to conciliate this scornful lady, and as I cannot make her my tool, at least to persuade her into becoming my ally. But how to effect this? She knows that I do not like her, that I am proof against her beauty, and unmoved by her fascinations, and she pays me back by a contemptuous disdain, which I would not endure for a moment, were it not that by so doing I advance my interests. Oh! if I could only get some hold on her—if her life had some secret of which I was the possessor—how I would bow that proud head and humiliate that haughty spirit!"
               This train of thought elicited a feeling in the mind of the thinker, that it was very probable some such secret did exist, and the more he pondered on it, the more convinced of it did he become.
               What it was though, he had small chance of discovering for Sir Everard had married in Italy, and Lady Haughton had been brought to the Hall as a perfect stranger—to all at least but Mam'selle and Austin. The former had been engaged in Paris by Lady Haughton on her journey to England, and the old man, who had been a servant of her Ladyship before her marriage, seemed to share the dislike of his mistress for Mr. Osborne, and any attempt to induce him to be communicative would be sure to result in failure.
               Mr. Osborne rose from his meditations with the determination to pursue his idea, notwithstanding its seeming hopelessness, saying to himself, "I will bide my time and be ever on the alert, and with all your pride and beauty, my Lady, you may live to rue the day in which you made an enemy of Raleigh Osborne!"
               Very little heed did her Ladyship give to any idea of grief or trouble as her portion, for it seemed that such plebian things could never dare come near her regal presence. Just at present, she was possessed by a caprice as new to her as it was delightful to Sir Everard. This consisted in a graceful attention to her husband, and a quiet acceptance of all the tenderness he lavished on her. The years of the Baronet and his locks already beginning to show the silver footsteps of time, ought to have taught him a course of greater wisdom, but by a strange perversity of nature, they did not, and no young lover in the first flash of his passion, could have been more blindly in love with its objects, than he was with the beautiful woman he called his wife. She received it with a manner which, while not at all indicative of a responsive emotion, was at least a tacit acknowledgement that she permitted it, and the happy Baronet asked nothing more. He was never satisfied when absent from her side, and nothing but his care of her comfort prevented his trying to make her the companion of his outdoor sports. These he would willingly have relinquished for her sake, for though a thorough Englishman in his love of outdoor exercises, and as much devoted to these as when twenty years before he had led the hunt in the whole country, yet the new delights in the society of his wife, under her changed manner, were so charming that they made every thing else seem tame and insipid. But my Lady with a return of her old haughtiness, insisted that no change should be made in his pursuits, and by a pretty reference to the suffering it might entail on his health, carried her point. Thus she was left alone far more than she would otherwise have been, and acquired the solitude she so greatly craved. When entirely alone, the expression of her face would undergo a complete change; all the gaiety it wore while she was talking to Sir Everard and enchanting him with her brilliant wit, would disappear, and in its place would come an expression of doubt and disquietude, which made dark circles around her beautiful eyes, and deepened the lines about her exquisite mouth.
               Mam'selle coming one day with her usual cat-like tread into Lady Haughton's room, found her lying on her couch at the window where she had burned the letter, in tears, real, actual tears such as any ordinary woman might shed but which no mortal would have looked for in her Lady ship's proud eyes! She received the deferential sympathy of her waiting woman with such a haughty surprise at the presumption, which had called it forth, that Mam'selle compressed her thin lips more tightly than usual, clenched her hands, and inwardly added this to the already long list of injuries she treasured up against her mistress. That day Lady Haughton was more than kind to her husband and acted towards him with a pensive tenderness she had never shown before Mam'selle, watching her furtively from under her thick, bushy eye brows, sumed up a series of mental calculations, which ended in the deduction: "Madame conciliates; Madame has something to conceal."
               That evening Mr. Osborne, under the pretence of requiring her assistance in the exact rendering of a difficult French idiom, requested to see Mam'selle in the library; and in the conversation which ensued, he discovered that he had, in the person of Felice, an unexpected ally in his schemes for discovering the secret in which he, felt sure Lady Haughton's life was shrouded.
               He learned from her that Austin, at the time of his mistress's marriage, had been much less taciturn than he now was. Under the influence of the graceful figure and agreeable manners of Felice, he had not scrupled to talk freely of all topics on which she desired information. Unfortunately, as she now thought, she had not considered the subject of her new misstress's antecedents of sufficient importance to prosecute inquiries upon. But she had learned that Lady Haughton had been Miss Ashton; that she was an orphan without relatives, and that Sir Everard had met her at Gaeta, where he was spending a season for his health. She was a native of England, though most of her life had been spent in Italy, and at the time of her marriage, was living alone with only Austin and an Italian servant, whom Mam'selle inferred was her nurse. She had left Italy for a visit to England, from which she had returned shortly after the time when fate threw Sir Everard across her path.
               "One can assure one's self how it happened, Monsieur," Mam'selle continued, shrugging her shoulders. "Mi'lor was aged, Mi'lor was ill; Mademoiselle was young and beautiful, and Mademoiselle desired an establishment; Mademoiselle determined to become Madame. When a woman determines, Monsieur, she executes! Mees Ashton became Lady Haughton; My Lord became the one happy man of all the earth. Bah! Monsieur, one sees it all!"
               "You have access to Lady Haughton's room," said Mr. Osborne, "can you gain nothing from that freedom?"
               "Madame is deep," was the low reply. "Whatever the secret of Madame, it is too important to be risked! I examine—(I make no secrets from Monsieur)—I examine her bureaus, I turn out the folds of her dress, I take one small peep into her cabinets—I find nothing, absolutely nothing! What to do, Monsieur? What to do?"
               "Be always vigilant, notice even the most trifling circumstances, and keep me advised of all that you may learn," was the reply.
               "Monsieur may depend on me," said Mam'selle, as she whisked her flounces out of the room.
               "I am sure of that woman," muttered Mr. Osborne, as he watched her receding figure. "Hatred of her Lady for what she considers insults, a desire to revenge them, and the motives of interest I have held out to her—all the greater because vague and indefinite—will prove strong enough to bind Mam'selle to my service. Take care, my Lady, the plot thickens!"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               MR. OSBORNE MAKES A DISCOVERY.
               Mr. Osborne had some grounds for this opinion, for events were transpiring at the Hall which might have attracted the notice of eyes less keen and lynx-like than his own.
               Lady Haughton had changed greatly since the family had left London, and seemed to live in a state of constant unrest and uneasiness. She struggled bravely against these feelings, and opposed to them the whole force of her wonderful strength and self-control; but there were times when nature claimed her rights, and the woman was apparent under all her forced composure. She seemed particularly unnerved at the time when the mail-bag would be brought in, and its contents distributed, turning with a scarcely suppressed feeling of relief, when there was nothing for her.
               One evening, however, a letter did come for her, and Mr. Osborne while apparently deeply immersed in his copy of the Times, yet watched her attentively, from over its margin. The letter was short; in fact it only occupied a few lines; but these few produced an unpleasant effect.
               My Lady's proud head was as erect as ever, and her eyes flashed as haughtily as usual, but the blood receded from her lips and cheeks, leaving them perfectly colorless. These were the only signs of feeling she exhibited; and, indeed, even these were soon suppressed, and she began to talk to Sir Everard with more sprightliness than was her custom.
               Presently the clock on the mantle struck ten, and she started as if struck by a disagreeable reminder. She collected the evening papers, and brought them to Sir Everard, who was soon deeply immersed in their contents. Then taking up an uncut volume, which had come that evening, she walked to a window, and half concealed by its heavy draperies, sat down and began to read.
               Mr. Osborne moved a little nearer the table at which Sir Everard was seated, still keeping in view the window and its occupant. But his watchfulness was in vain, for on turning, after having taken his eyes off long enough to read an article in which he had a personal interest, he had the mortification to find that the object of his scrutiny had disappeared.
               His first impulse was to follow her, but the Baronet asked him some questions which led to quite an argument, and kept him chained most unwillingly to his seat. So soon as he could do so, he left the room and went out.
               It was a close, sultry night, and the rain which had been falling heavily during the evening, had changed into a light mist. The ground was sufficiently soft to show the form of any object pressed upon it, and as Mr. Osborne stooped down just under the window at which Lady Haughton had been seated, he found the impression of a delicate footstep, which, by its small size and high instep, he knew to be hers.
               He followed the footsteps as far as they led, and was thus drawn away into an unfrequented part of the grounds, where he lost them in the long, rank grass. Impressed with the idea that success, under the circumstances, was impossible, he stood for a few moments deliberating whether to return or prosecute his apparently hopeless pursuit.
               The place in which he found himself, was a portion of the oldest part of the ruins of the Hall, and was considered so dangerous that Sir Everard had caused strong beams and rafters to be placed against its crumbling sides, and then issued an order that none of the domestics should venture there. No such order was needed, however, for there was a tale of some terrible murder committed years ago, in one of the many chambers of the ruin. The spirit of the murdered woman was still said to haunt the place, wringing its fleshless hands, and staring out of its cold eyes on all beholders, in a manner which made the stoutest hearts quiver and grow faint. So the ruin was effectually protected against visitors.
               Mr. Osborne was as bold as most men, but there was something in the semi-darkness, the sense of complete isolation, and more than all, the hundred ghastly associations connected with the place, that weighed on his spirits, and impelled him to leave it.
               He turned to go, and as he did so, his quick ear was caught by a slight sound like the rustling of silk, and by the watery light of the moon just emerging from a bank of clouds, he saw through a cleft in the ruin, the gleam and shimmer of a woman's dress.
               All thought of fear or dread was instantly lost in his desire to follow his adventure to its end. Climbing up lightly by means of the holes and crevices in the wall, he succeeded in gaining an entrance through a window frame, the contents of which had fallen out long before, and crouching down by the wall, he listened with all his senses rendered doubly acute.
               He was too far from the figure he had seen, to do more than be sensible that it still retained its former position, and the constantly shifting light as it fell through a cleft in the roof was too fitful and uncertain to allow him to recognise who it was. So he contented himself with listening attentively and before long his patience was rewarded. After a short time the stillness was broken by a woman's voice, soft and low, and yet full of a deep pathos. Now it seemed to be persuading in the gentlest strains, now entreating as if some cherished life was at stake, and then the tones grew prouder, and a storm of defiance seemed to be launched at the invisible companion by its side. But through all the varied intonations, Mr. Osborne recognised the same voice, which he had heard not an hour before, discoursing in the sweetest sounds to an adoring and delighted husband!
               Her companion's voice in replying to her earnest appeal, was entirely strange to Mr. Osborne, nor could he catch a single word of what was said. What ever it was, it seemed to be satisfactory to the lady, for she spoke rapidly and then walked from the niche in the wall in which she had stood, thereby coming nearer to Mr. Osborne. Her companion followed, still keeping in the shadow.
               "Is that all?" she said scornfully. "You shall have it at once, on one condition however, that you leave this place immediately, and that I am no more humiliated by such a meeting; otherwise, I will put my threat into execution."
               
               "Not you, my Lady," was the light reply. "You are brave and strong, but you will hardly dare that. And as to the meetings which you say humiliate you so much, you can prevent their recurrence by"—here his voice became inaudible.
               The lady turned from him, and even the dim light was sufficient to show the haughty curves of her figure, which seemed more erect than ever. She held out her beautiful arm into the moonlight, and Mr. Osborne could see glittering on it, a magnificent diamond bracelet, which Sir Everard had lately given her. She unclasped it, and holding it towards her companion, said contemptuously: "Now go instantly, you have your price."
               "I kiss your imperial hands and bid you au revoir," was the insolent reply, and Mr. Osborne could see that the lady was alone.
               He crept cautiously along, as well as the insecure nature of his footing would allow and almost regardless of danger in his anxiety to confront his uncle's wife. He was within a few steps of her, and was about to stretch out his hand to seize her, when the solid wall before which she stood opened, and the lady vanished as completely as if it had swallowed her up. With a cry of rage he sprang after her, but the decayed planks on which he rested gave way and he was precipitated a distance of fifteen feet. Lighting upon a large pile of crumbling brick and mortar interspersed with fragments of broken glass, he lay there long enough to have an opportunity of indulging in sundry reflections on the fate and condition of busy-bodies, as well as of becoming intimately acquainted with the nature of bruises and contusions.
               Next morning at breakfast Mr. Osborne presented a somewhat woeful appearance, having his face disfigured by several patches of court-plaster, and being troubled by an inequality in his gait, which made it little more than a limp. These facts, together with the possession of a very bad cold, he accounted for by the all comprehensive explanation of "a fall on the gravel."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE VALUE OF A BRACELET.
               Sir Everard and Lady Haughton were discussing next day, a grand state dinner, which they purposed giving to the neighborhood, and the Baronet expressed his desire that it should in all respects, be worthy of the Hall, and its mistress.
               "I wish Marcia," he continued, "that you would dress with almost the same care as if you were going to a Drawing Room. These good neighbors of ours are very thin skinned, and may construe any lack of magnificence on your part into a want of respect to them. So please remember love, that the more diamonds you put on, the greater satisfaction you will afford."
               Mr. Osborne contrary to his usual custom on such occasions, here took part in the conversation, saying in his blandest tones: "It will be a fine opportunity for your Ladyship to display the beautiful bracelet which my uncle presented to you on his birthday. If not inconvenient, will you allow me to examine it now; for though I have seen the jewels of which it is composed a hundred times, I have not seen them since they were so splendidly reset."
               "I am unable to gratify you now," was the cold reply, "as I have not the bracelet with me."
               "I trust you have left it in good hands Marcia," said Sir Everard eaglerly, "not on account of the rareness and value of the jewels themselves, but because they are an old family heirloom, and there is a story connected with them."
               "I can scarcely imagine that her Ladyship could be otherwise than careful with a thing so valuable, not only intrinsically, but still more from the love which dictated the rich gift," said Mr. Osborne, with the politest of bows which included both his uncle and Lady Haughton.
               "Shall I tell you the story, Marcia?" continued the Baronet.
               She bowed her beautiful head but said nothing.
               "Long and long ago," began Sir Everard, "when good King Richard went to fight for the possession of the holy city, Sir Guy de Haughton, one of my ancestors went with him. And while wandering about after that hotheaded monarch, he had the bad fortune to be surprised by a party of Saracens, and carried off to their mountain home. His fierce captors did not remain long to watch over him, but left him in the hands of an old chief in their village, who too infirm to follow them in open warfare, was said to assist its success by the potent charms and spells he was accustomed to exercise. He had one only child, a daughter said to be as fair as Mahomet's Mary herself, and to her gentle ministrations the young and wounded knight was consigned. It was the old, old story Marcia, she loved him, and he broke her heart! However, with the self-sacrificing spirit for which your sex is so renowned, she curbed her feelings and hid her grief, and even plann ed and assisted in carrying out his escape, although she knew that by so doing she would separate him from her forever. Then unable to struggle with her grief, she drained a cup of her old father's subtlest poison and ended her life and its woes together. Before he left her, she had given Sir Guy the jewels of which your bracelet is composed. The story runs that they were of great antiquity, dating I believe from King Solomon, and they were said to have a talismanic power connected with them So long as they are retained by the person to whom they are given, so long will that person retain the love of the giver, and secure in that love may bid defiance to ordinary fate. But let them be lost or otherwise disposed of love flies away, troubles come thickly and—but I spare you the maledictions with which the heathen maiden loaded her gift to her lover. Of course, all this is but the veriest old wife's tale, and I attach no importance whatever to it. Still, I confess I do value the pretty toy all the more for the associations connected with it, and should be really distressed if you should happen to lose it. You know I do not often ask favors from you, will you grant me this one, and wear the bracelet Thursday night?"
               Mr. Osborne watched her Ladyship as stealthily as a cat might watch some unhappy mouse she was ready to pounce upon. The color did not deepen in her face, and she replied carelessly: "Of course, if you wish it—what does it matter?"
               About an hour afterwards, Mr. Osborne saw Austin mounted on the fleetest hack in the stable, ride rapidly off in the direction of the railway station.
               Had that gentleman possessed the ring of Gyges, he would have followed, and clung to the crupper as closely as that "Black Care" of which Horace tells us. If he had done so, he would have found that the old servant carried in his pocket two telegrams.
               One was directed "H. R.," signed M., and ran as follows: "You will at once proceed to the place you know, and there deposit what you received last night. You shall receive more than its equivalent, but do not delay one moment to give it up. Everything depends upon your immediate compliance."
               The other was simply directed to "Rosina," and was written in Italian, and bore no signature: "Take the packet, which will be brought you, to Madame Roger; tell her to make me a robe of crimson velvet, enclose package in it, and send it in time for dinner on Thursday. If it does not come at that time, to the Hall, I shall transfer my custom to Madame Elise."
               Mr. Osborne was more than ever complacent after he had learned from Mam'selle, that though she had taken a careful search through Lady Haughton's jewel-box, the diamond bracelet could not be found.
               Could he have followed her Ladyship into the solitude of her own room, seen her pacing to and fro, and marked how the impatience of her manner increased as Thursday drew near, and still no package came from London, he would have enjoyed her anticipated discomfiture still more greatly.
               Thursday evening came, and the grand drawing room at Haughtom Hall shone brightly with its numberous soft wax lights, while it was enlivened by several of Sir Everard's guests, who, with true country manners, were even before the time which their invitations had specified. The Baronet received them with his courtly manner, somewhat wondering that Lady Haughton did not appear to assist him in his duties.
               Her Ladyship sat in her luxurious dressing room in full dinner dress, with the exception that instead of a rich robe, she had thrown over her beautiful bare shoulders a light silk cloak.
               As the precious moments flew by, bringing the dinner hour nearer and nearer, she became more and more agitated, and at last when after sending Felice for the hundredth time, to enquire for Austin and the missing robe, the waiting maid returned with the same reply, "No, Mi'lady," she could scarcely repress a cry of dismay.
               At last the time came when she could no longer delay, and ordering Felice, who was but too happy to obey, to bring her another robe, she proceeded to put it on.
               The company had all assembled, and were scattered over the room awaiting Lady Haughton's appearance, and Mr. Osborne with a gaiety he could barely repress, was blandly seconding Sir Everard's efforts to entertain them.
               At last a Servant threw open the door and announced "her Ladyship." In she came, looking more regal than ever, but in place of a velvet robe she wore a dress of simple white satin. She advanced to the centre of the room, and stood there to welcome her guests, with as much cordiality as the most exacting of them could have desired.
               Sir Everard presented a gentleman, to whom he had requested quested her to pay particular attention. She stretched out her hand to greet him, and just above her delicately rounded wrist, shone the glittering gems of her magnificent bracelet.
               To Mr. Osborne's eyes the costly gems seemed to shine with a dazzling mockery, but the Baronet saw in their bright rays only the reflection of his wife's love for him and desire to please him even in trifles.
               He looked at her with a beaming smile, but she did not return it, and a burning blush rose to the very roots of her hair and dyed her face with vivid crimson.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VIII.
               BLIGHTED HAPPINESS.
               "Can not you put up your work, Lucy, and come and sit by me? I have had you for so short a time, that I begrudge every moment that you are away from me!"
               The speaker was a lady on whose delicate features, lingered the remains of a loveliness, which in youth must have been excessive. She reclined in a large arm-chair, and from the extreme delicacy of her appearance, and the langor which marked her movements, seemed to be a confirmed invalid.
               The young girl she had addressed as Lucy, was seated on the piazza upon which the windows of the room opened, utilizing the last rays of sunlight, in order to finish a drawing, to which she was giving the last touches. She sprang up at the sound of her name, and laying aside her drawing implements, placed the still unfinished drawing in her sketch-book, and entering the drawing room, she drew a chair to the side of the lady and seated herself.
               "Dear mamma," she said, "how selfish I have been to forget that you were sitting here all alone. Pardon me," and she held up a sweet, rosy mouth for the kiss, which was gladly bestowed." Really, mamma," she continued, "it is so delightful to be at home; and subject only to my own will, instead of being hampered by the rules of the boarding school, that if I sometimes forget myself you must not wonder at it, but must attribute it to its right cause.
               "Are you so happy here, dear child?" asked her mother tenderly.
               "Ah! mamma, can you doubt it, when I have you, and am at home? We are all the world to each other, and I require nothing more to make me happy than to be with you, wait on you, and try to cheer you."
               "You do so, my precious child. I did not think of my happiness, that is secured by having you with me. But I fear the quiet life I lead here, may be wearisome to a young creature like you, to whom more congenial society would naturally afford pleasure.
               "Oh! mamma, you are not going to send me away from you again," she said earnestly, while the tears came into her lovely eyes.
               "No, my darling, but I think of taking you with me. How would you like that, Lucy?"
               "Very much," was the smiling reply. "But where are we going?"
               "I received a letter this morning from Lady Chester, containing invitations to Chester Place, where the coming birth-day of her only child, Harcourt, is to be celebrated in grand style. She is a dear friend of mine, and has peculiar claims on my love, for we were much together during one part of my happy married life. You were a baby then, just large enough to walk by clasping my hand, and would play for hours with Harcourt, who though four years older than you, seemed to prefer you to any other companion.
               "After the death of her husband, Lady Chester determined to superintend the education of her son, and having a preference for foreign universities, she went with him to Padua, where they have remained ever since. We have kept up an occasional correspondence all through this time, and I look forward with great pleasure to a re-union with one to whom I am so tenderly attached.
               "This visit will be to your introduction to the world, Luey, that great wonderful world of which you have heard so much, and I half tremble, my love, when I try to look through the misty veil of the future, and see all that is in store for you. All your previous training must be brought to bear on this point, all my teachings must now influence you. Hitherto I have acted for you dear, henceforth you will be obliged to act on your individual responsibility, and I can only help you with my advice and my prayers. I have taught you my darling, the source of all strength and wisdom and to that I commit you. You must lay aside childhood and all its immunities and take up a load of cares and responsibilities in the joys and sorrows of a woman's life. Rather a heavy burden, I fear, for such slight shoulders," she continued, pressing her hand fondly on the pearly neck of the young girl. "But I am making too serious a matter of what I hope will not prove at all formidable, love. Lady Chester tells me that the place has been completely remodeled, and is ornamented with the art treasures gathered up in her long residence idence in Italy. There will be a number of guests, among them several of the greatest London celebrities. Lady Haughton, whose beauty has made her the reigning queen of society for every season she has passed in it, will be there. So will Miss Golding, said to be the greatest heiress in England. Besides these she mentions a number of other persons, among them several strangers of distinction. In the list is the Hon. Mr. Hamilton, who has just returned to England, from which he has been absent a number of years. When you were in the nursery, my dear, he was the most conspicuous man in London, on account of his excessive beauty of person, and still more for a fascination of manner he possessed, which it was said no woman could resist. I need not tell you, Lucy, that this remark did not apply to women brought up as I have brought you up my child, and I only mention this that you may be somewhat prepared for the new society in which you are to be thrown."
               "Is he married?" asked the young girl.
               "No; as I told you, he left England suddenly about nine years ago, sent off it was whispered, by his father on account of some affaire de coeur, and he has been absent ever since. Upon the death of his father, which took place several years ago, it was found that his estates were hopelessly involved and so Mr. Hamilton, instead of the luxury to which he has always been accustomed, is now in a position which affords him barely a competence, even in an humble sphere, and it is hinted that tired of dragging out a precarions living on the Continent he has returned to England with the sole purpose of repairing his ruined patrimony by a marriage with some lady of fortune."
               
               "Oh! mamma," said the laughing girl, "how excessively stupid and common place—you have destroyed all the romance I was beginning to cluster around this handsome hero."
               It is just possible that this was the aim of Mrs. Talbot's remarks, for as her daughter was possessed in her own right of a fortune quite ample enough to make her a prize to some needy gentleman, the wise mother determined to send her out into the world armed with all the panoply of distrust. The evening was passed quietly in discussing the intended visit and arranging the pretty dresses, which Lucy would require in right of being a young lady regularly out.
               When bed time came, Mrs. Talbot, assisted by her old and trusty servant, was comfortably settled in her pleasant chamber into which Lucy's opened. She lay in the dimness of her taper lighted room and watched the young girl as she laid aside her simple ornaments and prepared to retire. She put on her snowy night dress, twined the mass of soft golden curls that fell on her dimpled shoulders into a large knot at the back of her head, then taking out her little bible and prayer book; she sat down to her accustomed reading; that finished, she extinguished the lamp and kneeling down at the side of her pretty girlish bed, clasped her white hands and said her evening prayers.
               The mother watched her as she knelt there with the soft moonlight falling on her slight girlish figure, and a sweet peace stole over her mind, as she thought of the blessings promised to the pure in heart.
               Mrs. Talbot had, in her youth, been one of the greatest devotees to fashion and gaiety, while her great beauty and charming manners made her a belle in the highly aristocratic society in which she moved. In the height of her beauty, she had made the acquaintance of Col. Talbot, a young officer in the Guards, and, after a short courtship, they had been married; and, too happy in each other's love to care for other society, they left the gay world of London for a beautiful estate, which the Colonel owned in the southern part of Scotland, where they passed several years. In the happiness which blessed her life in the love of one so amiable and highly refined as her husband, Mrs. Talbot almost forgot that such things as care and sorrow existed. Her life flowed on in one unbroken stream of calm and sweet contentment; her books, her flowers her simple country pursuits, and, above all, the society of her idolized husband and the delights of Lucy, then a lovely baby about a year old, made up that life which one of our sweetest Southern Poets so justly termed "that sweetest of all lives, the life without history." This happiness was destined to last but a short time. In the beginning of the summer that completed Lucy's first year, Col. Talbot, who was called off on business to the town which stood several miles from his country seat, bade her and his wife a smiling good-bye. He had the baby lifted up to him as he sat on his beautiful horse, and held her before him as he lingered talking to her mother, who stood on the steps of the portico, and relinquished her most unwillingly when he was obliged to tear himself away. His wife looked after him as he rode down the avenue of linden trees, so noble, so handsome, so fall of love for her, and her heart felt almost heavy with the burden of her happiness. She walked into the house, now so changed and dreary without his presence, and thought to herself, if the absence of her husband for only a few days, made such a void in her life, what a horror of desolation must be the portion of those who see the treasures of their hearts taken from them forever! Next day, instead of the letter she hoped for, came a note from the family physician in the town to which Col. Talbot had gone, speaking vaguely of an accident, and begging her to come on at once. Frantic with apprehension, she had gone, and found, instead of the gay, joyous husband, who had left her the day before in all the pride of youth and manly beauty, a pale man, in whom almost all semblance to humanity had been crushed out. In descending one of the steepest crags of the road, his horse, an English animal, and not accustomed to the peculiarities of Scottish traveling, had lost his footing and fallen, crushing his master under him on the sharp granite stones beneath. How long he had lain there he did not know, when he was discovered by a hunting party, who, after great exertions, succeeded in rescuing him from his terrible position. He was still still alive, though small hopes were entertained of his recovery. Mrs. Talbot nursed him with the care that only such devoted love as hers could give, and just as soon as it was possible to have him removed, she took him to London, that he might have the benefit of the highest medical skill. No earthly skill could avail him now; some internal injury had been received, and the utmost that could be hoped, was that Col. Talbot would survive a few months. It was at this time that Mrs. Talbot had been associated with the friend of her girlhood, Lady Chester, and to her tender friendship she owed many a sweet and soothing attention. At last the dreaded moment came, and she saw the eyes that had never met hers but with a look of fondest love, grow cold and irresponsive; the hand that was clasped in hers became chill as marble and stiffened in her grasp, and the heart that was moved by the slightest approach of pain to her, now lay unmoved and heedless of the bitter agony that overwhelmed her. She would have died, too, had her love for her husband been less. As it was, she determined to live for his sake. In the last sweet conversation he had held with her, he had talked to her of this, and begged her, for his sake, to live and devote herself to their child. So now she gathered up all her feeble energies, put a covering over her bruised heart, and took up the burden of life again. Nature, however, claimed her rights, and in the shattered health and sorrow stricken spirit, gave proof of the inward agony by which this self-sacrificing woman was consumed. She had devoted herself to Lucy, and had never been separated from her, until the time came when she judged it best to send her to a very superior boarding school, at which she had passed several years. Lucy had just completed her seventeenth year, and had left school and rejoined her mother in the beautiful villa in which she lived, a short distance from London.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               IN SOCIETY.
               The few days succeeding the conversation last narrated, were passed in preparations for the intended visit, and on the Monday following, Mrs. Talbot and Lucy set out for Chester Place. They were received with the kindest welcome by Lady Chester, and conducted by her to the pretty suite of rooms appropriated to their use on the first floor. "I chose these for you, my dear Ellen," said her Ladyship, "because I wish you to consult your own feelings, with regard to our society. While always delighted to have you with us, I wish you to consider it by no means incumbent on you to join us. So here you will be free to receive such visitors as you may select, or may pass your time alone."
               She left them to attend to some newly arrived guests, and Lucy ran all through the pretty rooms with the glee of a little child, and then submitted herself to the hands of her maid to dress for her first appearance in society. When she came out and announcing herself as all ready for inspection, stood before her mother, Mrs. Talbot might well have been forgiven for a glow of maternal vanity as she looked at her lovely child. She was dressed, in accordance with her mother's exquisite taste, and no other style could have so well become the pure and infantile type of her beauty as the elegant simplicity by which her toilette was distinguished. She wore a robe of white crape with numerous little delicate flounces upon it, and on her soft bosom lay a boquet of pure white roses, relieved by the dark leaves of some tropic geranium. These and her soft golden curls, which fell on her dimpled white shoulders, were her only ornament, and in her fresh young beauty, she looked so pure and angelic, that one looking at her might have been tempted to ask, "where are the wings?" She seemed as much unconscious of the admiring glance of her mother as a little child would have been, and seating herself at her feet began a lively recital of some incident of her school life, when the clock on the mantel struck, warning them that it was time to proceed to the drawing room. Drawing her mother's arms in hers, Lucy led her from the room, and a lovely picture the two presented, Mrs. Talbot's refined and spiritualised loveliness, well harmonising with her daughter's sparkling beauty. The room was full when they entered, and Lucy might have felt some degree of embarrassment, had she not been supported by the quiet grace and self possession of her mother's manner. Very lovely did she look, as she stood timidly receiving the greetings and introductions which followed her entrance, and more than one pair of eyes were fastened upon her in undisguised admiration.
               Lord Chester, who stood talking to a group of gentlemen, pressed eagerly forward to be presented in form, and renew the acquaintance which had existed in childhood, and as Lady Chester introduced him and smilingly reverted verted to bye-gone times Lucy's cheeks become eloquently rosy.
               "Who is she Upperton?" lazily asked a tall and aristocratic looking man who formed one of the group which Lord Chester had just quitted.
               The speaker was one on whom no one could look without desiring to look again, and it had been whispered that many a pair of lovely eyes had gazed on the majestic beauty of that pale face, until in its fascinations all peace of mind had been lost. His form, which was immensely tall, was so perfectly proportioned that instead of the awkardness which usually attends unusually tall persons, every motion was full of the highest grace. His hand, which lay carelessly on a table of black marble, was as white and exquisitely formed as a woman's, and with all this perfection of a form and figure, there was an air of aristocratic ease, a perfect adaptation to the height of the prevailing fashion without seeming in the least degree foppish, and an elegance of manner and address, which of themselves alone, would have rendered their possessor irresistible. But the face, Oh! the untold, the indescribable beauty of that pale calm face!
               Where so many perfections were combined, it was difficult to give to any one of them a predominance; yet the clear cut, purely classic features, the broad noble brow, with its rich masses of auburn hair, the clear olive skin and the exqisitely curved mouth, were all eclipsed by the marvellous loveliness of the eyes. No other term could apply to them as they lay shaded by his arched eye-brows. And when slightly bending his proud head, he would raise the lids and looked down on one, it seemed out of nature to resist the tender feelings evoked by the sad dreaminess of those soul-speaking eyes.
               "Who is she!" replied Mr. Upperton, "why the very latest importation from the nursery—queen of wax-dolls, and princess of sugar plums,—Miss, Talbot. Rich as all well conducted young women should be, pretty as you see, and still at that tender age, where one sees with "Mamma's" eyes, hears with "Mamma's" ears, and in short, is only a pretty puppet the strings of which 'Mamma" pulls. Don't you see Lady Chester's game? She has managed Chester so long, that it has become second nature. And as he must marry, her care is to secure just such a wax baby as that yonder, though when she can continue to govern him without his being aware of it. Why do you not go in Hamilton and spoil her game? I'd do it, but upon my honor it's too much trouble." And the young exquisite pulled up his collar and played with the ends of his richly embroidered cravat.
               "No thank you, Upperton," replied his companion. "In the first place, I am Byronic enough to despise 'sweet sixteen,' and besides I do not admire the angelic style to which Miss Talbot belongs. My predelictions are for what I consider the exponents of a soul—hair like night, and great flashing eyes!"
               "Like these just coming in? There is a woman indeed—real, ripe, glorious! Look at her now is'nt she perfection, from the crown of her royal head to the tips of her dainty feet. Lady Haughton is the only subject on which I permit myself to feel, and even she is scarcely worth the trouble!"
               
               "If she be as heartless as report makes her, your feeling or want of it, will make but little difference to her Ladyship. However, Upperton, introduce me to the beauty; I wish to observe her fron a nearer stand."
               The gentlemen crossed the room to the place where Lady Haughton, who had disengaged her arm from that of Sir Everard, stood talking with her usual indifference to several gentlemen.
               "Lady Haughton," said Mr. Upperton, "allow me to introduce the Honorable Mr. Hamilton."
               The Lady bowed so low that her face was hidden from view, while her greeting was inaudible.
               Mr. Hamilton bent his stately head, and half unconsciously extended his hand. But the Lady did not see it, nor did she once raise her eyes to him, but quietly continued the conversation which his coming had interrupted. Indeed, her manner was so marked with coldness, that Sir Everard, pitying the gentleman's condition, began to talk to him in a way very foreign to his usual reserve.
               Dinner was announced, and Lady Haughton was taken down by Lord Chester. The young Lord saw Lucy go down on the arm of the elderly gentleman to whom she had been assigned, with a feeling very much of dislike towards that placid, inoffensive individual, as if he had received a positive wrong at his hands.
               At table Lady Haughton was seated next to Mr. Hamilton, though she did not seem aware of his presence, and through the meal, with the license universally allowed her, she chose to ignore his existence, and forget he had any claim on her acquaintance.
               Always brilliant when she chose to display her powers, to-day she surpassed herself, and without the least effort or desire to do so, succeeded in attracting the attention of the whole company and fastening it upon herself. Mr. Hamilton, who had at first tried to induce her to lay aside her evident dislike of him, after a while quietly submitted to her humor, and sat by her side apparently the only one unconscious of her charms.
               Dinner over, the party returned to the drawing room, and broke up into pleasant little groups, all of which were eagerly intent upon the discussion of the festivities that were to take place in three days.
               The attainment of his estate by one so wealthy and highly connected as Lord Chester, was an event of too much importance to be passed over as an every day affair. So Lady Chester had determined that it should be celebrated as its importance deserved. The entire tenantry was to be feasted in the park; oxen were to be roasted whole, barrels of brown ale broached, the national plum pudding was to be served up ad infinitum, and every old woman in the parish was to receive a present of a pound of tea, and a warm woolen cloak for winter use. Besides all this, games and sports of various kinds were to be provided for the younger portion of the assembly, and prizes were to be awarded to the successful competitors.
               For the guests of higher rank, amusements in accordance with their tastes were selected, including every species of pleasure, from chess and cards in the library, to a dance by day-light on the lawn, on which a large and splendidly decorated markee was to be erected. At night there was to be a grand ball, during which sky rockets, and Chinese fire works were to be displayed; in short nothing was to be left undone, that could in any manner administer to the comfort or pleasure of the company.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               THE MAGIC RING.
               A merry group had gathered in one of the large low windows of the room, among which were Lucy, Lord Chester, Mr. Hamilton and several others, and they were chatting on the all absorbing topic.
               "I have exhausted my capabilities in the way of suggesting enjoyments," said Lord Chester gaily," "so I will offer a reward, of his own choosing, to any one who will discover a new one! Please set your inventive faculties to work. What do you suggest, Miss Lucy?"
               "Really, my Lord," she replied smilingly, "your programme is already so delightful, that I can imagine no addition, that would improve it."
               "Miss Golding, will you assist me?" persisted the young Lord.
               The lady he addressed was seated awkwardly in an arm chair, several sizes too small for her capacious crinoline, in consequence of which the crushed substance revenged itself by taking the most ludicrous and ungraceful forms.
               She simpered at the question, and made several motions with the rich bracelets which hung round her wrists, and at last said, "Oh! you must excuse me, unless"—here a bright idea seemed to strike her—"you could have fish"
               "There will be fishing boats for all who desire them, and I hope the fish will be compliant enough to come to be caught," answered the young Lord. "But I shall have to apply to you, gentlemen, as I see I cannot expect help from the ladies. Give me the benefit of your thoughts, Upperton, will you?"
               "Thoughts! I never think. There's nothing on earth worth thinking of. But if I did give an opionion, it would be that a dose of hashish administered to each guest, might create an additional enjoyment!"
               "Thank you; I never heard of but one host who thus treated his guests, the lord of Monte Christo, and the experiment did not prove particularly agreeable to them.
               Mr. Hamilton, unless you come to the rescue, I shall abandon my project in despair!"
               "What do you say to selecting either by vote or universal acclamation, some lady from the many fair ones who form your party, as queen of the day and night; investing her with despotic powers, and making it a penal offence to resist or evade her authority? I give only the bare outline of the plan, leaving it to the ladies to fill up."
               He bowed low to Lucy, looking at her out of his dreamy eyes, with so sad an expression, that without knowing why, she felt the strongest impulse to cry.
               "Excellent! how original!" was murmured on every side, and a committee was at once appointed to carry out the suggestion.
               "May I ask the subject of interest, Miss Talbot?" said Lady Haughton, who had stopped in front of Lucy's chair.
               "Oh! yes," was the timid reply. "We—that is, Mr. Hamilton, proposes to select a queen of Love and Beauty, who shall have absolute sway for a day and night."
               The look of interest, which the Lady's face had at first exhibited, passed away, and she said coldly: "I presume the selection is already made, and that in Miss Talbot, I may greet my queen."
               "Oh! Lady Haughton, how impossible!" said the blushing girl.
               "We will soon know," said Miss Golding, "for here they come to tell. Oh! I wonder who it'll be?" and the lady looked as if she wished her decision could determine the choice.
               Several gentlemen approached, foremost of whom was Mr. Hamilton, who stopped in front of the chair in which Lucy was seated, and on the back of which Lady Haughton was carelessly leaning. The company gathered around, for by this time all were interested in the decision he came to announce.
               Bowing low, he proceeded to state that in accordance with a resolution to select some lady, whom all present would acknowledge as sovereign for the space of twenty-four hours, he had come to announce the lady upon whom the unanimous choice had fallen. He paused, and looked round on the circle of beautiful faces, all of them, but one, flushed with hope or expectation, then assuming the formal tone and manner of an ancient Herald, he continued: "Therefore, know all men, that in the person of Marcia, Lady Haughton, we recognise our leige lady; to her we tender due allegiance, and declare that any infraction of her will, shall be punished as such treason shall deserve." And he bowed low to the scornful woman, who would not even deign to return his look.
               "In virtue of my office," he continued, "I proceed to invest the said lady with this ring of office, which she will wear until it is replaced by the crown her subjects will offer her," and he held out a ring.
               It was a very simple one, consisting of only a loop of forget-me-nots formed of turquoise stones, but it produced an effect on the lady which was almost magical.
               She trembled, a flood of rich crimson flushed over her cheek, and her eyes shone with a new light as she held out her beautiful hand, saying: "We accept the trust, and will do our best to discharge it to the advancement of our subjects' happiness!"
               Mr. Hamilton sank gracefully on his knees, and holding the lady's exquisite hand in his, proceeded to slip the ring on her finger. Then rising, and drawing her arm through his, he said, "Her Majesty desires repose," and led her to a seat, thereby breaking up the group, and dissipating the general attention from Lady Haughton.
               He seated himself by her on the little sofa, placed in an alcove, which he had chosen as the place of her retreat, and sat looking at her with an expression in which all feelings were combined.
               "At last," he said, "at last I see you, and even your scornful coldness cannot prevent me from speaking to you for a few moments."
               The lady was silent, and gazed out of the open window, as if she had not heard him.
               "I take your haughty silence as consent," he continued, "but, oh! how fearfully you must have changed, since the days when we were together! Then you were the most joyous and impulsive of women, with your heart flashing upon your great black eyes, and your whole nature attuned to one feeling, and that feeling love! I left you thus, and I return and find you a new creature, 'Lady Haughton,' cold, calm, self-contained, and perfectly heartless. You cannot deny it, no other cause could have induced the disdainful coldness you have shown to me—me!"
               Lady Haughton rose from the chair, and stood confronting him with a face, which, in its stony rigidity, resembled that of some antique statue.
               "Is it for this," she said in accents of low, suppressed passion, "that you have taken advantage of a promise made on this ring, to force me to listen to you. Is it for this that you dare"—her voice faltered, and she stopped abruptly.
               "You left me no alternative—I wrote to you, you sent the most contemptuous replies, and then returned my letters unopened. I forced you to meet me at your own home, but that interview gained me nothing. I beg your pardon, it did gain me substantial and valuable results, but nothing definite as to the subject which is a thousand times more valuable. I will speak to you, I will hear from your lips what my future is to be. I have kept that ring about me for years, that one day I might claim the promise made on it. Do you remember that promise?" he said as his voice sank almost to a whisper. "Do you remember that summer night, when we sat side by side asking no greater happiness than each other's presence? When out of the very fullness of our happiness, arose the wild idea that it might cease to exist, and it was discussed in the lightness of our youthful hearts, which laughed at its utter impossibility. Then we promised, that if ever that change did come, or we were parted, the sight of this ring should oblige the one to whom it was shown to meet the other, answer all questions, make all revelations, and act with the perfect candor and oneness of spirit which governed us that night."
               Lady Haughton shuddered, pressed her hand to her head, and then throwing aside the curtain stepped out into the little balcony with which it communicated and leaned her head on the marble balastrade at its edge.
               In a moment Mr. Hamilton was by her side. "You shall not escape me" he said, "you shall speak! Speak to me—tell me that you do not despise me because my necessities force me to ask for what you would once have given unsolicited. Treat me as a man who has some feeling left. Cease this haughty scorn," he continued as a fit of angry passion swept over him, "or I swear I will break the silence which I have so closely kept for nine long years, and then I think that proud head and iron will of yours will be bent somewhat lower than they are now! "You owe me some reparation for a life which you have blighted, and yet you give me the treatment a dog might shrink from! By heaven," he continued wrought up to a perfect frenzy, "with your scorn and contempt you make me wild and then I am capable of any thing. I have my hand in your heart strings, and I can wring them to their very centre! You may make me what you please—continue your present course, and you transform me into a demon. Be gentle to me, be kind to me, give me the assurance I must have, and I will go away from you, never trouble you again, and your secret shall be as safe as I have hitherto kept it.
               "Marcia, I appeal to you by our past life, I adjure you by the memory of our past happiness, I call on you by the secret between us, that secret so faithfully kept, by all I have suffered through you, by all that I have undergone, do you hate me—tell me, do you hate me?"
               Her pale face was lifted from its concealment, the proud head was thrown back, and the great dark eyes flashed in the star-light with a look of dreamy loveliness that made them positively enchanting; the exquisite mouth was curved in a winning smile, her soft hands were half extended towards him, and as he came nearer to catch her reply, she said slowly: "Do I hate you?"
               "Pardon my intrusion Lady Haughton, but pressing business obliges Sir Everard to leave at once for London, and he has deputed me to search for you, that he may see you before he goes."
               Lady Haughton turned and saw in the window, the slight figure of Mr. Osborne, whose approach had been so cautious that it was not heard until he announced himself.
               With a low bow to Mr. Hamilton, she stepped through the window and re-entered the room. Mr. Osborne strode by her side grim and stately, nor did he vouchsafe a single word until the lady asked the cause of her husband's sudden departure.
               
               "Something connected with monetary affairs," was the cold reply. "As your Ladyship is doubtless aware, there are many curses attendant on the possession of wealth; not the least of them being the fact that one is coutinually exposed to the machinations of designing and interested persons."
               "Ah!" was the light reply, "Saul among the Prophets!"
               "How is that, your Ladyship?" said Mr. Upperton, whom the pair had just passed.
               "Only that Mr. Raleigh Osborne is delivering an essay on the curse of wealth, and a fine phillippic against mercenary and designing people." And the lady swept a graceful courtsey and left the room.
               Mr. Osborne bore the languid sarcasms of Mr. Upperton with the placidity of one who, secure in the possession of the highest card, sees his adversaries contending over the game, and knows that he has only to show his hand in order to win it.
               He sat in his room revolving in his busy brain the conversation he had over heard for he had approached the window at the very moment Mr. Hamilton had entered the balcony. His deductions though very favorable to the success of his own plans, were anything but favorable to the happiness of Lady Haughton.
               "A secret!—yes my proud lady, and it shall be the study of my life to discover it, and when you are driven in disgrace from Haughton Hall, it will be to give place to its sure possessor, Raleigh Osborne."
               Not one thought of sorrow for the noble man, whose long life of goodness and honor would be blasted by this overthrow of his dearest hopes; no regret for the shame brought on a noble name—no pity for the misguided, unhappy woman. Nothing but a sense of delight that the wealth and influence he had so long coveted, would be within his grasp, and an intense satisfaction at being enabled to crush the woman who had read his mean soul so closely, and had treated him with the scorn he deserved.
               "You insulted me publicly to-night, my lady," he said bitterly. "I will bide my time—let him laugh who wins!"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               MR. HAMILTON LEAVES IT TO FATE.
               Time went on in his usual way at Chester Place, heavily to those who bore, under silken robes, hearts aching for the loss of happiness, or heavy with despair of its attainment. So lightly, as to mark his course only by flowers, to those whose spirits danced in all the joyousness of youth and enjoyment. Among the last were Lucy and Lord Chester, who followed her as the shadow follows the sun.
               To Lucy every thing was so bright and so sweet, that she seemed to be living in a world of enchantment, where simply to exist was happiness.
               Mrs. Talbot watched her in her beauty and simplicity and enjoyed her daughter's happiness all the more, because she knew it was too unreal and unearthly to continue. Her heart beat with thankfulness, that her beloved child was passing the ordeal of all the adulation she received, and yet continued as simple and guileless, as when at her simple home she had tended her birds and flowers with no higher aim than having her care acknowledged by the blossom of one, and the melody of the other.
               It was Lucy's custom every night before she retired, to come to her mother's bedside, and seating herself on a low cushion, pour into her loving ear, a sort of confession of all the events of the day; telling her thoughts and feelings as candidly as a little child would. In this way Mrs. Talbot learned much of her lovers and their feelings, that the young girl herself was unconscious of. Pleased with their attentions, as she was pleased with all about her, Lucy was sporting along without a thought beyond the pleasure of the Passing moments, and though her simple recitals made her mother perfectly acquainted with the state of Lord Chester's feelings, the young girl was entirely unconscious of them.
               A lovely humility formed the basis of her character, and she attributed the attentions of the young Lord to his kindly feelings for his former play-fellow, never dreaming in the singleness of her heart, that he could prefer her to the many high-born and beautiful women, with whom he was brought into constant association; and her mother was careful, by no word or sign, to wake her up to the real state of the case.
               Among those to whom time stalked on with leaden feet, was the Hon. Robert Hamilton, whose position was by no means one of a bed of roses. That class of humanity known under the appellation of duns managed to make that gentleman's life an existence of positive torture. Old debts forgotten for years, suddenly started into notice, increased into ten-fold proportions by their long neglect. Letters on coarse paper, and breathing still coarser sentiments, lay in the gentleman's elegant drawing case. Demands for money owed, beset him continually, and harsh words and hints of still harsher measures, were conveyed to him by every mail, until he fairly loathed the sight of a letter on a silver salver.
               Truly the case was becoming desperate, and the worst of it was, that there was no remedy; none at least but one, from which he recoiled with all the dislike of a sensuous nature forced to give up its predilections, and adopt a course of action, at variance with the dictates of its fancy.
               "Something must be done," he said, as he sat in his chamber lazily passing a little knife of gold and mother of pearl over his long, almond shaped nails. "Something must be done, and quickly too. My position is uncomfortable enough in all conscience, and yet Marcia must make it more so by her airs, and the trouble she gives me!" and his voice took a fretful tone, which showed how much he thought himself aggrieved.
               "Good heavens! if she were what she used to be, I would not be sitting here in despair over a bundle of vile tradesmen's notes! How well I remember the day she found out I was hard pushed for money, and took the rings out of her rosy ears and the bracelets off her beautiful arms, and gave them to me, begging me to use them, and asking me what higher pleasure jewels could give her, than to make them minister to my wants!
               "Well, well, Marcia Ashton was sixteen and could count her jewels, by Jove, by the very articles I mentioned! Marcia Haughton is twenty-six, and has jewels enough to set up an opposition Starr & Mortimore! However, she did give me a bracelet, which she redeemed with twice its value, but it was not from choice, but necessity. She is generous enough, if that were all, but I cannot continue to exist on such precarious generosity. The risk is too great, and if she were not the staunchest hearted woman in the world, she would expose me. But I must have something definite and settled, which will enable me to return to the Continent. This, however, is nothing to my desire to know what she thinks of me, and how she regards me. I have sworn, my Lady Haughton, to make you do this, and I'll unlock those proud, cold lips yet!
               "I wonder what she was going to say, when that fellow Osborne interrupted her! But of course she does not dislike me; indeed, the women all like me, and really they ought to do so, for I adore the sex"—and he stretched out his aristocratic figure, and walked the length of the room.
               "Yes, she does not dislike me, and if she be anything like the little girl I left her, I can mould her to my wishes. But all this takes time, and time is the very article I cannot waste—no alternative but a rich wife. And as Sir Everard is not complaisant enough to join his forefathers, and Marcia is out of the question, the choice is narrowed down to Miss Talbot and the great Golding. I detest white hair and blue eyes in a woman, but then I dislike ugliness and vulgarity still more, and nature has supplied Miss Golding most bountifully with both! What shall I do?" he continued, passing his hand softly over his glossy hair. "I'lI leave it to chance, by Jove! Here's a sovereign, about the last, I believe; I'll toss it up, over this table. If the head comes up, I fascinate Miss Talbot; otherwise, Miss Golding, I am your most devoted!"
               
               He took the coin from the pocket of his richly embroidered vest, and tossed it carelessly on the table; then bending over it with the air of one totally indifferent to the result, he looked at it, and seeing the head uppermost, he smiled languidly as he said, "I wonder how long little Talbot will require to be brought to terms?"
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               COMING EVENTS CAST THEIR SHADOWS.
               "Try and sit up mother, this sweet air will revive you." The speaker, a lovely child of ten years old put her arm around the wasted figure of the woman whom she addressed, and led her tenderly to the window through which the air came softly loaded with the fragrance of the clore pinks and gilliflowers in the garden below. "Look out" pleaded the young speaker, "and see how lovely the fields and meadows are, if you could only walk to the spring and get a cup of that cold, cold water, you would be right well mother."
               "No my dear Violet, I shall never be well again. I have known this for a long time, and to-day the doctor that Silas brought from Chester, told me there was no doubt of the fact, that I must die very soon. You must learn to do without me, my child, and for your sake I grieve to go." A burst of childish weeping was her reply, as Violet clung to her and besought her not to go and leave her, begging her to unsay those cruel words, which caused her so much pain. Indeed, her grief became so violent that Mary had some difficulty in calming it. But so tenderly and gently did she talk to her, in such a loving manner did she impress her duties upon her, that after a while the child's passionate sobs became still, the tears dried in her bright eyes, and she sat by Mary's side sad and thoughtful, but very quiet.
               Mary talked to her for a long time, and went over all the circumstances of her first coming to the farm, and the mystery in which her birth and parentage were covered up.
               "I have no clue to this mystery, my child," she said, "except the slight fact that for several months passed I have received letters about you, making the most minute enquiries, and filled with the tenderest directions in regard to your comfort and welfare, such as only a person deeply interested in you could make. These letters are written in a very peculiar and beautiful hand, and bear the marks of coming from some high-born lady. I was requested to deliver the replies to an old woman living near Chester Place, and who would forward them to their proper destination. I have done so, merely putting the letters in old Martha's hands and occasionally receiving a reply. I have kept this fact, secret even from Silas, as I was desired to do so, and I only tell you child, because I think it right to tell you all I know on a subject which so nearly concerns yourself. I received a letter last night which requires an immediate reply, and I have managed to write it, telling of my rapidly declining health and asking what provision is to be made for you.
               "Don't cry, my child, I do not grieve to go, and you may have a brilliant future before you, far better than I could have given you."
               "But I want you, mother," and again the blue eyes filled with tears.
               "This letter must be sent Violet, and you must take it. Go as soon as dinner is over to the cottage in the wood I once showed you, and ask for Martha; the only person who lives in the house; give her the letter, and say to her 'Mother is too sick to come; if any letter comes for her keep it till I come again.' Can you do all this my dear?"
               "Yes, mother," said Violet, as she took the letter and placed it in her bosom.
               She had scarcely arranged it when the loud gruff voice of Silas was heard as he came across the yard to his noonday dinner, calling out to the servants and farm hands, and chiding them as was his usual custom. He stamped into the room with no more thought or consideration of Mary's nervous headache, than he would have experienced for the miseries of some unfortunate cricket on which he might have placed his huge foot, and called to Violet to know if dinner was ready. "Bear a hand, lass," he said. "Tell that idle wench that I caught idling on the kitchen steps with her sweetheart, if she does'nt give me dinner in a trice, I'll send Jacob Beans where he won't be likely to make her idle again in a hurry!"
               Violet left the room, though it is doubtful if she carried the message, and quickly returned with the answer that the meal would soon be ready.
               "See here, lass," continued Silas, "here is a fairing I ha' brought thee to wear at the grand feast at Chester Place day after to-morrow. Thou'lt be as fine as Madame herself, in this ribbon, I bought out o' a pedlar's pack," and he held up a hideous ribbon, on whose surface of pale brickdust color, were flowers of every hue in and out of nature. Violet took the gift, with the thanks which the motive that prompted it deserved, and Mary inwardly wondered what had elicited such unwonted generosity on the part of Silas.
               After he had partaken of a substantial dinner, and seated on the porch in his large arm-chair was taking his daily afternoon nap, Violet crept to Mary's side and told her she was about to go out on her errand.
               Mr. Raleigh Osborne, absorbed by his schemes and plans for their accomplishment, was in a state of mind which required solitude, and so avoided the drawing room and lawn of Chester Place, and contented himself with wandering about the park and grounds, indulging in blissful reveries of the future. He had wandered into an unfrequented part of the park, and being somewhat fatigued, seated himself on one of the rustic seats, which scattered about, afforded resting places for all who wished them, and remained looking at the scene of still beauty which was spread out before him. The magnificent woods sloped down to a small dell and met over a cottage, so completely hidden by their dense foliage, that he had passed close by it without perceiving it. It was very old, and had the appearance of being uninhabited; but as Mr. Osborne looked, the head of an old woman was protruded from one of the windows, and she seemed to be looking out intently for some one she expected.
               His curiosity was aroused, and as his position was one which enabled him to see the cottage and its inmates without being seen by them, he sat still and watched almost as eagerly as the old dame herself, for the arrival she seemed to await so earnestly.
               He was not left to look long—a man came cautiously through the trees, stopped at the door of the cottage opposite the side on which Mr. Osborne sat, and lifting the latch, entered the house.
               In a short time he and the old woman, who, judging from her fondness for him, seemed to be his mother, came through the door at the back of the cottage and seated themselves in the low vine covered porch. The man had on a large straw hat, which he had pulled down so as to effectually conceal his face; but now secure from apprehension, he laid it aside and disclosed to the wondering eyes of Mr. Osborne, the face of Austin, Lady Haughton's confidential servant.
               His attention was at once aroused, for the man had remained behind when his mistress left the Hall, and had he come down since, Mr. Osborne must certainly have known it, unless Austin had kept himself purposely concealed.
               The stake for which he was playing was too highly important to allow Mr. Osborne to be very particular in his pursuit of it, so he crept cautiously along the hillside, until he reached a position in which, while completely screened from observation, he could be near enough to the cottage to hear all that might be said in it.
               "My Lady is very anxious to hear, mother," said the man, wiping his forehead as he spoke, "and I am to take her an answer to-night, even if you have to go to Mary's and get it."
               
               "Wait a bit, Austin," replied the old woman. "The letter went safe I know, for I put it in Mary's hand my-self, and she'll be sure to send the answer. But as she's mighty poorly, mayhaps she'll ha' to send the child. Sit ye down and rest, and I'll get thee a draught o' whey, and ye'll ha' the letter to carry to her Ladyship before the night falls.''
               Austin took his Mother's advice, drank the whey, and then stretching himself out on one of the benches in the porteh, was soon fast asleep.
               Mr. Osborne watched long and attentively, and at last had his perseverance rewarded by the sight of Violet, who descended the hill near the spot where he lay concealed.
               He was struck by the extreme beauty of the child, and still more by the indefinable resemblance she bore to some one he had seen, though he could not recall who it was.
               She came gaily on, in her pretty simple dress of delicate muslin, her large straw hat resting on her golden curls, which were adorned with the wild flowers, which, Red Riding Hood like, she had gathered as she came through the woods.
               She stopped suddenly at the sight of Austin sleeping in the cottage porch; but old Martha, who was watching for her, came out, and dropping a low courtsey, said:
               "Walk in, Miss Violet, and rest yourself."
               "Who is that man?" asked the child, pointing to Austin.
               "One who loves the very ground you walk on, Miss! Wake up, Austia—wake man—and see your young lady—see Miss Violet."
               The old man started up, and seemed bewildered; then rising, he walked to the place where the child stood, and kneeling down by her side, took one of her little hands and kissed it as reverently as he would have done his Queen's.
               "Can this be Miss Violet?" he said. "It seems but a night agone, when I held you a wee bit baby in my arms, and now I see you almost a young lady! Such a beauty, too," he continued, looking with respectful admiration at the lovely face before him.
               "I do not know you, and yet you know all about me," said the child thoughtfully. "Tell me who I am. Who is my real mamma? Does she love me, and will she take me to live with her? I love her so dearly, so dearly; beg her to take me, for I am going to be very lonely"—and the child burst into a flood of tears, and grasping Austin's brown hand, pleaded with all the strength of her impetuous nature.
               "I cannot tell you who your mamma is, Miss Violet," he said gravely, "because it would not be right, and you cannot be sent for just yet. But you may be sure that you are loved very dearly. And now, Miss Violet, give me the letter you have brought, and tell Mary she shall have an answer as soon as may be; mayhap to-morrow. Get home as soon as you can, my young lady; mother'll see you out o' the wood. Be careful, Miss Violet, anp above all, don't mention the letters, nor nothing, to any one but Mary."
               "I'Il be careful," said the child, to whom reserve an d reticence were unhappily too habitual, "but do not forget to tell mamma that I love her dearly."
               "It shall be known, my young lady," said the old man; and taking the letter she gave him, he bade her good bye, and walked off in the direction from which he had come.
               Mr. Osborne deliberated a moment whether or not he should follow him, or continue his watch on Violet. Deciding on the former, he followed Austin cautiously through the gathering shadows, and at last saw him enter a room in the servants' quarters at Chester Place.
               After this, he strolled about the garden till he saw Mam'selle Felice giving herself an airing, while her lady sat in the drawing room waiting for dinner to be announced.
               Joining her, he in a short time gave her all necessary information, and sent her off in a fine humor with herself and her nation, to prosecute some enquiries, which he thought necessary for the developement of his plans.
               That evening Mam'selle, all smiles and affability, came to the house-keeper's room to take a dish of tea, and to hear "Madame Pick-ette tell the histories which she ra conte so well!"
               "Madame Pick-ette" did not understand French, but she understood the charming flattery of Mam'selle's manners, and found it so pleasant that she was perfectly willing to tell her histories just as long as she chose to listen.
               By a few adroit questions, Mam'selle contrived to learn all she chose, relative to the village of Chester and its inhabitants, including the story of Violet's mysterious appearance at the farm of Silas Hardman, and the various comments which the village gossips had added to the fact.
               After extracting the additional information that the cottage in the park was tenanted by an old woman who had come to it soon after the event at the farm, Mam'selle having squeezed her orange dry, proceeded to throw away the skin. She left good Mrs. Picket in so summary a manner, that she was stopped in the very midst of one of her most interesting histories, and sat down to the conviction that after all, the French are not the most polite people in the world!
               Mamm'selle was too full of the information she had received, and too desirous to impart it, to take notice of any thing else. Mr. Osborne was too good a schemer to make a confidant of his accomplice, and so had told her no more of his discovery of the evening than was absolutely necessary. But from the bare outlines at her command, she had contrived to fill up a sketch as near as possible to the truth, and her small eyes glittered, and she snapped her wolvine teeth, as if in anticipatory delight over the feast which the overthrow of her proud mistress would afford.
               She waited for Mr. Osborne, in a state of great impatience, which manifested itself by sundry stampings and many shruggings of her expressive shoulders. He had promised to meet her in a part of the garden so unfrequented as to prevent intrusion, but it was a long time before he joined her. He had been entangled in a discussion, which beginning at the dinner table in some remarks of Mr. Upperton, relative to Lady Haughton's sarcasm of the previous evening, had been continued in the drawing room, and involved him in the necessity of making king what is called in Parliament, a "personal explanation." This he had done, but in a lame and unsatisfactory manner, and the laugh was still against him; and it was with feelings of unusual bitterness towards Lady Haughton that he met Mam'selle.
               As soon as she saw him, that individual began in the most excited manner, to tell him, not only what she had heard, but the application she had made of the facts to Lady Haughton's case.
               "See Monsieur," she said, laying her long skinny hand on Mr. Osborne's arm, "one makes play on the table—Miladi is a vile wretch—she is infame—a leetle infant abandone—a sudden marriage wif man, who is aged to be her pappa—old domestiques, who arrange matters, and carry to the infant, now large, the luxury Madame makes give her unconscious husband! A sudden meeting in London—a flight precipitate—Viola, one sees it all! Wat you English call 'circomstantial evidence' make itself very clear, n'est ce que pas, Monsieur? Ah! Miladi you are grand, you are beautiful—bah! I will crush you as I put under foot dis rose!" She broke off one of the magnificent roses blooming near her and pressed her heel upon it until its soft velvet leaves were completely indented in the ground.
               "We must have the letter she will write, Felice," said Mr. Osborne in a whisper, for that cautious gentleman distrusted even the trees that stood around him.
               "As you say, the evidence is very clear, but it is not proof, and we must have proof of the strongest kind before we can make Sir Everard believe it. I need not tell you that the task of attaining that letter is too delicate to be entrusted to any one but a woman, and such a capable and efficient woman as you have proved yourself to be, I leave Austin and the letter to your hands, and they could not be committed to better or fairer ones," and Mr. Osborne looked at the hands he eulogised, with an expression of disgust, which if had not been veiled from Mam'selle's keen eyes by the darkness, would seriously have damaged his plans.
               "Austin has given her the letter I know, and she will answer it and give it to him in all probability to night, you must watch her movements, see if he gets the letter and by some means, which I leave to your feminine ingenuity, contrive to get possession of it. If possible, bring it to me at once; if not, copy it accurately, taking care to imitate the writing exactly and this copy you must give Austin. Preserve the original until you place it in my hands, and if I am not greatly mistaken, before a month goes over us, her proud Ladyship will be too low for even scorn to reach her. And I shall be in a position to reward the faithful efforts of my able assistant, in a manner that will convey my appreciation of them."
               "Monsier shall have his letter—I shall have revenge. Ah! how sweet!" and Mam'selle went off to her watch.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               MR. HAMILTON ASSERTS HIS MASTERY.
               In the splendid drawing room of Chester Place, matters were not progressing in a way to give satisfaction to its young Lord.
               Lady Haughton, whose brilliant gaiety had hitherto infused life and animation into the whole party, had relapsed into her normal condition of cold reserve, and sat by Mrs. Talbot's side, now talking as if wearied her, and now sitting silent and playing with the delicate fan, she held in her hand. It was formed of snowy feathers, with a centre of rubies and handle all encrusted with gems, one of the thousand rare and costly toys which the adoring love of her husband took delight in showering over her. Perhaps she was thinking of him and the wealth of love, he lavished on her, and the return she had made his tender and chivalrous devotion.
               Perhaps a little serpent was biting her beautiful bosom, as the past with all its memories rose before her. If so, she bore the torture well, and no frown on her marble brow, no lessening of the color in her cheek, gave token of her suffering.
               Mr. Osborne watched her closely, as he sat opposite engaged gaged in a deep political disquisition with a gentleman who held a prominent place in the Opposition, and who in the general opinion, would be offered a place in the Cabinet should the present Ministry resign, as there was every prospect that they would do. He thought he had detected the cause of her changed conduct and attributed it to the unconcealed devotion with which Mr. Hamilton pursued Lucy Talbot.
               As Fate had so unmistakably thrown that young lady in his way, he began his arrangements for securing her. These were very simple, consisting for the most part of a series of looks, respectfully admiring, and yet so sad as to cause a nameless feeling in the young girl's heart—a sort of tender pity accompanied by a desire to ascertain the cause of such deep sadness and to relieve it. This impression was followed up by approaches so skilfully managed as to have the appearance of the veriest accident, but once effected, and Lucy's hearing obtained, the rest was easy. A few more sighs, a few more long looks out of his dreamy eyes; a delicate reference to his dead past seemingly wrung from him despite of himself; a thrilling picture of a wasted life all hopeless and blighted, and by a sudden transition a hint scarcely breathed, that in the young girl beside him he had found the principle of a new and better existence—a "soul life" as he called it, and Mr. Hamilton had placed Lucy in the state he desired. This was not love, but it was very much like the state of tender and agitated emotion which precedes the approach of that deity as surely as the first rosy clouds of morning, give token of the coming sun.
               
               Lord Chester watched the pair with scarcely concealed disapprobation, and sat moodily wondering if this could be the same world in which he had been breathing a glorified existence only a few hours before. There he had been so happy in the society of the gentle girl, whose baby loveliness had followed him in all the changes of his young age, and whom he had unconsciously claimed as his own that all things surrounding him, took their hue from his feelings, and his heart had swelled with a feeling of such bliss that it was almost oppressive. Now, instead of a world so happy as to have reverted to its original Eden, he felt that he was a denizen of a place on which the primeal curse had just fallen in ail its first intense bitterness.
               He looked at Lucy, as with shy moist eyes she met Mr. Hamilton's glances, looking at him for an instant, and then dropping her snowy lids, while a deep crimson glowed in her cheek as the child struggled with the new feelings which possessed her. Then he would contrast those bashful glances with the open free manner in which she met his eyes, till stung with jealousy he would ask himself, "what has that man more than I, who love her so dearly?'
               He did not know that the position of lofty superiority assumed by Mr. Hamilton over Lucy, added to the halo of romance, which hung around him, and his deep yearning for the sympathy which Lucy alone could give, had established a bond between them which all his gifts of youth, beauty, and pure and intense devotion were for the moment, powerless to cancel.
               Mrs. Talbot secure in the warning she had given her daughter, seemed to think that the subject required no further care. So she sat placidly looking on at Mr. Hamilton's devotion; even congratulating herself that it would have the effect of displaying Lord Chester in a more agreeable light, by contrast.
               She communicated this view of the matter to Lady Chester, who had been somewhat fearful that the success of her cherished plan, was imperilled by the devotion of so fascinating a man as Robert Hamilton, to a girl so young and unformed as Lucy, and that lady's maternal pride got the better of her judgment at this pleasant suggestion of her friend.
               When forced to leave Lucy, who was claimed for a dance, Mr. Hamilton walked languidly over to the sofa on which Lady Haughton sat alone, and picking up her fan, began running his fingers through its soft folds.
               "How pretty it is," he said contemptuously, "white delicate, soft, and inane it is the very type of the young lady to the beautiful eyes of whose casket I am making such excessive and tiresome love! You know me well enough, to know that marriage with me is a mere matter of expediency. But what can I do! The miserable mismanagement of my estate has made me penniless. I cannot starve in a prison, as I shall be obliged to do if some help does not arrive. You know well enough," he continued, sinking his voice, "that I do not wish to marry, but what choice have I left?
               "I do not pretend to be a hero, nor do I aspire to the honors of sentiment at the expense of comfort. I have been thinking over our position, and wish a clear understanding of what the future is to be.
               
               "I have you completely in my power, and hitherto I have been generous enough to overlook the injury you have done me, and not make use of the hold I have on you.
               "I would have continued thus, had your actions since my return been different. You have to thank your own cursed pride for any thing I may make you suffer. As you know, what I told you in my first letter, is as true as heaven! You have never answered that letter yet, but you shall not escape me. That answer I must, and will have, and at once. I give you twenty-four hours for your decision."
               Lady Haughton's eyes fairly burned, and her delicate nostrils dilated and contracted rapidly, like those of some animal when tortured with intolerable pain.
               "I will not bear this tyranny. You shall not insult me so. I will go to Sir Everard, and tell him all. Anything is better than such a life as this!"
               "Go to your husband," was the mocking reply, "and tell him all. He will doubtless enjoy it; but as you tell him remember your oath!"
               "My oath! my oath!" burst from the lady in an agonizing tone, and she turned as white as the feathers she held in her hand.
               She sat for a few moments in such intense thought that her brow was drawn into wrinkles, and her arched eyebrows were knitted until they met. At last she seemed to have determined on some plan of action, her features regained their ordinary composure, and with a brilliant smile she turned to her companion.
               "You are right," she said, "I cannot break my oath, you are the master, but I pray you be merciful to me," and the smile became more dazzling still as she looked full into his face. "And I will give you an answer to-morrow night. Till then we meet on equal ground."
               "Ah!" he exclaimed, "if you will only give me such a smile as that, I will be your slave."
               Lady Haughton rose slowly, looked at him as she turned to leave the room and then gave him a smile of such enchanting, mocking, bewildering beauty, that he was fairly wild under its influence.
               The cotillion being ended, Mr. Hamilton joined Lucy and began fanning her with Lady Haughton's fan, which he had taken from her just before she left him.
               "Oh, how pretty!" cried Lucy in her girlish manner "May I look at it?"
               "It is beautiful, Miss Talbot, and possesses a magic power."
               She looked at him in some surprise.
               "I have held it" he continued, "and it has whispered to me of one who like the exotic bird of whose feathers it is composed, is too beautiful, too exquisitely pure and delicate to be a denizen of this cold earth, but which finds a fitting home in the expanse of ether. And as I fanned my heated brow with its refreshing coolness, I thought how the cares and trials and woes of my life would be dispelled and a heavenly blessing be wafted to me, could I but claim as my own, the gentle lady of whom this rare toy is the fitting exponent!" He sighed deeply as he took the fan from the blushing girl.
               
               The rest of the evening was employed in discussing the delights of the day, which was to usher in the twenty-first birth-day of the young Lord, who in the bitterness of his disappointed love was almost ready to wish he had never been born.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               MAM'SELLE PROCEEDS TO CRUSH HER LADY.
               Long after Lady Haughton had retired, Man'selle Felice who, dismissed by her mistress an hour before, had crouched in a recess opposite her door, with a patient disregard of her own comfort, which in another cause would have deserved the highest praise, was rewarded for her long vigil by seeing the object of it. Austin approached Lady Haughton's door, and knocked softly at it. It was opened and she appeared, gave him a letter, charged him to keep it most carefully until next morning, and then take it to its destination. The old servant bowed low and withdrew
               After he had disappeared through the long corridor, Mam'selle rose from her uncomfortable posture, gave herself one energetic shake, in which she contrived to restore her skirts to their usual genteel appearance, and glided to her chamber with a light heart.
               She soon returned with a face from which all traces of fatigue had vanished, and carried in her hand a small package. She had calculated that Austin would have had just time enough to enable him to reach his quarters, and she found that she was correct, for he was sitting on a stone bench in front of the room he occupied.
               
               She stopped to bid him "bonsoir," and tried to engage him in a chat, but the old man seemed more taciturn than usual.
               "Austin, you are savage to-night. What have you? I come from mi'ladi, who so pleased wif the little letter you bring her, has the joy of a child, and who say, 'Felice, I write a reply, go you, take the air this fine night, and return after I give reply to Austin.' I come out, I seek my ancient friend to talk of the times of old. I say, 'Austin sits wif his pipe, I go to him til Miladi call.' I come, I find Austin, but he is cruel, he will not speak to his friend, he forget absolutement—the times now gone long time!"
               "This palaver is all very well," was the surly reply, "but what do I care about talking when my tobaceo is gone and my pipe useless? I can't get a pinch of any, fit for a christian to smoke, for as for the stuff here the servants use—why I would as soon smoke a paper cigarrette!" This was Austin's superlative of contempt, smoking being the one luxury of his life, and the quality of his tobacco the hobby on which he prided himself with the intense feeling of a connoiseur. Perhaps Mam'selle was aware of this—it is just possible that she might have known the exact state of the case, as about two hours before, a figure bearing a suspicious resemblance to hers had glided into the old man's room and abstracted the precious bag, whose loss had made him nearly frantic. Certain it is, that she found a speedy relief.
               "Ah! how fortunate," she cried in her shrillest tone, "I have a very little packet I use in Miladi's fur—I fly to bring it, the pure, the precious tobac, which the young officer de Navy bring from Virginia, and give it to Miladi to keep from moth her set of sables. My ancient friend shall make it to smoke, he shall entrance in the sweet fantasies it will make come!"
               "Have you got it, Mam'selle?" said Austin, overjoyed at the prospect of tasting that tobacco on which he had often mused, with an intense desire to test it, which he felt could never be realized. "Bring me a little and I'll do you a good turn, sure as my name is Austin." "I declare," he soliloquised, as he watched Mam'selle's rapidly retreating flounces, "that French woman ain't so bad after all? I'd an idea my lady didn't trust her but she must, for Felice knows all about the letter."
               By this time the object of his thoughts had returned with the packet, which indeed she had about her all the time.
               "Behold it Austin—smell it to your nose; fill your pipe, I will put to it this match—so. Now I leave you to go to Miladi, whose bell made itself heard as I came through the house." She whisked herself away and left the devotee of tobacco to his devotions. She stayed away long enough to enable the old man to be completely tranquilized by the soothing influence of his beloved weed, and then came back.
               "The letter,' she said, "Miladi desire the letter, wich she say she give to you. She change her mind, she will add what you call postscript, and will send it to you again. Quick Austin, Maladi do dot love to wait."
               Completely duped by her artful stratagem, the old man took the letter upon which so much depended, and placed it in Felice's hands, while she could scarcely conceal her exultation.
               She fairly flew to her room, locked the door, dropped the curtains over the window, and then sat down and began to read the letter hurriedly. It was simply addressed "Mrs. Hardman" and ran as follows.
               "Your letter has filled me with concern, though I trust you are mistaken as to the state of your health. As it is of the greatest importance that the interests of the dear child shall be secured, I will give you a place, by which they may be provided for. I am weary of this state of concealment and determined that Violet shall no longer be subjected to it. See the Rector, suggest to him to see Mrs. Talbot at once, interest her in the child and propose that she shall request me to adopt it. You must be cautious and you must be speedy. In two days I leave this place and all must be arranged before I go."
               There was no date nor signature, but the delicately perfumed paper, scented with the odour of rose, and helietrope, which Lady Haughton always used would have proclaimed it as coming from her, even if the peculiar and elegant writing had not done so.
               Mam'selle looked at it with eyes that gloated on the triumph it would be the means of procuring her, and, then sat down to copy it. This she did, and so perfectly, that eyes as accurate and penetrating as Mary Hardman's were unobservant, would have been completely deceived. Having finished she placed the original carefully away, and took the copy to Austin, who was still placidly smoking, with an injunction form her lady to keep it carefully Then she went to the door of Mr. Osborne's room and delivered the letter to him with the single expression, "I have done it."
               Next day as Mrs. Talbot was seated in her private parlor, a card was brought her, bearing the name of "Reverend Mr. Ramsay," coupled with a request to see her. She received him with the quiet grace and elegance for which she was distinguished, and was most favorably impressed by the evident piety and kindly earnestness of the gentleman. In a short time he told the purport of his visit, which was to interest her in behalf of Violet, a child so highly gifted and so unfit to endure the hard life which would be hers, deprived of Mary Hardman's care. He told all the circumstances of her coming to the village, the mystery of which had never been explained. And he succeeded in interesting Mrs. Talbot so greatly in the little girl, that not only did she promise to exert herself in her behalf, but entered into the case with a zeal but little inferior to that of the good clergyman himself.
               The suggestion that she should find some lady, who would adopt Violet seemed to give her great pleasure She mused a few moments, and then said, "Mr. Ramsay, it seems to me that Providence has opened a way by which this poor child may be released. I know a lady, wealthy beyond her highest wish, snd whose slightest desire is a law to her husband. She is childless, and to her I will apply in behalf of the little girl, and I feel sure my appeal will be a successful one."
               "I trust so Madam," was the reply as the gentleman left the room.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               WHICH WINS?
               All the morning Lady Haughton had remained in her room, to which even Felice was not admitted. Flitting about in her loose white dress, now pacing to and fro with impatient steps, now standing with hands clenched, and face all rigid in the intensity of her thoughts, and at last sinking down on the floor and lying there in all her beauty and anguish, she seemed more like a lost spirit, than the brilliant woman, who, a few hours before, had seemed the antipodes of care and suffering. It was a pitiable sight, to see a woman in such a tempest of suffering; great gusts of feeling would sweep over her until her form quivered and shook. Her lowly position did not seem low enough, and burying her face in the mass of black hair which fell over her shoulders, she clasped her hands on it, and seemed as if she would shut it out from the light of day.
               After a while she sat up, pushed back the tangled curls from her face, and with her hands crossed on her heaving bosom, she seemed to meditate.
               Suddenly a light seemed to break over her face, and changed its whole appearance, "I will go to her," she said. "She is good, and pure, and gentle, and by her advice I will be guided."
               She walked to her writing desk, wrote a short note, which she directed to Mrs. Talbot, and sealed it, and then turned to ring for Felice. But catching a sight of her disordered dress and hair as she passed the mirror, she stopped.
               Some women are born with a consummate talent for acting, and unhappily it is too often called into play. When Felice entered the apartment a few minutes later, Lady Haughton was seated on her sofa with her embroidery basket before her, to all appearance, totally absorbed in the arrangement of the bright silks and chenilles with which it was filled.
               Mam'selle took the note as directed, and soon returned with an answer, which being sealed afforded her great dissatisfaction. However, she determined to observe events all the more closely, and to remain in her mistress's room as much as possible. She proceeded to lay out the elegant dinner dress, she had selected, but was soon stopped in her labors by Lady Haughton, who said:
               "Felice, take these silks and look through the village until you match them precisely."
               "But; Miladi, dinner approaches."
               "You will look at every store, and make every effort to get what I require," continued her Ladyship, as if she had not heard the remonstrance.
               Felice weut out, grinding her teeth, and muttering an innumerable quantity of "sacres," over an employment which would detain her from the house two hours, just at he very time she was most anxious to be in it.
               
               She had not been gone long, when Mrs. Talbot knocked at Lady Haughton's door, and was instantly admitted She remained there so long, that Lucy had returned from her excursion, and sat wondering at the prolonged absence of her mother. At last she went to Lady Haughton's door to enquire if her mother were unwell. Mrs. Talbot opened the door, and Lucy was struck by the look of concern on her face, so different from its usual placid serenity.
               "Go down without me, my dear," she said. "Lady Haughton is somewhat indisposed, and I shall remain with her, though you need not mention this."
               Lucy went down to the brilliant drawing room, nothing loath, to hear again the tender half confidences of Mr. Hamilton. That gentleman, however, did not seem to be in his usual vein of languid eloquence. On the contrary, he exhibited an appearance of nervous eagerness, which in one less elegant, might have been termed rudeness. Every time the door was opened, he started up and looked anxiously at it, sinking back with an appearance of disappointment, and seeming to find it the greatest effort to talk to Lucy. She could hardly believe that he was the same person, who had been her devoted attendant of the previous evening, and was beginning to wonder if she could in any way have wounded his sensitive feelings.
               After a while a servant came up, and handed Mr. Hamilton a note. He glanced at the writing, and then asking Miss Talbot's permission, and barely waiting to receive it, he broke the seal and began reading with evident emotion. It was only a line or two, but it seemed to give him intense gratification. He laid it carefully away, and turning to Lucy, began to talk to her with such a charming gaiety, such a wild abandon and evident happiness, that she laid aside her awe of him, and was soon laughing with him, as if, instead of a hero of romance, he was only an ordinary mortal.
               As the evening grew later, he seemed more and more under the influence of some sweet excitement, which seemed to possess him, and poured forth such a flood of brilliant imagery and glowing eloquence, that Lucy was almost bewildered. Listening to him in breathless silence, she was possessed by the sentiment of poor Margaret, when thinking of Faust's superiority, she sighed: "Ah! what can such a great gentleman see in a simple girl like me!"
               At last she bade him good night, and went to her room and to her great surprise, found her mother still out, though she came in soon after. "What is the meaning of this pleasant surprise, mamma?" she said, "I shall have to stay and take care of my runaway. Has anything happened mamma?" she continued, struck with the sad, grave look of her mother's face.
               "Yes, my dear, and something, that I cannot tell you. I shall have to leave you now, and as it is uncertain when I may return, you had better retire at once,"
               "Mamma, is it anything that concerns us," said the girl, passing her arm around her mother's waist.
               "No, my darling, not in the most remote degree. You may know that it must be an event of no ordinary importance, which makes me leave you, and if it were proper to do so, I would tell you all about it; as it is I cannot. So go to bed and prove an indignant negative to the violence of female curiosity by forgetting all about the matter ter. And my daughter, be more earnest than usual in your prayers to-night." She kissed the sweet mouth that was held up to her and left the room.
               As the last tones of the great clock, striking one, fell on the still air, Robert Hamilton left his chamber and walked gaily down the passage. Any one meeting him, might have been impressed with the thought that he was some happy bride-groom just going to the altar. Always fastidious in his toilette, he had excelled himself to-night, and in his excessive personal beauty, set off by all the elegance of Parisian fashion, he stood a model of manly perfection. For once in his life, Mr. Hamilton did not seem to think exclusively of himself; some object of still greater importance appeared to influence him.
               He stopped at the door of Lady Haughton's room, a charming sort of boudoir, which communicated with her sleeping apartment, stood a moment there, and then turning the knob he entered the room. It was empty, and throwing himself down on a little silk-covered couch he drew out his watch.
               "Her note said one," he murmured, "she must come soon, but how long it seems till she comes." He leaned on a table on which lay a little white glove, still seeming to bear the impress of the delicate hand, which had worn it. The sight of it seemed to fill him with some strange feeling, and he picked it up and sat with it clasped tightly in his hand.
               It is said that there is no feeling on earth comparable to that produced by the accomplishment of a desire, which the heart has long cherished and which it considers essential tial to its happiness. To judge from his appearance, Mr. Hamilton did not form an exception to this remark. Naturally of a feeble and irresolute spirit, unstable in all things and pitiably weak in principle, he exhibited, notwithstanding this, in the pursuit of any object in which he felt a personal or selfish interest, a strength; and fixity of purpose, which in a higher cause would have been sublime.
               For years he had been possessed by one idea, which acquired strength as the time went on, and he clung to it with the pertinacity of a man determined to accomplish his object.
               This was force Lady Haughton from the lofty position she had asumed towards him, and regain the influence he had once exercised over her. He had tried every means of effect this and had failed in them all. His defeats had made him all the more determined to succeed and he had even descended to the meanness of taking advantage of the power he possessed over her, to achieve his designs. He had succeeded and now sat in triumph, while his imagination painted the future in glowing colors. His weak, sensuous nature, had never known but one true or strong feeling. This was the influence exerted over him by the young girl he had known as Marcia Ashton; an influence which despite his efforts to escape from it, had followed him through all the changes of his wasted, ill spent life.
               And now the knowledge that he had forced her proud will to bend to his, and had established a bond of union between them, filled him with such rapture that his form actually quivered with the violence of his emotions.
               
               A slight noise in the next room aroused him, and he sprang up with a face all flushed and heated, and extending his hands towards the door, said with a smile of ineffible transport, "she is coming!"
               The door opened and Mrs. Talbot entered. Had a thunder-bolt flashed through the air of that still summer night and struck him, Mr. Hamilton could not have been more overcome. "Marcia!" he said feebly, "where is she?"
               "Safe forever from your cowardly persecutions," said Mrs. Talbot with calm dignity. "Lady Haughton, whose confidence I possess, as fair as she is able to give it, has commissioned me to give you this letter," and she held out an envelope.
               He took it mechanically, and tearing it open began to read. At the end of it he sat as if stupified with it crushed in his hand, knitting his brows and biting his lips in a violent manner.
               "Am I to believe this letter?" he said, "are its decrees final—is thore no hope?"
               "For you? Not a shadow of it," was the contemptuous reply. "You are held in the estimation you so richly deserve. You may do your worst sir, you may put your unmanly threats into execution, if indeed you have sunk so low as to do so, but the right will conquer iu the end, and will find in the universal contempt which will be your portion, 'that the way of the transgressor is hard!'"
               "Perhaps so, Madam, but I will have it. Tell this to Lady Haughton, and tell her also, if it will afford her any comfort, that she may rest assured that the refined torture to which she has consigned me, makes the horrors of the damned, happiness in comparison!" His face was devoid of every trace of color and resembled in its chiselled paleness some marble Antinous. He turned to leave the room, and as he did so he perceived the glove, which he had had dropped; seizing it passionately, he rushed out of the apartment.
               Mr. Raleigh Osborne walking along the passage from the library, where he Lad been ostentatiously studying a scientific Volume, saw the hasty exit from Lady Haughton's room.
               Notioing the half distracted state of Mr. Hamilton, he was kind and considerate enough to stop him, and begin a conversation, mentally exulting in this new link in the chain of his evidence. Mam'selle who must have emerged form some mysterious hiding place, now made her appearance; she walked softly by the gentlemen and calling Mr. Hamilton by name, she made him a graceful bow, bade him "bonsoir" That gentleman took no notice of her, and breaking rudely from Mr. Osborne, vanished in his own room.
               Mrs. Talbot had gone into the dim lighted chamber where lay the beautiful woman in whose behalf she had acted. In a low voice, as she stood by the bed-side, she told Marcia all. The beautiful head was raised, the eyes heavy with tears were fastened upon her, and as Mrs. Talbot finished in Robert's wild words, Lady Haughton buried her head in the pillow, and burst into frantic weeping.
               "I loved him once," she said, "and I should be less than woman if I did not pity him now!"
               
               "God bless you, my poor child," said Mrs. Talbot, "and bring you to a knowledge of Himself," and she stole out in silence.
               She was just in time to see Mr. Osborne and Mam'selle Felice exchanging greetings, and telling the latter that her services would not be needed by Lady Haughton, who had retired a long time before, she bowed to Mr. Osborne, went to her own room and lay down by Lucy, asleep in all her innocent beauty.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               LADY HAUGHTON ABDICATES.
               Next morning when Mrs. Talbot went into Lady Haughton's room, she found her seriously indisposed.
               The raging fever which was upon her, imparted an unnatural strength, under whose influence she seemed capable of any exertion, but it was evident to the praticed eye of her friend that she was on the eve of a severe fit of illness. One idea seemed to have taken complete possession of her—a frantic desire to return to the Hall. As she pleaded with all the impetuosity of her nature, and absolutely refused to see a physician, Mrs. Talbot thought it best to let her have her way.
               Accordingly, she went to Lady Chester's room, told her the urgent nature of the case, and won her reluctant consent to give up two such valuable guests, for Mrs. Talbot had determined to accompany Lady Haughton.
               "You will leave Lucy with me, will you not?"
               "I wish to do so, for I cannot bear to disappoint her in the pleasure she anticipates to-day, and yet I almost tremble to leave her. I would not do so, were it not for the fact that you will have her. I know how well you will watch over her; but let me impress on you, dear friend, that we may have been mistaken in our view of Mr. Hamilton's ilton's attentions. At leat I wish you to promise, that he shall not see Lucy alone during my absence."
               Lady Chester gave the required promise, and Mrs. Talbot left her to make preparations for an immediate departure. She told Lucy of it, and that young lady's eyes opened wide with astonishment, at the surprising intelligence, and at first she begged to be allowed to go too. But convinced of the impracticability of this, and contented by the promise that if her mother remained a longer time at the Hall than she now intended, she should join her, her spirits recovered their happy tone, and she began, all undressed as she was, to assist in her mother's packing.
               "I do not know what I shall do without you, my child," said Mrs. Talbot, as she watched the young girl's tender care for her comfort. "I shall feel as if I had lost my right arm."
               "You have only to call it, and it will come back to you," was the smiling reply, as she tried hard not to cry at bidding her mother good-bye.
               Lady Haughton, dressed by the careful hands of Felice in her tasteful traveling dress, sat waiting for the carriage. She took Mrs. Talbot's arm and walked through the passage as lightly as if nothing was the matter, followed by Mam'selle, who was profuse in her noisy attentions, and the ladies went to the private entrance, where Austin stood ready to assist them to the carriage. Lady Haughton sank languidly back on the cushions, while Mam'selle made officious demonstrations of concern on her account. Just as the carriage was about to start, the Hall door was opened, and Mr. Hamilton appeared. He came forward towards the carriage, but the driver, who did not perceive him, drove rapidly off. The last sight that met Lady Haughton's eyes, was that pale face, stamped with an expression of an eternal despair.
               Two hours later, Chester Place woke up to life and animation, and gaily dressed figures emerged from its chambers, and met in smiling cordiality in the breakfast room. Universal regret and surprise were produced by a note, which Lady Chester read from Lady Haughton, in which her sudden sickness was assigned as a reason for her grace-abdication of her temporary royalty.
               Some of the ladies were secretly in hopes that another sovereign would be selected, as the withdrawal of this formidable competitor rendered their chances of success greater. But the gentlemen decided with true chivalry, that the more delicate course would be not to appoint a successor, and so the matter was dropped to the disappointment of Miss Golding's cherished plans.
               That good lady had arrayed herself in a gorgeous manner, which she considered the greatness of the occasion demanded, and presented a spectacle calculated to move the risibles of a confirmed stoic.
               Mr. Upperton languidly took an inventory of the jewels with which she was decorated, and surmised that it was her latest and most advantageous method of putting her money out at interest!
               If this were her aim it succeeded admirably, for she soon became the centre of an animated circle, composed principally of representatives of that class known as fortune hunters. Mixed with these, were several youths fresh from the Universities, eager for fun of any kind, and unable to resist the temptotion of amusing themselves by turning the head of this antiquated lady with their gross flatteries.
               So Miss Euphemia took upon herself all the pretty airs of a young coquette in her first season, and enjoyed for the first time in her long life, the novel sensation of belleship, to her mind, the very climax of happiness.
               Lucy was as happy as a humrn being could be, and by Lady Chester's adroit management was kept constantly in a state of pleasant employment. Now she be would be wanted to decide as to the merits of the rival competitors for some rustic prize, and her decision would be made with such justice, and such a pretty grace that even the loser would retire with no other feeling than one of satisfaction.
               Then there would be a party to sail on the lake in Lord Chester's scallop "Fairy," and Lucy must make one of it, or the dance on the lawn would be incomplete, and no one but Lucy could fill it up.
               The young girl ran lightly about like some happy child, followed almost constantly by the young Lord, who seemed to have regained all his spirits.
               Lady Chester's vigilance on the subject of Mr. Hamilton's attentions, was not at all necessary, for that gentleman, sensible of the impossibility of advancing his suit in that quarter, had tacitly abandoned it, and so far from exhibiting any devotion to Lucy, seemed to have forgotten, her very existence. At another time this conduct would have pained her, for Robert's attentions had been sufficiently attractive to make some impression on her unconscious nature. But to-day in all the life and gaiety around her, she had not time to analize her feelings, or indeed be sensible of any feeling but the delight of pleasing and being pleased.
               Mr. Hamilton stalked moodily about, reflecting probably on the contents of a most disagreeable letter, which had come by that morning's mail. It told of a forbearance on the part of a creditor, which had been exercised until it had ceased to be a virtue, and it spoke of an unpleasant duty which would be at once performed, if the Honorable Mr. Hamilton did not make some immediate and saitsfactory arrangement.
               "Let it come," he muttered gloomily. "A prison cannot make me more miserable than I am now!"
               Sober second thought, however, contradicted this opinion, and a marriage with Miss Golding, his only alternative, rose into comparative toleration.
               A few lines to the effect that he was about to consummate a marriage with a wealthy heiress, were sufficient to stay the unpleasant proceeding threatened by his outraged creditor, and all that now remained was for him to secure his gold fish.
               As usual, this gentleman did not consider his troubles as the just consequences of his own wrong doing, but laid them at the door of some other person.
               He fretted with the petulance of a child, over the events of the night previous, and regretted it with all the power of his nature, so weak in its principles and honor, so strong in its intense selfishness and ungovernable passions.
               So far from thinking of any pain which Lady Haughton might be supposed to suffer, or any trouble to which she might be exposed, he was continually heaping reproaches on her for having made him suffer. Suffer he certainly did, for added to the pain of having been foiled in his designs, just as he thought they were completed, was a sense of deep mortification that he had been conquered by a power higher than his own, which stung him deeply.
               Consequently he was in no fitting frame of mind to play the part of a devoted lover, and yet it must be done. Next day the party was to break up, and unless he could secure the opportunity now, it would be entirely lost to him.
               In the meantime all about Chester Place was the wildest excitement and animation. The dance on the lawn was over; and the tenantry, seated in the open air, were discussing the Substantial refections served up to them. Lady Chester, leaning on the arm of her son, and followed by a gay crowd of ladies and gentlemen, walked down the long line of tables, saying something kind and appropriate to all.
               The health of the young Lord had been proposed, and was drunk with a hearty cordiality, which showed how much he was valued. At the conclusion of the frank and engaging little speech he made to his tenantry, a loud cheer went up, and at its close some jovial farmer called for another, and one for the young Lord's bride, "as is to be!" he added under his breath. Lucy, who was standing near Lady Chester, suddenly became aware that she was the cynosure of all eyes, and felt her face grow crimson with blushes, though she scarcely knew what had produced them.
               Foremost in his hilarity and noisy expressions of good will to his young Lord, was Silas Hardman, who occupied the head of one of the principal tables. What with the effect of the speech he had made, the one oratorical achievement of his life, and the necessity of qualifying himself for it, by sundry draughts of strong brown October, the face of Silas glowed with unusual excitement, and his manners kept it in company. In his pre-occupation, he had entirely lost sight of Violet, whom he had brought with him.
               Her kind friend the Rector had not been so forgetful; he had found her standing alone in the crowd, and looking as much out of place in it as an elegant lilly would do in a bed of poppies, and took her under his special protection.
               He sought Mrs. Talbot in order to give her the promised introduction, but found to his disappointment, that she had left the place that morning.
               "So much for the promises of great ladies," he said to himself. He was mistaken however in this opinion, as he found, when Lucy, who had received instructions from her mother, sought him out, and enquiring for Violet, most Kindly asked to see her. He brought the beautiful child, as self-possessed as if she had passed her life in a court, instead of the farm house of Silas Hardman, and presented her to Miss Talbot. BY one of those indefinable attractions by which children are sometimes impelled, Violet was seized with an instantaneous affection for Lucy, and manifested it in a hundred pretty and loving ways. Struck with the loveliness and refinement of the child, Lucy very readily accepted the spontaneous affection, and kept Violet as near her as possible all through the rest of the day.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               LUCRE VERSUS LOVE.
               The evening came on, and the merry and noisy tenants and guests from the village began to disappear from the grounds, trudging gaily along to their far off homes, and exchanging good natured comments on the day's enjoyments.
               Lucy had obtained Lady Chester's permission to keep Violet all night, that she might enjoy the novelty of the fireworks and illumination, and it was arranged that she should occupy Miss Talbot's room. Lights glancing from the numerous windows of Chester Place, gave notice that its inmates had begun to dress for the ball with which the festivities were to terminate. In order to make it as attractive as possible, Lady Chester had issued cards desiring fancy costume, and the long suite of rooms began to exhibit a singular appearance with the motley crowd, with which they were filling.
               There was the usual number of grotesque and common place costumes, with here and there an original conception. Flower girls hung on the arms of Knights in antique armour—Rebecca and Rowena contrasted their dissimilar beauties—Night smoothed her raven tresses, and scattered her glittering stars over Morning's robes of mingled blue and rose color. Here Edwin in his hermit's garments, met Angelina blushing in her pilgrim's dress. Mazeppa and Theresa played again the simple game that cost her life, and sent him through a desert to a throne. King Cophueta wooed his Beggar Maid, and Lancelot du Lac bent his proud helmet over Ginevera's exquisite face, lost in the contemplation of its beauty, and all unconscious of the despairing loveliness of the pale face, which gleamed beneath the veil of the Lady of Shalott.
               Mr. Upperton had selected a character, which suited him to perfection. He had chosen to embody Mephistophiles and the usual cynical expression of his handsome face, was so much heigthened by the effect of his scarlet dress and slightly defined horns that the coldly sneering remarks, which he uttered, seemed to fall from the lips of a veritable devil.
               In strong cantrast to him was Lucy, who appeared as Physche, and who looked as unearthly in her pure loveliness, as Mr. Upperton did in his demoniacal fidelity of appearance.
               She wore a robe copied from the antique, of pure, lusterless white silk, clasped round her pretty waist by a silver girdle. Her soft hair was gathered into a low knot, and fastened by a silver band, which passing around her head, terminated on her forehead in a glittering star.
               Springing lightly from her snowy shoulders, were two little, tremulous silver wings, and at the side of her dress fluttered an artificial butterfly, in which art had rivaled nature. She was the perfect embodiment of an artist's dream of immortal purity, and Mr. Hamilton looked at her with a feeling half of regret that all this loveliness was lost to him forever. Lord Chester, the only gentleman not in costume, almost forgot his duties to his other guests, in his admiration of Miss Talbot's unearthly loveliness, and it was not until several glances had been, conveyed to him from Lady Chester's keen and expressive eyes, that he tore himself away to bestow his attention elsewhere.
               Mr. Osborne in a simple black robe, looked the Jesuit to perfection, and moved about with the bland complacency which usually attends the successful attainment of one's cherished desires. Passing through the rooms, he was surprised out of his placidity by the sight of Violet. Miss Talbot had dressed her in a fantastic costume of silver gauge, and she looked like the queen of the fairies, as she moved lightly about, perfectly at home in that new scene, and indulging to the highest degree her innate love for the beautiful.
               He managed to engage her in conversation, but though brimful of glee and childish animation, and possessed of an intelligence far beyond her age, he found that all the resources of his astute intellect were of no avail before the simplicity and reticence of the child. On all other subjects than her birth and relations with the inmate of the cottage, Violet was as frank as befitted her age. But when Mr. Osborne adroitly led the conversation to that direction, he was met by a quiet composure that completely baffled him.
               "I say Osborne," said the dry voice of Mr. Upperton, who came up to him, "everybody knows that you are above all suspicion of worshipping the mammon of unrighteousness, but if you wish to see a real devotee, look yonder." He raised his arm, well displayed by its sleeve of closely fitting scarlet satin, and pointed to a couple, who were seated on a small divan, somewhat apart from the rest of the company.
               The lady, Miss Golding had been so transformed by the costume she had selected, that she might have passed for a Chimpanzee, worshipped by idolatrous barbarians, and decorated with their gaudy ornaments and votive offerings.
               She personated Wealth, which she had improvised for the occasion, and she had arranged her dress according to the dictates of her own taste, or rather want of that quality.
               She wore a robe of yellow silk, on which, in the place of the usual trimmings, were artistically rendered printings of bank notes of various sizes and denominations. A belt of real doubloons encircled her large waist, and bracelets of the same, hung from her lean arms. Around her long, thin neck, a necklace three rows deep, of gold coins was clasped, and on her shoulder was a cornucopia of the same material, from which by some ingenious contrivance a substance resembling gold dust was scattered as she moved. Her scanty hair was gathered up on the top of her head, and around it she wore a large and a clumsy crown formed of gold, and crowded with gaudy stones, and from the edges of which, dangled long strings of coin which rattled and jingled in a most unpleasant manner. Her bouquet was held in a large golden key, and in place of a bag or chatelaine, she wore a huge purse. Her common and ugly face was flushed and heated by excitement, and the state of vulgar bustle she was in, and altogether no stronger contrast could have been presented, than the one she afforded to the figure at her side.
               Mr. Hamilton's costume had been selected when he had hoped to pass this evening as the attendant of the queenly woman, whose intended dress he had learned from his valet, through Felice.
               Lady Haughton had selected as the character she would sustain, that of Cleopatra, whom she had every right to represent, by virtue of her excessive beauty and regal appearance, and still more by the possession of that subtle charm, which for want of a better name, we call fascination. A gift, which is of more value to its fortunate possessor than the rarest beauty without it, for it can of itself and by its own unaided powers, achieve those heart conquests, which simple beauty has often tried in vain to accomplish, and then given up in despair.
               Knowing her Ladyship's intention, he determined to appear as Antony, and his heart had beaten high as he remembered all the wealth of romance that hangs round this royal pair, which age after age condemns, and yet glorifies. The preparations were easily made, consisting chiefly of such portions of knightly armor, borrowed from the old armory room of Chester Place, as might approximate to the Roman dress of the period, and which the costume of Antony, half military, half regal, might comprise.
               A suit of flexible silver scales over a rich green dress, was open at the arm holes, and showed the wearer's superbly formed arms, almost as white as a woman's. Round his waist he had twined a rich scarf, gorgeous with Chinese embroidery, in whose folds shown the hilt of a magnificent dagger, and over him he had carelessly thrown the scarlet cloak of a Roman general. His head was bare with the exception of a light wreath of laurel leaves, which afforded a beautiful contrast to his auburn hair.
               The dress, simple as it was, was admirably well calculated to set off his wonderful beauty, and on his pale face rested such an expression as might have been on Antony's, when he saw "Egypt's" ships leaving him, and knew that his "heart was tied to their rudder strings."
               His companion was too self-engrossed to heed anything but the delight, his open attentions produced. To secure a man so universally courted as Mr. Hamilton, was of itself an honor she had never aspired to, but to "cut out" as she phrased it, two such beauties as Lady Haughton and Miss Talbot, was almost too great a triumph, and in the height of her joy the good lady would have been willing to be conducted then and there to the Chapel, and perform the most conspicuous part in a solemn ceremony before the assembled crowd.
               Robert Hamilton knew the woman he had to deal with too well, to waste any time in delicate advances; the precious hours were passing too quickly to admit of any unnecessary delay. So after a few high flown compliments, which were greedily devoured, he declared himself in form, and received a delighted consent.
               This important affair settled, Mark Antony threw himself back on his cushions, and fairly exhausted by the events of the last twenty-four hours, gave himself up to a series of thoughts as bitter perhaps as ever stung human bosom.
               But the lady he had won was not at all inclined to let her new prize slip off so quietly, and having read much of love and love making in the romances of Dumas, Sue, Sand Fils and Company, she was anxious to taste its immunities by actual experience.
               So after a number of tender glances, half uttered remarks, and coy advances, which in a pretty woman would have been irresistible, but which in one so ugly as Miss Golding, were more than ridiculous, she proposed a walk. Choosing the lawn, now almost deserted by the crowds, which were hurrying to the banks of the lake, where the fire works were to be displayed.
               Robert submitted with the alacrity of a martyr going to torture, and Miss Euphemia slipped her long arm through his, without his having offered it; then with an attempt at bashful surprise at finding it bare, she drew it back again with a shrill cry. Robert did not notice the withdrawal, nor did he attempt to recapture the truant, but walked coldly on. A sharp hysterical giggle from Miss Euphemia arrested him as they stood under a large tree on the now empty lawn.
               "I think we must have made a mistake just now, sir," she said, "and we'd better be off again. You said you loved me, but I've yet got to see the first thing that looks like it, sir."
               There was light enough for him to see the angry frown, the threatening eyes, and the sullen, protruded mouth, and he needed no interpreter to tell him her meaning.
               He groaned within himself, and said: "If my respect for you had not been so very high, I should have been more"—he bowed low, and his voice became inaudible.
               
               "Oh! I ain't so mighty particular," was the reply; and she stood evidently expectant.
               Robert stood for a moment irresolute, a thousand demons were mocking him, bringing up before his reeling gaze every separate perfection of a beauty, all the more enchanting because he knew it was lost forever. He sickened with disgust, but taking the skinny hand of the eager lady, he put his lips upon it, took her gaunt form in his arms, and held it coldly there for a second, touched his mouth to the clammy forehead, and then broke away. Rushing violently to the dark and lonely park to throw himself down upon the long, rank grass heavy with the night dews, and tear it up by wild handfulls, as if it were his evil destiny with which he was palpably grappling.
               He lay there till his rich dress was all damp and soiled, and the sharp agony of his first grief had been succeeded by a deep sorrow, which forced the great tears out of his eyes, and made him as weak as a little child.
               And at last when night was fading, and the first grey rays of dawn were appearing, he rose with a face all pale and haggard, and wrapping his head closely in his mantle, went up to his chamber to take up the burden of his miserable life.
               Long before this, sleep had settle down over Chester Park. Lucy, looking more seraphic than in her fancy dress, lay in a sweet slumber, while Violet near her was wrapped in the deep, unruffled sleep of childhood.
               Lord Chester, in his elegant apartment, was wide awake, too happy to lay aside the bright hopes which possessed his soul, and lose them in the unconsciousness of sleep.
               Later in the day the party broke up, with mutual regrets and pleasant retrospections over the delightful visit they had spent. Lucy remained with Lady Chester, as a letter from Mrs. Talbot had spoken of Lady Haughton's illness as far more severe than had been thought at first, and had announced her intention of remaining at the Hall until its termination.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               UNDER THE SHADOW.
               Very ill indeed was the proud woman who had stood up so defiantly in her strength and beauty, and very powerless now were that strength and beauty to save her. She lay tossing on her luxurious bed, with a fever which no medical skill was able to subdue. It seemed as if nature was claiming her outraged rights, and taking full reprisals for the long years in which she had been controlled and forced from her bounds by the imperious spirit now so weak and helpless. For years, the beautiful woman lying there in her pain, had exercised a reticence which had cramped her energies, bound her in an iron band, and changed her into a mere automaton; but now she seemed to pour out her inmost soul, under the volition of a power superior to her own.
               What a tale did Mrs. Talbot hear, as she sat in the darkened chamber from which all others were carefully excluded. What revelations of heart secrets, forbidden impulses, uncontrolable inclinations and frantic regrets, were conveyed to her by the ravings of delirium!
               Then would come glimpses of a nature originally high and noble, but all undisciplined, and as totally devoid of all religious training as a heathen. What fitful glimmerings ings of light it displayed, in its feeble efforts to walk in a right path!
               Then the crimson lips murmured of some new power, which broke down all the slight attempts at right and goodness, and set the soul afloat again on the ocean of passionate doubt. And here the lady's delirium raged highest, and she would rise in bed, and clasping her lovely hands, would beseech some imaginary listener to release her from the spell in which it had bound her, and to assist her in her faint struggles for right. The she would fall down moaning and crying like an infant.
               The pent up feelings of long years found an outlet now, and poured out in a flood of wild eloquence, which daguereotyped the soul and character of the woman with fearful accuracy. Mrs. Talbot's heart ached at the wreck of so much original goodness and purity, undeveloped for want of proper training, and wept as she saw this complete realization of the sad reflection of Faust over the soul, "that with an earnest glimmering after light, went miserably astray in the twilight."
               Looking at the beautiful creature writhing under the emotions and memories that overpowered her, and thinking of her uncertain future and the prospect of a life of care and sorrow which seemed to lie before her, Mrs. Talbot grieved that she should be the only auditor of these revelations, which showed the struggles of a soul and its final triumph.
               She felt sure that had Sir Everard been able to sit by as she did, and listen to the sweet half uttered confession of the birth of a new love, not an ardent blaze of youthful passion, but founded on the imperishable rock of esteem and high principle, his heart would have yearned over his unhappy wife, with a love more tender and devoted than he had ever known.
               The Baronet had been summoned from London, and when Lady Haughton became so ill that all attendants were excluded from her chamber, except Mrs. Talbot, he had confined himself almost entirely to his own room, and seemed completely unnerved.
               Mr Osborne, who had hurried down to the hall after his uncle, was most obsequious in his attentions, but at first without effect, for the Baronet evidently preferred the society of his own thoughts, and refused to see his nephew except at meals. But after a while his manner changed, and he sought the society of Mr. Osborne as much as he had formerly avoided it; indeed it seemed to be the only thing which afforded him any pleasure; an advantage of which the young gentleman availed himself to the very utmost.
               This was the golden opportunity for which he had so long wished, and he was not the man to let it pass by unimproved. The Baronet took no pleasure in conversing of anything but his wife, and let the conversation take what turn it might, he would invariably bring it back to this subject.
               Chiming in with this humor, Mr. Osborne would draw with a skilful hand, the picture of Lady Haughton in all her pride and beauty, controverting the opinion that she was heartless, and hinting what a wealth of passionate devotion she would be likely to lavish on one whom she loved. Then he would sigh deeply, while Sir Everard would sit, mentally contrasting his age, his grave manners and the reserve, which long years of seclusion from the world had crusted over him, with his wife's youth, beauty and fascinations, until he groaned in spirit!
               Mr. Osborne keenly observant of all, and watching the mental anguish of his patient, as the physicians of old times were made to watch the physical tortures of victims on the rack, that they might ascertain the precise moment when the torture must cease, so as to preserve life, would descant feelingly on the folly of trusting one's happiness to anything so frail as a woman's love, and declare that no one of the sex was worthy the serious regret of a high minded man!
               By a series of the most artful insinuations he, without at all committing himself, succeeded in producing in his uncle's mind, a feeling of miserable unrest on the subject of his wife, which made his life wretched. No open fault was alledged, but a general impression was created that something was not right, a something which Sir Everard ought to know, but which his nephew was unable to control himself sufficiently to tell him.
               The unhappy gentleman bore it bravely, and gave no sign of his misery. Too devoted to his wife, and too highly chivalrous towards her as a woman, to believe her capable of committing any wrong towards him, still he was tormented by a fear, a dread that something too terrible to name, even to himself, might be connected with her history, previous to his acquaintance with her. He pushed it from him in terror, but simply because it was so impalpable, so vague and indefinable, did it resist his efforts to crush it, and deepened into a feeling, which if not belief, yet suffered all its miseries.
               Mr. Osborne took quiet, though careful note of the phases of his uncle's sufferings, and only delayed giving his victim the coup de grace until the crisis of Lady Haughton's illness should be passed.
               "Should her Ladyship die," reasoned this profound diplomat, "there will be no necessity for speaking, for in that event the estates will of course be mine, and to defame her, may cause my uncle to look coldly on me. If she lives, I have the matters in such train, that I have only to speak a word, and the sword falls!"
               Would she live? This question was asked fifty times a day of the physicians, who had been called from London, and domesticated in the Hall. Mrs. Talbot asked it eagerly after each visit, when the learned gentlemen would stand for a few moments by the prostrate form of Lady Haughton, and then turn and carry, on a scientific and unintelligible conversation with each other.
               Sir Everard's eyes asked the question, which his pale lips refused to utter, while Mamselle Felice, who hovered round her mistress's door like a bird of ill omen, would waylay the doctors and make the enquiry in a tone whose affected interest scarcely concealed her intense fear, lest her victim should escape from her meditated revenge.
               It was a question none could answer. The physicians spoke of youth, a perfect organization, and unequalled power of vitality, but hinted that the violence of the fever might wear out all these. Then drew up their portly shoulders, shook their respectable heads, and sighed blandly.
               Mrs. Talbot watched over Lady Haughton, as a mother might watch over her child, wrestling in prayer for the salvation of this erring soul, so far gone from its original purity.
               "She knows no more of vital religion or piety, than a heathen," sighed the gentle lady, whose life had been passed in the quiet discharge of Christian duties. "Oh! how terrible is the thought, that she must go into the presence of her Maker, without one word of warning, or thought of repentance."
               "Merciful Father," she continued bending her head on the pillow where Lady Haughton lay exhausted, after a paroxysm of pain, and praying with all the fervor of her holy nature, "with Thee nothing is impossible—let her live to atone for her past life, by a new one of devotion to Thy service. Or if it be Thy will to take her now, suffer her first to learn repentance and her need of Thee."
               The prayer seemed to have found an answer, for hour after hour passed, and still the lady lay sleeping calmly and free from the pains that had racked her.
               Later in the day the physicians pronounced a change for the better, and declared that there existed grounds to hope for a speedy recovery.
               Days passed slowly on, and at last she was so decidedly better, that the London physicians made their final bows and took their departure, leaving the invalid to the tender care of Mrs. Talbot.
               
               To this care Lady Haughton was left almost entirely, for contrary to his former habits, Sir Everard never came to his wife's room, except when obliged to do so, and made it a point never to see her alone.
               He would come every day, when taken up and dressed, She would be seated in her arm chair by the fire, which the autumn days rendered necessary, and talk a while on indifferent subjects and then go away. And in the evening he would repeat his formal visit. He was as kind to his wife as ever, and took extraordinary pains to secure every comfort and luxury for her; but the life and soul of his attentions were wanting, and without this, they were valueless.
               Lady Haughton saw the change, and in the new feelings and emotions stirred within her, felt it most deeply. Contrary to her usual reticence, she mentioned this to Mrs. Talbot, expressing her fears, that during her illness some one must have poisoned the mind of her husband against her. The two ladies discussed the matter earnestly, and though they had sufficient grounds for supposing that Mr. Hamilton was the offender, they did not attribute it to him. With that intuitive perception said to belong exclusively to the sex, they arrived at the firm conviction, that Mr. Raleigh Osborne was the person to be suspected.
               This conviction once made, they remembered a hundred little incidents, trifling in themselves, but of great weight, when properly collated and arranged; so by this means they succeeded in establishing a pretty clear chain of evidence, which was not far from the truth.
               Lady Haughton recalled the incident of the letter which she had placed in Austin's hands, and told that long afterwards she had heard a noise in the passage, and on opening the door, had been just in time to see Felice sweep hurriedly by Mr. Osborne's door. This account reminded Mrs. Talbot that she had seen Mr. Osborne and the waiting maid in close consultation on the night before Lady Haughton left Chester Place. The ladies determined to enquire from Austin if he had delivered the letter with his own hands, and sent for him for that purpose.
               The old man related the events of the evening in a clear and circumstantial manner, and repeated the very words of Mam'selle. And when he heard that he had been made the dupe of the artful French woman, he was furious, and respect for the ladies alone prevented him from expressing his opinion of her.
               After he had gone out, the ladies resumed the discussion of the important subject, and were more than ever convinced that Sir Everard had been informed by his nephew of the letter and its contents.
               If any thing could have deepened the self-abasement of the miserable lady, it would have been this fact. But she had already taken a position of such complete humility, that to go beyond it would have been impossible. The depths of her proud nature were broken up, and she clung to Mrs. Talbot, begging like a little child, to be led to her God. In no haughty or Pharisaical spirit did she come, but beating her beautiful bosom, and saying in all the sincerity of a broken spirit, "God be merciful to me, a sinner," she came like the woman "who had been a sinner," to her Savior's feet.
               
               Old things had indeed passed away, and in her intense loathing of her sins and herself, she saw her pardon through the merits of her Redeemer, in the light of such a wonderful and undeserved mercy, that her heart overflowed with gratitude, and she felt that she might hope to claim forgiveness "because she loved much."
               In her desire to exhibit her gratitude to its Divine Author, she had but one idea—to devote herself to His service—and to this end, she bent all her energies.
               As Mrs. Talbot had rightly said, Lady Haughton had been a heathen, so far as all knowledge of vital religion had been concerned, and now that the truth of the gospel was opening upon her, she caught at its plan of salvation with the docile spirit of a true disciple.
               Faithfully did Mrs. Talbot labor in her behalf; she was most anxious to join Lucy, from whom she had been so long separated, but as she had given all her energies to Lady Haughton while she was ill, so now much more did she consider it her duty to remain with her in this sickness of her soul, and try and point her to the Great Physician.
               So summer had ripened into the glorious autumn, and still Mrs. Talbot lingered at the Hall, in constant attendance on its beautiful mistress.
               More beautiful than ever, she was now, for there was about her a sort of spiritualised loveliness, which had never existed before.
               Gentle, meek, observant of the comfort and happiness of others, entirely forgetful of her own, dead to the world, and alive to all things connected with the better life— such was Marcia Haughton, as she sat quietly in her luxurious chamber.
               One remembering the haughty woman she had been a few months before, and seeing her now, might have thought that a miracle had been wrought in her behalf. And truly that miracle of miracles had been performed; that tremendous mystery of the new birth—that inexplicable change from darkness to light, from death to life.
               The altered demeanor of her husband cut her to the quick, but she bore it meekly and as if any course of conduct he might choose to adopt towards her, would be better than what she deserved at his hands.
               It is a sad feeling to wake up to the perception of a lost love, even though we may have removed our own affections, partially or entirely from its object.
               When one, particularly if that one be a woman, has been for a long time accustomed to the tender and delicate attentions of a true, pure love, even if she did not return that love, its withdrawal will be very hard to bear.
               The heart feels a void at the loss of what had, unconsciously to itself, engaged an important part of it. Memory recalls a hundred little incidents, unnoticed at the time of their transpiring, but now by force of contrast, swelling into real happiness, and for a time at least, all other love seems powerless to replace the one which we sadly feel is lost to us forever.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM.
               If love departing, occasions us the sadest emotions of which our nature is capable, so love approaching showers upon it an unearthly happiness!
               So at least thought Lord Chester, as he wandered with Lucy through the magnificent grounds of Chester Place, teaching her a lesson all unknown before.
               After the gay company had dispersed, and Lady Chester and the two young people had been left the only occupants of the place, the latter had been unavoidably thrown into a state of great intimacy.
               The first few days in a house which has been filled with people, and gay with every species of enjoyment, but is now left to quiet and comparative dullness, are very apt to affect one's feelings very unpleasantly, and Lucy formed no exception to the rule.
               The house, splendid as it was, seemed dull and lifeless without the bright faces, the merry nonsense, and pleasant stir and bustle which had lately enlivened it, and the young girl ran down the long, deserted corridors, where even her light footsteps sounded loudly in the unbroken stillness, with a feeling almost of dread.
               Such a merry nature as Lord Chester's would have inspired spired one under any circumstances, but now Lucy found a positive enjoyment in it. His spirits never flagged, and he contrived to prevent hers from doing so too. He was always ready with some plan of amusement or interest, by which he might please her, or while away her time.
               For himself, he needed no greater happiness than to be near her, and to be allowed to employ his time in devotion to her pleasure.
               At first he found her not cold, but far worse, indifferent; indeed, there, still lingered in the young girl's heart, a remnant of the inexplicable feeling which her short association with Robert Hamilton had produced. But his tread had only approached the outer porch of the temple, and the shrine in its inmost recesses was as pure and unoccupied as ever.
               It is needless to relate how by slow degrees, a divinity was enshrined on that altar, and how Lucy woke to the consciousness of a new feeling, something brighter and higher than she had ever known before.
               A feeling in which all the love she had hitherto cherished for all that was good and beautiful, and which, beginning with her mother, flowed out into a hundred channels of sweet affection, was filled and flooded by a new emotion in which all the others were increased and sublimated. It is useless to attempt the description needless to tell the sweet tale.
               Those who have ever experienced the bright happiness, will have the process too indelibly stamped on their souls to require its repetition; while to those who have never known its sweet influence, the words which would do its description justice, would seem only the idle rhapsodies of a poet's brain.
               No open word had been spoken, for Lord Chester with the high chivalry of his state and nature, would have scorned to take advantage of his position as her host, to secure Lucy's acknowledged love. He felt that it was her right to be wooed in her own home, and treated her with the respectful tenderness of a knight of old.
               But by the time that Lucy's face had learned how to burn with bright blushes, as Lord Chester hung whisperingly over her, and her eyes had acquired a new charm, in falling every time they met his admiring gaze, the young Lord was quite as well aware of the state of her feelings towards him, as she was herself. His devotion was as open as it was unbounded, and she could not mistake its object. And if he could find food for the certainty of his hopes, in a young girl's blushes and down cast looks, he being the cause of them, why it is fair to suppose that he was the best judge of what so nearly concerned himself!
               Lady Chester looked placidly on, attempting no interference, and allowing matters to run to their inevitable end.
               The young people were mostly alone, for though Lady Chester was always present at their home interviews, and made one in their out door excursions, still she managed to keep apart, and in no way reminded them that they had a companion.
               Lucy would not have been happy away from her, for she was accustomed to the constant society of her mother, and in the innocence of her girlish heart, attempted no concealment of her happy love.
               Miss Golding who lived in the neighborhood had called and Lady Chester with Lucy and her son had returned the visit in great form, for the lady in question took account of pomp and circumstance; and deeply resented any want of their display towards herself, as a personal affront.
               In the gaudy room which Miss Euphemia had fitted up after her own fancy, and which presented an appearance of ugliness, which is scarcely to be imagined, they found Mr. Hamilton, who sat or rather lolled on the sofa beside Miss Golding. That gentleman bowed low to the party, but met them with an unusual reserve.
               Indeed his whole appearance seemed changed, and he, who had been the soul and life of society, now sat moody and silent.
               Miss Golding evidently considered him perfection, and paraded him and their engagement so publicly, that Lucy was astonished, and Lady Chester disgusted. Every opinion the good lady expressed, had emanated from "Robert," every question was referred to "Robert," and she behaved towards him with an affectation of bashfulness which set as badly on her advanced age, as did the girlish vivacity by which her manner was distinguished.
               While the party was at luncheon, she contrived to seat Lucy in an alcove, and coming to her, she told her in a brust of inexpressible confidence, that the time of her wedding had been appointed; that she had wished it put off, but that "Robert" would not hear of delay!
               Warming with the delightful subject, the good lady went into the details of her trousseau, and expatiated on the delightful retreat which "Robert" had selected as the scene of their honeymoon. They were recalled to the table just in time to hear Lady Chester announce the recovery of Lady Haughton, and see Mr. Hamilton's pale face flush into its old expression.
               "Hamilton has sold himself, that is certain," said Lord Chester as they rolled along on their return. "But I hardly think he will find Miss Golding's treasures compensate for the necessity of taking her along with them! Poor fellow," continued the young lord, rich enough in his happiness to give sympathy to all who were less fortunate, "I am very sorry for him, though at the same time, I feel a contempt for a man who could act in this manner."
               "He looks as if he required pity," said Lady Chester, "for if looks be any criterion of feeling, he is a miserable man. But if he marries Euphemia Golding with any hope of profiting by the control of her fortune, he will find himself greatly disappointed. She is as close and mean as a human being can be; I have reason to know this, for one of her estates borders on Chester, and I have had much annoyance from her petty encroachments. Besides, her property is so tied up that she alone can use it, so that her husband, unless a rich man, will be a pensioner on her scanty bounty, and the slave of all her caprices to be paid by being allowed to receive his maintenance from her parsimonious hands!"
               "And yet she says she loves him," said Lucy musingly.
               Lord Chester looked at her, at she sat watching the hedgerows as they passed, and utterly unconscious of the key to her own feelings, which her remark had given, and his heart whispered a flattering commentary on her simple words.
               In the meantime, Mary Hardman was dying, passing gently, but unmistakably away. She was too weak to leave her bed, and lay there propped up by pillows, and scarcely less white than they. Her neighbors crowded around her with offers of kind attentions and friendly sympathy, and Mr. and Mrs. Ramsay came daily from the Rectory, and administered to her worldly and spiritual wants.
               Even Silas, whose hard nature had been softened by the stillness which had fallen on the house, where one could almost hear the rustle of the arch-angel's wings, became alive to the fact that his wife was dying, and that he should miss her.
               Violet at first confined herself entirely to Mary's sick, room, and refused to leave it, but as her spirits sank, and her rosy cheeks grew pale under such confinement, Mary insisted that the child should take her accustomed exercise.
               In this way she was often brought into contact with Lucy, who walking by Lady Chester's garden chair, or riding with Lord Chester, would roam through the beautiful woods of Chester Place.
               These were more familiar to Violet than to the young lord himself, for she and the Rectory children had made them the scene of their favorite pastimes, and knew them almost by heart.
               Lady Chester, who treated Lucy as one would treat a beautiful and petted child, seeing the interest she took in the little girl, had her sent to the Place several times to spend the day, and in this way Violet's childish admiration tion for the young lady deepened into a positive affection, which Lucy returned very warmly.
               She was more inclined to cherish this feeling, after receiving a letter from her mother on the subject, begging her to see the child, and as far as possible, look after and take charge of her.
               After this letter, came others still more explicit, saying that as Violet would in all probability be adopted by a dear friend of Mrs. Talbot, she wished that the child should be placed under her charge. She desired that Violet should join Lucy as soon as arrangements to that effect could be consummated, and requested Lady Chester to receive her until Mrs. Talbot should be ready to return to her own home.
               So it happened when at last the summons did come, and Mary's spirit released from the burden of the flesh returned to its Maker, that the child was sent to Chester Place.
               Silas had not opposed this plan, and indeed gave very little heed to Violet or anything else.
               His perceptions not delicate by nature, and roughened by a long life of self-absorbtion, were not likely to cause him any great degree of grief; but even he was alive to the sense of a loss, a want, a void which he had never felt before. His wife had been a blessing, of which he took no more account than he did of light and air; but now that she was removed, and he felt the want of her constant and tender attentions, he became dimly sensible of her worth, and grieved at her loss.
               The funeral was over, the glowing words which commend the spirit to the Maker who has recalled it, were said, and the earth was heaped over the new entry which Time had made against Eternity.
               The little group of friends and neighbors had dispersed, and Violet, whose frantic grief was pitiable to see, was standing outside of the church yard when the pony chaise from Chester Place drove up and Miss Talbot jumping out, hurried to the weeping child. She had started to attend the funeral, but owing to a mistake as to the time of its occurrence, she had arrived too late.
               She put her arms around the little girl, and soothed her in the tenderest manner until she was pacified, and taking a kindly leave of Silas, she was lifted into the carriage and driven off to Chester Place.
               For the next few days, Lord Chester was half inclined to be jealous of Violet, to whose comfort Lucy devoted herself so assiduously, as to deprive him of the full measure of her company. But at the end of that time, Violet's naturally buoyant spirits returned, and with the happy faculty of childhood, she became immersed in the new and congenial delights, by which she was surrounded.
               The child possessed an artist's soul, and had a natural proclivity for all that was refined and beautiful. The magnificence of Chester Place, with its drawing rooms resplendent with all the elegance of Parisian upholstery, its long frescoed passages and halls, its library of rare books, and above all its picture gallery, where the light, toned to an artistic softness, fell on many a gem of priceless value, filled her with emotions almost too great for utterance.
               Lucy, who was fond of drawing, would often resort to the gallery, where she would find every requisite for the art, with Lord Chester ready to prove himself the most competent and devoted of teachers.
               The young Lord had a decided talent for painting, which, had he been a poor man, would have raised him to celebrity, as he would have developed it, under the pressure of necessity, into its highest proportions.
               His talent had been carefully cultivated, and he now determined to exert it all on an object which he considered worthy of the highest inspiration—this was a portrait of Lucy.
               The idea was induced by a laughing remark on Lucy's part, as they stood one day discussing the merits of the various Chesters of past generations, who smiled blandly at them from the gallery walls, that she would like to see herself on canvass.
               Once formed, its execution was at once carried into effect, and many a delightful morning was spent over its accomplishment.
               Lady Chester, with a book or some work for charitable purposes, would sit in a corner of the gallery opposite to the easel at which her son was operating, and Violet curled up on some soft Indian mat, would lie gazing up at some favorite picture, with that dreamy expression which in years passed, had often made Mary Hardman wonder if she was communing spiritually with her absent mother.
               Lord Chester had requested Lucy to wear the dress, in which she had appeared at the Fancy Ball, despite her wishes to be represented in her ordinary attire.
               "Remember," he pleaded, "that any artist might be allowed to paint you thus. Let it be my high privilege to portray you as you will always appear in my heart—the Psyche of my life!"
               So his point was gained, and the young girl again stood in all her virginal loveliness, the very embodiment of that pure and innocent love which the ancients well typified by the creation of Psyche.
               Violet had been domesticated at the Place for three weeks when Mrs. Talbot's letter, began to speak of the probable time of her return, and Lucy's heart beat with a mingled feeling of pleasure at seeing her mother, and grief at separation from Lord Chester. She was now sufficiently aware of her feelings, to know that with his presence was a happiness which she could not associate with anything else, wanting it.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XX.
               MR. OSBORNE'S TRIUMPH.
               Lady Haughton grew stronger slowly, but at last was able to leave her room, and to some degree, resume her position as mistress of the Hall.
               Sir Everard welcomed her return with the sad gravity which now characterised all that he did, and Mr. Osborne seemed to be in a state in which his desire to treat her with the respect due to her as his uncle's wife, was at variance with his knowledge how much that respect was undeserved.
               That young gentleman had made no open disclosures, but continued his course of quiet inuendoes until the Baronet was half frantic with a suspense worse than almost any certainty would have been.
               It was about this time that Mrs. Talbot announced the necessity of her return home, and at Lady Haughton's request, carried to Sir Everard a petition to be allowed to adopt Violet.
               How changed was her position, now that she was obliged to approach her husband through the medium of another from the time when a word or a look from her was sufficient to sway him to her slightest wish.
               Mam'selle was in the room at the time that the message was given to Mrs. Talbot, and saw her mistress' pace face grow paler still as she gave it. Her eyes glowed in fierce delight, as she muttered to herself: "This is but the beginning of the end, Miladi!"
               The Baronet expressed his perfect willingness to gratify this and any other desire of Lady Haughton's. He then informed Mrs. Talbot that he had most important business to transact in relation to Lady Haughton and that if agreeable to her, he would come to her room that evening and arrange it.
               Mrs. Talbot took back the request, and in the groan, which Lady Haughton's pale lips could not repress, Mam'selle rejoiced over "the end so near, Miladi; so very near!"
               All that long afternoon, Lady Haughton was prostrated under a great and overwhelming sorrow. Mrs. Talbot tried to comfort her, by directing her thoughts to the only source of all comfort, and pointed out to her many contingencies which might arise from the very event she considered so hopeless.
               "It is useless, my dear friend," she said, lifting her beautiful face from the pillow of her couch. "But one event can happen. He will cast me from him, unworthy to remain in his presence, after having forfeited his respect. Ah! that is what stings me most, to have lost his respect—he the very soul of truth and honor!"
               Evening came, and Lady Haughton as white as the robe she wore, sat waiting for her husband's arrival, feeling in its intense bitterness the full weight of misery which was before her.
               
               She had never looked more beautiful, than she did that night, as she leaned back in her crimson chair, the outlines of her magnificent figure thrown into full relief by her robe of snowy cashmere. The loose sleeves had fallen back, and showed her fair, white arms crossed over her bosom, and her face wore such an expression as Dante must have seen in the countenance of Francesca da Rimini.
               Mrs. Talbot sat near her, but no word was spoken, for when the heart is full to overflowing, it does not dare trust itself to words.
               A low knock was heard, and Sir Everard entered, leaning on the arm of his nephew. At the sight of Mr. Osborne, a slight shudder ran through Lady Haughton's frame, as if she had hoped to be spared this pain.
               Sir Everard seated himself on a sofa, in front of his wife, and Mr. Osborne made an ostentatious pretence of seeing him comfortably seated.
               "Thank you, Raleigh," he said gently, "but bodily ease is incompatible with a troubled mind!"
               "I have requested to see you on business which concerns you intimately," the Baronet continued, addressing his wife, but not looking at her; "and I think it but right that my nephew, as my nearest kin, and Mrs. Talbot, as your Ladyship's best friend, should be treated with the confidence which their kindness deserves, and so I desire that they may remain during this interview.
               "It is but too apparent," continued Sir Everard, in a tone which showed that every word was wrung from his very heart, "that the relations which formerly existed between tween Lady Haughton and myself have been interrupted and changed.
               "That it is so, I cannot deny, but I pray you believe that it arises from no want of confidence on my part to wards Lady Haughton, during the happy time when I have called her my wife.
               "Through the whole of that most happy time, she has rendered me all that I had the least right to expect—more, far more!"
               His voice trembled, but he went on:
               "I thank her for it, and for all the happiness she has given me, and I blame myself bitterly for having imposed such a burden on her young life.
               "Yielding to my overpowering love for her, I weakly took advantage of her youth and unprotected position and wood her for my wife. I thought her heart was yet untouched, and hoped that by a course of ceaseless devotion I might teach her, if not to love me, at least to tolerate my love.
               "With the new light to which I have lately awakened, I now see that, though totally unconscious of it, I did her a grievous wrong; and if my grief could be made heavier than it is, it would be by the thought that I had blighted her young life, and stood between her and her happiness.
               A faint moan from the lady, and he continued, still without looking at her:
               "It is hard to convey to others the idea of a feeling too indefinable to be described, and yet carrying with it such firm conviction, that the one who is possessed by it cannot avoid giving it implicit credence.
               "Such a feeling began to come over me, just at the commencement mencement of Lady Haughton's illness; how, I do not know; most probably in the half implied suggestions of my nephew. But it has deepened ever since, and my life has been made miserable by the fear of something, to which I can give no name, and yet by which I am crushed by a fear of some great and terrible evil.
               "This state of suspense is no longer endurable, and after long and most painful consideration, I have decided on a course of conduct by which I trust your Ladyship may be benefitted.
               "I shall go away," he said, looking at Lady Haughton, but not raising his eyes to her face, "and I shall go away not to return. I hold this to be the only reparation I can make to the dear lady who has endured so much for me.
               "I have made every provision for her comfort, that my care for her could suggest, and I leave her with no other injunction than to be happy, and so far as she can, regain the peace of mind, which I fear I have been the cause of her losing forever." He stopped and rubbed his hands over his forehead, as if to press out the pain, and then went on slowly.
               "I shall go so soon as my arrangements can be made, and as I do not wish to leave her Ladyship alone, I shall be greatly obliged if you Mrs. Talbot, will return to the Hall when I leave it, and remain at least, until Lady Haughton's health shall be better established.
               "My nephew has offered to go with me, but I shall be but poor company for some time, and I have requested him to return to London.
               "The arrangements relative to the adoption of the little girl, whose society Lady Haughton desires, have all been made, and I rejoice most sincerely, that I have been able to show my perfect readiness to carry out any plan or wish of her Ladyship's.
               "The world need never know anything of this matter, but should it be learned, I leave it to you both as a solemn duty, to see that the true reason is given. This is, that I, satisfied that I had done Lady Haughton a great wrong by uniting her youth and beauty to my age and staid manners, have made her the only reparation in my power, by ridding her of my presence.
               "I charge you both," he continued, rising, and standing proudly in his love and self-sacrifice, "I charge you, that not one breath of reproach be allowed to sully the fair fame of the noble lady, for whom my love is only inferior to my respect!"
               He ceased, and stood trembling with an emotion which he did not attempt to conceal.
               Mr. Osborne who had been sitting most uneasily during his uncle's remarks, saw at a glance, that the affair had taken a turn, decidedly unpropitious to his wishes. He felt assured that Lady Haughton would be largely endowed by her husband, who might besides, be capable in his blind desire of reparation, of giving her the estates also.
               "Now," he thought, "is my time, my scornful lady, to pay back all your dislike and pride, and to secure my future! I may not have proof for every assertion I shall make, but make them all, I will, if only to heap fresh insults on your haughty head!" He moved in his seat, and was about to speak, but Sir Everard, who had remained silent, now turned to leave the room.
               As he passed by his wife's chair, he stopped, and stood looking at her, as she sat in her beauty and misery, gazing down on her, as if in that last, long look, he would imprint her features on his memory forever. He lent down, and laid his clasped hands on her drooping head: "God bless you" he said, "God bless you, and make you happy!"
               He stooped lower still, and pressed his lips to the pale forehead still drooping away from him, and then would have passed on.
               But with a wild cry, Lady Haughton sprang from her chair, and throwing herself at his feet, clung to them with passionate force.
               Mr. Osborne got up and walked up to them.
               "I cannot give such promise" he said, in his calm, measured voice; "I will not induce others to give respect to one who is totally unworthy of it."
               "How dare you!" burst from the Baronet's angry lips.
               "I make no charge, sir, that I cannot substantiate! I will speak with the candor which the case requires.
               "I have never liked Lady Haughton, and have always been of the opinion, that she must have been influenced by some improper motive, in a union of her youth and beauty with a man so old as my uncle, with whose excellencies of character she was at the time entirely unacquainted. I was struck with a peculiar change in her Ladyship, dating from the time of her sudden withdrawal from London, and I determined to observe her closely. I did so, and was soon convinced by actual facts, that she had a secret connected with her history, and that it was one of no ordinary importance. Always bearing in mind, that her marriage had been an interested one, it occurred to me, very naturally, that this secret must have a bearing on something closely concerning my uncle, and on this account, I felt no hesitation in employing means, to arrive at the discovery of my object, which are usually considered reprehensible.
               "Taking Mam'selle Felice into my confidence, I began a system of complete espionage on Lady Haughton, which produced the most conclusive results.
               "During my stay at Chester Place, I became the possessor of a discovery, which proved how clearly my instincts, sharpened as they were by my affection for my honored relative, had pointed me in the right direction.
               "I can, if required, give every detail of these discoveries, supported by the most indubitable proof.
               "But it is sufficient for me to say, that the woman, now lying at your feet is not worthy the respect of any man, far less that of the noble, the outraged gentleman, she calls her husband.
               "I charge Marcia, Lady Haughton with having most cruelly deceived my uncle in marrying him, when apparently, a whole hearted, innocent girl, while, in reality, she made it a mere matter of interest, after having been abandoned by a former lover. I charge her with having employed the lavish means, which the generosity of her husband placed at her disposal, in the maintenance of a child, which was left a little infant ten years ago at a farmer's door, and who has been watched over, cared for, and provided for by Lady Haughton, ever since.
               
               "This child, she has had the audacity to introduce under my uncle's roof, as if it were the work of natural accident, when I have proof in her own writing, that it was brought about entirely by her own agency.
               "And I stand here," and he raised his figure to its highest proportions, for the crowing hour of his triumph had come, "and declare, that this child may claim as her mother, the degraded woman who lies yonder!"
               Sir Everard put out his hands with a shielding motion, as if he would have warded off the words from the unhappy creature at his feet. But before he could command himself sufficiently to speak, she crawled a little nearer to him, and said:
               "You have heard all that he has said; what you will think of me, I know out too well! And yet with the full horror of this knowledge upon me, I must keep silence, though to do so, is more bitter than death!"
               "Lady Haughton," said Mrs. Talbot, "I beseech you to treat your husband with the same confidence you gave me. Tell him all you are at liberty to tell, and trust to his great love for you, and the trust he reposes in you, to overlook all that you may withhold!"
               "I will not!" she answered with a return of her old haughtiness. I will not insult him by a half confidence—I will not trade on his love!"
               She rose from the floor, and stood the very incarnation of strength and self abnegation.
               "I grieve that he should suffer—I can bear even this!"
               Her eyes flashed proudly, her head was thrown back, and with a superb wave of her hand, she left the room.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               PSYCHE.
               "A little more to the light, if you please, Miss Lucy, and I shall soon complete the picture."
               Lord Chester stood at his easel, brush in hand, and lingering with a loving touch on the lovely picture, which his art had placed on the canvass before him. It was Lucy's last sitting, and he purposely delayed finishing the picture, whose painting had afforded him so much pure happiness.
               Lucy was standing before a large window of stained glass, which was covered on the outside with canvass to tone down its too great brilliancy. But a portion of the covering had fallen down, and a flood of many tinted light made its way through and fell on the pure white dress and silvery wings of the young girl, bathing them with a rainbow colored stream.
               The usual bright and happy expression of her sweet face, was replaced by one in which happiness and sorrow were so perfectly blended, that the result was a pensive softness, which well expressed the ideal she embodied.
               It seemed as if childhood was contending with womanhood, and that a mysterious transformation was progressing in the pure mind of the young girl. And truly her heart was the scene of conflicting emotions.
               That morning she had received a letter from her mother, announcing her intention of leaving Haughton Hall in two days, and desiring her to be ready to proceed at once to Silvermere. And her young heart smote her with a sense of wrong doing, when she felt that, instead of the joy that should have filled her heart at the reunion with her beloved mother, there was only the bitter grief occasioned by the necessity of parting with Lord Chester.
               He felt the parting acutely, but looked on it as a necessary probation, to be followed, he hoped by her permanent return to Chester Place. So sustained by this sanguine view of the matter, he exerted himself to the utmost to cheer and amuse her. Lucy almost wondered that he could be so gay and light hearted, with the prospect of so soon losing her society, and then sighed, and felt that she must have been mistaken in thinking that he cared for her in any greater degree than the ordinary attraction a gentleman feels for a young girl. Then she began to blame herself bitterly for the feelings she had allowed herself to entertain for him, which were but too apparent to her newly awakened perceptions. Her sweet face burned, and her eyes filled with tears, and it was with a heavy heart that she stood in the flood of light in the great gallery of Chester Place.
               Had Lord Chester seen those gentle tears, even his high sense of knightly courtesy would have been unable to prevent him from asking their cause, and trying to gain the sweet acknowledgment that Lucy's love was his own. But he was just then engaged in touching the rosy lips under his brush, into a still more vivid crimson; and so he only looked at their beautiful model and raised his eyes no higher. At last even the young Lord's ingenuity could find no further excuse for withholding the last touch, and he announced the picture as finished. "You will let me keep it?" he said walking up to Lucy, who still stop at the window. "Of course I have no right to detain it, but please let me keep it at least a while. Indeed you cannot take it, for I wish to make it as true to nature as possible, and I have thought of several alterations in the drapery. So as an artist, I claim my right to perfect the picture, and as your old play-fellow, Miss Lucy, I beg you to let me keep it awhile."
               Lucy hesitated, but Lady Chester who had joined them, added her entreaties to those of her son, and saying she would have the portrait removed to her private sitting room, where Lord Chester could retouch it without interruption, Lucy yielded an unwilling consent.
               "Lord Chester," said Violet who stood near, looking at Lucy and the portrait alternately, "why don't you paint Lucy as an angel? Just let down her hair, and paint the rays falling on it, and put white wings on her shoulders, and she'll look exactly like the angels do!"
               "Why Violet one might think you had seen the angels!" said Lord Chester smilingly.
               The child did not answer, but a softened light came into her eyes which seemed to substantiate his assertion.
               Two days after this, Mrs. Talbot arrived, and after remaining one night at the Place, took Lucy and Violet, and returned with them to Silvermere.
               
               Before they left, Lord Chester sought an interview with Mrs. Talbot, and requested permission to tell Lucy his love, and try to win its return.
               The consent was given, but with the condition that it should not be acted upon until the expiration of the next three months, during which time he was not to see Lucy, nor in any way communicate with her. He pleaded with all a lover's impetuosity against this hard decision, but in vain.
               "No, no, Harcourt" said Mrs. Talbot, "Lucy is very young and all untried, and I will not have her bound by any tie, until she has had time to know her own heart and feelings. I shall not tell her of this conversation, but rest assured, my dear Harcourt, that I shall watch her well, and will attend carefully to your interests, for I know of no one but yourself to whom I would willingly give her!"
               So the young gentleman was obliged to be content with these crumbs of comfort, and in consequence, took a most sorrowful leave of Lucy, and startled his mother a short time after, by the expression of a desire to spend the next three months in a tour along the coast of Southern Italy and the Archipelago.
               Mrs. Talbot and her two charges were soon domesticated at Silvermere, but wandered listlessly about, seeming only the shadow of her former self. Her birds and flowers were still in their places, but their charm was gone, and had it not been for Violet's attention, they would have stood some chance of neglect. The young girl tried faithfully to overcome the depression which was becoming habitual, but the effort was a weary one. Every object and very memory was so indelibly associated with Lord Chester, that she found it impossible to separate them. If she picked up a book, it would be one which they had read together, and she found that the words which had glowed like a stream of living fire when articulated by the enthusiastic reader, now seemed cold and powerless when read alone.
               She tried to draw, but she missed the quick eye of her master in the art, and his frank notice of faults, followed by the tenderest directions for their removal.
               If she sat down to her piano or harp, memory would recall the sweet time when his voice had mingled with hers, and he had given a new meaning to the expression of the song, by the eloquent glances of his fine eyes. As to flowers, she actually shunned them, for their glowing leaves and delicate fragrance brought, out a thousand tender asseciations, so fraught with the memory of passed happiness, that they became oppressive.
               She went quietly on her way with what, strength she could command, devoting herself to her duties, and entirely ignoring the idea of pleasure; but there was in her sweet young face, a look of subdued suffering, which was very sad to see.
               Her mother's heart ached at the sight of her patient, suffering child, who bore her trials so meekly, but she did not interfere to remove them. She was determined that Lucy should have the full benefit seclusion and removal from the object of her affections; so that the young girl might test her feelings, and assure herself that they constituted real love, and not merely the ebullition of girlish fancy, directed to the first object with which it had been brought into association.
               
               No doubt she was wise in pursuing this course of conduct, but Lucy's pale cheeks and subdued demeanor were but a sad commentary on her wisdom.
               Sir Everard's trunks were packed and fastened, his preparations were all made, and he only waited until the next day, in order to leave the house in which the happiest portion of his life had been spent, and he was to leave it forever.
               Mr. Osborne was to go with him as far as London; it could hardly be said that they would be in company, for since the night in which he had heard the awful charges brought against his wife by Mr. Osborne, the Baronet seemed scarcely able to tolerate his presence.
               True to the high and chivalrous instincts of his noble nature, he struggled even in the face of the tremendous accusations of his nephew, to cling to the belief that his wife was not the unworthy creature she was made to appear.
               But he could not prevent the existence of a feeling which was the very death blow of all trust and confidence, and he felt that he could never again see the beautiful creature whom he still loved in his heart of hearts, but from whom he recoiled with an insurmountable horror.
               He had insisted with a force of will, that would take no denial, that the arrangement he had at first determined on should be carried into effect, and that he would leave the Hall.
               His wife might be guilty—there was scarcely the shadow of a hope that she was not—but he would not be the one to brand her with ignominy, and drive her out to the scorn of the cruel world. So far as possible, his hand would cherish and protect her still.
               What miseries he endured under the weight of his Suffering, could be known only to the All-seeing Eye which pierces the inmost recesses of the soul; but he gave little sign of them outwardly. Gentle and kind and courteous still, there was about him a deep gravity, and an awful sadness, which impressed even the most careless observer.
               Mr. Osborne felt somewhat in the position of a swimmer, who, having been tempted by the sight of some glittering prize floating before him, has swum to it vigorously, and has had the mortification to see it swept beyond his reach just as he was about to grasp it.
               However, he gathered up his energies for another and a bolder stroke, and felt sure that in the end success would be his.
               Mam'selle's condition was somewhat more precarious than his, as her chances of advancement depended on the success of his schemes. She did not give herself much concern as to her future, but applying her national proverb, "What will be, will be," to her individual case, she still hoped for the complete degradation of the mistress she hated so bitterly.
               If Lady Haughton thought or felt, she gave no outward manifestation of doing either, but for the glare in her eye, and the occasional quivering of the muscles around her mouth, she might have passed for the stony image she seemed.
               The evening was passing rapidly away—the last evening that Sir Everard was to pass in the home of his fathers— from which he would go forth in the morning a homeless, aimless man, with the hopes of his life all blasted, and only one purpose to govern the remaining years of his existence—to forget!
               Mrs. Talbot, who had promised to return to the Hall as soon as the necessarily slow arrangements of the Baronet should have been completed, had been notified by him that every preparation had been made, and that he was in readiness to leave England.
               She had left Lucy, and Violet who was to remain with her for the present, in the care of an elderly lady, who had consented to remain at Silvermere for that purpose, and she was now at the Hall, seated in Lady Haughton's apartment. She looked on in silent wonder at the woman, the crisis of whose life was upon her, and yet who exhibited an intense strength and self-control, that were almost superhuman.
               Lady Haughton sat proudly in her stony immovability, and would not even raise her eyes to the clock which stood before her, although she knew that all that made her life, except its mere existence, was fleeting as the moments flew by.
               Felice came to the door and announced that a special messenger had just arrived from London, on business of the utmost importance to her Ladyship, and that he requested to see her immediately.
               She gave orders that the man should be shown into her private sitting room, and then went down to meet him.
               She was gone a short time, and when she returned Mrs. Talbot was actually alarmed at the change in her appearance.
               She held a sealed package in her hand, and as she tore off the coverings and read the contents, it was with th savage manner of a creature who had been chained so long that a sudden freedom had crazed it.
               As she read, her agitation increased, and when she came to the last line on the page, she clasped her hands over her heart, and with a wild cry, fell prostrate on the floor.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               LORD CHESTER RUNS AWAY FROM TROUBLE.
               Lord Chester had left England and had started on the journey, which he hoped might make the time of his probation pass more rapidly, by assisting him to forget his absence from Lucy.
               But he soon experienced the full truth of the old saying, which dates from the classic shores he was exploring; for though he had exchanged his native skies for the sunny ones of the Mediterranean, his mind was unchanged, occupied exclusively by one object.
               When his yacht flew lightly over the foaming waters of the bright Ægæan, he saw in their sunny depths, only the glittering reflection of Lucy's golden hair. Her blue eyes smiled on him from every cloud that flitted across the horizon, and the influence of her sweat memory rested on him continually, displaying itself in higher and more earnest views of life and its duties, than he had ever known before.
               True, with all the exuberance of youthful spirits, he enjoyed the delightful scenes and sights by which he was surrounded,—so old and yet so new, but still it was with a positive relief, that he saw the prow of his vessel reversed, and watched her as she bounded over the waves, each one of which bore her nearer and nearer home.
               He had stopped at the little town of Catania, in order to have some necessary, repairs done to his vessel, and supposed that he would be delayed only a few days.
               But, what with the proverbial slowness of Italian workmen, and owing to the necessity which existed for sending to Messina for some indispensable articles which could not be procured in Catania, he found that in all probability the days would lengthen into weeks before he could proceed.
               As the repairs of the vessel made it necessary to beach her, Lord Chester was compelled to leave her, and take up his quarters in the hotel of the place, which he did greatly to his discomfort and inconvenience.
               His time passed wearily, for he had neither books nor companions, and even if he had desired to recall his love for sport, by making an attack on such game as the place might afford, the warmth of the Sicillian autumn would have effectually prevented it.
               So procuring a horse, he determined to amuse himself by making a thorough examination of the beautiful scenery around Catania, and he carried out his resolve so well that he was soon more familiar with its details than many of the peasants, who had spent their entire lives on the spot.
               He was particularly struck with the beauty and loneliness of one of the domains some miles distant from Catania. It was a secluded spot, seemingly isolated, for it stood on a narrow strip of land, which ran out into the se The grounds around it were laid out in a fantastic manner ner, which was different from anything Lord Chester had ever seen before. And the house, though a very old one, and damp, and moulded with the stains of long years, was so exquisitely proportioned and elegantly ornamented, that it seemed the happiest emanation of some inspired architect. But with all the beauty of the place, there was such an air of neglect and decay about it, and its stillness was so unbroken, that the young man instinctively applied to it, the graphic description of his countryman, and agreed that like the house in Hood's immortal ballad; "The place is haunted!"
               The tall, handsome figure of a man which he often saw walking about the ground, in a listless, melancholy mood, as if even that exertion were a weariness, was in perfect keeping with the place and its accompaniments.
               For the want of something better to do, the young Lord had allowed his thoughts to run so much on the lonely house and its solitary inmate, that he had woven quite a tissue of romance around them, in which horror was the predominant feeling.
               It happened one day that while taking his accustomed ride, Lord Chester's horse became alarmed at the sudden appearance of a tall, dark object, which rose up from the edge of a deep ravine just opposite the little chateau, and throwing him violently to the ground, rushed off with headlong speed.
               As soon as the young gentleman recovered sufficiently from the surprise and shock of his sudden fall, to sit up and look about him, he became aware that the tall object which had caused his disaster, was no other than the master of the place.
               He was profuse in his regrets at the mischief lie had caused, and insisted that Lord Chester should at once accept the hospitalities of his chateau.
               His first impulse was to give a polite refusal, and go in search of his truant horse, but on attempting to rise he found his injury more extensive than he had first supposed.
               So he was compelled to limp along as best he might, until he reached the house, which he entered with a feeling of positive reluctance. His stay in it was less unpleasant than he had anticipated, and his host improved decidedly on a near acquaintance.
               He was a man of the highest refinement and cultivation, and would have been a delightful companion, but for a deep and almost preternatural gravity which seemed to render him miserable, and impressed all with whom he came in contact, in a most unpleasant manner.
               Lord Chester did not wonder at this, when he heard in the long conversations which took place during his prolonged stay, that his host stood alone in the world, and had alsolutely no tie to bind him to the earth.
               He accounted to his young guest in this way, for the unusual sadness which hung over him, and feelingly alluded to the glorious hopes he had seen fade, and the friends and relations of whom he had been bereaved, until now he stood the last of the race, with not one human being to care for him. Lord Chester out of his large fund of genial kindness of heart, gave all the sympathy so sad a case demanded. But he could not divest himself of the idea, that in the miserable man with whom he had been so strangely brougnt into contact, there was a deeper cause for sadness than the one which he alleged.
               Lord Chester's injured foot was nearly, well, and he was making his preparations to join his vessel, which all completed, was waiting his return.
               It must be confessed, that it was with feelings of pleasure that the young gentleman looked forward to his departure, not only from the fact that it would take him nearer the object of his love, but because it was a positive relief to escape from a place whose sadness and melancholy affected even his bright and buoyant spirits.
               His necessary baggage had been removed some time previous to the chateau, and he was now examining and arranging it preparatory to sending it to the vessel. He discovered among it a portfolio of highly valued sketches, mostly portraits, which he had drawn during the happy time of Lucy's visit to the Place.
               He was busy in arranging these pictures when his host entered, and seating himself at a table, began to examine them with the delight of a connoiseur.
               Lord Chester who was lost in the contemplation of Lucy's sweet face, which smiled at him from the drawing that lay before him, was startled by a violent exclamation from his companion.
               He looked up, and saw that he held with a frenzied grasp, a picture at which he was gazing with an expression whose horror and intense terror might well represent the despair of a doomed spirit.
               "Can the dead come back?" he gasped. "Could not the grave keep her confined?"
               Lord Chester looked at him in horror, for he was impressed with the conviction that he was in the presence of a madman.
               "Where is she?" his host asked, still more wildly. "Where did you see her? When was this painted?" And he held the picture towards him.
               Lord Chester extended his hand to take it, but with a savage cry, his companion clutched it more tightly, while he repeated his question.
               The young nobleman looked at the drawing, and saw that it was an elaborately colored head of Violet, which he had painted with great care as a study.
               It had been made in one of the child's dreamy moods, when she always looked much older than she really was, and it might have passed for the picture of a girl in the first dawn of her womanhood. It was an exquisitely beautiful face, and there was in its large blue eyes a sad, wistful look, which appealed to the beholder with irresistible effect.
               Before Lord Chester could reply to the question, the gentleman who had asked it seemed to be possessed by a flood of feelings too overpowering to be borne.
               He pressed his lips passionately to the picture, and exclaimed: "My darling, my only love, you have come back to claim the life which is justly owed you. You shall have it!"
               He drew a long dagger from his belt, and with such quickness that Lord Chester did not have time to raise his arm to prevent it, he plunged it into his breast.
               The young Lord ran to him and attempted to withdraw the weapon.
               
               "It is useless," said his host, with a strange smile. "I have done my work effectually, and no efforts can keep me longer from her!"
               His words were true. The physician who was sent for declared that the wound was mortal, and that the hours of the wretched sufferer were nearly spent.
               He requested Lord Chester to give him all the information at his command, respecting the fatal picture, which he did most fully.
               When he told of Violet's mysterious history, and that she was about to be adopted by Lady Haughton, whom his host had previously informed him that he had known very well in her girlhood, a light seemed to break over the wounded man, and for a time Lord Chester feared he would die with the violence of his emotions.
               "God be merciful to me,' he said meekly. "I have thrown away a life of happiness!"
               After this, all his haughtiness and defiant spirit seemed to vanish from him, and he became as mild and yielding as a child. He sent for the priest, whom he had before refused to see, and seemed to be actuated by one purpose.
               When Lord Chester and the physician would implore him to take the restoratives that his failing strength required, he would say: "It is useless. I have a work to perform, and I shall not die until it is accomplished."
               That night, after a long conversation with the priest, he sent for Lord Chester, the physician, and an old notary, whom he had summoned from Catania, and made a formal deposition before the latter, which the others signed as witnesses.
               He called Lord Chester to his bedside, and gave him some directions in the most impressive manner. Then wringing his hand, he bade him farewell, and requesting him to place the picture on his bosom, he asked that he might be left alone with the priest, to receive the last offices of his church.
               Next morning the good father came to Lord Chester's door, and told him that the erring but deeply repentant spirit had returned to its All-Merciful source.
               The young nobleman remained to superintend the funeral, and saw the victim of crime and remorse laid in hi lonely grave, within hearing of the sounding waves of the blue Mediterranean, and then left the place with a feeling of depression from which he could not recover for some time.
               Two days afterwards he was flying along northward, on his way to join his mother, who was waiting for him at Civita Vecchia.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               THE LUXURY OF REVENGE.
               When Lady Haughton recovered from the death-like swoon into which she had fallen, after reading the letter, which had affected her so powerfully, the clock was striking twelve.
               With a calmness and composure strangely at variance with her pale face, and trembling limbs, she rose from her bed and ordered Felice to dress her.
               The waiting maid hesitated, and then ventured to hint that her Lady must be still, under the influence of the powerful restoratives, they had been obliged to administer. But she was met with such a haughty look and stern reiteration of the command, that she quailed before them, and submissively obeyed.
               A woman's heart is a strange thing, and it is wonderful how its instincts teach it intuitively, how to use its power in the advancement of its ends.
               Lady Haughton had often been compared to the world renowned Queen of Egypt, even by those who traced the resemblance no further than the elements of regal beauty and overwhelming pride. But these were the least point of likeness.
               Like that illustrious sufferer, Lady Haughton had lived through her sorrows, every inch a queen, and now that the hour of her death in life had come, like her, she determined to die with the Purple around her.
               When Felice had completed her magnificent dress, by clasping on her marble cold arm the bracelet about which so many memories were clustered, and Lady Haughton left her dressing room and approached Mrs. Talbot, that lady could not repress an exclamation of surprise at the spectacle of superb beauty which greeted her. Beauty is but a feeble word to express the wild, glorious perfection which emanated from her, thrilling the beholder with a nameless feeling of ecstacy and dread.
               "Felice," she said, as she advanced to the center of the room, and stood with her hand carelessly resting on a low pillar of gilded sandal wood, "go to Sir Everard's study, and tell him that I desire to see him here immediately, on business of the utmost importance. Then see Mr. Raleigh Osborne, and say that I wish him to accompany his uncle. You will not return."
               The woman left the room, in a scarcely suppressed rage, and after a short time, which seemed of hours' duration to Mrs. Talbot sitting in silent expectation, Sir Everard entered, followed by Mr. Osborne.
               The Baronet in whom the last few hours had wrought the changes of years, fairly started when his eyes fell on the radiantly beautiful creature, who waited to receive him. He gazed at her for a moment, and then clasped his hands over his eyes, as if he feared to trust himself to look at her, while his lips moved, but only sent out inarticulate sounds.
               
               She walked across the room, and kneeling down beside him, she said: "The seal is at last broken; to-night I am absolved from an oath, the keeping of which has cost me more than life. I have sent for you, that I might tell you all, and lay bare before you the secrets of my miserable life. Does my confession come too late, or will you hear me patiently?"
               Her husband bowed his head, but his lips still refused to speak.
               "I must begin," said Lady Haughton, and the low tones of her sweet voice fell sadly on the air, "at the time when I was sixteen, and Agnes my only sister was two years older. We were motherless girls, and with the exception of our father, and two faithful servants, we seemed to have nothing in common with the rest of the world, but to be as completely isolated as if we lived in a separate existence. We loved each other with the devotion of those, who having but few objects on which to expend their affections, concentrate their love upon them with unusual strength. We were all in all to each other, and the life passed in our beautiful Italian home, was one of quiet and complete enjoyment.
               "I suppose we were poor, but our tastes were so simple, and our wants so few, that the absence of wealth was not felt.
               "Agnes and I, desired no greater happiness than to wander together through the orange groves of our villa, enjoying the magnificent scenery around us, and speculating in our girlish manner on the great mystery of life, and what our unknown parts in it might be.
               "My sister was too beautiful, as she was too good for this world, and I loved her with a devotion, which I cannot attempt to convey. She was every thing to me, and to her pure and gentle influence, I owe one thing of goodness which may have been implanted in my mind.
               "The unknown future which we had laughed over in our simple wondering, came sooner than we had looked for it.
               "In the autumn, the quiet of the almost deserted village near which we lived, was broken by the unusual event of the arrival of two gentlemen, who in making a pedestrian tour over Italy, had stumbled upon it.
               "There was a young Englishman, Mr. Hamilton, and the friend with whom he was traveling, known to the simple villagers only as Senor Paul, but whom we afterwards discovered to be Lord Colonna the heir to one of the oldest estates, and noblest titles in Italy.
               "My father, who cherished a sincere love for every thing connected with his native country, called on Mr. Hamilton, and the result of that visit was an acquaintance which soon ripened into an intimacy.
               "It was a repetition of the story, which is as old as the world itself. Agnes and I were so young, and although we had lived in a world of poetry and romance, we were in such complete ignorance of the real world in which we moved, that the new companionship into which we were thrown, charmed our fancy and transported us into fairy land.
               "Before long, I saw that my sister had given her whole soul to the young Italian, and I woke to the consciousness that I was happier in the society of Mr. Hamilton than I had ever been before. But I weary you, and I will hurry on.
               "In the course of the next two months, Agnes had yielded to the solicitations of her lover, and they had been privately married in one of their excursions around the village. So privately was this performed, and so great was the influence Senor Paul had contrived to gain over my sister, that she did not give me the slightest intimation of the important step she had taken, nor did my father know anything of it.
               "It was not until Mr. Hamilton announced that he and his friend were obliged to return to Rome, and came to take a formal farewell, that I became the confidant of my sister's joy and grief. In the misery of parting so suddenly from the object around which the deepest affections of her young heart were so closely entwined, she told me all, and claimed my sympathy and increased love.
               "The gentlemen went away, and our life became a very dreary one indeed. My father's health, never very robust, now began to fail rapidly, and in the spring he died, leaving us helpless girls to no other protection than that of Austin and an old Italian woman who had been our mother's nurse.
               "I am thankful that he died in ignorance of all that was in store for us, for if his last hours could have been made sadder than they were, it would have been by the knowledge of our future.
               "Life began in real earnest for me now, and I grew I into a woman with the weight of years suddenly pressed on me.
               "Our positions were reversed, and Agnes now came to me for comfort and support, and greatly did she need both. She had never received a line from her husband since he left her, and her simplicity of character was so great, and her confidence in him so implicit, that she had not asked his address, nor even required a certificate of her marriage, which had taken place without a single witness.
               "Before the spring had passed away, Mr. Hamilton returned to the village alone, and either he was ignorant of the movements of his former companion; or had his own reasons for concealing them, for he did not mention his name.
               "He was very kind, and his coming was a source of great comfort to two young creatures so helpless and forlorn as Agnes and myself.
               "To me his presence was a positive happiness, and I learned to love him, though not with that all absorbing feeling which I now know is the only one that deserves the name of love. I loved him because he loved me, and because I was very young, all undisciplined, and sorely crushed under a burden of cares too heavy for my strength. Woman like, I invested him with every charm and excellence, that my glowing fancy could suggest, and then forgetting that these virtues had their existence only in my own imagination, I loved him as the visible embodiment of all that was great and glorious.
               "He told me he loved me, and I asked nothing more, but freely gave him the troth he claimed. My disposition was very different from my sister's, for under no circumstances cumstances would I have consented to a private marriage. But I was cold and hard, and my sweet sister was all gentleness, and always willing to sacrifice herself for those she loved.
               "Not that Mr. Hamilton made any such proposition to me, or indeed ever hinted at our marriage, except as a something vague and indefinite, which might belong to the future, but had no connection with the present.
               "Seeing that any other view of the subject seemed to disturb him, I never alluded to it, but chimed in with his humor; indeed I had no wish to do otherwise. I believed that he was perfection, and thought my happiness and my life were bound up in him, and the mere fact of having him near me, was all sufficient for me.
               "One day I noticed that he was unusually depressed, and in my girlish way I tried to discover the cause of his despondency and to remove it. Soothed by my manner, he was led into a fit of confidence, and it was then, that for the first time, I was made acquainted with his antecedent and prospects.
               "He told me that he was the only child of an English gentleman of high station and fine estates, but so utterly without money, that the only way by which his patrimony could be made available, would be by a marriage with some wealthy lady.
               "A chance of this kind had occurred just previous to his first visit, and though the lady was disagreeable to him in every respect, he had promised his father to take the matter into consideration.
               "He told me that I was the only thing which prevented his compliance with his father's wishes, and then owned that he had that morning received a letter in which his father urged him, by the strongest arguments, to return and carry into effect the arrangements he proposed.
               "He watched me narrowly as I read the letter which he gave me, and the light way in which I treated it, seemed to re-assure him. In my perfect confidence in him, and his love for me, it never occurred to me that there was even a possibility of his wishing to sacrifice my love to his interest. And I counseled him to go at once to his father, and if he could not obey his desires in one particular, at least to observe them most scrupulously in all others.
               "He determined to act as I advised, and then yielded to my importunities, and told me all he knew of my sister's husband and his family, evidently preparing my mind for some further information, by trying to impress upon me the despotic sway which that family exercised over its only son.
               "I was troubled—I scarcely knew why—and my agitation and anxiety were so great, that Mr. Hamilton told me what I believed he intended to keep concealed.
               "Then it was that I learned that a burning wrong had been done my pure and gentle sister. Struck by her extreme beauty, and touched by her loveliness, and too great a slave to his haughty family to woo openly a penniless and obscure bride, Lord Colonna had imposed a false marriage upon her, and then had the meanness to desert her without telling one word of his intentions.
               "And now yielding, like the weak coward he was, to the commands of his imperious father, he had bean married ried to a wealthy and high born lady, a few days before Mr. Hamilton had quitted Naples.
               "Mr. Hamilton declared most solemnly that this was the first intimation he had of the matter, and I believed him,
               "My poor sister!—but I must not speak of her now.
               "We kept our dreadful secret from her as long as it was possible, but the day on which Mr. Hamilton was to leave us to join his father, there came a letter for Agnes from the young Count, telling her all, and insulting her by the offer of a large sum of money.
               "What followed seems like some dreadful dream. That night a little child was born, and Agnes closed her gentle eyes forever.
               "I could not grieve for her. I had no time to spare for tears. To me she had confided her child, and with her dying breath, had made me promise on the Holy Bible, to preserve her secret as I would my own honor.
               "I have kept it." she continued. "Sister, my oath has been fulfilled! Never until this night has the secret passed my lips. And they would still have been sealed, had I not received intelligence this night, that on his death-bed Lord Colonna, in the secrets of the confessional, had confessed the wrong he had done my sister, declaring that she was really his lawful wife, and producing evidence which establishes the fact beyond a doubt."
               Lady Haughton paused, and Sir Everard made a motion, as if he would have made her rise from the floor on which she had seated herself, but she waved him off, and continued her sad story.
               "I took Mr. Hamilton into my confidence. Indeed, I was forced to do so, as he already knew so much, and I had no one else to whom I could look for advice or counsel.
               "Agnes was buried quietly, and the same evening Mr. Hamilton left me full of protestations of the most devoted affection.
               "I had not felt the full weight of my sorrows while he was with me, but now they came upon me with resistless force; but all feeling was merged into one, which was henceforth to govern my life—the preservation of my dead sister's fame, and the keeping of the oath I had made.
               "There was small chance of my secret being discovered In the secluded spot in which we lived, but my fears were too great to allow me to remain there.
               "So I left it with the baby and my two faithful servants, and took a small villa in the neighborhood of Gæta.
               "Time passed on, and I was as completely lost to the world as if I had passed out of it. I do not suppose, that on the broad earth, there could have been found a young girl more lonely or more unprotected than I!
               "Of Mr. Hamilton I had heard nothing since he had left me, but secure in my confidence in him, I waited patiently for the letter, which I knew he would send. At last it came, and its contents gave me a new sorrow, to which all the old ones seemed but trifling.
               "It was written in such a manner, that I remember thinking as I read it, that its high toned expressions breathed the very soul of honor and self-abnegation. He told of his galling poverty, and his father's efforts in his behalf, efforts which he said would ensure the most brilliant future, if he had not already given away his heart to a little black eyed girl, who was well worthy of any sacrifice he might be called on to make for her!
               "I pondered this letter well, and then rose up from it a new being. When it came, I was a girl, crushed it is true, beneath a weight of cares too great for me, but still open, confiding, and all alive to the gratification of my own happiness. It left me a woman, capable of rising above myself, conceiving a great purpose, and of carrying it out with a reticence and command, which would inevitably achieve its success.
               "'He shall never be sacrificed for me! I thought, and arranged my plans, accordingly. I wrote to him, begging him not to see or write to me again, and telling him from all necessity of making a sacrifice of himself.
               "You," she said, motioning her downcast head towards her husband, as he stood over her pale and trembling, his own great sorrow lost in what he suffered for her grief, "had but lately come to Gæta; but rumor had already found you out, and Austin who had known much of you in England, told me so much of your excellence and nobleness of character, that I could not feel a stranger to you.
               "I had met you a number of times in my sorrowful walks, and your looks had told me that I was not unnoticed.
               "I am speaking the truth as simply as If I were on my death bed, and I solemnly declare that in my thoughts of a marriage with you, I was not actuated by one thought of the position, far less the wealth which would then become mine. Indeed no thought of a mercenary kind had ever existed in my girlish heart, I had enough to support the simple life that I led with the baby for a long time, and I had no gloomy forebodings of the future. No such things had any influence on the settled purpose of my heart. This was to sacrifice myself for Mr. Hamilton, and by removing myself from his reach, attain for him the brilliant future, which otherwise he would lose through his self-forgetful love for me.
               "I consulted with Austin, and determined to take the baby, named Violet, as her mother had desired, to England, where I knew of a place in which I could leave her, watch over her, and protect her, still keeping my sister's secret.
               "So I took all the pretty clothes which Agnes and I had made with so much pride and pleasure, out of the stores of finery which remained of our mother's rich wardrobe, thinking bitterly as I packed them of the sweet hopes with which they had been prepared, and of the wretch who had blighted them so fearfully.
               "I took the child, and in company with Austin, went to England, placed the dear little one at the door of Silas Hardman, and then returned to Gæta, where I had left t Rosina, my Italian nurse.
               "You know what followed—you know the generous faith and utter confidence with which you received the simple history of my life, from which only the episode of Agnes and Mr. Hamilton was excluded.
               "You know the tender and chivalrous love which gave, all and exacted nothing!"
               
               "My poor child," said the Baronet, and he stretched out his hands with a pitying motion towards her.
               "Ah," she said, "I have not told you all!
               "I was married with the one idea, which absorbed all others, that Robert Hamilton was the most perfect being in the universe, and that such perfection deserved every thing from me in the way of self-sacrifice.
               "It never occurred to me, that in thus thinking of him, I was committing a sin; I had been a most neglected child in every thing, except what related to the intellect, and was but little better than a heathen.
               "I did love him, that is I loved the ideal I had made of him, with a sort of heroic devotion.
               "Bye and bye I began to gain worldly knowledge, and by degrees, this feeling faded away, and a new one took its place. I had learned enough to be sensible that Mr. Hamilton was by no means the perfect being which my girlish fancy had created.
               "Indeed, as I discovered from much that I heard of him, from my own reflections, and still more by a new test, which I then had to judge by, so far from being the high-minded, honorable man that I had thought him, I found that if not utterly unprincipled, yet he was one of those weak, unstable natures, guided only by the impulse of the moment, and so thoroughly absorbed in self, that he would sacrifice even honor, rather than give up one cherished desire.
               "How I found out all this, you may guess. It is impossible," she said in a tone so low that one could scarcely catch the words, "to be daily associated with all that is really good, and true without learning to detect its counterfeit!
               "Then it was that a struggle began in my mind, between the feeling evolved by the memory of the idol which my girlish imagination had created, and the real living representation of goodness which was present to my sight.
               "The antagonism between these feelings made me very miserable, for oh! it is a bitter thing to wake up to a knowledge of the utter unworthiness of an object in which we have placed our deepest trust!
               "My heart was a perfect tempest, with the conflicting emotions that possessed it, and in my endeavor to keep them down and conceal them, I changed into the cold, hard woman the world knew me. I knew that if I relaxed one instant in the intense self-control, which I exercised over myself, that it would obtain a complete mastery over me, and I bound myself with an iron reticence, that nothing could overcome.
               "Still my new perceptions were strengthening every day, and as it ever must do, the right conquered at last, and my whole nature was changed by the new feeling which possessed it.
               "I may tell you now, that I am going from you for ever, that I learned to love you with a devotion, a power, a passion to which the other love was but as a breath of summer wind!
               'The time went on, and at last I met Mr. Hamilton accidentally, soon after his return to England, and in the agitation which this unexpected meeting produced, I found that my powers of self-control were less great than I had thought them, and I persuaded you to leave London.
               "And after we came here, he wrote to me and dared to tell me that he loved me just as much as he had done the day we parted, upbraiding me with having ruined his happiness, and imploring me to see him.
               "I burned the letter, and wrote a stern command, that he should never presume to write to me again. He disregarded this however and continued to write until I sent back his letters unopened. Then he began a course which proved to me how correct my later conclusions as to his character were.
               "Knowing the power he had over me, from being the only person who shared the sad secret of my sister's disgrace, he was base enough to use it as an instrument by which to bend me to his wishes.
               "In this way I was forced to give him an interview in the ruins of the Hall. Mr. Osborne was in all probability present at that interview, as I had reason to know from having found not long ago, the gold sleeve button which he reported lost, the morning after I had met with Mr. Hamilton.
               "I am fond of wandering in these old ruins, every part of which is familiar to me, and as I found the button on a heap of mortar, just under a break in the floor, which was not there during the time to which I have alluded, and as Mr. Osborne was not acquainted with the private passage leading to the new part of the Hall, and unaware of the condition of the floor, I am inclined to think that he was an unknown intruder at the interview I mention.
               "He can tell you that Mr. Hamilton, unheeding the storm of anger which I could not control, was mean enough to offer to relieve me from his future importunities, by suggesting a pecuniary method of stopping them!
               "I was but too glad to be relieved on such terms, and thinking only of that relief, I gave him the bracelet which you had given me, and I afterwards reclaimed it at twice its value!
               "I have put it on to-night; that I might give it back to you, and I do so, with the hope that the one to whom you give it next, may prove more worthy of the trust.
               She unclasped it from her beautiful arm and laid it at her husband's feet.
               "I met Mr. Hamilton at Chester Place, and your nephew who has been so observant of all my actions, can tell you, with what coldness and contempt I treated him.
               "Taking advantage of a promise made to him in my girlhood, he compelled me to listen to him in a repitition of his letter, and his threats and upbraiding, for he considered that my desertion of him was the cause of all the evil which had afterwards befallen him.
               "I was about to answer him as he deserved, when Mr. Osborne interrupted me; had he waited a listener to my conversation a few moments longer, the necessity of this interview would never have existed!
               "Mr. Hamilton continued to torment me, until stung beyond endurance, and feeling powerless to direct myself, I made a confidant, so far as I could, of Mrs. Talbot, that dear friend, whom heaven sent to me for a counselor, and in her hands I left the matter.
               In order to gain time, I had condescended to give Mr. Hamilton so much encouragement as might be contained in a smile, and I had promised to see him again.
               "I wrote to him that night to come to my sitting room and while he sat there," she said, with eyes that fairly flamed with the scorn she felt, "carried away by his hopes, expecting me to share them, that honorable lady yonder went to him and took to him the letter in which I had told him all my scorn and loathing for him, and the perfect devotion and passionate love I gave to the noble gentleman, I called my husband!"
               "Mr. Osborne and if needful, Felice can corroborate the statement, that Mr. Hamilton quitted Lady Haughton's room in a state of excessive agitation, and that shortly afterwards, I left it," said Mrs. Talbot quietly. "But no further proof is needed to one, who like myself heard all the sad story just related, told by nature's own promptings, while Lady Haughton lay writhing in delirium!"
               Lady Haughton had raised herself from the floor, and was kneeling by her husband's side.
               "I have sinned greatly against you," she said, "first in deceiving you as I did at our marriage, and then in continuing that deceit.
               "But my punishment is very heavy, heavier than you can well imagine!
               "Had I treated you with the confidence to which I was impelled, but which my oath to my dead sister prevented, it would have been well for me. Then perhaps it would not have been impossible as it is now is, to retain your esteem.
               "I have felt," she said with a sob, the first in all her sad story, "most keenly the loss of your Jove, for oh! you did love me dearly, but even that loss is light in comparison to my suffering, when I know, that after to-night I shall have lost your respect forever!
               "you shall not be driven from your home—I am the guilty one, and on me let the trouble fall. I shall go back to Italy where my sister is lying, and there in the rearing of her child, and by a course of self-denial and Christian duty, I will try to atone for my life of sinfulness and the pain, I have been the means of making you suffer.
               "I shall never see you again, but if you do not feel too bitterly the wrongs I have done you, lay your hands once more on my head and say, "God bless you!" She moved a little nearer to Sir Everald, and bent her beautiful head to receive his benediction.
               Her husband stooped down and caught her in his arms, and pressed her to his bosom in ecstacy of one, who finds a treasure he had mourned aa lost forever!
               "Marcia" he said, "My own Marcia, look up—look up to your husband, who loves you more than life—whose life shall be devoted to your happiness!"
               "She has fainted—ah! you have killed her," he said glaring at his nephew, "her, whose least breath is more to me than all this world!"
               He had laid the pale form of his wife upon a couch, and stood bending over her, and administering the restoratives Mrs. Talbot provided.
               "I try to do my duly," he said looking at Mr. Osborne, "but after all, I have learned of your cruel, your unmanly persecutions of a lady so dear, so honored, as my wife you must be sensible that between us, there can be no further communion. I can forgive the misery you have caused me, but I find it hard indeed to overlook the injury you have done her!"
               Mr. Osborne bowed and quitted the room, running against Mam'selle, who was hurrying in, in answer to a pretended summons. She was met by Mrs. Talbot's quiet dismissal, and had the gratification of seeing as she followed that lady out of the room, a picture which remained in her memory forever after—a picture which though very perfect in itself did not afford her the exact amount of the luxury of revenge for which she had so fervently hoped.
               Sir Everard was seated at his wife's side, tenderly supporting her, and the proud head which Mam'salle had hoped to crush so low, was nestled on his bosom; the beautiful eyes were looking up to his, and the soft red mouth yet quivering with the long, sweet kiss, in which had been sealed the beginning of a new life of love and happiness!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               DE PROFUNDIS.
               Lady Chester was awaiting her son's return with some degree of anxiety, for the time which he had appointed for his return had passed, and yet he did not come, nor could she hear anything from him.
               His last letters had announced his arrival at Catania, and spoke Of his probable detention for a few days, after which he would come as fast as wind and wave could speed him, to her and home.
               Weeks went on, her anxiety increasing as they passed, and at last when a month had gone by, and still no tidings came of the young Lord, her feelings acquired a degree of acuteness which absorbed every emotion in the terrible dread by which she was possessed.
               She struggled against this feeling with all the force of a very resolute nature, and succeeded to the extent of being enabled to exert herself in the performance of her necessary duties.
               But it was at best a weary heart she carried in her bosom for it was continually bringing up before her all the goodness of her son, and the deep happiness he had afforded her, and then mocking her with the fear that all this goodness and happiness were lost to her forever. She was greatly cheered by the attentions of the sprightly young daughter of the woman in whose house she had rooms.
               Gittana was a bright eyed Italian girl, with all the warmth and fervor of her nation, and though obliged to work constantly at her trade, she always found time to be at the service of the English lady, for whose sorrows her heart beat with such tender sympathy.
               Her trade was that of carving the Conchelia shells into the many pretty ornaments for which ladies appropriate them, and she performed it with a skill and accurateness that were really artistic.
               With a pretty tinted shell before her, and the sharp pointed instrument with which she executed the work in her hand, she would sit diligently carving the delicate features of some Holy Madonna, or curl the grape tendrils round the head and thyrsus of some wildly beautiful Bacchante, blowing away the light dust as it rose, and arguing with Lady Chester against her fears.
               "Ah! Miladi," she would say earnestly, "see here; this is the blessed Madonna; look on her gentle face; see her tender eyes—she knows what it is to lose a son—she will watch over yours, and bring him safe to you again!
               "Trouble comes with rapid feet—do not meet it half way, dear Lady!
               "I dreamed last night the young Lord had come, and trust me, before the leaves shall have fallen from the pomegranate flowers, you will clasp your son in your arms again!"
               The artless words and tender sympathy touched Lady Chester deeply, and she began to watch the tree which stood near her window, with a sort of conviction that the young girl's prediction regarding it might be fulfilled.
               So it grew into a subject of daily remark and the mother watched the tree, with an intense interest proportioned to her fears and hopes.
               "See Gittana" Lady Chester would say, "the buds have expanded, and he has not come!"
               "Yes dear Lady, but he is coming fast, and before the leaves fall, he shall gather you a bough, and you will laugh and tell him all!"
               "God grant that you may be right, child, but I fee! as if I could never laugh again!"
               Oh! the harrowing, wearing misery of suspense, when the heart, dreads the worst, and yet fears to acknowledge that dread even to itself!
               When, one feels that every power is strung to its utmost tension, and knows that the strain is inflicting an irreparable injury, and yet dares not relax for one instant, lest the whole frame become unnerved, and unfitted to bear the dreaded evil when it does come!
               Such suspense now hung over Lady Chester, and embittered her existence.
               Her days were passed in an earnest, though most painful endeavor to perform her duties, and she opposed these, as it were a wall between her and her grief.
               But the nights when there was nothing to be done, no effort to be made, no appearance to be kept up; when the time dragged wearily on, marked only by the sound of the waves as they broke under her window, were the times that tried her most, and caused her the most poignant anguish.
               
               She would think of her boy as he had been in his manly, true hearted childhood, when he clung to her with a love, in which the element of protection of her seemed singularly mingled with his dependence upon her.
               Memory would recall the many instances of his goodness and devotion, while the recollection of the few occasions, when she had felt compelled to punish him for some childish fault, would burn on her brain with a positive torture.
               Then she would think of him as she had seen him last, when in all the flush and pride of his manhood, and with his happy love encircling him, he had bid her good bye, and gone on his fatal journey.
               And her cruel fancy would paint her a vivid picture, in which a strong young frame would battle manfully with the crested waves, and then sink overpowered to their fathomless depths!
               Then she would rise and take her bible and read in its blessed pages until a soothing peace would come over her, and she would commit her child and herself to the Merciful One, who had compassion on the young man who was "the only son of his mother, and she was a widow!"
               One day she was unusually depressed, and found it almost impossible to rally against the feelings which overpowered her.
               A sudden and severe storm had set in, and raged all day with a violence and fury, that seemed to increase as night came on.
               Each new comer had a tale to tell of the destruction caused by the rage of the elements, which seemed to threaten the very foundations of the city itself.
               Now it was a pile of crumbling ruins that had been blown down—now some great tree, which had towered for centuries, had been broken off short at its stem, or uprooted from the solid earth in which it was embosomed; and then one would tell of some isolated and exposed dwelling, which had been overturned, and from which the inmates had escaped, bruised and bleeding, and scarcely alive.
               Then whispers growing louder as they were repeated, were brought to the ears of the shrinking household of a foreign vessel, which had come into the bay that morning, and which helmless and dismantled, had been seen driving with a fearful rapidity towards a very dangerous part of the coast, just below the city.
               Lady Chester was nearly frantic, and yet with a terrible fascination, she could not remain away from the sources which only increased her misery.
               She asked every question that her dread could suggest, and in the answers, she was forced to the terrible conviction, that the wrecked vessel drifting to certain destruction, was that which contained her only child.
               She stood gazing with a look that could not leave its object on the tempestuous sea, although to watch the breaking of its swollen and angry billows, and think of all that they were snatching from her, was almost sufficient to destroy her reason.
               She was at the window, just as the twilight was falling, still looking with eager eyes at the waters which were now tossing in comparative rest, for the storm was subsiding as suddenly as it had arisen.
               Her attention was attracted by the sight of a small object ject, which rose and fell with the waters, though too fur off to be recognized in the deepening shadows.
               At last it came nearer, and she discovered that it was a small boat, looking too frail to live one moment in such a tremendous swell, and yet dancing over the billows with a buoyancy and speed that soon placed it at the side of the little wharf in front of the dwelling.
               Lady Chester was chained to the spot by a power she could not resist, and with eyes wide distended and a face from which every trace of color had faded, she gazed at a spectacle which froze her very blood.
               The boat had been fastened to the wharf, and her crew had gone to the performance of some ether duty, with a Weariness and difficulty which showed how complete their exhaustion was.
               With much effort a long, rigid object was lifted from the boat and laid on the wharf, while four of the strongest looking of the sailors searched about for some plank, of which they hastily constructed a rude litter, on which they laid the inanimate form of their companion. Then gently raising it to their shoulders, they began with slow and tottering steps to ascend the little path which led up to the house.
               Just as they started off, a man who had been very active in his exertions in the boat, came forward and threw a large boat cloak over the litter, and then passed on out of sight.
               On the mournful procession came, and just as they came under her window, Lady Chester saw, with a horror no words can convey, that on the dark cloak which fell in heavy folds over the awful burden they carried, the crest of her son was gleaming with a cruel mockery.
               With the bitter cry of a broken heart, she staggered from the window to be caught, before she fell to the floor in the arms of her living, breathing, loving son!
               "Forgive me dear mother," said Lord Chester, as they sat that night looking at the treacherous waters, over whose unruffled depths the moon poured down a flood of silver radiance, "forgive me for the terrible fright which my thoughtlessness occasioned you. It did not once occur to me that you had any cause of uneasiness, for I had written regularly during the time of my unexpected detention at the chateau of Lord Colonna, and I supposed you received the letters. So instead of coming to prepare you for my presence as soon as the boat reached the wharf, I stayed in it to assist my men in paying the last attentions to their comrade, as gallant a fellow as ever breathed.
               "He was washed off the vessel while lying out on the bowsprit, having volunteered on a necessary but most dangerous duty, and we recovered his body at the greatest risk. And just as the sailors started off to bring the brave fellow up from the wharf, I threw my boat cloak over him, and then hurried off as fast as I could to see you. And I found you half dead with grief for me!
               "I do not deserve such love," he continued, passing his hand over his eyes.
               "Let us thank God together, my child," said his mother, as she drew his head down to her shoulder.
               And as he had so often done in his boyhood, he clasped his hands around hers, and said; "Our Father," from the depths of a most fervent heart.
               
               Next morning as the young Lord and his mother sat in a little balcony outside their room, which descended by a flight of stair-steps to the garden, they heard the sound of light footsteps, and Gittana, as bright as the day itself, came lightly up, and leaned on the broad balustrade which ran round the balcony.
               On her face was an expression of bashful pleasure, which made it more attractive than usual, and in her hand she carried a bough of pomegranate.
               "See, Miladi, the leaves are gone from all the flowers but these two, but the same wind which blew them off, blew your son to you."
               She broke off one of the glowing blossoms and stuck it, in beautiful contrast to her raven hair, at the side of her head.
               Then taking the other in her hand, she detached the scarlet petals from the waxy calix to which they clung, and, scattering them in a rosy shower over the young Lord, with a burst of light hearted laughter, she ran off as gaily as she had come.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               CHRISTMAS GIFTS
               Lady Haughton was well again, at least she had only the lingering remains of her invalid state hanging around her. These were sufficient to make her husband more tenderly devoted than ever, and to cause him to exercise a lover-like tyranny over every action of hers likely to endanger her health, so precious to him; and two happier mortals than the Baronet and his young wife could not have been found. He seemed to have been rejuvenated by the change in his life, and looked younger, by a score of years, than he did in the night when he stood in his wife's room and listened to the sad story of her life.
               As for Marcia, she was positively radiant in her beauty and lightness of heart. All the old haughtiness and reserve, which had marred her loveliness, had disappeared, and, in their place, she exhibited a gaiety and child like sportiveness which made her enchanting. To a love so pure, so intense as theirs, the past, with its errors and sufferings, was indeed gone forever. In the kiss of forgiveness which he had pressed upon her lips, Sir Everard had forever forgotten the cause which had made forgiveness necessary. Marcia, too happy in his love for her, too absorbed in her own, trusted implicitly to her husband's high-toned honor, which made his lightest word more worthy of credence than the strongest oaths of others, and only remembered her past life to offer up her heartfelt gratitude for her present happiness.
               As she grew stronger, she became the constant companion of her husband's out-door sports, as she was of his home occupations; and her magnificent figure on her spirited Arabian horse might be seen daily, dashing along by the Baronet's side, or, seated by him, she would be whirled along in their luxurious carriage.
               It is said that there is a season of happiness allotted to every human being, and that he will eventually receive it, although it may be a long time in reaching him. This spring-time of Sir Everard's life came late, but was, perhaps, enjoyed all the more intensely from that very fact. No lover, in the glory of his first love, could have experienced greater rapture than did the Baronet, as he hung over his beautiful wife, doubly his now, anticipating her slightest wish, and finding an untold bliss in the love she lavished on him in the rich profusion of her noble capacities, the full measure of which had been developed by him alone. She treated him with a mixture of the pretty tyranny of a petted child towards one who idolizes it, and the tender deference of a woman who looks up, as God intended her, to her husband as the guide and director of her life.
               Sir Everard could hardly persuade himself that the beautiful, confiding creature who now came nestling to his side with the shyness of a fawn, or, in her favorite attitude, knelt at his feet, with her soft arms resting upon his knee, looking up to him with her glorious eyes, and displaying to him the inmost feelings of her heart, was the same haughty woman who, a few months before, had kept up a wall of separation between himself and her, and had never forgotten to treat him as a stranger.
               One glorious afternoon they sat alone in Lady Haughton's room, which was fitted up with all the elegance and comfort that the Baronet's love could suggest. The view spread out before them was one worthy the brush of an artist, and might well call forth a feeling of delight in the mind of its owner.
               The whole of the old part of the Hall was visible, together with the greater part of the modern additions, and around them were the splendidly ornamented grounds and garden. Far away, as far as the eye could, reach, stretched the magnificent woods of Haughton, for Sir Everard had a true love for his trees, and cherished them almost as if they had been animated creatures under his control. While here and there, winding along like a silver cord, ran a little river, sparkling in the rays of the late October sun. The Baronet had been speaking of the ancestors of his family, recounting, with a manly pride, the many high and honorable deeds which were linked with the name, and which had been transmitted, in a bright hue from father to son, for several centuries. He had risen, and, with his arm folded around his wife, had approached the window, and stood looking out at all the broad lands of which he was master.
               "Yes, my darling," he said, "it has been a noble race, and these are fair possessions. I had hoped—" he stopped a moment, and then continued, "but God knows what is best. I should be most ungrateful did I repine for the one blessing He has seen fit to withhold."
               His eyes sought those of his wife, always so ready to respond to him. But, for once, they did not meet his gaze, but were veiled under their long silken lashes, while her little hand played tremulously with the rose she had fastened in his coat.
               "Would the granting of that blessing make you very happy?" she whispered timidly. "If it will, let us thank God for it together."
               "Thank God!" the most tender and touching words that human tongue can frame.
               A form which, while it is most suggestive of the illimitable and almighty power of our Maker, who is the very centre and source of all our gratitude, is, at the same time, most fully expressive of His fatherly goodness and the intimate relation towards Himself in which He permits His creatures to stand.
               No man, from the depth of a truly grateful heart, which is thrilling with the sense of some benefit received, can utter the simple words, "Thank God," without experiencing a gush of spiritual feeling which assimilates his nature to that of the angels.
               Christmas had come, and Violet, who had been domesticated at Haughton Hall, as a child of the house, had gone, at Mrs. Talbot's solicitation, to spend the season at Silvermere.
               Mrs. Talbot had her own reasons for supposing that this would be the happiest Christmas that Lucy had ever spent, but she kept the expression of them to herself.
               This was very hard to do when she noticed the listless manner in which the young girl moved about in her preparations for the approaching festivities.
               She seemed to take no personal interest in what would formerly have afforded her the highest pleasure, but was only actuated by a sense of duty—that sense by which her young life was now entirely regulated. She was not unhappy; on the contrary, her manner was marked by a uniform cheerfulness, and she was the joy of the house; but her mother's keen eye noted the change from her her former light-hearted gaiety, and saw that Lucy was undergoing that discipline of life which is the portion of all humanity.
               She had borne her trial well, and, as all truly superior natures must do, had come out of the refining process of suffering, strengthened and purified, while there did not not exist in her mother's mind one doubt as to the state or strength of her love for Lord Chester.
               That young gentleman's season of probation was nearly expired, and his letters, which came occasionally to Mrs. Talbot, though Lucy was ignorant of the fact, announced his return, with his love only increased and strengthened by the trial of its constancy.
               The mail, on Christmas morning, brought a number of letters, and one of them, to judge from Mrs. Talbot's sparkling glance as she read it, must have been very agreeable. She kept her own counsel, and presided with her usual quiet dignity over the comfort of her guests.
               
               Silvermere was filled to its utmost capacity with a select and fashionable company, which Mrs. Talbot had gathered around her.
               Violet, who in right of her title to a noble Italian name, and still more by the divine right of her beauty and grace, was a universal favorite, and the very impersonation of childish enjoyment.
               She never wearied of talking of treasures of her Christmas box, and showing the many elegant presents which Sant Claus had brought her.
               Among these was an elegantly ornamented prayer book from the rectory, and a large bundle from Silas Hardman. When this was opened, it displayed a large doll, of such supernatural ugliness that the child looked at it with a droll horror, and turned with delight to its Parisian sisters with which her baby house was tenanted.
               "Miss Violet," said Mr. Upperton, who was one of the guests at Silvermere, "you ought to call your doll Euphemia. It is the exact likeness of the late Miss Golding," he added languidly, as if the very mention of the lady bored him.
               "I met the happy pair," he continued, at Bologne on my return from Paris, and really I think I should have pitied Hamilton, if the exertion had not been too great! When I last saw him he was standing on the quay, where Madame was pleased to walk, despite the wind, or rather gale, which was blowing. He held in his hand the end of a ribbon, the other end of which was attached to a vile little dog, which his lady had installed in the place of her pet poodle, dead from repletion. The beast wanted to go in one direction and the gentleman in another, and this antagonism produced a mutual contest for the mastery. Madame ended it most summarily, by ordering "Robert" to let the sweet creature have her own way, and not to dispute her fancy, which he did, and trotted off submissively In the direction indicated!
               "Fancy the elegant and fastidious Robert Hamilton, playing nurse to the dog of a superlatively ugly woman," continued the young gentleman, lazily balancing an olive in his fingers, preparatory to dipping it in his wine.
               "But they say the lady holds the purse strings with so tight a hand, that Hamilton is reduced to the rank of only an upper servant."
               "Ah! Mr. Upperton," said a lovely lady who was seated next him, and whom rumor had once represented as placing too much of her happiness in Mr. Hamilton's keeping, "I am told that it is worse even than that. They say she has, in some ingenious way, bought up his debts, and holds them and a prison as a threat over him, to keep him on his good behavior!" and the fair speaker laughed merrily.
               "Mr. Hamilton has sown the wind, and must not be surprised at having reaped the whirlwind, which has followed," said Mrs. Talbot gravely, as she gave the signal for rising from the table.
               Christinas night was to be kept with all the time honored observances which are associated, in England, with this sweetest of all festivals.
               The yule log was lighted, the mystic miseltoe hung from the centre of the drawing room, every picture was decorated with sprigs of holly and ivy and cedar, while the younger part of the company indulged in various old fashioned games, traditionally connected with the season.
               The noise was so great that a carriage had driven to the door, and its occupants had been discharged unknown to all but Mrs. Talbot, who left the room and was absent for a short time.
               At the conclusion of the game, which was no other than the "royal one of Goose," she called Lucy to come to her.
               The young girl was seated gazing abstractedly out at the snow covered landscape, which was partially revealed by a half opened shutter, but she rose at once and accompanied her mother to the library.
               "There has been an arrival to-night, my darling," said Mrs. Talbot. "Our dear friend, Lady Chester, who you know has been so long absent, has returned with her son, and is now here.
               "I rejoice on my own account, and on yours, for now you can repeat your happy visit to Chester Place."
               "Please, mamma, I would rather not go there again," said the young girl quietly, while two large tears fell from her soft eyes, and lay glistening on her delicate cheeks.
               "Lucy!" exclaimed her mother in surprise; and then all her child's trouble came out in a great burst of weeping, while her fair bosom heaved with the violence of her emotions.
               "Oh! mamma," she said, "I am tormented by the thought that I so far forgot myself as to love unasked, and without return. Though how could he see anything in me worthy his love!"
               "My child, are you really so simple minded and humble ble as to think that you love without return? Oh! if I had but suspected this!"
               She raised the drooping head of the young girl, and pressed a kiss upon her forehead.
               "Here, Harcourt," she said, "come and tell her yourself, and relieve her fears of an unreturned love!"
               The young Lord needed no second bidding, and Mrs. Talbot left them to their happiness, and went away with a sad, sore feeling of anguish over her own blighted life, which not even the happiness of her beloved child could have power to efface.
               Some time after she had gone, Lord Chester persuaded Lucy to go with him to the drawing room, where they were at once surrounded by a crowd, all eager to welcome such a universal favorite as the young nobleman.
               Later in the evening he managed to draw Lucy to Lady Chester, who sat in smiling enjoyment of the happy young faces by which she was surrounded.
               "Mother," he said, "I want to show you my Christmas gift!"
               He laid Lucy's hand, on which an engagement ring was sparkling, in that of his mother, who lent forward, and kissing her fair cheek, welcomed her as a new child.
               Lucy's marriage was not to take place until the spring, and in the meantime she accompanied her mother on a visit to Haughton Hall, whose beautiful mistress was too much indisposed to leave it.
               Mrs. Talbot was obliged to go London on business, and at Lady Haughton's entreaty, she left Lucy at the Hall. And a merry, happy time they had for Marcia's life, rounded into perfectness by her new hope, was passed in a scene of constant enjoyment, while Lucy felt her own happiness increased by that of her friend.
               Lady Haughton's old energy and impetuosity of feeling had shown themselves in a new form, and she who had never before wasted a thought on the quality or details of her wardrobe, but left every thing relating to it in the hands of her modistes, now exhibited a most thoroughly feminine anxiety as to the relative merits of lndia muslin and cambric, lace and French embroidery.
               The warehouses of London and Paris were ransacked to supply fabrics costly and delicate enough for the heir of Haughton Hall.
               The treasures of past generations of the family had been brought to light, and rich point and rare old guipure which had floated in gossamere drapery round some court dress or bridal robe, were now appropriated as ornaments for the fairy dresses and tiny caps, in the making of which Marcia now found her chief enjoyment.
               Sir Everard seemed almost afraid to trust his wife out of his sight for a moment. His very excess of happiness brought a pain with it, for out of it grew a fear that it was too bright to last.
               He was her constant companion, and every day, at noon, he would drive her, all wrapped up in her soft furs, through the beautiful woods around the Hall, each spot of which was rendered so dear by the happy associations with which she was connected with it.
               Sometimes, as they whirled along in their luxurious carriage, the Baronet would look at Marcia as, in her beauty and brightness, she would point out some favorite spot and tell of some improvement she would carry out in the coming spring, until his heart would swell almost to suffocation and he would be obliged to turn away his eyes to conceal the tears with which they were filled.
               In one lightning-touch imagination would picture before him the spring, coming, in all its sweetness, only to make its snow-drops and violets blossom on the grave of her who now talked so blithely of the happiness it would bring her.
               Violet, whom Lady Haughton loved with fervent affection, on her own account, and for the marvelous resemblance she bore to her mother, was a source of never failing, delight.
               The child returned her aunt's love with an intense affection, and seemed to associate her, in an inseparable connection, with the unknown mother whom she had loved so much. In her gaiety and lightness of heart, Violet was a perfect sunbeam in the house.
               She would seat herself, sometimes, at her aunt's feet, with her guitar, and sing so sweetly, and with such a thrilling pathos, that the tears would rise in Lady Haughton's lovely eyes, and she would look at her husband as if she too had a prescience of the sorrow that awaited him.
               The next moment the child would have thrown aside her guitar, and would be dancing round the room and banishing all thoughts of care and sadness by her merry pranks and irresistible gaiety.
               Mrs. Talbot's return with the important article of Lucy's trousseau was a source of great interest to the ladies.
               As Lady Haughton would not be able to attend the ceremony, Mrs. Talbot had ordered the trunks and boxes which contained the wedding outfit to be sent to the Hall, that Marcia might have the pleasure of looking over it and giving it the benefit of her exquisite taste.
               So, depite her blushing entreaties, Lucy was forced to be present at the discussion of her toilets as Lady Chester, and indeed was made to give a bashful consent to be dressed in all the purity of her bridal robes and come out for exhibition the night before she left the Hall.
               Lady Haughton could not repress her admiration for the lovely young creature that stood before her in all her girlish beauty.
               She placed in her hand an exquisite set of sapphires, to which Sir Everard had added a diamond cross and clasp, and bade her a tearful farewell.
               Lucy's wedding, which soon followed, was the fashionable event of the season, and obtained nearly a column of florid description in the London Post.
               
               The loveliness of the bride, the stately appearance of the bride-groom, and the blushes of the bride's maids, were duly chronicled, nor was the tearful gravity of the bride's mother, in "tears and black velvet," nor the reverend appearance of the officiating clergymen, forgotten.
               Then the young couple went down to an estate of Lord Chester's in the southern part of England, where they were to spend the month, which was to be really a honeymoon to them.
               The Dowager Lady Chester returned to Chester Place, in order to prepare it for the reception of its new mistress, and she begged Mrs. Talbot to accompany her. But that lady felt that she would be better contented in the solitude of her own quiet home, and, besides, was expecting a summons to the Hall, where she had promised to remain during Lady Haughton's illness.
               Soon after Lady Chester's arrival at the Place, she was waited on by a smart looking personage, who presented herself as a candidate for the place of maid to Lord Chester's wife.
               On enquiring her name and asking for her recommendations, Lady Chester was surprised to find that the former was Felice, and the latter were not forthcoming.
               Mam'selle had met with so many rejections on the score of not possessing these very important articles, that, in desperation, she had endeavored to ingratiate herself with Lady Chester on the strength of her faithful service to Lady Haughton.
               She had fared far better than she deserved at the hands of that lady, and Sir Everard had paid her much more than her services deserved, and then dismissed her, with a stern warning, which Mam'selle, tigress as she was, dared not disobey.
               After this she had led a wandering sort of life, which was rendered necessary by the extravagance which soon exhausted her her means and left her without resource. And it was now with a vivid remembrance of the delights of Chester Place that she made the attempt to secure a participation in them.
               
               She received a prompt refusal, and went back to the life of sordid poverty and hard labor which awaited her, heaping curses on the "perfide Engleesh."
               She had, at first, persecuted Mr. Osborne, who was living in an obscure lodging, ekeing out a scanty existence by copying such papers as he might be so fortunate as to obtain. But that gentleman, soured by the complete overthrow of all his hopes, and rendered irritable by a life of constant and uncongenial labor, met her so sharply, and had such prompt recourse to the police, that Mam'selle, baffled in her direct approaches, could only scowl at him from under her bushy eye-brows, and hurl "sacrees" at him whenever they met.
               Austin had been present at one of these encounters, which took place on an occasion when he had been sent to London on some business which Lady Haughton would not entrust to any other hands.
               Mam'selle had seen him, and had been mean enough to remind him of the promise he had made to do her "a good turn" at some future time.
               "I was sorry for the creature," the old man said, as he related the occurrence to the faithful old house-keeper at the Hall, "and I tried to forget how wicked she had been, and only remember that she was a woman and in trouble. I gave her what I could spare, and I hope she bought something to eat with it, for her cheeks looked awful thin and hollow under the red paint she had put on 'em. But I see her a coming out of a restaurant a while after, with a bottle under her arm, and it's my opinion that there was brandy in that there bottle."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               PERFECT THROUGH SUFFERING.
               An express had been sent for Mrs. Talbot, the three great London physicians had been summoned again, and sat in learned converse in the great drawing room at Haughton Hall, their three venerable heads drawn into close proximity in a general interchange of compliments and snuff.
               The nurse, a high and mighty dignitary in her peculiar profession, and only accustomed to preside at the initiatory toilets of baby dukes and infant countesses, sat like a sentinel inside the closed door of Lady Haughton's chamber, and outside of it hovered a pale, agitated figure, trying in vain to control the acute suffering by which he was consumed.
               The lady was very ill, so ill that Mrs. Talbot, who stood at her bedside, thought that this night would be the last of her life.
               The night wore away most drearily to Sir Everard, sitting in his darkened room and listening so attentively to all outward sounds, that he heard even the rustling of the silk robes of the lady nurse as she went below to make her reports to the learned trio in the drawing room.
               Separately, and then in concert, did the three portly forms ascend the stairs, and then came back with faces from which real concern and professional interest had banished the usual expression of bland placidity.
               There was an ominous silence, which lasted so long that Sir Everard felt that he could not endure it much longer, but must go and learn the worst.
               He approached the window, and then opened the shutter—morning was just breaking, and there was a large and brilliant star shining with its soft, white rays on the edge of the horizon, just opposite to him.
               The Baronet raised the window and leaned forward that he might inhale the fresh, cold air, for he felt a swelling at his throat, which threatened to suffocate him.
               He stood there for a period, in which ages were compressed into moments, and in the agony of his suspense and the supernatural acuteness of his senses, he almost fancied he could hear the rustling of unearthly wings, as the awful angels of Life and Death were hovering over his dwelling.
               Which would descend to him? Would the one upon whose soft brow glow the "asphodels like flakes of light," come down and leave behind him a new blessing?
               Or would he whose pale face is crowned with amaranthine flowers enter the house, and when he left it bear away from it another angel, whose going would make the bitterness and sting of death?
               It was at this very window, that he had stood with his wife and listened to her timid whispers of the existence of the hope, whose fruition had, for all that he knew, cost that life which was dearer to him than his owm.
               What would he not have given could he go back to the time anterior to that occasion, and how gladly would he have seen his name and estates become extinct or go into the hands of strangers, rather than pay for their transmission at so fearful a price.
               A low sound of confused talking from his wife's room aroused him, and he stood pale and sick with dread.
               The next moment the sound of a tiny voice fell on his ear, and immediately afterwards the chimes in the chapel began to play the traditional air, which always announced the birth of an heir to Haughton.
               But Marcia—how was it with her—without whom his life would be but a lingering death!
               He turned to go to the door and enquire, but as he did so, such a feeling of weakness came over him, that he was obliged to stop and lean against the wall for support. As he stood there, the door was opened, and the sweet face of Mrs. Talbot appeared in the lighted passage.
               "Lady Haughton is well," she said, "and is waiting to show you your son!"
               The chimes were still sending out their sweet sounds, and the village bells were ringing as if the hearts of those who pulled the ropes were overflowing with the good news, and could by no means contain it, but must disseminate it far and near.
               But in the general burst of joy, there was no heart which beat with such a sense of perfect and complete happiness as did that of the Baronet, as he sat by his wife's bedside and looked at his two treasures—Marcia, lying so pale and lovely on her pillow, and looking with love lighted ed eyes from him to the tiny bundle of lace and cambric that was nestled on her bosom.
               He bent his head over the mother and child, and sent up a prayer of fervent thanksgiving for the precious life granted, and the still more precious one that had been preserved.
               Lady Haughton was the happiest and proudest of mothers, and took a positive luxury in the care of the tiny creature in which her partial eyes could see nothing but perfection.
               She gave great offence to the stately representative of the class of which Sairey Gamp was such an ornament, by having her boy brought to her whenever she might desire him, without reference to his condition or the routine which the nurse had attempted to establish with regard to his baby existence.
               That grand individual had all the conservatism of her class, and referred every event in her line to an inexorable law, which was embodied in the word, precedent, and conveyed by the expression, "I am accustomed!"
               Marcia, whose native independence and long course of petting at her husband's hands, had rendered perfectly lawless, laughed at the good woman's rules and regulations, founded on the superstitions of a century passed, and discarding her idea that medicine was an art in which there was no progress, carried her point with respect to her baby.
               She would have him lifted out of his cradle, even if he were in a deep sleep, and laid on her arm; then she would call Sir Everard, point out to him all the incipient beauties of his namesake, and make him declare that his like had never existed before!
               Even the words "my baby," fell from her lips with a tender sound, as if she caressed even this mention of the child, and she had never looked lovelier than when propped up on her pillows, she cradled her boy on her bosom, and poured out a flood of the pretty nonsense, we call baby-talk, into his unconscious ears.
               Three happy weeks had passed by, and the little one was daily growing in strength and beauty, while his mother, now able to walk him about in her arms, bound up her life in him with a love that was sheer idolatry.
               Sir Everard promoted this feeling by participating in it, and Mrs. Talbot looked on half in terror, and gave them gentle words of warning on the subject of putting their treasures in such a frail "earthen vessel."
               She had made all her preparations for returning to Silvermere, and sat in Lady Haughton's room the, night before her departure.
               Marcia was unusually brilliant, and the Baronet h never seemed more gay or happy. They hung over the cradle of their sleeping child, commenting on his beauty, and laying plans for his future life; and Lady Haughton drew a lively picture of the time when he would attain his majority, and of the goodly couple, she and Sir Everard, would present on the occasion.
               She went to the cradle to kiss her baby for the hundredth time, but came back with a scared look.
               "Please come here," she said to Mrs. Talbot, "baby seems to breathe so strangely, and I am so frightened!"
               Mrs. Talbot went to the little cradle and put back its delicate curtains.
               
               The baby lay on his pillow, but instead of resting in the sweet sleep of infancy, he was starting and tossing up his arms, and breathing in a quick, spasmodic manner.
               She took hold of the tiny wrist, which was burning with fever, while the delicate pulse beat with fearful rapidity. "He has a high fever," she said. "You must send for the doctor at once!
               The old family physician, who had attended Sir Everard in his childhood, soon came, but a glance told him that it was a case in which no earthly skill could avail. Some sudden and mysterious change had taken place, which defied all ordinary treatment.
               The little life flickered and waned through the night and went out just as the day was breaking.
               The mother was distracted, and sat with her dead child pressed to her bosom, resisting every effort to take it from her, with the rage of a tigress.
               Hours passed on, and still she sat there with the cold form clasped to her heart; her husband stood by her, putting aside his own misery, that he might comfort her, but she did not seem to heed him.
               At last Mrs. Talbot went to her, and spoke to her a few pointed words as to the sinfulness of such utter despair. The sound of her low, earnest voice, and the words she uttered, seem to strike some chord in Lady Haughton's mind, and to rouse her to the full bitterness of her grief.
               She raised her face from the baby's, which she was covering with frantic kisses, and screamed rather than said:
               "My sin has found me out—the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul!"
               "Marcia, do you wish that I should die too?" groaned her husband.
               She got up from her seat, laid her baby tenderly in his cradle, and covered him as carefully as if he had just fallen asleep. Then she went to her husband, and with a great cry threw herself in his arms. "I love you more than life," she said, "but oh! my baby, my baby!"
               Time's great wheel went rolling on, crushing human hearts into the nothingness of despair, or whirling them in its mighty revolutions, into a wild ecstacy of happiness.
               Lucy's life was passed in neither of these extremes, but partook of that golden mean which high authority assures us constitutes the most complete happiness allotted to mortals. Blessed with all that the world can give, she sublimated all her gifts by laying them at her Maker's feet.
               Her gentle influence, which diffused itself as softly as the dews of summer, exerted as powerful and refreshing effects, and carried to all within the reach of its tender ministrations, a blessing, which was not confined to earth alone.
               To her husband she was indeed a ministering angel, and he tried to shape his life in accordance with his sense of the inestimable blessing he possessed.
               Their first great grief was caused by the death of Lady Chester, who died after a sudden illness contracted while on a visit to Paris.
               She was brought to England, and died in her old home—telling little Talbot, Lord Chester's eldest son, with almost her dying breath: "Be to your father, what he has been to me!"
               
               After her death, Lord Chester's entreaties, joined to those of Lucy, prevailed on Mrs. Talbot to leave Silvermere, and take up her permanent residence at Chester Place.
               And if any thing could have added to Lucy's happiness, it would have been the constant companionship of her beloved mother.
               Mrs. Talbot was quietly and calmly happy, and found a pure pleasure in the care and education of Lucy's children. And no higher wish could have been made in their behalf, than that they should resemble their noble and pious instructress.
               Mr. Upperton, in search of a new sensation, signified to Lord Chester his willingness to fill a borough in his gift, and was readily elected on his Lordship's recommendation. Once in Parliament, he threw off the indolence and affectation which had disfigured him, and became one of the most hard working of legislators, achieving at the same the reputation of being one of the most brilliant and caustic speakers in the House.
               Mr. Osborne, who had looked forward with such grand hopes to the time when he should occupy a similar position, never saw the august body of which he had desired to be a member, except from the gallery appropriated to the general public.
               He sank lower and lower in the scale of society, losing his energy and strength of mind as he descended. And at last, soured with the world in which he had not made a single friend, and too humiliated in spirit to value the blessing of an independence which was to be attained by personal inconvenience, he gladly availed himself of the assistance Sir Everard offered him. He accepted the generous annuity which his uncle provided, and, retiring to an obscure village, he spent his life in an aimless, purposeless, bitter existence, and when he died was regretted only by those whose stipend for his support ceased with his life.
               Mam'selle's course might be traced in the volumes of the police records. They would tell of a disgraceful, drunken woman, whose degradation increased after each punishment it received, degenerating at last into crime for which the sentence of death was transmuted into perpetual transportation.
               Silas Hardman was married, by good Mr. Ramsay, to the prettiest girl in the village next to Chester, and proved, under her sprightly management, the most obedient and indulgent of husbands. He submitted most cheerfully to all her exactions and extravagances, and even went beyond them in his unreasoning affection.
               No galley slave ever writhed under a more galling chain than did Mr. Hamilton under the servitude which his marriage imposed on him. His wife's ugliness and violence increased with her ill temper and imbecility. One idea seemed to possess her mind and to obtain complete mastery over her; this was the preservation of her wealth, and in her efforts to do this, her miserly habits increased to such a degree that her husband was sometimes made to feel the want of the absolute necessaries of life.
               ln addition to all this, her blind and furious jealousy and exacting tyranny became so intolerable that, stung beyond endurance, Mr. Hamilton fairly took flight and returned to the continent. But, having exhausted the sum of money he had managed to collect., and too indolent and incapable to gain a support for himself, he returned to his life of married misery, now made ten times less endurable.
               Violet grew on into a perfect representation of womanhood in its highest form. She was the delight and admiration of all who knew her, while to her family and friends she was a very sunbeam of delight and blessing.
               Lord Chester had never told her of the awful death of her father, nor had she learned the story of her mother's wrongs. She only knew that she was happy in the love of the dear ones whose pride and happiness she constituted. And no sad memories from the grave under the orange trees of Italy, or bitter regrets connected with the unhappy man who slept beside the Mediterranean, were allowed to darken the course of her bright young life.
               Sir Everard's life goes on with a flow of deep and subdued happiness, for which he sends up daily an incense of gratitude, which is embodied in a thousand forms of charity and goodness.
               With the assistance of Austin, who, by right of his long and faithful devotion to Lady Haughton, is treated rather as an humble friend than as a servant, the Baronet attends to all the details of his large estate, and is at once the guide and benefactor of his people.
               To him, his wife is as his life itself; in her he finds the full perfection of earthly happiness; through her he looks for every hope of heavenly felicity.
               And Marcia—The storms of her life have expended their fury, and she rests in a haven of peace and love. For a long time after the blight on her happiness, she seemed to find her life too heavy a burden for her to bear; but, with the sublime strength which comes to noble natures when they need it most, she roused herself from this lethargy and went forward in the world with all the energies of a powerful spirit, to do battle for the truth and the right.
               Nobly did she fulfill her mission. Wherever want was to be relieved, virtue assisted, or vice rebuked, she came to the task, with a gentleness which was only excelled by her fearless justice in the pursuit of right.
               Hundreds rose up and called her blessed; the track of her life might be traced by the good deeds which marked it, and she made an impress upon her age which was well worth having lived for.
               To her heart never again could come the wild, unearthly joys that once possessed it. Henceforward her happiness, like every other element of her existence, was seen and felt under the shadow of a little grave. And her beautiful face had acquired a new loveliness in the chastened and pensive expression which it now habitually wore; that look which is never found except on the faces of those who have their hearts' chief treasures laid up in heavenly keeping, and which is the seal of the mysterious and indissoluble blending of their lives on earth with those of their angel children.
               And so, when in the fulness of time another boy was laid on her bosom, he was received with a fervent, most thankful happiness; but it in no respect resemble the wild idolatry she had given to her dead child.
               
               Holding her boy by its little hand, and leaning on her husband with an unwavering love, she goes on through her appointed course, striving to rear her child, not only to be fitted for the earthly honors which await him, but also to be counted worthy to attain that blessed inheritance immortal in the heavens, which fadeth not way.
            
         
      
      
         
            MESSRS. WM. B. SMITH & CO.,
            FIELD AND FIRESIDE PUBLISHING HOUSE,
            58 FAYETTEVILLE ST., RALEIGH, N. C.,
            HAVE IN PRESS:
            
               MOSSES FROM A ROLLING STONE,
               OR IDLE MOMENTS OF A BUSY WOMAN.
               BY "TENELLA."—MARY BAYARD CLARKE.
               Author of "Reminiscences of Cuba," "Wood Notes," Translations of "Marguerite," "Lady Tartuffe," etc.
               One Vol., 16 mo. Cloth. Price $1.25.
               Contains complete Poetical writings of the popular author, and is a beautiful setting of all the sparkling diamonds that have been found clinging to the "rolling stone" of a great life as it washed with the ebb and flow of the seething tide of Thought and Imagination.
            
            
               THE CHANGE;
               OR A STATEMENT OF THE REASONS AND FACTS WHICH MADE ME A BAPTIST.
               BY REV. T. B. KINGSBURY.
               One Vol., 16 mo., cloth. Price $2.50.
               There are but few writers who wield a pen with such consummate skill, grace and vigor as the author of this book. As a Denominational work it is welcomed by eminent Divines, who have examined the MS., to the literature of the church in whose interest it is written, as one of its best and most valuable accessions.
               Rev. Thos. E. Skinner, Pastor of the Baptist Church, Raleigh, says of it:
               "Mr. Kingsbury's work will be read with great interest, and is a valuable acquisition to our Denominational literature.''
               Rev. J. D. Hufham, Editor Biblical Recorder, says:
               "I am satisfied that Mr. Kingsbury's book will prove one of the most entertaining Denominational works ever issued from the press. It contains all the charms of personal narrative; is written in popular style, though the arguments are strong and well presented."
               Rev. N. B. Cobb, Cor. Sec. N. C. Bapt. Board of Missions, says:
               "The work possesses more than a mere local or personal interest. *  *  *  No Baptist family should be without it.—No opponent of the Baptists should fail to read it."
            
         
      
   
