
    ----CITATION----
        Hazel, Harry, (1814-1889). Harry Helm, or, The Cruise of the Bloodhound .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6933
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               HARRY HELM; 
               OR, THE CRUISE OF THE BLOODHOUND. 
             
            BY HARRY HAZEL. AUTHOR OF "OLD PUT; OR THE DAYS OF 1776," "THE BRIGAND, OR THE MOUNTAIN CHIEF," "THE FLYING ARTILLERIST," "YANKEE JACK," "THE REBEL AND THE ROVER," "THE THREE PIRATES, OR THE CRUISE OF THE TORNADO," "GALLANT TOM," "RED KING, OR THE CORSAIR CHIEFTAIN," "SYLVIA SEABURY, OR THE YANKEES IN JAPAN," "THE FLYING DUTCHMAN," "THE DOOMED SHIP," "GALLOPING GUS," "JACK JUNK," "YANKEE MIDDY," "SWEENY TODD," "THE GOLD SEEKERS," "RALPH RUNNION," "VALDEZ, THE PIRATE," "KING'S CRUISERS," "THE REBEL BRIDE," "HARRY TEMPEST," "THE FLYING YANKEE," "THE PIRATE'S SON," ETC., ETC. 
            
               Philadelphia: 
               T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS,  
                     306 CHESTNUT STREET. 
                  
               
             
          
       
      
         
            Harry Helm, or, The cruise of the Bloodhound 
             
            HARRY HELM; 
            OR, THE CRUISE OF THE BLOODHOUND. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE VILLAGE FESTIVAL-ALICE MAITLAND-THE WIERD WOMAN'S WARNING. 
               IT was a bright summer's day, and the fair face of nature never wore a more lovely or cheerful aspect; hill and dale, lake and rivulet, glistened 'neath the golden rays of the meridian sun; balmy perfumes filled the tranquil air, and peace and gladness reigned o'er all around. 
               Sad, indeed, must that heart have been which could not have bounded with joy in such an hour; insensible the soul which could not rise in wonder and admiration. 
               The scene to which we would direct the reader's especial attention, was one of the most romantic and animated description; it was on the outskirts of a neat little village, situated in one of the most pleasan parts of the Isle of Wight, and commanding one of the most picturesque marine views that the glowing fancy could well imagine. 
               On the brow of a lofty hill at a short distance, stood the stately and ancient Manor House, the family seat of Sir Raymond Perceval, and on a spacious lawn which stretched itself far before it, were assembled a happy group of rustic revellers, invited to feast and make merry on his natal day. The banquet over, the tables were cleared away, the musicians, hired for the occasion, struck up the most lively tunes, and each one present trod it gaily in the fantastic mazes of the dance; the baronet, and several of his guests looking on with mingled feelings of pleasure and admiration. 
               Among those assembled on this joyous occasion was a party of individuals that claim our particular attention, as they will have to act some of the most prominent characters in our tale. This party consisted of honest old Ben Bolt, a veteran seaman who had been for many years "laid up in port," in the neighborhood; Ralph Maitland and his dame, together with their two lovely and innocent daughters, the admired of all who knew them,-the ever-fascinating Alice and Rose. 
               Alice Maitland, "sweet Alice," as she was usually called, was scarcely eighteen years of age, which we should find, were we to attempt to give anything like an adequate description of the graces of her mind and person; suffice it to say that nature never formed a more lovely being, and that her bosom was the seat of the greatest purity and virtue. The beauty of Rose was of a different description to that of her sister, but she was equally charming in form and features, while her mind was as pure as innocence itself. 
               At the conclusion of one of the dances, Alice had retired with her sister to a remote corner of the lawn to rest herself, and to escape the too marked and familiar attentions of Sir Raymond, and the melancholy expression of her countenance showed too plainly that the feelings of her heart were little in accordance with the scene of gaiety before her; but the eye of the baronet still followed her, and there was a bold and sinister expression in his impassioned glances which was anything but pleasant to contemplate. 
               Sir Raymond Perceval was on the verge of fifty, but he aped all the manners of a much younger man, and his habits were wild and reckless in the extreme. There was an air of mystery about him too, which was calculated to excite unpleasant feelings of suspicion, and to create doubts as to his real character and secret motives; but of that more anon. 
               In person the baronet was tall and commanding; his features were manly and regularly formed, if not handsome; his address flattering and insinuating; but his dark piercing eyes spoke a language which ever raised a blush on the cheek of innocence and modesty, and caused it to shrink from him in doubt and timidity. On more than one occasion he had made such bold advances towards the gentle Alice that had confused and surprised her, and she, therefore, avoided him as much as possible, and it was not without the greatest reluctance she had been prevailed upon to join the present festivities. 
               Indeed the mind of poor Alice was ill at ease, for the noble-hearted adopted son of Ben Bolt, to whom her soul was fondly devoted, was far, far upon the sea; and so long had his absence been, that now the most dismal forebodings haunted her imagination, that she should never behold him again. These melancholy thoughts crowding upon her mind, she drooped under a depression of spirits which she could not conquer, and from which her affectionate sister in vain sought to arouse her. 
                
               As Alice viewed the broad calm waters of the deep, sparkling in the bright sunbeams, and the tall masts of the different gallant vessels anchored in the neighboring harbor, the sadness of her feelings increased, and taking from her throbbing bosom a miniature likeness of poor Ben-the youth whom she so fondly loved-and pressing it fervently to her lips, her tears fell fast upon it, and deep sighs of the keenest emotion swelled her gentle breast. How glad would she have been to be permitted to retire, and, in the silence and solitude of her own chamber, to seek that consolation of which she stood so much in need. 
               Truth to tell, Rose Maitland was in scarcely a less gloomy state of mind than her sister, though naturally possessed of greater vivacity of spirits, for she also mourned the long absence of her youthful lover, Harry Helm, the schoolfellow, friend, and shipmate of Ben Bolt, and more than two years having elapsed since, in the same vessel, they had quitted their native shores, and war raging in all its fury, the beauteous sisters had ample reasons to entertain the most serious apprehensions for their safety. At length old Ben Bolt and Mrs. Maitland approached the place where Alice and Rose were sitting, and the former, in his usual bluff manner addressing himself to our heroine, said:- 
               "Why Alice, lass, you and your sister have parted company with the other craft just at the time when pleasure is aboard, and we have piped all hands for fun and jollity. Dash my pigtail! girl, you look as dull as a tar in the bilboes, or as if you had just shipped a sea of trouble. Come, come, no hoisting signals of distress, when the wind blows fair, and there are no breakers ahead." 
               "Alas! my kind friend," said Alice; "how little are my feelings in unison with the present cheerful scene; spite of all my efforts to subdue them, gloomy thoughts and fears weigh heavily on my heart. Two years and a half this very day;" she added, with a sigh yet more painful than had before agitated her breast; "two years and a half this very day, since the gallant Dauntless quitted these shores, with those so fondly loved on board of her, and for some months no tidings of her fate have been heard. Dear Ben, how fatally have the sad presentiments that crossed my mind on the day we parted, been realized; shall we never meet again?" 
               "And poor dear Harry, too," ejaculated Rose, throwing her fair arms around the neck of her sister, and pearly tears of heartfelt emotion trembling in her beautiful eyes. 
               "Nay, nay, my dear children," said their father, soothingly; "you must not give way to these sad thoughts, for it grieves me to see you do so; hope for the best, hope for the best, and all will yet be well." 
               "Aye, cheerly, my fair and gentle craft;" observed old Ben, "and depend upon it the Great Captain aloft will protect your lovers from the shoals and the rocks, and will not suffer them to be cast away upon a lee-shore; for two braver or nobler lads, or better seamen never manned the yards than my adopted son and proty-gee (don't you call it?) Ben Bolt, and his sworn friend and shipmate, Harry Helm." 
                
               "Heaven bless them!" ejaculated Mrs. Maitland emphatically. 
               "Right, right, my worthy old dame;" responded the veteran, supplying his mouth with a fresh quid of enormous size; "and, God knows that, if the dear boy whom I have called Ben Bolt, after myself, had been my own son, I could not have loved him better than I do; and I trust I have done a father's duty by him." 
               "You have, indeed, excellent old man;" cried Alice, tears of gratitude sparkling in her eyes; "and may the Almighty shower his choicest blessings upon your head for it. Oh, Ben! dearest Ben, art thou indeed lost to us for ever?" 
               "Avast, avast, my poor lass;" returned old Ben; "Not so; depend upon it, he will weather every storm, and will again, ere long, be safely moored in the arms of the girl he so fondly loves. Ah! and I now remember that it is just twenty-one years this very day, since Providence rendered me the fortunate means of rescuing the dear boy from a fate which otherwise seemed inevitable." 
               "Then the young mariner known as Ben Bolt, and about whose fate the fair Alice expressed so much anxiety, is not your son?" asked Sir Raymond Perceval, who unobserved approached the spot where they were standing, and had been an attentive and deeply interested listener to the latter part of the conversation which had passed between them. Our heroine started confusedly at the sound of his voice, and she thought she beheld a malicious expression pass over his countenance which made her involuntarily shudder. 
               "Oh, no, your honor," answered the old seaman, bowing; "there is something too noble character for the son of such a rough old tar as me; however, I have tried to be both father and mother to him; he has been a gift to me, and I consider him the most precious gift that Providence could have sent me. God bless him! and I only hope that he will soon again cast anchor ashore." 
               "Amen!" solemnly and fervently exclaimed Alice. 
               A slight frown for a moment contracted the dark brows of the baronet, and he fixed an earnest and peculiar look upon our heroine, but quickly seeming to recollect himself he said, addressing the question to Ben:- 
               "Did you not know the parents of this youth then?" 
               "No, your honor;" replied the old man. 
               "How then did he come under your protection?" interrogated Sir Raymond. 
               "Why," returned old Ben; "if your honor wishes to know, I will give you the particulars in a few words, for they are all entered in the log-book of my memory. "You see, your honor, it is now about twenty-one years ago, aye, twenty-one years this very day, that I was serving on board the Alligator, Hingyman, homeward bound, Captain Beaufort skipper, and we had just weathered a stiff gale, which had been blowing great guns from the N.N.E., and we were not more than a league from the shore, when the man upon the watch suddenly descried through the hazy mist a dark object on the surface of the waters drifting towards us, which, on closer inspection, turned out to be a boat, stretched at the bottom of which was something which appeared to be a human form, helpless and inanimate, if not dead. By the captain's orders we hove too, and I and two more then put off to the boat, which we soon reached, and found it to contain the form of a female of handsome features, elegantly dressed, bound hand and foot in the boat, with a sweet little infant clinging to her breast. Poor thing! there had been some dreadful work to bring her into that dreadful situation, for the blood still flowed from a deep wound in her side, though she was quite dead. Ah, your honor, how I shuddered with horror at that dreadful sight, and-" 
               "Proceed, proceed," interrupted the baronet impatiently, and his lip quivered and his countanance underwent a remarkable change; "and this child is he who has since been known as the young seaman, Ben Bolt?" 
               "True, your honor." 
               Sir Raymond muttered some unintelligable words between his teeth, and averted his looks; but in a moment or two he regained his composure and self-possession, and urged Ben to complete his narrative. 
               "Well, your honor;" remarked the old man, "I have not much more to tell. My heart yearned toward the poor child from the first moment I saw him. He was taken on board, and placed under the motherly care of one of the female passengers. The ship arrived in England, and, at my earnest request, the child was entrusted to me by the captain. I had no children of my own, and my poor wife, heaven rest her soul! received the little stranger with the deepest sympathy, the captain promising ever to be a friend to it; but he died on his voyage, poor fellow, and so the child was left entirely to the care and protection of myself and wife I adopted him as my son, and had him baptized after me. When not half a handspike high, his heart yearned for the sea, the young dog. I encouraged his inclination, and now I'll be bound to say there is not a braver or better seaman in his Majesty's service, or a more generous-hearted, noble-minded youth than young Ben Bolt, the son of the deep!" 
               Alice clasped her hands vehemently together, and she breathed an earnest prayer to heaven for the preservation and speedy return of her lover. Sir Raymond fixed a keen and penetrating glance upon her, and then, once more averting his looks, seemed to commune with himself in an evident state of excitement, but at length said: "This is a strange story you have been relating, friend Bolt, and is the young man himself acquainted with the particulars?" 
               "To be sure he is, your honor, for it would have been wrong of me to have kept him in ignorance of 'em." 
               "And you discovered nothing that might lead you to a knowledge of his origin?" 
               "Nothing but a small gold locket, suspended from the unfortunate woman's neck, which contained a portion of dark hair," answered old Ben; "and was marked with the initials, A.S." 
               "Ah!" ejaculated Sir Raymond, in an ardent tone, and he again seemed to reflect seriously for a minute or two. 
                
               "But pshaw!" he said at length; "this dismal subject is calculated to give one the horrors, and but ill accords with the present joyous occasion. Fair Alice, you have already withdrawn yourself too long from the sports, and our friends, no doubt, are most anxious for your return." 
               "Pardon me, Sir Raymond," said our heroine, in a timid voice, and feeling a certain dread and forboding of she scarcely knew what, as she noticed the warm and eager looks which the baronet fixed upon her; "but I do not feel at all well, the evening is advancing, and I-I would much rather now return home, and-" 
               "Return home?" repeated Sir Raymond, interrupting her;-"unreasonable; I cannot listen to such a thing for a moment, and what is more, I must claim the honor of your hand in the next dance." 
               "Oh, Sir Raymond!" said the agitated maiden, blushing deeply, and trembling violently. "Spare me, I beseech you. I-I-" 
               "Nay, nay," rejoined Sir Raymond, taking her hand and fixing upon her one of his most insinuating smiles; "I positively must not be refused; plead for me, fair Rose,-plead for me, my kind friends." 
               "Alice looked imploringly at her parents, and her heart palpitated violently against her side. She thought of her lover, and she felt a sensation of dread, mingled with disgust, which she had never experienced before. 
               "Nay, nay, my dear child," answered the father, "it would appear ungracious to decline Sir Raymond's condescending invitation. Arouse yourself from this lassitude of feeling, and enter with renewed vivacity into those innocent sports so suited to youth, and so much in keeping with the present auspicious occasion." 
               "Aye, aye," shouted old Ben, "all hands on deck for a dance. Splice my timbers if I haven't a good mind to shake a toe with the best of ye, only as how, yer see, my old hull has been tossed about in so many rough gales, that it is not now exactly in first rate sailing condition. Come, come, Alice, my pretty lass, overboard with the blue devils say I, and trip it lightly as a little fairy, as you are." 
               A look of exultation overspread the features of Sir Raymond as he again took the hand of our heroine, and followed by Ben, her parents, and Rose led her forth. Poor Alice could scarcely refrain from tears, and her mind was so bewildered and agitated that she scarcely knew what she was about. The music struck up one of the most sprightly tunes, and notwithstanding the state of her feelings, never had the gentle Alice moved with more simple ease and grace in the dance. Every body was wrapped in astonishment, and gave vent to their feelings of admiration in loud demonstrations of applause. 
               Suddenly, however, the sky, which had hitherto been so clear and brilliant, became overspread with dark and ponderous clouds;-a terrific peal of thunder reverberated through the heavens, which had scarcely rolled away in the distance, when a loud and simultaneous exclamation of astonishment escaped from the revellers, and all eyes were directed towards a strange and mysterious object that seemed to rise suddenly out of the earth, and stood upon a slight elevation in the midst of the alarmed and wondering group, and immediately before Sir Raymond Perceval and the trembling Alice Maitland. 
               The strange being who thus arrested universal attention, appeared to be scarcely human, and it was only the patched and ragged garments that scarcely covered its tall and bony form, denoted it to be something in the shape of a woman, and over whose head a hundred winters seemed to have spent their inclement fury. In one thin hand she held a long staff, formed out of the branch of a tree, and, with the other arm extended, she pointed menacingly towards the baronet. Her gray hair hung wild and dishevelled over her shoulders; her features were large and haggard, her skin brown and shriveled, and her large black eyes, which glistened with a supernatural lustre, were fixed sternly and intently upon Sir Raymond, who seemed to be completely paralyzed to the spot, while poor Alice quitted his side, and clung with terror to Rose and her parents. 
               Still darker were the clouds that obscured the horizon, and again a deafening peal of thunder shook the heavenly concave. 
               "The wierd woman! the wierd woman!" now in trembling accents escaped from several lips; "Heaven help us, for some terrible calamity is at hand!" 
               "Aye, dolts!" cried the hag, in a hoarse discordant voice; "there is evil weaving in the web of fate, and woe to them on whom its fury is destined to descend. Guilty Sir Raymond," she added, approaching him nearer, and with peculiar emphasis in her tones;-"guilty Sir Raymond, darest thou to contaminate the hand of purity and innocence with thy touch? Tremble, villain, for the hour of retribution will yet arrive!" 
               "Croaking idiot?" exclaimed Sir Raymond passionately, "how darest thou obtrude thyself upon my presence? Begone, or fear my vengeance!" 
               "Thy vengeance!" repeated the mysterious woman, with an unnatural laugh of scorn and malicious triumph: "fool, thou little knowest her whom thou thus venturest to threaten, or thou wouldst tremble to give vent to thine infuriated feelings. There is blood upon thy hands, there is blood upon thine hands, which calls aloud to high heaven for justice and revenge. Tremble! tremble!-And thou, poor innocent maiden," she added, softening her voice, and turning to our heroine with something like an expression of compassion; "oh, beware, beware, for the storm is gathering, and when the clouds shall burst even thy guileless nature shall not shield thee from their fury. Think of him whose heart still faithfully throbs for thee, and beware, oh, beware of the tempter!" 
               "Damned wretch!" cried Sir Raymond, furiously. "I will have no more; thus do I punish thee for thy bold presumption." 
               As he gave utterance to these words, he rushed desperately and determinedly towards her, but in an instant he was felled to the earth by a heavy blow from the wierd woman's staff, at the same time she uttered a wild and unearthly laugh of exultation and derision; another fearful crash of thunder followed, and when the petrified persons present looked around, the mysterious being had disappeared, no one knew how or whither. 
               The terrified Alice was led away from the spot by her parents and Rose, the astonished guests looked at each other for a few moments with feelings of the most indescribable awe and consternation, then quickly dispersed, and Sir Raymond Perceval was left alone, stretched insensible upon the earth. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE REMORSE OF CONSCIENCE-SUBTERRANEAN RETREAT OF THE PIRATES-VILLANOUS DESIGNS. 
               COMPLETELY stunned from the effects of the violent blow which the wierd woman had dealt him, Sir Raymond remained in a state of stupor for several minutes after the startling and extraordinary adventure recorded in the preceding chapter, and when he did recover his senses, and looked inquiringly and anxiously around him, he discovered for the first time that he was alone, his guests and attendants having quitted the place in dismay. He muttered, cursed between his teeth at the unexpected and singular interruption that had taken place, but the words of the mysterious woman flashed vividly on his recollection, and conscience, that busy monitor to the guilty mind, in spite of endeavoring in some degree to collect himself, he slowly entered his mansion, which he found lonely and deserted by the guests who lately had been assembled there, and made his way to his own private sitting-room, to brood sullenly over the strange events of the day, and the guilty deeds of the past. 
               The Manor House was a fine gothic building which had come into the possession of the family of the Percevals in the early part of the reign of Henry the Seventh; but it had undergone so many alterations and improvements in different ages, according to the taste of its proprietors, that very little of the original structure remained. 
               Its external appearance was venerable and imposing in the extreme, with its ancient towers and lofty turrets; its gothic casements and ivy-mantled walls; and its halls and galleries, and numerous apartments were spacious and furnished with all the elegance of modern times 
               Like most old buildings, the Manor House had its legends attached to it, in relating which the domestics and peasantry on the estate frequently amused and alarmed themselves on many a cold and dreary winter's night, over a blazing fire, when the wind howled and bellowed without, and the tempest increased in violence every minute. 
               Strange and dismal stories were also told of long, winding, and intricate subterranean passages, and gloomy dungeons, and of the awful crimes that in former ages had been perpetrated therein. The ignorant rant and superstitious placed the most implicit confidence in those idle tales, and would almost as soon have faced death in its most frightful form, as to have ventured to penetrate those unhallowed precincts. 
               The Manor House, and the valuable estates attached to it, had come into the possession of the present baronet on the demise of his father, about seven years previous to the period at which our eventful story commenced. Sir Raymond had resided on the Continent, or amid the giddy scenes of the gay metropolis, for many years, only visiting his parents at lengthened intervals, and at such times appearing to be under a restraint which was anything but agreeable to his tastes and inclinations; and even now he was frequently absent from the manor for mouths together, and no one knew whither he was gone, with the exception of two or three confidential servants, who accompanied him. 
               Sir Raymond had never been married, though his bold and licentious habits had gained him an unenviable notoriety among the fair sex, and parents and guardians looked upon him with dread and suspicion. The transcendant charms of the fair and gentle Alice Maitland had completely ravished his senses, and he took every opportunity of paying her the most marked attentions, and of convincing her how great was the admiration she had excited in his breast; but the lovely and innocent girl could not help viewing him with feelings of fear and repugnance, and which the remarkable adventure related in the first chapter rather served to increase than abate. 
               Notwithstanding that the baronet was most profuse in his liberality, and complaisant to all, there was a certain tone of mystery about him, and his manners were at times so forbidding and reserved that he was little calculated to inspire implicit confidence, or to obtain that universal respect he might otherwise have done. 
               And now, before we proceed further with the chain of our narrative, it may be deemed necessary to mention a few particulars respecting that singular and mysterious individual who has been introduced to the reader by the name of the Wierd Woman! 
               On the summit of a craggy steep, which hung far over the sea, stood the ruins of what had once been a powerful castle, but of whose former strength but few traces now remained. Its black and crumbling walls seemed scarcely capable of affording even temporary shelter to a human being, and it was shunned with a feeling of superstitious awe and dread by every one who resided in the vicinity. Here, then, had the wretched creature of whom we are writing taken up her miserable abode, and there was no person who would think of disturbing her in her lonely retreat. 
               Old Maude (for by that name she was sometimes called) had been an inmate of these gloomy ruins from the earliest memory of the "oldest inhabitant." Whence she had come, her real character, or by what means she existed, was a mystery which no one could penetrate. She was evidently of great age, by some she was supposed to be no more than a poor wretched maniac, but the more ignorant and superstitious attached a supernatural importance to her character, and looked upon her with feelings of the most uncontrolable fear whenever she made her appearance before them, which she always did at times when she was least expected, and so sudden and unaccountably, that it increased their terrors, and involved them in still greater perplexity. Her wild prognostications were firmly believed in, and listened to with fear and trembling, and the presence of old Maude on any particular occasion, was always looked upon as the harbinger of some approaching evil, and dreaded accordingly. No one would have been bold enough to attempt to offend her, or venture to oppose her in any shape or form, for fear of incurring her terrible malediction, which they felt certain could not fail to bring destruction on their own heads, and on all those who were in any way connected with them. 
               Such was The wierd woman of the Ruins, the dreaded of all; but to return to Sir Raymond Perceval. 
               On entering his room, he secured the door, to prevent the sudden intrusion of any one, and throwing himself dejectedly in a chair, abandoned himself to the most gloomy and torturing thought. His pale features, quivering lips, convulsive working of the muscles, and contracted eyebrows, told in language too plain to be misunderstood, the agitation of the mind within; and the dismal character of the room he was in (for it was situated in one of the most ancient parts of the building, and its furniture was ponderous) did not tend to alleviate his gloomy and painful reflections. 
               The storm now raged in earnest, frequent peals of thunder seemed to shake the house to its foundation; the Hashes of lightning every minute became more vivid, and the rain rattled against the casements with a hollow, melancholy sound. Darkness too had set in unusually early for the time of year, and nothing could surpass the cheerlessness and the misery of the hour; but it was in perfect unison with the state of Sir Raymond's mind at that moment. There the still, but overwhelming voice of conscience was at work, and would be heard above the tumult of the tempest. 
               For some time the wretched baronet thus sat in moody silence, brooding over the past and the events of the last few hours, but suddenly starting to his feet, and folding his arms across his chest, he paced the room with hasty and disordered steps, 
               "What infernal hag is she," he said at length, in a hoarse voice, which showed the inward tortures of his guilty soul; "what infernal hag is she, who thus with bold front and threatening aspect, thus comes to remind me of the dark deeds of the past, which I would that I could long since have buried in oblivion, and to warn me of the future? Or, have my senses forsaken me, and am I now laboring under some frightful delusion? Psha! I have become a very child, thus to abandon myself to such weak and idle fears. 'There is blood upon thine hands!'-Yes, yes;" he added, with a shudder, after a brief pause, during which he glanced timidly around the room; as though he was fearful of encountering some grim and ghastly object; "the wierd woman spoke the truth; these hands are indeed stained with blood; the blood of the pure, the good, and the innocent, and conscience, in spite of all my efforts to the contrary, weighs down my guilty soul with misery and despair. It was a fearful, a montrous deed, and neither time nor circumstance can possibly obliterate it from my memory. The narrative of the old seaman too, this day has recalled it still more vividly to my brain. The youth then to whom the affections of the lovely Alice are so ardently, so fondly devoted, is the offspring of that unfortunate woman who so brutally perished by my hands, and should he ever return, and by some strange and unforeseen circumstance become acquainted with the damning truth, I-but no! fool that I am, I torture myself with vague apprehensions that can never be realized. Let me arouse myself from this dismal state of mind, and endeavor to be firm, for if I do not by my own folly betray myself, suspicion can never possibly light on me. Courage, courage, and I may yet be able to set detection at defiance." 
               Sir Raymond paused, and became somewhat re-assured as he gave utterance to these words; but still his mind was ill at ease, and he pondered again and again upon the startling and warning words to which the wierd woman had given utterance. It was in vain for him to attempt to despise them, for he could not deny them to be the truth; and he was lost in wonder and perplexity to imagine by what means she had been able to penetrate his secrets, or to guess who she was, Once more he threw himself on a seat, and abandoned himself to the indulgence of his own gloomy thoughts. 
               The storm increased, and it was fearful to listen to the fierce raging of the warning elements, Peals of thunder roared through the heavens in rapid succession, the lurid lightning gleamed around, threatening destruction to all those unfortunate beings who were exposed to its fury, and the rain descended in overwhelming torrents, laying waste everything beneath it. 
               "It is an awful night;" said the baronet, as he again looked fearfully around him, and partly arousing himself from the deep lethargy that had before steeped his senses; "even such a night as this it was, when-but away with thoughts that only drive me on to madness. Luke Harden and his guilty associates are no doubt now assembled in their secret haunt, and I must seek their counsel and advice. It is fortunate for me that I am connected with such determined and reckless fellows; I have already experienced the value of their services on more than one or two occasions, and no doubt shall find them useful to me in the furtherance of my future designs." 
               He took a lighted lamp from the table as he thus spoke, and advanced towards the further end of the room, where an ancient painting descended from the ceiling to the floor. He pressed hard upon a certain portion of the frame-work of this, which communicated with a secret spring, the picture then glided easily back, and discovered an opening big enough for the admission of a person's body, and which led to a winding flight of stairs. These Sir Raymond slowly and cautiously descended, and at length alighted in a kind of small paved court, which received a slight portion of light and air from a small crevice in the wall. The baronet now took a small bunch of keys from his pocket, and unlocked a low wooden door on the opposite side, which revealed a dark narrow passage, apparently of great length, winding and circuitious, but which the feeble light remitted by the lamp he carried could not penetrate. Sir Raymond held the lamp above his head, the better to accelerate his view, and as he began to traverse it he could not help shuddering, as though he was fearful of encountering some frightful object, such as his feverish imagination was likely to conjure up. 
               This subterranean passage was evidently the work of an age long past, and the walls were black, and dripping with unwholesome dew. 
               The wind whistled in hollow moaning gusts along it, and Sir Raymond had frequently a difficulty in preserving the light. As he advanced further, the sound of several coarse voices, apparently in uproarious mirth, saluted his ears, and he paused to listen. 
               "They are there," he said, "and it is quite evident that no anxiety of mind depresses their spirits They are reckless, dare-devil rascals; bolder or more determined never ploughed the ocean's breast, or hoisted the black flag. How little does any one suspect that beneath the walls of the old Manor House, is the secret haunt of the pirate, Luke Harden and his daring crew, and that the proud Sir Raymond Perceval has for years been their friend and associate." 
               A smile of satisfaction passed over the baronet's features as he gave utterance to these words, and he again walked on. He had not proceeded many paces, when a ray of light streamed across his path, which proceeded from the interstices of a door at the further extremity of the passage, and which evidently opened upon some apartment or cavern beyond. The baronet paused at the door for a minute or two before he ventured to knock. All was again silent for a short time, when suddenly a rather musical voice burst forth into the words of the following song, at the end of each verse the whole of the individuals apparently present joining in the chorus: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           SONG OF THE PIRATES. 
                            
                              O'er the dark blue surging wave, 
                              Oft the shipwreck'd seaman's grave; 
                              Though the tempest loud does blow, 
                              Dauntless on our course we go. 
                            
                            
                              CHORUS. 
                              In storm or calm, we plough the sea, 
                              For daring buccaneers are we. 
                            
                            
                              Let lightnings fire the murky air, 
                              The hardy pirate knows no fear; 
                              Still so boldly on his way, 
                              Anxious for his destined prey. 
                            
                            
                              CHORUS. 
                              In storm or calm, we plough the sea, 
                              For daring buccaneers are we. 
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
                
               Loud demonstrations of applause followed this vocal display, which having subsided, Sir Raymond knocked with his fist three times on the door, which signal appeared to be well understood, for it was immediately opened by a tall muscular man, with dark sunburnt features and huge black whiskers, and the baronet on entering the place was received with a loud and tumultuous welcome by the persons present. The scene which presented itself was of a rather wild and remarkable description. It was a spacious, lofty, vaulted apartment, cavern-or, rather, an excavation in the solid rock-and from an opening in the further end, a few feet from the ground, and which was ascended to by a step ladder, the sky was visible; and from the dashing sound of the waves, no doubt immediately beneath it was the sands or beach. This opening the pirates had a means of blocking up or concealing, should any danger happen to threaten. The walls were hung with arms of different descriptions, and beneath them were piled numerous sea-chests, powder-casks, kegs, &c. In the centre of this cavernous abode, was a long, rudely constructed table, and round which the pirates were carousing. Luke Harden (who was a remarkably tall, powerful, and ruffianly looking fellow, with ferocious and determined features) being at the head, on a seat more elevated than any of his lawless associates. The place was lighted by three large lamps, suspended by chains from the roof. 
               On the entrance of the baronet, Luke Harden left his seat, advanced towards him, and extending his hand with the utmost familiarity, said:- 
               "Welcome, Sir Raymond; we did not expect to see you to-night, supposing that, on the occasion of the festivities at the manor, you would be otherwise engaged. What, has the storm dampened the ardor of the spirits of your guests, and caused them to weigh anchor rather sooner than they otherwise would?" 
               Sir Raymond returned no immediate answer to this, but drew Harden aside into a remote corner, in order that he might commune with him without being overheard by the rest of the pirates. 
               "Luke," he said after a brief pause, "I have had that occur to me to-day that annoys me sadly, and upon which I wish to have your serious advice." 
               "Indeed?" observed Luke, "why, what's in the wind now?-Your spirits seem to have sprung a leak." 
               "Seriously speaking, I am rather excited, and I think you will acknowledge that I have good cause to be so, when you hear the particulars." 
               "Explain yourself, Sir Raymond?" 
               "A moment's patience and I will do so," answered the latter. "In the first place, I have heard from the lips of old Ben Bolt sufficient to convince me that the youthful seaman who goes in his name, is no other than the son of her who perished by my hands." 
               "And whom with her child we consigned to the crazy boat," added Luke Harden; "and whom we hoped would have been swallowed up by the waves. It was a foul deed, Sir Raymond." 
                
               "It was-it was," hastily returned the latter, with a look of the most painful emotion; "but it is useless to repent it now. The boat, it seems, was discovered by a trading vessel called the Alligator, of which this old man was one of the crew; the child lived, was adopted by Ben Bolt, and it is he who possesses the heart of the beauteous Alice Maitland." 
               "It is strange," observed Harden; "but still I do not see why you should let that circumstance trouble you; the boy has no means of discovering his origin, or by whose hands his mother perished; besides, should he ever return-which I do not think is very probable, the Dauntless having most likely gone to Davy Jones's ere now-we may easily secure his person, and there will be an end to all your fears." 
               "True," coincided the baronet; "but there is something else that excites my apprehensions." 
               "What mean you?" 
               "That mysterious being, old Maud." 
               "What, the Wierd Woman of the Ruins, as she is called?" 
               "The same." 
               "And what of her?" interrogated Luke. 
               "She knows my secret," replied the baronet. 
               "Impossible!" 
               "It is true." 
               "Explain yourself; you astonish me," said the pirate. 
               Sir Raymond did so in as few words as possible, and Harden listened to him with much attention, and when he had concluded said:- 
               "Pshaw! Sir Raymond, you surprise me to hear you talk; why should you attach any importance to the ravings of such an old idiot as Maud? But should she continue to annoy you, you have the readiest means of silencing her forever, and setting all your doubts and apprehensions at rest." 
               "True, true," answered Sir Raymond; "yet would I fain avoid the shedding of more human blood. My hands are too deeply stained already. Heartless monster that I must have been that I could turn a deaf ear to the piteous supplications of the unfortunate Emmeline for mercy! Oh, it was a hideous crime, and heaven in the loud voice of the roaring thunder seemed to utter its curses on my head. Methinks that now I see her, when my remorseless dagger had pierced her side, as she turned her dying eyes with a ghastly expression on me, and--" 
               "Hold, hold!" interrupted the ruffian, Luke Harden, impatiently; "you unman yourself, Sir Raymond Perceval; give not way to such coward thoughts as those. Let us change the subject. The beauteous Alice Maitland is the object of your most ardent admiration and desire?" 
               "True," exclaimed the baronet, his eyes sparkling as he spoke, from the influence of the guilty passions that had taken possession of his breast. "I love her-to distraction love her-and what sacrifice is there that I would not willingly make to possess her; but it is quite evident that she views me with fear and repugnance." 
                
               "And what matters that if you are only determined?" demanded the pirate; "it would be no difficult thing for you to get her in your power, and she would be secure enough here, or on board our gallant barque, the Bloodhound.' 
               "Ah!" ejaculated Sir Raymond, eagerly, a sudden change coming over the expression of his features; "you inspire me with fresh hope, Harden, and I thank you for it. We will talk further of this business anon. Hold yourself in readiness to act according to my instructions at a minute's notice" 
               "Aye, aye," returned Luke; "you shall have no reason to complain of me or my crew. The hold hearts of the lads of the Bloodhound are strangers to fear. We are at your service whenever you may require us." 
               "Well spoken, Luke," remarked Sir Raymond; "your hand. The Bloodhound, under false colors, is now anchored only a short distance from hence, is she not?" 
               "She is," answered Harden; "and the secure disguise which I and my men have assumed, whenever we venture forth from this retreat, or go on board our vessel, has completely deceived the land-sharks. Ha, ha, ha! they believe me to be a fair trader, and that the name of the ship is The Water Nymph." 
               "Aye, Harden," said his companion; "you have managed the business admirably, I must say, and I give you full credit for it. I expect before long that I shall have occasion to take another voyage with you." 
               "Be it so," replied Luke; "I shall be most proud and happy of your company; and truth to say, I do not care how soon I am on salt water once more, for I am quite tired of leading this indolent life." 
               "Well then," observed Sir Raymond; "I have now, I believe, explained everything to you, and we understand each other perfectly?" 
               "Certainly," answered Harden. 
               "Enough," said the baronet; "I am satisfied; and for the present I leave you. Good night." 
               "Good night," responded Luke, and having shook the hand of Sir Raymond, familiarly, the latter took up his lamp, and quitting the room, once more retraced his steps towards his own apartment, reflecting on all that had passed between him and the pirate, and feeling somewhat more easy in his mind. 
               The storm still raged with unabated violence, and when the guilty Sir Raymond again found himself alone, he once more resigned himself to the same dismal thoughts that had before occupied and distracted his brain. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER 
                     VI.
                     III.
                  
                
               THE FEARS OF ALICE-MAID OF THE RUINS AGAIN-THREATENED DANGER. 
               WE have described the agitation of Alice Maitland at the scene which took place on the appearance of the wierd woman, and the precipitation and dismay with which she and her parents quitted the place, surprised and shocked at what they had heard and seen, and completely lost in the mystery which the circumstances had created. The fearful words which old Maud had uttered respecting Sir Raymond had made a powerful impression on her mind; and the warning she had given to herself filled her breast with the most painful doubt and apprehension; at the same time she felt hurt and disgusted at the boldness of the baronet's behavior towards her, and she could not but entertain the most serious forebodings as to the danger which might threaten her from him. She deeply regretted that she had been prevailed upon to join the festivities at the mannor at all, and trembled to anticipate the dreadful consequences of which it might be productive. 
               Little conversation took place between Alice and her friends on the way home, and they arrived there just as the storm which had been threatening for some time commenced with the greatest violence; but Alice, on entering the room, sank in a chair, and was too much absorbed in her own thoughts to pay much attention to the rude voice of the tempest. From this melancholly state of torpor her parents tried to arouse her, but with very little or no effect; and, indeed the strange observations of Maud, who had indirectly accused the baronet of murder, and her wild predictions regarding their lovely daughter, had made almost as powerful and painful impression on their minds as her own. 
               As Alice listened to the loud tumult of the warring elements, which ever and anon was sufficient to shake even the stoutest heart with terror, her thoughts reverted to her lover, and as she reflected upon the uncertainty of his fate,-the dangers to which he might this night be exposed, if he still survived, and the improbability that they would ever meet again, scalding tears of the most poignant anguish chased each other down her pale cheeks, convulsive sobs at intervals escaped her bosom, and the poor girl was, in fact, wrought up to such a pitch of excitement, that she felt as if her heart would break. 
               The cottage of Ralph Maitland was a commodious four-roomed dwelling, which had been bequeathed to him, together with a small annuity, by an only and affectionate brother, who died some few years prior to the commencement of our tale, and this little property, together with what he realized by farming pursuits, rendered the circumstances of the humble family tolerably comfortable, if not exactly affluent. But they possessed those blessings that far surpassed all that the most unbounded riches could bestow, namely, peace, virtue, and sweet content. The beauteous Alice, and her equally captivating, and more lively sister Rose, were the pride and comfort of their parents' rents' declining years, and never had they given them cause for a single pang of regret, or done that which could call for a word of reproach from their lips. 
               A pretty, attractive little residence was Woodbine Cottage, with the honeysuckles climbing its casements, and its neat little gardens behind and before, so tastefully arranged by the skill and attention of the fair sisters, while every room, with its handsome, though humble furniture, was kept in that clean and compact order which was quite refreshing to look upon. Indeed, the village of Mayland, as we shall call it, was an interesting place altogether, situated as it was so near the sea-side, and commanding at the back, and to the right and left, extensive views of the most fertile, romantic, and diversified description that could well be imagined. 
               The dwelling of honest old Ben Bolt, adjoined that of the Maitlands, and like it, was remarkable for its neatness and simplicity. Then a few doors off was the village barber's, the proprietor of which, Jemmy Jingle, was an honest, simple, good-humored, but eccentric young man, who prided himself upon being a poet, and could take credit to himself for stringing together some of the most remarkable and wretched doggrel that was ever perpetrated by morbid brain; and whose time was fully occupied between shaving, versifying, and making love to a buxom lass, yelept Miss Sally Simper, who was one of the domestics at the Manor House. Then there was the village ale-house, "The Jolly Topers," kept by old Matty Muggins, a thirsty soul; with its rustic seats and tables in front, its fine old tree, stretching its leafy limbs over the roof of the hostlerie; and its swinging sign-board, with the red-faced portrait of a grog-blossomed tar, and having underneath the very enticing lines: 
                      
                        "All those who would blue devil's cure, 
                        Will never pass Mat Muggins' dore, 
                        For Matty Muggins he lives here, 
                        And sells the very best of fare." 
                     
                  
                
               Nor must we forget the unpretending little school-house- 
                      
                        And the master so kind and so true; 
                        And the little nook, by the clear running brook, 
                        Where you gather'd the flowers as they grew." 
                     
                  
                
               Such is a brief description of the village of Mayland, one of the principal scenes of our tale. 
               Notwithstanding that the lurid lightning continued to dart its fury at the casement, and the voice of the thunder increased in might, Alice remained seated in the parlor of the cottage, in the same pensive attitude, and seemed completely lost to everything but her own torturing meditations. 
               "Come, Alice, my children, and you, my dear Rose," said their father; "do not remain any longer there, exposed to all the terrors of the storm, which are so little suited to the present depressed state of your spirits; retire my girls, and in sweet slumbers endeavor to forget the strange events of the day." 
               "No, my dear father," replied Alice, in a melancholy tone of voice; "indeed I am but ill disposed for rest on such a fearful night as this; suffer me to remain here for awhile to collect my thoughts, and Rose no doubt will keep me company. Dear, dear Ben, if you are still living what must be the horrors you are this night enduring." 
               "And alas, my beloved Harry," sighed her sister, "how vividly does my perturbed imagination picture to me the terrors of his situation. May all merciful heaven watch over and protect them both. Oh, why should the cruel waves separate us from those we so fondly love?" 
               "Avast, avast heaving, my poor lasses," ejaculated old Ben; "and take in a reef; you must not yet founder in the sea of despair; you will weather the seas of adversity yet, never fear, and ere long, when the wind veers, all will again be calm and sunshine, and you will find safe anchorage, with your lovers, in the haven of happiness. But good night, good night." 
               And cordially shaking a hand of each, Ben Bolt quitted the cottage. Finding that it was useless to endeavor to oppose the whim of Alice, Mr. and Mrs. Maitland embraced their daughters affectionately and then retired to their chamber. 
               Alice and her sister sat for some time in dismal silence, while the tempest raged without; but though their tongues were silent, their brains were busy at work, and their bosoms were racked in the most torturing and insupportable manner. Between the pauses of the blast, they were interrupted by hearing a gentle knock at the cottage door, which having been opened by Rose, they were surprised to see Jemmy Jingle enter, completely wet to the skin. 
               "La! Mr. Jingle," said Rose, "whatever in the name of goodness brings you from home on such a stormy night as this?" 
               "Why, you see, Miss Rose," answered Jemmy, after the hubbub on the lawn," with that old witch, and which put such an unceremonious stoppage on our festivities I entered the Manor House with my dear Sal'y to have a bit of chat with her, and in hopes that the storm would pass over; but seeing there were no likelihoods of that, and it getting late, I was forced to depart. So seeing a light in your cottage window, I could not help calling in to bid you good night." 
               Alice and her sister thanked him, and garrulous Jemmy thus continued: 
               "It was cursed provoking that frightful old woman appearing at the time she did, for I was just about to make such a display as a poet, as I flatter myself would have immortalized me. I had written some lines for the occasion, that should have gained me a marble statty at least, or else there is no reward for real genius in the world. I'll read them to you, if you have no objection, for they are very pretty-splendacious!" 
               With these words Jenny Jingle took a sheet of paper from his pocket, and commenced reading. "But la!" he suddenly exclaimed, "I cannot help thinking of old Maud of the Ruins, and what she said." 
               "She is indeed a fearful and mysterious woman;" remarked Alice, "and never shall I forget the ominous words she uttered." 
               "Oh, as for that, my dear Miss Alice," returned Jingle, "I should not let them trouble me at all, for she is only a poor idiot, that's very clear, and she knows not what she says. For my own part I am resolved the next time I see her not to mince the matter with her, but to insist upon an explanation, and-God bless my soul! Heaven preserve us!" he added in a trembling voice, and casting his eyes fearfully towards the window; "what was that!" 
               At that moment a tremendous crash, followed by a wailing sort of cry, was heard outside, which made them all start and look with alarm towards the window; but nothing was to be seen but the blazing lightning, and no other sounds were to be heard but the howling of the tempest. 
               "It must have been only fancy," said Jingle, after a pause, and endeavoring to compose himself. "But I must be going, so good night, ladies; good night, and may all good angels watch over your slumbers" 
               Thus saying, Jenny Jingle, having first cast an anxious glance out at the window, hurried from the cottage, and again left the sisters to themselves. 
               "What could be the meaning of that fearful sound?" said our heroine; "did you hear it, Rose?" 
               "I did," answered the latter, "but do not believe that it proceeded from anything else but the storm. Come, my dear Alice, you must try to arouse yourself from this gloomy state of feeling. Let us retire to rest." 
               "Rest!" repeated Alice, "I am certain there is none for me; my thoughts are with the beloved being who is far, far away, and perhaps at this awful hour exposed to the most imminent danger." 
               "Oh, let us pray to heaven," ejaculated her sister, "to watch over and protect those whom we so fondly love from the terrors you apprehend. As for the wierd woman-" 
               She was prevented from finishing the sentence, by again hearing a mournful cry outside, which was followed by a crash and a loud clap of thunder, and simultaneously directing their eyes towards the casement, by the glare of the lightning they were terrified to behold the hideous features of old Maud of the Ruins staring full upon them. 
               Alice could not repress a faint scream, and clung to her sister, who was more firm than herself, and the next morning the casement was thrown wide open, and Maud pointing significantly with her long bony hand, directed their attention towards her, in a harsh, grating voice she said:- 
               "The tempest howls-lightnings dart their forked fury, thunder shakes the vaulted roof of heaven, and the wild sea-mew, as it wanders through the blast, utters its wailing cry, sad omen of coming danger; but Maud of the Ruins heeds it not, she braves the bellowing wind; the lurid lightning's fires; the loud roar of the heavenly lion-all-she boldly braves to perform her mission. You tremble, maidens, and your cheeks are blanched with terror; but fear not-I will not harm ye; innocence and virtue are still sacred to the wretched being before you." 
               As the singular being thus spoke, the expression of her countenance became less severe, and Alice and her sister felt somewhat encouraged. 
               "Mysterious woman," interrogated our heroine, "who are you, and why do you thus appear before us?" 
               "To warn you of the danger that threatens you; the evil spirit that is abroad to disturb your peace. Come nearer, maidens; come nearer." 
               They did so, and after a brief pause, Maud, fixing her eyes steadfastly upon them ejaculated in solemn accents:- 
               "Faster! faster the storm clouds gather, and deeper become the designs, the black designs of villany to allure and work the destruction of the children of innocence and inexperience. Oh, beware that they succeed not. Alice Maitland, as you value peace and virtue-as you remain faithful to him who still lives to love you-though even this night, nay, even this very hour, a frightful death threatens him-beware of the insidious serpent who has oftentimes crossed your path; beware of the man of blood-beware of Sir Raymond Perceval." 
               "Sir Raymond Perceval!" repeated our astonished heroine; "your words are ambiguous; oh, why should I fear him?" 
               "Slight not my warning, maiden," replied Maud; "for ere long you will discover its import. Shun him, I say again, as you will a demon. But I am forbidden to reveal more at present; farewell till we meet again, and remember!" 
               And before either the astonished Alice or her sister could question her farther, Maud hastily shut to the casement, and immediately, as if by magic, vanished from their sight, leaving them to recover themselves in the best manner they could. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE DREAM-SIR RAYMOND PERCEVAL AND ALICE-THE INSULT AND THE INTERRUPTION. 
               IT was sometime after the departure of Maud before either of the sisters could recover themselves sufficiently from the surprise and confusion into which their second interview with the mysterious sybil had naturally thrown them to speak; and they stood in the same attitude, with their eyes earnestly fixed upon the casement, as if they still gazed upon the frightful visage of the inscrutable being. 
               "She is gone," at length observed Rose; "but the words she uttered, and her solemn and emphatic manner, have filled me with an indescribable and unconquerable feeling of dread I tremble for the future, for much I fear that some terrible calamity is about to befall us." 
                
               "Nay, my dear sir," said Rose, "try and subdue all such fearful foreboding; you must really not allow such sad thoughts to disturb your mind." 
               "Would that I could indeed conquer them," returned Alice; "but, alas! they resist all my efforts to do so. 'Tis certain that old Maud is no common woman, and it is impossible to disregard her solemn injunctions. You remember the lines that are said of her, Rose?" 
               "Yes," replied the latter; "they are these, I believe- 
                      
                        "Whenever Wild Maud doth appear, 
                        In day's bright sun, or midnight drear, 
                        Be sure that danger hovers near!" 
                     
                  
                
               "But that is only an idle superstition, Alice;" she continued; "and as such, unworthy of consideration. Come, it is late; the strange and exciting events of the day have fatigued us, and we had better, in repose, seek that refreshment of which we stand so much in need" 
               "May heaven in its infinite mercy, watch over us?" ejaculated Alice, solemnly, and clasping her hands vehemently together; "and shield us, and all those so dear to us, from those dangers I so fearfully anticipate." 
               "Amen!" fervently responded Rose; and having affectionately embraced her sister, they slowly quitted the room, having first closed the window-shutters, and retired to their chamber. 
               The storm abated; the thunder no longer shook the vault of heaven; the flashes of lightning became less frequent, and then entirely eased; but the rain still continued to descend with considerable violence, and appeared likely not to terminate during the night. 
               On reaching their chamber, which adjoined that of their parents, the lovely sisters, having offered up their usual evening prayer to the Supreme, Rose immediately sought her couch, and having tranquillized her feelings, soon forgot the stirring events of the day in sleep; but Alice threw herself on a seat, and pondered seriously over all that had occurred, and augured the worst results from it. There was an air of probability about the prognostications of the wierd woman which made a lasting impression upon the mind of Alice; and the bold conduct of Sir Raymond Perceval towards her that day, and his general character, which he had been unable to conceal from her penetrating observation, gave greater weight to the warning words of Maud, and increased the prejudice of our heroine towards him. The words she had uttered respecting her lover also recurred most vividly to her memory, and conjured up a variety of conflicting doubts and fears in her breast. Again she took the treasured miniature from her bosom, and her tears fell fast as she gazed upon the beloved features of her sailor-love. 
               At length, worn-out with thinking, she retired to rest, and sleep soon descended upon her eye-lids. But busy imagination was still at work and her slumbers were disturbed by troublesome dreams. 
               At one time she imagined that she was, with her lover, exposed to the open sea on a raft, which threatened every moment to go to pieces. It was night, and impenetrable was the darkness that reigned around. The cold was most piercing; the wind blew a perfect hurricane; the roaring waves rolled mountains high, and every moment their awful fate seemed to be the more inevitable. Still they were driven wildly on, at the mercy of the angry billows, and the fierce wind, as it howled around them, sounded their solemn death-knell. 
               And how fearful and despairing were the looks of her lover, as he gazed in silent anguish upon her, and held her still closer to his bosom, to shelter her from the blast, and overwhelming waves that dashed over them. Another moment, and she imaginined that they were struggling together in the deep, and gasping for life. 
               Suddenly a tremendous wave tore them asunder, and calling frantically on her name, she beheld her lover sink to rise no more. 
               Her brain swam round, and for a moment her senses seemed to leave her; but soon her recollection returned, and then how changed and fearful was the situation she found herself in. She was on a wild and barren rock, exposed to all the fury of the elemental wrath, the forked lightning playing around her, and she was struggling violently in the hated embrace of Sir Rowland Perceval. With what fiendish expression did his eyes glare upon her, and how awful were the words that escaped his lips, as he held her more closely in his arms, and tried to pollute her blushing cheeks with his odious kisses. In vain she struggled to release herself, and screamed for help; her strength was nearly exhausted when the spell of sleep was broken, and she awoke. 
               The perspiration stood in large drops upon her forehead with the excitement of her dream. She pressed her hands upon her aching temples and her brain was so confused and bewildered that for a few moments she could scarcely persuade herself that what had been presented to her perturbed imagination had not occurred to her in reality, 
               It was quite dark, and a death-like silence reigned around, which rendered the moment still more solemn and impressive. Alice cast her eyes timidly around the room and almost fancied she saw the form of the baronet gliding stealthily by in the obscurity of the farther end of the chamber; and so powerful was this impression, that she was half inclined to call aloud for help. But in a few minutes she recovered herself and endeavored to be more firm. 
               Rose still slept soundly, and no torturing visions, such as had occurred to Alice seemed to disturb her rest. Our heroine could not but envy her tranquillity, and at the same time she heartily prayed for morning 
               At length, however, she conquered her feelings in a great measure and succeeded in composing her mind once more to rest, and continued to sleep soundly and calmly till the morning's sun beamed in at her chamber window. Her sister also awoke at the same time, and they arose, and having returned their thanks to heaven for its protection from evil throughout the night, they dressed themselves, and it being yet to early for their parents to be about, they took their seats at the window, and tried to divert their minds at the prospect beyond. 
               It was a beautiful morning, but the storm of the previous night had left many sad traces of its ravages, though all else around was bright 
                   
                     THE PIRATES BAFFLED BY THE WIERD WOMAN. 
                   and cheerful. The situation of the chamber was such as to command a most extensive view of a very diversified and picturesque description; and here the eyes of the lover of the beautiful and wondrous of nature could luxuriate to the fullest extent. But the mind of our heroine at this time was not free to enjoy it; and the remarkable events of the previous day, and the painful vision which had occured to her imagination in the course of the night were the principal subjects that engrossed her thoughts, and rendered her restless and fearful. From this morbid state of feeling Rose sought all that she could to arouse her, but she succeeded only indifferently; and at length hearing the voices of their parents below, they descended to the parlour and joined them. In the course of the morning repast Alice related to her father and mother all that had occurred to them when they were left alone, and Mr. Maitland and his wife listened to her with some degree of surprise and uneasiness. 
               "And yet, after all," said Mr Maitland, after a few minutes' reflection; "I cannot believe that the predictions of old Maud are worthy of any serious consideration. Her intellects are evidently deranged, poor creature, or she would never lead the wretched, lonely life she does. Banish her from your thoughts, Alice; or only treat her with pity, instead of viewing her with dread." 
               "But Sir Raymond Perceval, my dear father;" ejaculated our heroine, with an involuntary shudder. 
               "Why," answered the former; "I must say, from all that I have seen and heard of the baronet, I certainly do not much admire his 
                     chaacter
                     character
                  , and it will be as well for us to be on our guard against him. But he surely will not dare to raise any unholy thoughts towards you, my child, or presume to insult you with his bold advances" 
               "Alas!" sighed Alice, "I know not what to think, but only hope that he will cross my path as seldom as possible. I fear that he is a man of crime, and that the fearful charge which old Maud has brought against him is not altogether unfounded." 
               "Nay, nay, my love," remarked her mother, "we mustn't judge Sir Raymond too harshly, and we must be careful that we are not too unjustly prejudiced against him, by the dark and calumnious insinuation of this singular woman. For my own part, I place but little confidence in anything she says, convinced as I am that her mind wanders and she knows not what she utters." 
               Alice shook her head doubtfully. 
               "Ah, my dear mother," she observed, "if the brain of the poor creature is affected, there is a method in her madness which has made a most forcible impression on me. As for Sir Raymond Perceval, in spite of all my efforts to the contrary, I cannot even think of him without a sensation of dread, and I have a sad presentiment that he is destined to be the cause of much misery to us all." 
               "Come, come, my poor child, enough of this," said Mr. Maitland, impatiently. "I see that at present your mind is not in a fit state to discuss this delicate subject; the strange behaviour of old Maud, and the wildness of her remarks, has distressed and bewildered you, and you are not just now prepared to judge of all the circumstances impartially and dispassionately. We will talk further about it at some future period, and, in the meantime, I trust that Providence, who ever watches over the good and innocent, will avert all those dangers which you so painfully apprehend." 
               To this wish Mrs. Maitland and Rose most fervently responded, and the topic of conversation was changed. Alice, however, was far from feeling satisfied, neither had her parents made use of any argument whatever, which was at all calculated to do away with the painful doubts and surmises that had taken such powerful possession of her mind. The wild predictions of the sybil, and the serious tone in which they were uttered, still seemed to ring in her ears, and had made such an impression upon her that nothing seemed likely to eradicate. 
                
               Mr. and Mrs. Maitland having some business to transact at Newport, shortly afterwards left the cottage, and the two sisters were left alone to the free indulgence of their own thoughts and conversation. In this manner more than an hour after the departure of their parents passed away, and the mind of our heroine was getting somewhat more composed, when they were suddenly interrupted by hearing a gentle knock at the door, which Rose opened, but her and her sister turned pale, and started back in amazement, alarm, and confusion, when Sir Raymond Perceval entered the room. 
               The baronet noticed their agitation, and seemed rather abashed at it. He, however, bowed politely, and appeared to hesitate ere he ventured to address them. 
               "You will probably pardon this intrusion, ladies," he said at length, and regaining his confidence; "but as I was passing this way, I could not help calling to inquire after your health; and to ascertain whether or not you suffered any ill effects from the storm of last night, and the unpleasant affair which brought our happy revels to such an abrupt and unexpected termination." 
               Rose, in a timid voice, thanked him for his polite consideration; but our heroine was too much agitated to make any reply, and trembling, as a secret misgiving crossed her mind, she averted her eyes from the too familiar and ardent gaze of the baronet 
               "And how fares the sweet and gentle Alice this morning?" interrogated the libertine, in an insinuating voice, and approaching her nearer. "Not a word, my bashful little gipsey? Nay, this is unkind, and I really must lay an embargo on your too modest diffidence." 
               "Sir Raymond Perceval cannot feel surprised at the reserve of the humble Alice Maitland," she replied, pointedly; "especially when he perceives that her parents are from home" 
               "And which I cannot but hail as an excellent opportunity," he said, with increased confidence and avidity; and attempting to take her hand, which she, however, withdrew from him with a crimson blush and a look of repugnance. 
               "What bewitching innocence and simplicity!" he added, fixing upon her an intense look of admiration. "By the gods! to contemplate such heavenly charms as these is sufficient to ravish the senses, and to melt the very soul in love and transport." 
               "Forbear, Sir Raymond Perceval," commanded Alice, with a look of offended modesty and indignation, "language such as I must not, will not listen to. You deceive yourself, sir, if you imagine that the hypocritical voice of flattery can have any other effect on me than to excite my utmost hatred, disgust, and contempt. Pardon me, Sir Raymond, but prudence tells me I should positively decline to prolong this interview in the absence of my parents." 
               The baronet was unprepared for such a reception as this, and he felt more confused and abashed. Rose could not but approve of the conduct of her sister, and looking upon Sir Raymond as she did, with the strongest feelings of doubt and suspicion, she heartily wished that he would retire from the cottage as quick as possible. 
                
               "Why so distant, Alice?" said the baronet at length, after a pause, during which he had endeavoured to recover himself. "Indeed you wrong me, if you suppose me capable of pouring fulsome flattery in your ears, or entertaining a single thought to your prejudice. I fear that the words of old Maud of the Ruins have made too powerful an impression upon you, and excited in your breast unjust and unfounded suspicions against me." 
               "Ah!" replied Alice, "the observations of that mysterious woman were indeed solemn and impressive; nor can I slight the warning. Conscience will convince those interested, whether or not, in other respects, she spoke the truth." 
               A dark frown passed over the features of Sir Raymond as Alice gave utterance to these words; and he bit his lips, and cast his eyes to the ground. 
               "The croaking bag?" he passionately exclaimed at length, "and is it possible that you can pay any serious attention to the observations of that mad woman? But enough of this. I have a favour to ask of you, Alice, which I trust your kindness and condescension will not suffer you to refuse me." 
               "I do not understand you, Sir Raymond," returned the damsel, in a timid voice, and fixing a keen and penetrating glance upon him. 
               "To be explicit, then," observed the baronet, "would you grant me the honour of a few minutes' conversation with you alone? Your sister, probably, will have no objection to retire while-" 
               "Hold, Sir Raymond," interrupted Alice, in a resolute tone; "you can have nothing to say to me which it would not be proper for my sister to hear. Your request is a bold and a strange one, and I must therefore beg most positively to decline to comply with it." 
               "Perverse little beauty!" he ejaculated, in a tone of vexation and disappointment; "how cruel and unjust are the doubts and suspicion you seem to entertain towards me. But even at the risk of your displeasure, fair creature," he added, forcibly taking her hand, which, in spite of her efforts to prevent him, he raised to his lips, "even at the risk of your displeasure, I cannot longer keep the torturing and important secret confined to my breast. Beauteous Alice, hear me, and bear with me while I avow in all the sincerity of my feelings, the ardent passion which your transcendant charms, and incomparable graces of mind, has excited in my heart, and--" 
               "Forbear, Sir Raymond," said the blushing and indignant maiden, "forbear to disgust my ears with an avowal so hateful to my feelings, as that which you have just made. Think not to delude the senses of the humble rustic maiden with your empty sophistry, and honeyed accents; you have torn aside the mask, and I now behold your natural deformity and more fully appreciate the warning of Maud of the Ruins. Begone, dangerous man, leave me!" 
               "Scornful beauty!" exclaimed the libertine, resolutely clasping her fair form in his arms, and notwithstanding her resistance, polluting her lips again and again with his loathsome kisses;-"scornful beauty, I will not be rejected thus. Let this fond embrace be the prelude to future bliss too great to name." 
                
               "Oh, help! help!" screamed the terrified and disgusted Alice and her sister in a breath; and the former tried in vain to release herself from the rude embrace of the guilty Sir Raymond; when just at that critical moment, and when the senses of poor Alice were about to leave her, the room door was thrust open, and old Ben Bolt, carrying a stout stick, rushed into the place, to the rage and disappointment of the baronet, who muttering a bitter curse between his teeth, released his hold of our heroine, who flew for protection to the old seaman, trembling in every limb, and her face crimsoning with the blushes of shame and resentment." 
               "Holloa!" cried Ben, flourishing his stick with a menacing air. "Shiver my timbers! my pretty Alice yard-arm-and-yard-arm with an infernal pirate! Sheer off, you damned grampus-top your boom, or I will not leave you a sound timber to float with! Wheugh! helm-alee! Here's a pretty squall! If it ain't his honor that has hoisted the black flag, my name's not old Ben Bolt!" 
               "Why this bold intrusion?" sternly demanded Sir Raymond. 
               "Why, for the matter of that," returned Ben, with a sarcastic look, and giving his stick another threatening twist, "it strikes me as how that's the very question I ought to ax you, seeing as how you are sailing on a wrong tack, and this pretty craft would not have sounded signals of distress if it had been all fair and above-board. Hows'ever, it's no use spinning a long yarn upon the subject; and what I would just advise your honor is, if you have any regard for your precious car-case, to slip your cable, and sheer off as quick as you can, for if I only pour one broadside into you, you will find that old Ben Bolt has still the courage and the ability to protect a lovely and innocent woman from the insults of a damned shark like you!" 
               "Daring fool!" said the enraged Sir Raymond; "you shall pay dearly for this. Beware!" 
               And scowling threateningly on Ben, the defeated baronet, scarce venturing to cast his eyes towards Alice or her sister, hastily quitted the cottage. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               THE OLD CASTLE RUINS.-THE DEED OF BLOOD.-THE RESOLUTION. 
               "FOILED! degraded-defeated!" furiously cried Sir Raymond Perceval, as he hurried on his way from the cottage; "the girl loathes and despises me then; and, fool that I was, I have betrayed my real thoughts and designs, and she will now be on her guard against me. I have been too precipitate, and had I acted with more due precaution, my plans might ultimately have succeeded. But shall I because of this single defeat, abandon all my hopes?" he added after a few moments' reflection; "no, by all the infernal host I swear I will not. I have the means of securing her in my power at my command; Luke Harden and the other pirates will be faithful, and with their aid she cannot escape me. Yes, beauteous Alice, you shall yet be mine, in spite of the disgust and detestation with which you view me." 
               With these guilty determinations he hurried on his way, intending to return to the Manor House; but his thoughts were so fully occupied that he noticed not the road he took, until suddenly looking up he found that he had wandered from the right path towards the sea beach, and that he was immediately beneath the cliffs, on the summit of one of which the ruins of the old castle in which Maud found a wretched retreat stood, and he beheld their black and crumbling walls frowning high above him. 
               A sudden thought struck him, and he resolved to penetrate the dreary place with the design to endeavor to obtain an interview with the sybil, and to seek an explanation of her ambiguous conduct towards him. He therefore began the steep ascent, which after some difficulty he accomplished, and stood within the ancient ruins. 
               Nothing could equal the gloom and loneliness around; but it perfectly accorded with the dismal state of mind which the guilty baronet was in at that time. It seemed scarcely possible that in such dilapidated place any person could find the least shelter. 
               Sir Raymond, with much difficulty, scrambled his way over the heterogeneous masses of fallen fragments, and at length gained one wing of the building which had not suffered so much from the ravages of time as the other portion, and entering at a low gothic doorway, found himself in an old corridor, the pavement of which was much broken, and overgrown with dank weeds. He crossed this place to a door opposite, which opened on to a long passage, at the extremity of which was a winding flight of stone steps. These the baronet ascended, and at the top his further progress was stopped by a massive oaken door, which was fastened on the inside. He now paused and hesitated what to do; and while he did so, his ears were saluted with a strange rumbling sound, which convinced him that some one was inside. This aroused him into action, and determined to be satisfied, he knocked loudly at the door three times. All was hushed in profound silence for a minute or two after this, when Sir Raymond heard a footstep advancing, and the next moment the door was opened, and the wierd woman stood before him and confronted him; the expression of her features being even more harsh and forbidding than usual. 
               Maud walked back into the room, which had not a vestige of furniture, save an old broken arm-chair, and motioned him with a commanding air to follow her. He did so, feeling at the same time anything but easy, and almost regretting that he had ventured to enter the ruins on such an uncertain and useless errand. 
               The old woman now fixed herself in an attitude in the centre of the room, and leaning on her staff scowled fearfully upon the baronet, but for a minute or two without offering to break the silence. 
               "Proud Sir Raymond Perceval-man of crime," she said at length, in her usual harsh, discordant voice; "why venture ye to intrude upon the lonely haunt of Wild Maud of the Ruins?" 
               "Mysterious woman," answered Sir Raymond, "because I would question thee respecting thy motives for pursuing me with the hatred and enmity thou hast evinced towards me. I would penetrate the dark secret of thy real character." 
               "Wouldst thou know the power and real character of Maud," returned the sybil, "thou must watch her actions. To her all things are known, past, present, and future, nor canst thou hide from her piercing eye the most secret designs of thy guilty soul. Beware, beware, Sir Raymond Perceval; though for a time thou mayst appear to triumph, the hour of retribution will come at last, and thy doom is sealed." 
               "Croaking hag!" cried the baronet, passionately; "vile imposter as thou art, what canst thou know of me or my deeds?" 
               "What know I of thee?" repeated Maud, at the same time glaring upon him with a fiendish look of malice; "fool! ask thine own conscience, where the dark deeds of the past are written in characters of blood!-aye, blood!-the blood of the good and the innocent. Remember the ill-starred Emeline, who, in all the pride of youth and beauty, perished by thy remorseless hands. Think of her whose earnest, whose heart-rending supplications for mercy, could not move thy relentless heart to pity and forbearance, think of her, and tremble, monster-tremble!" 
               "Cease, woman!" exclaimed Sir Raymond, furiously, while at the same time, tortured by remorse, fear, and the terrors of a guilty conscience, he quailed beneath the ominous import of Maud's words; and he shuddered at the recollection of the dreadful tale which she recalled in such vivid colors to his memory. "Cease woman," he repeated, in a voice still more hoarse with the powerful emotion of his feelings; "I will listen no longer to thy vile remarks and bold threats, the emanations of a disordered mind, or a feeling of malice and savage revenge, which you so unaccountably seem to bear towards me. Thou has some sinister object in view against me which I cannot penetrate. But beware, lest thou shouldst exasperate my deadliest vengeance, and-" 
               "Thy vengeance!" interrupted the wierd woman, with a bitter laugh of scorn; "boasting fool, villain, murderer, seeking again the destruction of all that is lovely and innocent, thinkest thou to intimidate Maud of the Ruins with thy empty threats? Miscreant! she defies and despises thee, and will never cease to haunt and denounce thee till heaven's avenging wrath shall descend upon thy devoted head, and lightnings blast thee. In the day's bright sunshine-in the solemn midnight hour-the storm and the calm; and in the festive hour, when all other hearts are light and glad, thy blood-stained conscience shall realize to thy guilty soul all the torments of perdition; and the ghastly features of thy murdered victim shall ever be present to thy terrified imagination." 
               "Cursed fiend in human shape," cried the baronet, fiercely, and drawing a pistol from his bosom, which he levelled at Maud's head-"I will hear no more-at least I will rid me of so deadly a foe, and silence thee forever! Die, damned hag, and with thee the secret of the dreadful crime of which thou hast so boldly accused me!" 
               With these words Sir Raymond discharged the contents of the pistol full at the head of the mysterious woman, and when the sound of the loud report had died away, a scornful laugh saluted his ears. He looked up, and with feelings of mingled fear and astonishment, found that Maud had disappeared, but in what manner, he was totally at a loss to imagine. 
               For a few moments he stood completely transfixed to the spot, alarmed and bewildered, and so sudden and extraordinary had been the circumstance, that it was not without the greatest difficulty he could believe the evidence of his senses. How the wierd woman could have avoided the fate he had intended for her he was at a loss to conceive, and there was something so strange and supernatural about the whole adventure, that his brain became the more perplexed and tortured the longer he reflected on it. He examined the flooring-boards minutely, but could discover no signs of a secret trap, nor could he perceive any other means by which old Maud could so suddenly have effected her escape, so that he became still further involved in mystery. 
               "Strange and fearful being," he muttered to himself; "by what un accountable means does she accomplish her designs? Now were I prone to feelings of superstition, I might be disposed to believe that she had some dealings with the devil. Curses light upon her! I fear that I have yet some terrible danger to apprehend from her. Fool that I was to seek this interview, when it could only serve to disturb my mind? And why do I now tarry here? Let me begone, for the gloom of these old ruins are but little suited to the present state of my feelings." 
               Once more Sir Raymond cast an inquiring glance around the room, and then slowly retraced his steps, looking cautiously about him as he proceeded, and in a state of mind which we need not attempt to describe. He soon regained the lower part of the ruins, and descending the craggy steps, struck into a pathway which led direct towards the Manor House. 
               Rage and disappointment now held a predominant place in the heart of the baronet, and he feared that he had acted with great rashness and imprudence in his conduct towards our heroine; and that it might in all probability be the means of delaying the execution of his nefarious plans, and enable her and her friends to be upon their guard to frustrate them. 
               "But," he soliloquized, after a few moment's reflection, "let me but be wary and determined, and I may yet be able to baffle all their precautions. The beauteous Alice must and shall be mine, at all hazards; and I will lose neither time nor opportunity to render my triumph complete. Oh, how my heart throbs for the proud moment when I can call her mine, and all these matchless charms are made to yield to my power." 
               A smile of exultation passed over his features as he gave utterance to these words, and his prospect of success seemed all but certain. 
                
               By this time he had reached the Manor House which he entered, and having made his way to his own private room, he threw himself on a seat and endeavored to collect his thoughts. For some time they were of the most torturing and conflicting nature. The interview he had had with old Maud served the more to perplex him, and to increase his fears; but still he exerted himself to the utmost to conquer them; and at last he succeeded much better than he could have anticipated. Anxious to have the further advice of Luke Harden, he quitted the room, and by the secret and gloomy way which has been formerly described, he took his departure to the pirate's haunt. 
               On entering the cavern he found Luke alone, and he arose on his appearance and greeted him in his usual familiar manner. 
               "Well, Sir Raymond," he observed, "what brings you hither now? Has anything more particular occurred? I hope you have no bad news to communicate." 
               "To say the truth, Luke," answered the baronet, "what I have to tell you is none of the most agreeable or promising. In my anxiety to commence the operation of my designs, I fear I have been rather too precipitate." 
               "Indeed!" said Harden; "explain yourself." 
               Sir Raymond did so, and the pirate listened with due attention. 
               "You have certainly acted rather hastily and imprudently," Luke observed, after Sir Raymond had related the particulars; "however, you have broken the ice, and have only to persevere to ensure success. The girl appears to view you with no very kindly feelings; however, do not despair, Sir Raymond, for, my word for it, you will soon find a way to subdue her obdurate spirit." 
               "Aye," returned the baronet; "I flatter myself that I shall; and her scornful resistance to my will, will only make me the more determined. But that mysterious woman, old Maud?" 
               "Ah!" said Luke, "she certainly appears to be a dangerous woman, and I am at a loss to fathom her real character. She must be got rid of." 
               "Even so," coincided Sir Raymond; "I must acknowledge, after what I have seen of her, the feeling of deadly malice she evidently entertains towards me, and the threats she has so boldly uttered, she has inspired me with a feeling of dread, and I shall not rest satisfied until I have released myself from so dangerous an enemy. We must devise some means to do so, with as little delay as possible." 
               "Aye," returned Luke; "we shall find no difficulty in doing that; so you may set your mind at rest upon that point. As regards the girl Alice, you must act the part of a hypocrite towards her if you would hope to meet with success in the accomplishment of your designs. You have acted hastily, and in order to silence suspicion it is necessary that you should apologize to old Ralph Maitland for your recent conduct. You understand me?" 
               "I do," replied the baronet; "your advice is good, Luke, and fear not but I shall accomplish the business with my usual ability. My resolution is fixed, and in spite of all the difficulties and opposition that I shall no doubt have to encounter, by all my hopes I swear that the lovely, but scornful Alice Maitland shall be mine." 
               "Boldly spoken, Sir Raymond," observed the pirate; "and you may rest satisfied that you can at any time command my assistance. The charms of Rose Maitland have also excited a powerful passion in my breast, and I have a strong inclination to get possession of her person." 
               "And what is to prevent you from doing so; if you make up your mind to it?" demanded Sir Raymond. "I admire your taste, Luke; Rose Maitland is a prize worth having. Be firm, then; and mark my word, she shall, before long, become the pirate's bride." 
               "Your hand, then?" said Harden, "we are pledged to assist each other to the utmost in our mutual designs." 
               "We are," returned his guilty companion; and success must crown our efforts. I will see Ralph Maitland without delay, and endeavor to appease the indignation he will no doubt feel when he is informed of the insult I have offered to his daughter. In the meantime we must keep a strict watch upon the movements of old Maud, or she may work us some evil before we are prepared for it. Curses light upon her long tongue! which has already excited the suspicions of Alice and her friends against me." 
               "True," said Harden; "but let not that alarm you altogether, for she may yet be made to feel our power." 
               "But should the lover of Alice return," remarked the baronet; "and old Maud should make him acquainted with the secret of his history, and denounce me as the destroyer of his father's peace-the murderer of his mother." 
               "Psha!" exclaimed Luke Harden, impatiently; "arouse yourself, Sir Raymond; you must not allow such apprehensions as those to disturb your mind, for they will never be realised, depend upon it. Young Ben Bolt, as he is called-take my word for it-has been food for the sharks long ago; or, if he still lives and should return home, you will have nothing to fear from him, if you only act with any thing like prudence and precaution." 
               "Well," answered Sir Raymond; "I will not fail to act as you advise, and hope for the best." 
               "A worthy resolve." observed Luke; "and depend upon it your wishes will not be disappointed." 
               After some more conversation, and further arranging their plans, they separated, and Sir Raymond quitted the cavern and returned to the house, pondering his nefarious designs in his guilty mind, and fully determined to accomplish them at any risk. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE SCENE OF TERROR-THE SHIP ON FIRE-THE SAILOR'S RETURN. 
               WE will not seek to portray the feelings of shame, disgust, and resentment, that filled the bosom of the gentle Alice, after the scene described scribed in the previous chapter; and for some minutes after the abrupt departure of Sir Raynond from the cottage, she was unable to give vent to her emotions in words. 
               Honest old Ben, too, was bursting with indignation at what had taken place, for he regarded our heroine with the same feelings of respect and admiration as if she had been his own daughter, and would have risked his life in protecting her from insult. 
               "Poor lass-poor lass!" said the old man, in a kind voice; "and cannot even your innocence shield you from outrage? The infernal shark; I had as good a mind as ever I had in my life, to give him a sound drubbing; and if I had only laid my grappling-irons upon him, old as I am, I fancy he would have thought he was being overhauled by the devil before his time. It was lucky I happened to be cruising this way, and came athwart his hawse, or there is no knowing how far his boldness might have led him to go." 
               "True, my kind friend;" replied Alice, "and I can never be sufficiently grateful to you for the protection you have afforded me." 
               "Avast! avast, there, my dear girl;" returned the veteran; "I require no thanks, for I have done no more than my duty. He must indeed be a cowardly lubber who would not willingly shed his life's blood in the defence of a lovely and innocent woman when borne down by a rascally pirate." 
               "But I fear that your noble conduct, Mr. Bolt;" remarked Alice, "will bring down the vengeance of Sir Raymond upon your head." 
               "His vengeance!" repeated the old man, vehemently; "he be damned-I ax your pardon for swearing, my lass. Old Ben Bolt is not to be frightened by any such a swab as he is, notwithstanding his rank. He will find me more than a match for him, I'll warrant, should he ever venture to attack me. If poor Ben, your lover, had happened to be at hand, it strikes me Sir Raymond would have had to pay dearly for his daring." 
               "Alas!" sighed Alice, and a tear trembled in her eye as she spoke; "dear faithful, noble-hearted Ben, where art thou now? Shall it never again be my fate to behold thee?" 
               "Oh, yes, my pretty Alice," answered the old seaman, "belay your fears and still hold to the anchor of Hope. Something convinces me that the dear boy will soon again return safe and sound, 
                     aud
                     and
                   be moored alongside of her he so fondly loves, and whose heart throbs so faithfully towards him." 
               "Heaven grant that your predictions may be verified," ejaculated our heroine, fervently; "but alas! it is so long since he quitted these shores, and no tidings have been heard of the ship in which he and his friend sailed, that I tremble for his fate. And yet old Maud prognosticated that he would be restored to us." 
               "Ah!" cried old Ben, "said she indeed so? Shiver my timbers then, if I do not believe her, and shall ever in future consider her as good as a witch for the prophecy. Ah, poor Ben, no doubt he has encountered many perils and dangers since he has been away; but I trust that he will be able to brave the battle and the breeze, and soon again cast anchor on old England's shores." 
                
               Most sincerely and ardently did Alice and her sister respond to this prayer, and, whether or not it was the effect of the old man's observations, and the confident tones he assumed when speaking of his adopted son, we cannot say, but it is certain that a sudden feeling of hope animated their bosoms, and imparted sweet consolations to their minds; which Ben immediately perceiving, did not fail to encourage all in his power. 
               "Ah, my dear girls," he answered, "how does it glad my old heart to see bright sunshine again lighting up your pretty faces, after the dark clouds that lately obscured them. Put your trust in Providence and fear not that it will fail to watch over the hardy mariner, who boldly exposes himself to all the perils of the deep, in the service of his king and country. Squalls may arise, and the fierce tempest for a time threaten, but poor Jack shall at length meet with his reward; the favoring gale filling the swelling sails of the gallant ship that bears him, shall waft him happily to his native land, where he shall find faithful and affectionate hearts waiting to greet him, and joyful tongues to sing the 'Sailors Welcome Home.'" 
               "Good old man!" ejaculated Rose, raising the hardy hand of the veteran to her ruby lips, and a tear of heartfelt gratitude and increased hope glistening in her eye; "how cheering is the picture which your vivid fancy has portrayed. A sweet feeling of confidence does indeed begin to dawn upon my mind, and long as they have been departed from us, and without our being able to obtain any tidings of them, I trust that the time is not far distant when poor Harry and Ben will both be restored to us." 
               "Still, encourage those thoughts, my lass," said Ben, "and depend upon it all will be well. Harry Helm I know loves you as fondly and faithfully as my Ben loves your sister, and the lad is well worthy of you. I respect and honor him, for he possesses a noble spirit, and is a sailor every inch of him. He and Ben were playmates, school-fellows together, and have been sworn friends from their earliest days of childhood; and show me the lubber who will venture to say a word against either of them, and he will find old Ben Bolt on board his craft in less time than the bo'sun could pipe all hands." 
               Alice and her sister could not refrain from smiling at the honest fervour of the old man, and they suffered him to take their hands, and raise them respectfully to his lips. 
               "Oh, won't that be a happy and jovial day that witnesses the return of Ben Bolt and Harry Helm?" he remarked, "no more signals of distress then; but we will toss dull care overboard, and send the blue devils to old Davy. There shall not be a sad heart in the village of Mayland; all their messmates shall be invited to join the sports; there shall be oceans of grog, and mountains of baccy, and whole cargoes of the best provisions that money can purchase. And then won't we set the fiddlers to work; and only to think how we shall jig it, to be sure. Lor', lor',-I declare if it does not set my old heart going at the rate of fifty knots an hour only to fancy it." 
               "Ah, Mr. Bolt," returned Alice, a sad misgiving, in spite of her efforts to subdue it, again starting over her; and yet we must not be too sanguine, lest we should be doomed to some bitter disappointment, which it would be almost too painful for us to bear." 
               "Avast, avast! Alice, my pretty one," cried Ben, "you must send all such sad thought as those adrift, for, my word for it, they will not be realised." 
               "Alas!" sighed our heroine, "I would fain endeavor to think and to feel as you advise me, but the bold and infamous conduct of Sir Raymond Perceval tortures and alarms me. I fear he has some dark designs against our peace in contemplation, and I much mistake his real character if he will be induced to abandon them." 
               "He will not surely dare to persist in his guilty projects," observed Ben, with a look of indignation. "Shiver my timbers, if I thought that he would, may I never go aloft if I wouldn't scuttle his vessel, and blow him to the devil in a cracking of a 
                     biscuit,
                     biscuit
                   though I am but a superannuated old tar, and he is the proud and haughty Sir Raymond Perceval, the lord of the manor, and basking in wealth and power." 
               Alice was about to make some reply, when the cottage door was opened, and Mr. and Mrs. Maitland entered the room. The two lovely sisters flew to their arms and welcomed their return with the most unfeigned affection; and their parents quickly perceived from the unusual agitation of their manner, and that of Ben, that something had occurred to disturb them, and anxiously inquired into the cause. They were not kept long in suspense, but were quickly made acquained with the particulars of Sir Raymond's daring conduct, and the resentment not unmingled with alarm, which filled their breasts may be readily imagined. 
               "The libertine, the unprincipled villain!" exclaimed Mr. Maitland, his bosom still heaving with rage, "thus to presume to call the blush of shame upon the cheeks of my innocent girls, and to commit such an unpardonable outrage, in the absence of their parents. He now stands unmasked, and proves the value and importance of the warning of old Maud of the Ruins." 
               "True;" returned our heroine. "Oh, my dear father, much I fear that we have every danger to apprehend; alas! what can protect your child from the diabolical designs of such a man as Sir Raymond Perceval?" 
               "Protect you, Alice;" replied her father, "and think you that your parent will fail to do so even with his life? 'Tis not his wealth or rank that can intimidate me, when my daughter's innocence is assailed; and humble though we are, and much as he may affect to despise us, mark my words, he may yet have bitter cause to repent of the baseness of his conduct." 
               "Well spoken, Ralph, my old friend," said Ben, approvingly, "and while I have a timber to float with, damme if I do not stand by you and yours, back and edge, in every danger. Oh, we are not all to be taken aback by a mere capfull of wind, and if we do not soon make this rascally pirate lower his flag to us, and cry peccavi, why rank me no better than a powder-monkey, and say that I do not know a mainmast from a jib-boom." 
                
               "My honest friend," remarked Mr. Maitland, grasping his hand in the most cordial manner; "I well know the warm and excellent feeling you entertain towards me and my family, and believe me that I most gratefully appreciate it. But Alice thinks right, when she would have us not to treat the observations of the wierd woman with indifference.-It is evident that she is well acquainted with the real character of Sir Raymond Perceval, and it is necessary that we should be completely on our guard against him, to prevent his having an opportunity of putting his nefarious schemes into execution against us." 
               "Certainly," coincided Ben; "we must not suffer him to get the weather guage of us,-and should he venture again to open fire, then clear the decks for action say I, and give it to him as hot as he can sup it. But courage, my friends, and depend upon it that you will be able to set all the infernal sharks who may seek to prey upon you at defiance. Good day-good day; and should the enemy again heave in sight, you will always find old Ben Bolt within hail." 
               With these words Ben departed, and they were left to discuss the disagreeble subject together. Mr. Maitland and his wife now plainly saw what they had to apprehend from the baronet, and they saw the necessity of adopting some means that were calculated to thwart his plans, which however he might act the hypocrite, they had no doubt he would still attempt to put into execution, whenever an opportunity might happen to present itself. In this manner the day passed away, without anything worth recording taking place, and Alice and her sister retired at an early hour to their chamber, but not to rest; for that, at present, they did not feel at all disposed, and they sat near the window continuing to converse upon the painful and alarming circumstances which continued so fully to engross their thoughts. Notwithstanding all her endeavors to banish them, the most fearful doubts and misgivings continued to haunt the imagination of our heroine, and from this melancholy train of thoughts Rose in vain tried to arouse her. 
               "Strange fancies haunt my brain," she remarked; "I know not how it is, but I feel as if this night something of a remarkable and exciting nature was about to happen to us." 
               "Give not way to such torturing ideas, my dear Alice," said her sister: "for indeed I do believe them to be groundless. The events of yesterday and to-day have saddened your thoughts, and excited fears in your breast which I trust to Heaven will not be realised." 
               "And have I not met with sufficient to alarm me, and create suspicions in my mind calculated to distract and perplex it. May the Almighty watch over us, and avert those evils which I anticipate." 
               Rose could not but sincerely entertain a similar wish, but she returned no answer, and they remained silent a few minutes. 
               The night turned out anything but fine, though the day had been mild and serene. It was particularly dark for the time of the year, and there was a certain tone in the weather which was certainly calculated to insure anything but cheerful thoughts. The wind ever anon moaned silently among the foliage of the trees, and a leaden weight seemed to hang upon the air which was peculiarly oppressive. The moon had not yet shown her silvery face from behind the dark clouds that hung upon the horizon, and there was not a star to be seen. 
               "How solemn is the gloom which reigns on all around," observed Alice; "it seems to be the dismal omen of some approaching calamity." 
               "Dissipate those melancholy thoughts, Alice," again remonstrated her sister, "which only serve to keep you in a continual state of agitation, and let us retire to rest." 
               "No, Rose," returned our heroine; "indeed I do not feel at all inclined for sleep; and I feel convinced that some extraordinary event is about to take place, which will be of the utmost importance to us." 
               "Strange surmises!" ejaculated Rose; "whatever can give rise to them in your breast?" 
               "I know not," answered Alice; "but do not affect to despise them; for there may be much more in them than you seem to imagine. Oh, Ben-dear Ben-with what fond anxiety does your dear image now occur to my thoughts. If you are still alive, to what fearful dangers may you at this moment be exposed!" 
               She clasped her hands together as these dismal and painful ideas occured to her, and breathed a silent prayer to heaven for the safety of that beloved being from whom she had been so long separated, and in this she was fervently joined by Rose. 
               Suddenly, however, they were aroused from this state of feeling, and started to their feet as the loud report of a gun boomed on the silent air from the direction of the ocean; and which was quickly succeeded by another and another, and excited a mingled feeling of pity and alarm in the bosoms of the fair sisters. 
               "These are doubtless signals of distress from some unfortunate vessel;" said Alice, gazing eagerly and timidly towards the deep; "God help those poor creatures who are thus surrounded by danger. Gracious Heaven! behold, Rose; behold! that fearful light! What means it?" 
               The broad and lurid reflection of some fierce, raging conflagration now shot up into the clouds, and illuminated every object for miles around with a frightful glare, and Alice and her sister could not help shuddering with an uncontrolable feeling of horror as they beheld it. At that moment there was a hasty knock at their chamber door, and on it being opened, Mr. Maitland, apparently in a state of great agitation entered. 
               "Some hapless ship is evidently on fire from stem to stern;" he said, in a voice of compassion "alas! it is a fearful sight to gaze upon. God help the poor creatures whom this terrible catastrophe has overtaken!" 
               "Oh, may they not yet be saved from so dreadful a fate?" said the agitated Alice. "Even at this moment poor Ben may be exposed to a similar frightful destiny, and no one at hand to attempt to rescue him!" 
               Her heart sickened at the thought, and strange and awful fears and forebodings distracted her brain. 
               "They will not be allowed to perish, without an attempt being made to save them;" replied her father; "no doubt boats from the different ships in the harbour will put off to their assistance. I will immediately go to the scene of danger, and ascertain the particulars;-in the meantime, my dear children, offer up your prayers to heaven for the preservation of the unfortunate sufferers." 
               With these words Mr. Maitland, having embraced his daughters, hastily quitted the cottage, and joined by old Ben Bolt, who had also been alarmed by the conflagration, made his way to the sea beach. 
               When he was gone, Alice and her sister sank on their knees and clasping their hands vehemently together, fervently supplicated the merciful interposition of Omnipotence to reserve from their impending fate the unfortunate individuals who were on board the burning vessel. They then once more arose, and watched the progress of the devouring element with the most intense anxiety. 
               Higher and higher the fierce flames shot up into the sky, and it seemed totally impossible for human hands to stop their destructive fury. The tender hearts of the gentle and compassionate sisters were wrung with horror as they gazed upon the frightful scene, which every moment became the more terrific, and again their prayers ascended to heaven for those poor creatures with whom they so deeply sympathized. 
               "Alas!" sighed our heroine, "the remorseless flames seem to have got too powerful a hold, and I fear that all on board must perish. And what awful presentiments are those that still continue to haunt my brain?-Oh, Ben! Ben!" 
               "For heaven's sake, Alice, do not distract me with such fearful thoughts," said Rose. 
               She could utter no more, for at that moment the attention of them both was attracted by some tall object, which was standing in the lurid glare of the fire's reflection at some short distance from the cottage, but still it was impossible for them clearly to distinguish it. It approached nearer until it stood immediately beneath, and looking up, Alice and her sister could not help uttering a mingled cry of fear and astonishment when they recognized the forbidding features of the mysterious old Maud of the Ruins. They gazed eagerly and anxiously upon her, and then waving her long, bony hand towards them as if to command attention, while with the other she pointed in the direction of the scene of conflagration, in clear and distinct tones, not a word of which the stillness of the night would allow to escape them, she said: 
               "This night is big with fate. Behold how the fierce flames consume the hapless vessel which contains the long anxiously looked for, the noble and the generous. Illstarred maidens, do not your hearts tremble in this dreadful hour of peril, and fearful forebodings cross your mind? Hark! hear you not that wailing cry rising on the dreary night air? They come! they come! midst horror and death they come; but oh, beware! beware! for great and terrible are the troubles that are yet in store for you." 
               As the wierd woman gave utterance to these last remarkable words, before Alice or Rose could recover from the astonishment into which her sudden and unexpected appearance at such a moment had thrown them, she turned away from the spot, and was almost immediately hidden from their sight 
                
               The sisters clasped their hands together, and gazed anxiously after her in complete bewilderment, while a nameless feeling of dread came over them, which they found it impossible to subdue. 
               "God of heaven!" at length gasped forth our trembling heroine, her face at the same time grew ghastly pale; "What meant she by those mysterious words, and why did she again appear before us in such a critical hour as this? My mind is filled with an indescribable horror, and I know not what to think. This night is big with fate," she said. "Oh, what strange event is before us!" 
               "Be calm, my dear Alice," returned Rose; "and let us hope for the best." 
               "Ah! see!" exclaimed Alice, pointing in the direction of the fatal spot; "the devouring element rages yet more fiercely, and may the Almighty help those who are exposed to its destructive fury! They cannot be saved! they cannot be saved! Would that I had accompanied our dear father to the fatal spot." 
               "Nay, my dear sister, you talk wildly," observed Rose; "what good could you possibly have done by being present at so appalling a scene? All that human aid can do to rescue them from their dreadful fate will be done. Come, let us rejoin our mother below till our father and old Ben return." 
               Alice sighed deeply as she cast her eyes once more towards the scene of death, and then, without making use of another observation, suffered her sister to lead her from the room. 
               In the meantime Ralph Maitland and old Ben, with the deepest feelings of sympathy excited in their breasts, as they gazed on the fearful signs of devastation that were so rapidly and irresistibly progressing, made their way towards the cliffs, from which they expected to obtain a better view of the awful sight; and as they approached nearer they could hear the shouts of the people ashore, as they gave their hurried instructions to each other in the rendering of such assistance as might be necessary; or expressed their fears and pity for those poor souls who were exposed to such imminent and frightful danger. 
               "Poor creatures!" said Ben; "what a terrible situation is theirs to be placed in. See how the huge flames mount aloft, roaring, hissing, and crackling like fiery serpents. Ah, Ralph, my friend, how little does the landsmen know of the perils and dangers to be encountered by those who have to plough the watery deep." 
               "True, Ben;" replied his companion; "and insensible must that individual be who does not admire and respect the character of the brave and hardy mariner. Truly this is a sight sufficient to appal even the stoutest heart. The burning vessel seems to be at some distance from the shore, and unless an all-merciful Providence should watch over them, I fear that few of the poor souls will escape from the dreadful and untimely death which threatens them. Come, let us hasten, for I am all anxiety to learn the results of this frightful calamity." 
               Accordingly they increased their speed, and in a few minutes more they arrived at the cliffs, and there the scene which presented itself was of the most exciting and painful description. 
                
               Nearly all the inhabitants of the village and the surrounding neighbourhood were congregated on the spot, and were watching the progress of the flames, which made all around as light as noon-day, with looks of pity, awe, and dismay. 
               The broad sheet of waters had all the appearance of liquid fire, and boats were hurrying from all directions towards the unfortunate ship, which, however, was at such a distance from the shore, and the flames seemed to have obtained so powerful a hold, that the chances of assistance were rendered still the more difficult, if not utterly hopeless; but many were the fervent prayers that were offered up to heaven for the preservation of the wretched sufferers. 
               "Alas! alas!" ejaculated Mr. Maitland, in a melancholy voice; "I fear all hope is at an end; all hands on board that fated ship seem doomed to eternity. Oh, Ben, and to such a horrible fate as this those whom we so fondly love, and whom our hearts yearn so anxiously to behold again, may at this moment be exposed." 
               "Avast, avast, my friend," replied Ben; "Do not give way to such sad thoughts; the great Commander above will surely preserve the poor boys from such a death as this." 
               A half-stifled and mournful cry at that moment caused them to turn hastily round, and they beheld Maud of the Ruins standing in a fixed and impressive attitude near them, and with her eyes bent wildly and earnestly upon them. 
               "The fierce flames rise to heaven," she said, in solemn accents; "the fierce flames rise to heaven, and the poor seaman, as he rushes madly to and fro among the blazing timbers, shrieks aloud, but in vain, for help and mercy! Who shall rescue them from impending fate?" 
               "Mysterious woman," said Mr. Maitland, "why comest thou, the harbinger of evil, in this fearful hour, to dampen the ardor of those humane beings who would risk their lives to save those of their unfortunate fellow-creatures who are thus exposed to such frightful danger?" 
               "Ralph Maitland," answered the old woman, "Maud of the Ruins is ever present in the hour of peril and woe. Her eye penetrates through the dark mist of fate, and can foresee the issue of events Even now it sees that which you can little imagine." 
               "What mean you, old woman?" demanded Ben, in an impatient voice; "this is not the time to listen to idle yarns. If you have any advice to offer, if you are woman, and really not devil, give it, and done with it; if not belay your jawing tackle and sheer off to frighten timid old women and land-lubbers." 
               "You scorn my words, and mock at my predictions," returned Maud; "but you would not do so if you knew all. Joy as well as sorrow this night awaits you, and even now there is that brooding in the dark web of fate for which you are little prepared." 
               Mr. Maitland and old Ben were about to return some answer, when they were prevented from doing so by an event which startled all present, and filled them with horror. 
               A terrific sound was heard, which seemed to shake the very heaven and earth; dense columns of smoke, and clouds of sparks, mingled with burning timbers, shot up high into the air, and the ocean hissed, and foamed, and bubbled like a burning cauldron. 
               The unfortunate vessel had exploded, and the work of destruction and of horror was complete. 
               Fearful was the excitement which now prevailed, and every one was transfixed to the spot in consternation and awe Maud of the Ruins changed not her attitude, but pointed with a mysterious and ominous expression of countenance towards the spot where the frightful calamity had just taken place. 
               "All is lost!" exclaimed Mr. Maitland in a melancholy tone of voice; "may heaven receive the souls of those unfortunate beings who have just met with such an awful and untimely end!" 
               "Oh, it is a melancholy sight," said Ben, in his most compassionate accents, and stretching his eyes anxiously across the ocean; "but still they may not all have perished. And see! a boat is making rapidly towards the shore, having doubtless picked up some of the survivors." 
               Mr. Maitland's eyes eagerly followed the direction in which his companion had pointed, and, as he had said, he then beheld a boat, which seemed to contain three or four individuals, struggling to reach the shore; but this was the only symptom of rescue that presented itself. 
               "They come! they come!" exclaimed Maud; "those long looked for, are rescued from a frightful death, and will once more be restored to the arms of those they love!" 
               "Strange being, what mean you?" interrogated Mr. Maitland, hurriedly, but Maud heard him not; she was gone, and so sudden and so secret was her disappearance, that no one had observed how she vanished. 
               The boat now rapidly approached the land, and made towards a little creek, where it could put in without any danger. 
               Anxious to behold those individuals who were thus so miraculously saved when death seemed inevitable, Ben and Mr. Maitland quickly descended the cliffs, and hurried along the coast towards the spot where they were about to land. Another minute and the boat touched the shore, and was found to contain besides those who had gone to their assistance, two seamen, in an apparently exhausted state, and whose half-burnt clothes presented sad ravages of the dreadful conflagration. They were assisted on shore, and a number of persons crowded round them, among others Ben and Mr. Maitland. The light from several blazing torches glared full upon their pale faces, and Ben and his companion uttered a cry of mingled astonishment and delight, and immediately rushed towards them, when they recognised the well-known features of the long lost Ben Bolt and his friend Harry Helm! 
               At that moment a fierce oath was heard, and the dark shadows of two tall forms were seen hastily retreating from the spot. They were those of Sir Raymond Perceval and Luke Harden, the pirate! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE MEETING OF THE LOVERS.-THE SAILORS WELCOME HOME. 
               "BEN! Harry! noble lads! oh, heaven be praised for this!" exclaimed Mr. Maitland and the old seaman in a breath, and clasping the hands of our hero and his youthful friend, the big and manly tears started to their eyes, and they were unable to give expression to the mingled feelings of transport and surprise that agitated their breasts by the utterance of another word. 
               The sound of their voices struck upon the ears of the young mariners with an effect that was perfectly electrical, and seemed at once to arouse them from every feeling of exhaustion; nay, even all recollection of the dreadful calamity from which they had so providentially and miraculously escaped, appeared, for the moment, to be banished from their minds in the excitement of their feelings; and looking up, and in an instant recognising the features of those dear friends whom they so sincerely revered, but whom they had never expected to behold again, they rushed to their arms; the intensity of their emotions completely overpowered them, and they wept and sobbed like children. 
               The spectators of this interesting scene, many of whom had known the young men from their earliest days of boyhood, stood by and looked on deeply affected, and with feelings of the utmost respect. 
               Ben Bolt was the first to recover the use of speech, and grasping the hand of his protector, and that of the father of that dear girl whose beauteous image was treasured in his heart's innermost core, in a voice that was broken in the vehemence of his glowing and struggling emotions, he ejaculated: 
               "Father!-Mr. Maitland!-oh, after weathering so many storms, and braving all the perils of the battle and the breeze, is the poor mariner saved from the jaws of a frightful death, to find himself moored in the arms of those whom he would lay down his life to serve? I-I-I am taken all aback-sailing as it were in a fog, and without rudder or compass. Am I awake?-or are my upper works out of order?" 
               "No, no, Ben, my dear boy-my young sea-lion, you are not dreaming," replied his adopted father, still grasping his hand with a fervor which nothing could equal; "you are all tight and sound, safe in port at last,-and piloted by Providence to the arms of those who have so long and so anxiously watched for your return. Shiver my topsails! I can scarcely believe the evidence of my senses! Oh, that old Ben Bolt should have lived to see this happy hour! God bless you, my dear boy!-God bless you!" 
               And the poor old man's further utterance was stifled by sobs, and the tears rolled down his furrowed cheeks. 
               "And my Alice! my pretty Alice!" cried our hero, with eager emotion; "oh, tell me all about her, for my heart is now ready to burst with anxiety and impatience?" 
               "Alice still lives and loves you, Ben," answered Mr. Maitland. 
                
               "Heaven bless you for those words!" exclaimed the young man, once more grasping him by the hand; "they have set my heart in full sail, and going at the rate of fifty knots an hour! My Alice, my own sweet Alice, still lives and loves her toil-worn sailor!-Hear that, Harry; lashed to the helm, and true as the needle to the pole! But could I ever doubt the dear girl? No, I must have been a lubberly scoundrel if I could have done so. Oh, with what fond anxiety and devoted affection have my thoughts been ever fixed on her during the long and painful period of our separation. In every clime, in every danger, her beloved image has ever been present to my mind; and though death had often stared me in the face, the sweet anchor of hope ever kept my vessel from foundering, and dared the fury of the angry breakers. And now I shall behold her again; I shall clasp her precious form once more to my throbbing heart, and read the faithful sentiments of her innocent soul in those bright eyes that has so often beamed with affection on her sailor-love! What a happy fellow I am to be sure. Here's a cargo of joy in store for me! I-I-oh, splice my timbers, if my scuppers ain't beginning to run over, and I shall blubber like an infant presently!" 
               "But my Rose;" said Harry: "my little merry-hearted, loving Rose! Have none of you a word to say about her?" 
               "Yes, Harry," answered Mr. Maitland, "all that I have said of her sister Alice; set your heart at rest, for heaven be thanked she is well, and Harry Helm is as dear to her as ever." 
               "Hurrah!" shouted Harry, his fine intelligent eyes sparkling with joy;-"Here's news for you! Rose is faithful to her Harry Helm, and I am as proud and happy as if I had been made Lord High Admiral at this moment." 
               "Bravo Harry! bravo Ben!" shouted old Bolt, in high glee; "pitch dull care to the devil, and pipe all hands for gladness!" 
               "Oh, my dear boys," observed Mr. Maitland, "from what an awful death have you been rescued. But you have suffered much, and-" 
               "Avast! avast!" interrupted our hero; "a fig about suffering:-'tis all over now. I feel as well and as hearty as if I had been sailing in the fairest of weather; but why do we stand palavering here? Spread every stitch of canvas, and crowd all sail for those we love!" 
               "But we must act with caution," said Mr. Maitland; "or this great and unexpected surprise may be too much for my poor girls. Had we not better defer the meeting until I have broken the joyful intelligence to them?" 
               "No, no," replied young Ben, impatiently, "I cannot hear a word about delay. Would you be drifting out to sea, with a gale threatening, when a friendly port is in sight? Let us weigh anchor directly. Dear Alice, my happiness will not be complete till I enfold you once more to my throbbing bosom." 
               Mr. Maitland offered no further opposition, and followed by the hearty congratulations of all who had witnessed the scene, they departed towards the cottage. 
               And what a noble specimen of Great Britian's hardy sons of the ocean, was young Ben Bolt. Nothing could be more perfect than the graceful and manly proportions of his form; or more expressive and intelligent than his handsome features. His eyes spoke the language of his soul, which was open and generous, and sooner could he have suffered death than have been guilty of a single act that his tongue would be ashamed to acknowledge. Well worthy was such a youth of the love of so fair and innocent a being as the captivating Alice Maitland. 
               Harry Helm, his friend, was also a brave and warm-hearted fellow, of handsome exterior, and esteemed and admired by all that knew him. Having lost his parents when a boy, whenever he came ashore he always resided with his friend and shipmate at the cottage of old Ben Bolt, and had the young seamen been brothers they could not have been more faithfully or devotedly attached to each other. 
               But we must leave them for a while on their way to Woodbine Cottage, and return to Alice and her sister. 
               We left them in the company of their mother, and in a state of the greatest agitation and anxiety of mind; and that was by no means diminished, as, from the parlor casement they still continued to watch the progress of the devouring flames; and most impatiently did they await the return of their father and old Ben. 
               The singular appearance and ambiguous-words of the wierd woman continued to haunt their imagination; and various were the conjectures that arose upon their minds. 
               Mrs. Maitland, to whom they had related all the particulars, tried to dissipate all their doubts and uneasiness; but with Alice especially she succeeeded but indifferently, and she could not but continue to express her forebodings of some approaching calamity. 
               "Would to heaven that my father would return," she said; "though, alas! I fear the news he will have to tell us will be of the most melancholy and painful description. How does my heart bleed for the poor creatures whose lives are at this moment placed in such imminent and frightful peril." 
               "Providence will watch over them, my dear child," replied her mother; "and ample assistance being so near at hand, a great portion of them, if not all, may probably be saved. God grant that they may, for it is terrible to perish by such a fate." 
               "Alas! it is," sighed our heroine; "and," she added, with a shudder; "how my heart trembles when I reflect that even at this moment poor Ben, and his faithful friend, Harry Helm, may be exposed to similar horrors." 
               "Why torture yourself with such fearful surmises?" said her mother; "would to heaven that you could banish those gloomy thoughts from your mind. I cannot help thinking that, notwithstanding the lapse of time since Ben and Harry quitted these shores, and the numerous dangers to which the gallant sailor's life is exposed, they will yet be re-restored to us, and that even much sooner than we can now even anticipate. 
               "And I still hope for the best, my dear mother," remarked Rose; "and would fain inspire Alice with the same feelings." 
                
               Our heroine was about to make some reply, when she was interrupted by a knock at the door, which made them all start, and inspired them with the hope that Mr. Maitland had returned; but on Rose opening it, they were much disappointed on seeing the loquacious barber, Mr Jingle, enter the room. 
               "Oh dear, oh dear!" he exclaimed; "such an adventure!-such an incident! So full of romance and exciting interest; won't it form a capital subject for my next poem." 
               "Pray, Mr. Jingle," interrupted Mrs. Maitland impatiently; "defer your poetic effusion to some more suitable occasion, and if you have been to the scene of destruction, which I imagine from your observations that you have; let us know the particulars." 
               "Been to it," returned Jemmy; "I believe I have too, and a most awful scene it was; I shall never forget it-it was what I have been praying to see, and I would not have lost the sight for the world. If it don't make my fortune, my name's not James Jingle, Esquire, Poet Laureate what is to be." 
               "For Heaven's sake, Mr. Jingle;" said the anxious Alice; "do be serious, and do not exhaust our patience in this manner." 
               "Serious!" repeated the barber; "I was never more serious in my life. Oh, Miss Alice, and you too, Miss Rose, there is such a surprise for you; I have run myself quite out of breath to be the first to come and tell you. But you interrupt the sublimity of my ideas--" 
               "Gracious heaven!" shrieked Alice, wildly, and clutching at the arm of Jingle, while she looked with the most indescribable emotion in his face; "is this done to torture me?-is it only the offspring of your imagination, or have you indeed spoke the truth? Speak! speak! I conjure you, and keep me not in suspense." 
               "It is all a fact, I assure you;" replied Jemmy. "Poor Ben Bolt and Harry Helm were both on board that very unfortunate ship, and out of all the crew and passengers, they are the only two that are saved?" 
               Alice and her sister uttered a simultaneous cry of mingled astonishment and gratitude, and the former immediately fainted in the arms of her mother, while Rose was almost as much overpowered as herself. 
               "Poor things!" said Jemmy Jingle; "I thought how much it would surprise them. Here's another affecting incident for me. But they are conducting Ben and Harry this way, and I must go and meet them." 
               Thus saying, before Mrs. Maitland or Rose could recover from their surprise. Jemmy Jingle hastily quitted the cottage. 
               "Good God!" exclaimed Rose; "can what Mr. Jingle has said be true?" It seems almost too wonderful to be believed." 
               "Oh, yes;" answered her mother, "most surely he would not be so cruel as to sport with our feelings thus Courage, courage, my dear girl, and prepare yourself for that unexpected and joyous meeting will shortly take place." 
               The words had scarcely escaped her lips, when the room door was thrown open there was a loud cry of trasport and astonishment and Alice Maitland and her sister were frantically clasped to the hearts of beloved beings whose uncertain fate they had so long mourned; while the old people stood by deeply affected, and in mute gratitude to heaven. 
               "Alice! beloved Alice!" exclaimed our hero, in accents of transport, and covering the beauteous face of the insensible girl with his kisses; "oh, revive, my poor lass, revive and speak to me! It is your own true sailor-love who now clasps you to his panting bosom, and could give his life away in retracing those matchless charms that have have ever in absence been present to his fond imagination. And do I indeed behold you again? Oh, joy! joy!-All now is calm and sun shine, and the hardy mariner fears no more the shoals and the rocks, the storms of life." 
               "Darling Rose," said Harry, as he also pressed the tender form of the trembling and blushing maiden to his heart, and kissed her rosy and unresisting lips again and again; "once more we meet, and joy and gratitude are ours. Pardon these tears, my sweet girl: the source they spring from is such as a man should feel proud to acknowledge." 
               Rose could only reply with her looks, which spoke more than any language, however powerful, could describe, and she returned the em brace of her lover with equal fervor. 
               At this moment our heroine heaved a sigh, and opening her eyes, and fixing them tenderly on the enraptured Ben, ejaculated- 
               "Gracious heaven! then it was no delusive dream, conjured up by busy imagination to torture and distract me! Ben, dear Ben; thou art saved-thou art restored to me-and I am happy" 
               "Blessed words!" cried our hero; "what feelings of transport do they impart to my soul, and with what fond delight, my Alice, my own sweet Alice, do I listen to the music of thy voice. Oh, how often in the dreary hours of the mid watch, has my vivid fancy pictured thy loved image; and I have prayed to heaven for this glad moment to arrive; though, exposed to the perils and dangers that I have been, frequently have I despaired of ever beholding it. But all is over now; every danger I trust is past, and Ben Bolt is the happiest lad in the British Navy." 
               The eyes of Alice told how heartily she responded te his feelings, and her bosom swelled with strange sensations. 
               We cannot do adequately justice to the scene that followed, and we must therefore leave it to the imagination of the reader. The lovers had much to explain, many plans for the future to lay down, and vows of everlasting constancy to utter; and the hour of midnight had long since flown ere they could think of parting, and then they did so with regret and hesitation, promising to meet again at an early hour in the morning. But with what different feelings to those which had inhabited their breasts a few hours before, did Alice and her sister separate from their parents and retire to their chamber! So wonderful were all the circumstances that had occurred on that eventful day, that they could scarcely believe in their reality. Their hearts overflowed with gratitude, and fervently they returned their thanks to heaven for its boundless mercies. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE RAGE OF SIR RAYMOND PERCEVAL-THE SCENE IN THE PIRATE'S HAUNT-DESIGNS AGAINST BEN BOLT. 
               
                   
                     THE COMBAT WITH THE PIRATES. 
                  
                
               FROM the lofty window of his chamber, where he had been seated absorbed in the most gloomy and guilty reflections, Sir Raymond Perceval had beheld the red glare of the burning ship, and the sight, though it excited no sympathy in his hardened breast, gave rise to various doubts and surmises. 
               He stood watching it for some time with folded arms, when taking up the lamp, he made his way towards the pirate's cave, in order to apprise Luke Harden of the circumstance. 
                
               Having left the cavern together, they made their way to the cliffs, from the loftiest summit of which they contemplated the awful scene with some degree of curiosity and wonder. 
               "The ship is doomed," observed Luke; see how the fierce fire blazes and crackles. Poor devils there is not many of them will live to tell the dreadful tale." 
               "True" answered Sir Raymond; "their fate is sealed; would that the boy whom I dread might be placed in a similar situation." 
               "Psha!" returned the other impatiently, "why should you have him constantly in your thoughts? It is not likely that he will ever again return to annoy you." 
               "Be not too positive of that, Luke," said the baronet; "for I have my doubts. Even this night strange and unaccountable forebodings haunt my mind." 
               "Ridiculous!" ejaculated Harden; "it is sheer madness to talk thus. What can have put such a wild notion into your head? Young Ben Bolt has gone to the bottom of the deep months ago; and even if he has not, and should ever arrive in this country again, what have you to fear from him?" 
               "Should him and Maud of the Ruins encounter each other, she would doubtless divulge everything to him, and then-" 
               "Bah!" interupted the pirate; "you meet troubles half way. We must take prompt means to prevent that, and we shall find no difficulty in doing so." 
               At that moment the fearful explosion took place, which has been described in the preceding chapter, and they both stood for a minute or two in silent awe and wonder 
               "There is the last of her, at any rate," remarked Luke; "and a pretty row she made in making her exit. But see, a boat is approaching the land, no doubt containing one or two that are saved. Let us go and learn the facts, we shall not be observed in the crowd." 
               Sir Raymond assented, and they took their way to the beach, concealing their forms and features as well as they could. 
               They had not been long there when the boat reached the shore, and Ben Bolt and Harry Helm, were landed. It was at the moment that Sir Raymond and Luke discovered them, that the former gave utterance to the dreadful oath overheard by the spectators, and the pirate fearing that he would betray himself, took his arm and hurried him away from the spot, and by a circuitous path towards the manor-house; where they soon arrived, and entering unobserved by any of the domestics, hastened to the secret haunt, where they might more safely confer. 
               The baronet was in the greatest state of excitement, and for some minutes after they had entered the secret haunt, he traversed the place backwards and forwards with a scowling brow and disordered sttps, and Luke Harden, who was indeed as much surprised and disappointed as himself, did not attempt to break in upon his meditations. There was no one present but themselves. 
               "So you see, Luke Harden," he said at length, and with a sardonic smile upon his angry features; "with all your superior sagacity, my predictions and foreboding have turned out to be not exactly erroneous. The dreaded boy, the son of the ill-fated and much wronged Emeline, by some miraculous means has been preserved from the fate which you anticipated had long since befallen him. He is here to annoy me. What think you now of the doubts and fears that beset my mind?" 
               "Why," replied his companion, bluntly; "that they are weak and childish, Sir Raymond, and totally unworthy of you. What have you to dread from this young seaman, if you only act with due precaution, and do as I advise you? Nothing. One plunge of the knife, and your fears are quieted for ever." 
               "More bloodshed-more bloodshed!" said Sir Raymond, in a hoarse voice, and with a shudder; "I tremble at the thought, there has been too much of that already; me-thought as I gazed at his pale features in the torchlight, that I again beheld the ghastly countenance of his murdered mother, as she looked upon me in her dying moments, and conscience-" 
               "Hold!" interrupted Luke, sternly; "enough of that nonsense, are you going mad? Why let the dark deeds of the past trouble you now? The bones of Emeline have long since mouldered with the dust, and let her memory therefore, also be blotted from your brain." 
               "It is impossible," answered the guilty baronet; "it is written there in characters that nothing can ever efface. Hark!" he added, starting and looking around with fear and trembling, as if he expected to encounter the ghastly features of some frightful object. 
               "What now?" demanded the pirate, with a look of scorn. 
               "Did you hear a groan?" 
               "Psha!-your mind is disordered." 
               "'Tis not. I was not deceived I heard a cry, like the mournful expression of some poor wretch, in his dying agony." 
               "Ridiculous!" returned Luke; "I heard nothing, and if you did, it could only have been the sighing of the wind." 
               "Oh, no," observed Sir Raymond; "I could not have been so mistaken. Are you certain we are quite alone?" 
               "Quite," replied Harden; "the lads have been at the ship during the whole of the day, and I do not expect any of them to return till after midnight. But you must shake off those wild fears and fancies, and let us talk about business. Young Ben Bolt, as he is called, it is true has returned, and is with his friends again; and now our first object must be to prevent his meeting with old Maud, and afterwards to get him in our power." 
               "Aye," answered Sir Raymond, some what more composed; "you advise well, Luke Harden, but how is it to be accomplished?" 
               "Fear not but I will devise the means easily enough." returned his companion; "but if you show the white feather, of course I cannot be answerable for our success. I suppose you are not exactly disposed to abandon all thoughts of the fair Alice Maitland, simply because her lover is restored to her?' 
                
               "By all my hopes, never!" cried the libertine, and a fresh expression of desire and fierce determination lighted up his features as he spoke; "the lovely Alice holds firmer possession of my heart than ever, and I am resolved to leave no means untried to triumph over her obdurate spirit." 
               "Well spoken," said Harden, "keep in the same humor, and you may depend upon my most strenuous exertions in your cause." 
               "But Ben will doubtless be informed of what lately took place between me and Alice," remarked Sir Raymond. 
               "And if he should, it matters but little," replied Luke; "an apology from you will easily quiet his suspicions; you can, with common prudence, regain the lost confidence of Alice and her friends, and then our designs will work well, and we may reckon our ultimate triumph as certain." 
               "You are most sanguine, Luke." 
               "Aye, it is only your own folly that can prevent the success of our plans. For my own part, I am determined that the lovely Rose Maitland shall not escape me. Why do you again start, and look so ghastly pale?" 
               "'Twas there again," answered the Baronet, in a tremulous voice, and with quivering lips;" "did you not hear it then?" 
               "What fresh vagary has seized your brain?" interrogated the pirate; "I heard nothing. Such groundless fears are sickening." 
               "You may mock me," said Sir Raymond," with increased terror depicted in his countenance; "but I am positive. The voice of the dead sounded in my ears, I can remain here no longer." 
               "I am ashamed of you, Sir Raymond," said his companion; "I never thought that you could give way to such cowardly feelings as these." 
               "You may call them cowardly, if you please," he returned; "but I cannot subdue them. A strange gloom hangs upon my mind, and daunts my spirit, for which I can hardly account. I must begone from here, and in the solitude of my chamber seek to conquer my feelings." 
               "Bah!" cried Luke Harden, passionately, "can nothing arouse you from this morbid state of mind?" 
               "Not at present," replied Sir Raymond; "the feeling is too powerful for me to combat with. You will accompany me, Harden, along these subterranean avenues?" 
               "What, then," demanded the pirate, with a look of scorn, "does fear indeed thus powerfully assail you?" 
               "The hour is lonely," returned the baronet. "Mock me not, for I am in no humor to bear with it at this moment." 
               "Then be it as you will," observed his companion, taking up the lamp, and preparing to lead the way; "I am ready to attend you." 
               Sir Raymond cast one timid and hasty glance around the cavern, and then closely followed in the wake of Harden. 
               As they traversed the long and dreary passages, it was evident that his mind labored under the influence of fear, for he frequently started, and glared wildly around him, as he fancied some dismal and unearthly sounds saluted his ears, and he kept close to the heels of Luke Harden, for fear of losing sight of him, even for an instant. At length, however, they reached the chamber, apparently much to the relief of Sir Raymond. 
               "I suppose you can dispense with my presence now," said Luke; "so I wish you good night, and I hope when we meet again to find you in a much more agreeable humor." 
               With these words, the pirate departed, and the baronet was left to his own gloomy meditations. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               BEN BOLT'S ADVENTURES-THE TAR AND THE LIBERTINE-FALSE COLORS. 
               THE slumbers of our heroine and his sister on that auspicious night which had restored their long absent lovers to their arms, were calm and serene, and bright were the visions that were presented to their busy imagination. They awoke on the following morning much refreshed, and with spirits more light and buoyant, and hopes more brilliant and sanguine, than they had experienced for many a day before. 
               How marvellous and how joyful was the change, which only a few hours had wrought in their present circumstances and future prospects; indeed so wonderful was it, that they were at times almost disposed to doubt its reality. 
               The first thing the lovely sisters did on leaving their couch was to kneel down and with clasped hands and upraised eyes, devoutly to pour forth the gratitude of their souls to that beneficent power, who had so far extended his mercies towards them, in the restoration of their lovers, and their preservation from a frightful death; and most fervently did they pray for a continuance of that happiness which had so fair and promising a beginning. 
               The morning was lovely, and the golden orb of day shone resplendently on all around. It seemed to Alice and her sister a bright augury of that which was in store for them. All those cares and anxieties, that had pressed so heavily on their hearts and crushed the youthful ardor of their spirits, were for the time banished, and they looked upon the past only as a troubled dream. 
               Most anxiously they awaited the arrival of those gallant youths, in whom their whole hopes of happiness were centred; and on whom their fondest thoughts and wishes were fixed. 
               Hearing their parents were about, they hastened to meet them, and by them were greeted with all the sweetest demonstrations of parental affection. The alteration in their appearance, which such a short time had wrought, was to them a source of the purest delight and satisfaction, and they listened to their sanguine anticipations of the future with every feeling of encouragement; and sincerely did they pray to heaven that expectations so fondly raised might not again be blighted by disappointment. 
                
               "Yes, my dear children," observed their father, whilst a tear of gratitude trembled in his eye, "Providence has indeed been most kind and merciful to us, and we can never be sufficiently thankful for it But a few hours since, and all was darkness and despair; but now the clouds have passed away, and a bright horizon of hope and happiness opens to our mental vision. Oh, may it not again be interrupted; and may the sorrows of the past be buried for ever in oblivion." 
               The eyes of Alice and Rose showed how heartly they responded to this praper, and they returned the affectionate embrace of their parents with equal fervour. 
               "Oh, how wonderful must have been the events that kept them so long away from us; "and how great must have been the anguish of mind they endured. Poor Ben, little could you ever expect to behold those so dear to you again and great indeed was the mercy that sustained you throughout so many severe trials." 
               "Ah! my dear sister," added Rose; "and to think that they should be exposed to all the horrors of so terrible a fate, when just within sight of their native home. My mind is lost in wonder and awe. 
               "But surely they tarry this morning," said Alice, looking anxiously towards the window; "I wish they would arrive, or really we must chide them for their delay." 
               "Nay, Alice," said her mother; "you really must not be so impatient, remember it is early yet, and consider the excitement and fatigue they have had to undergo, their tardiness this morning must be excuseable." 
               "House ahoy! Ralph Maitland ahoy!" now saluted the ears of the anxious listeners, shouted in stentorain voice, the eyes of the sisters sparkled, and their hearts palpitated with delight and fond expectation. 
               "'Tis the voice of old Ben," observed Mr. Maitland; "they come; so there is an end to your anxiety, my dear girls." 
               Before Alice or Rose had time to make any reply, the cottage door was thrown open, and they found themselves again clasped in the arms of Ben and Harry. 
               "Here they are, the young dogs," said the veteran; "I conveyed them safe into harbour, and I see that they have met with a worthy salute. My eyes, what kissing and embracing, if it does not make me feel quite young again to see 'em. Ralph my old tar, give us your flipper; damme, your's-if we dont splice the main-brace this day, may I be placed upon six-water grog for the rest of my cruise." 
               Ralph Maitland and his wife could not help smiling at the hearty humour of old Ben, and they returned his greeting with equal cordiality. 
               The lovers continued to give vent to their joyous feelings for some minutes, and the old people did not offer to interrupt them: but at length becoming a little more composed, they took their seats at the table, and the morning repast was accomplished in the most cheerful and aggreeable manner. 
               A night's repose, and the happiness of their minds, had effected a most favourable change in the appearance of the young seamen; and health, hope, and cheerfulness of spirits, animated their handsome and manly features, and imparted additional interest to the general expression of their countenances. 
               How affectionate were the glances that the lovers exchanged with each other: and which told so forcibly the feelings that inhabited their bosoms. 
               As our heroine gazed upon the noble features of the youth she loved, and caught his impassioned glances fixed full upon her, deep blushes suffused her cheeks, tears trembled in her eyes, (but they were those of joy and gratitude.) and her heart palpitated against her side with the fondest emotion. 
               "Dear Alice," observed Ben; "how little did I expect that after so rough a voyage as me and my friend and shipmate Harry encountered, we should thus have been safe anchored in the haven of happiness at last. And yet the certainty of your constancy and love, was my sheet-anchor, and sustained me manfully throughout those dangers that otherwise might have caused me to founder. Bless those dear eyes that now beam so brightly and affectionately upon me; they were the sweet beacons of my memory that lighted my soul, when all else around was darkness and despair." 
               "Oh, Ben!" replied Alice; "how can I describe the emotions of my throbbing heart at this moment? They are far too powerful for utterance." 
               "And, oh how terrible must have been the sufferings you have endured, during the long time you have been away, and tossed about on the rude billows of the broad ocean," said Rose. 
               "Aye, my dear lass," returned Harry; "we have had a rough time of it; and had to experience such dangers as would have appalled and daunted many a stout heart. But my friend Ben will relate to you all the particulars, for he has got them better stored in the log-books of his memory than I have, I imagine." 
               "And what was the name of the unfortunate vessel, from which you were so providentially rescued?" asked Mr. Maitland. 
               "The Borus, trading-ship, homeward bound, from the coast of Borneo, with fifty-six crew and passengers on board, the whole of whom, with the exception of ourselves have perished;" replied the hero. 
               "Poor souls!" ejaculated old Ben, compassionately; "may they all find safe and plesant moorings aloft, for it was an awful fate to meet with. But how came you aboard of her Ben?" 
               "She mercifully picked us up, when we were cast upon an uninhabited island, where we had been three days and three nights, and must otherwise have perished;" returned Ben. "Much I fear that it was no accident which caused the burning of that ill-fated ship, but that it was the work of some base incendiary." 
               "Heaven pardon him the frightful deed, for his guilty soul is now in eternity!" said Mr. Maitland. 
               Alice and her sister shuddered as they thought of the narrow escape their lovers had had, from so horrible a death. 
               "But the gallant old Dauntless, in which you and Harry sailed from England, Ben," enquired the old seaman. "what became of her?" 
                
               "Contrary winds separated her from the rest of the fleet," answered Ben; "she was afterwards much disabled in a heavy storm, and lost several of her hands, being unable to make any port. In this manner we were tossed about for many days, and were compelled to part with some of our heaviest guns. Then sickness broke out among the crew-a most malignant fever raged on board, and the poor fellows died like rotten sheep, among the rest, our brave commander, and the first and second lieutenants. In this wretched plight a formidable pirate vessel bore down upon us, and crippled as we were, no wonder that we became an easy prey. A great number of our poor fellows were killed by the pirates, and the rest, with the exception of myself and Harry, were left to perish in the sinking ship, which they had previously scuttled." 
               "And such was the fate of the poor Dauntless, as gallant a craft as ever stemmed the waters?" said old Ben. 
               "It was," returned our hero; "and yet we were only preserved to experience still greater sufferings. Forced to join the pirate crew, I need not describe to you the horrors we had to witness, though, thank heaven, we managed to take no active part in them." 
               "And how did you contrive to effect your escape from the wretches?" interrupted Mr. Maitland. 
               'After we had been some months on board of her, she was attacked by a British schooner, and totally destroyed. Having told our tale, of course we were set at liberty and treated with every kindness. And now we hoped soon again to behold the happy shores of old England, for the schooner was homeward bound. But our troubles were not yet over. We were exposed to all the fury of a dreadful storm, and after bravely endeavoring to weather it, our hapless vessel struck upon a rock, and almost immediately went to pieces. Myself and Harry clung desperately to a portion of the wreck, and by that means, after the most indescribable difficulties, we succeeded in gaining a small island, which we found to be totally barren and uninhabited. Here for three days and nights we were forced to remain, subsisting only on shell-fish and sea-weed, and I need not attempt to describe our sufferings. At length a distant vessel met our gladdened sight, and when it approached nearer, with frantic eagerness we hoisted a signal of distress, which they fortunately observed, and sent a boat off to our rescue, and we shortly found ourselves on board the Boreas, where every attention which humanity could suggest was paid to our necessities. Favoring gales wafted us speedily on, and again the blissful thoughts of home and those beloved beings from whom we had so long been separated, gladdened our hearts, and fully repaid us for the many troubles we had undergone. We had just got within sight of our native shores, when the fearful cry of 'Fire! Fire!" was raised, and soon the unhappy ship was in flames from stem to stern. All the rest you know." 
               Thus Ben Bolt concluded the brief narrative of the perils and dangers that he and Harry Helm had encountered, and to which his auditors had listened with the greatest attention and interest. 
                
               The eyes of Alice expressed much more than she could find language to give utterance too; and when she reflected upon all that her lover had undergone, his many narrow escapes from death, and that he was now once more restored to her, she could scarcely believe that she was not laboring under the delusive influence of some deceitful dream; whilst, at the same time, her soul rose in gratitude to the supreme. 
               The feelings of Rose were in perfect unison with those of her sister: and, for some minutes after Ben had ceased speaking they remained silent, unable to give vent in words to the various emotions that filled their bosoms. 
               "Oh, Ben;" said our heroine, at length, and her fine eyes beamed with an expression of redoubled affections upon his handsome countenance as she spoke; "how wonderful are the ways of Providence, that have sustained you throughout so many trials and vicissitudes. We meet again, thank heaven; and shall the broad waters of the perilous ocean ever more seperate us." 
               "Why, as for that, my pretty Alice," he replied; "while there are any of the enemier of his country left to drub, the true British tar will never shrink from duty, for fear, you know, is a stranger to his breast. The war still rages, and you do not think, I hope, that I and my friend Harry here, are two such lubbers as to remain skulking ashore. No-no, we should be unworthy of the love of you and Rose if we could. 
               "Alas! alas!" sighed Alice; "and must those bright hopes so fondly excited in my breast so soon be blighted. Oh, Ben, are we doomed again to part?" 
               "Why, you see, my dear Alice," returned the young mariner; "it can't be helped; but cheerly, cheerly; it will not be for long mayhap, and the same Providence that has hitherto protected me through every danger, will, I trust, not now desert me; but once more convey my vessel into port, to love and you." 
               "Bravo, Ben!" exclaimed his friend and protector. "Bravo, Ben; spoke like a man, and it does my heart glad to hear you. He must be a cowardly swab who does not entertain the same feelings. Come, Alice, lass, belay your fears; the time has not yet come for your lover to weigh anchor, and when he returns, what say you to starting in a matrimonial cruise together?" 
               "Right! right!" said our hero, "and I fancy that Alice will have no objection to accept me as her skipper?" 
               Our heroine blushed, but at the same time she could not help smiling at the observations of Ben and the old seaman. 
               "Ah! now it glads my heart to see you smile, dear Alice," observed her lover; "bless those pretty lips! What a scoundrel that man must be who could raise one guilty thought towards you. 
               Alice sighed, when she thought of Sir Raymond, and a dismal fore-boding came over her." 
               "What means that sigh, Alice?" interrogated Ben, anxiously; "you are agitated." 
               "'Tis nothing, Ben," she replied, in a faint and hesitating voice; "'twas only a slight emotion, and-and-" 
                
               "Nay, nay, Alice," he interrupted; "I am certain there is something more than you think proper to divulge. Come, my lass, you must have no secrets from me." 
               "The fact is, Ben," remarked Mr. Maitland; I guess well the thoughts of Alice, and consider it is only right that you also should be made acquainted with them. Sir Raymond Perceval-" 
               "Ah! what of him?" demanded the young seaman, hastily; "I like him not; if he is not some rascally pirate, sailing under false colors, I am much mistaken; but, if I imagined that he dared to encourage one thought to the injury of my innocent Alice it should not be his rank that should shield him from my resentment." 
               "Hold hard, Ben, my boy," said old Bolt. "'Tis true the lubber did venture to utter some rather bold lingo to Alice; but I happened to bear down on him just in time, and so, like a cowardly cur as he was, he lurked about and sneaked off in a moment, and I do not think he will venture the same game in a hurry." 
               "The daring ruffian!" cried our hero, passionately; "he insult my Alice! He presume to utter a word which could call the blush of shame into her cheek! May I never go aloft again if he shall not dearly pay for this." 
               "Forbear, dear Ben," said the damsel, a sensation of fear stealing over her; "the baronet was wrong, but I trust that he is convinced of his error, and will not repeat the offence. I would not that you and him should encounter each other." 
               "And think you, Alice, that I fear such a dastardly land-lubber as him?" cried her lover, his cheeks still glowing with the indignation of his excited feelings; "I can read his character, and I am much deceived if he is not as great a villian as was ever strung up to the yard-arm." 
               "Well, Ben," observed the veteran tar; "I think you have taken the right soundings there, my boy; but we have only to keep a sharp look out, and he will not be able to do any harm. 
               "True," remarked Mr. Maitland; "and, as he has now unmasked himself, and boldly appeared in his true character, we can be every way on our guard against him. It is necessary that I should demand an explanation and apology from him; for he must be given to understand he cannot commit such outrages with impunity." 
               "Aye," coincided Ben; "and I shall not rest satisfied till I have over-hauled him, and woe to him should he attempt to defend his behavior.-But be firm, Alice, and do not fear this wealthy libertine; he will not attempt to insult you again I fancy, now I am within hail to protect you, or may I never see salt water again if I do not open such a broadside upon him that will pack him off to old Davy in the turning of a hand-spike." 
               "Indeed," observed our heroine, "I hope there will be no occasion to go to any such unpleasant extremes. Come let us drop the subject, which is calculated only to give rise to painful feelings." 
               "Aye, aye, wisely spoken, lass," observed old Ben; "the return of your lover and Harry Helm should meet with a hearty welcome; so I propose that to-morrow we should pipe all hands on deck for mirth and festivity. What say you, friends?" 
                
               "Agreed, my old friend," replied Mr. Maitland; "I can only say that I cordially approve of your proposition." 
               "Hurrah!" ejaculated the veteran; "we will have a jovial day of it. Several of Ben and Harry's friends and shipmates are now in this harbor, and they must be pressed into the service. We will invite them all, and won't we have the grog and baccy aboard? The first one that flinches shall be branded as a mutineer directly." 
               Thus was the merry-hearted old man proceeding to give vent to his feelings, when he was interrupted by a knock at the door, which being opened, much to the surprise and confusion of all present, Sir Raymond Perceval entered the room. 
               The blushing Alice felt a sensation of dread steal over, especially when she marked the looks of indignation which her lover fixed on the baronet; but the latter was all smiles and condescensions, bowed politely, apparently being fully prepared for the task he had assigned himself. 
               "Wheugh!" exclaimed our hero; "there's breakers ahead, I see!" 
               Alice looked at him imploringly, and he re-assured her with a smile. 
               "To what may we attribute the honor of this unexpected visit, Sir Raymond?" enquired Mr. Maitland, in a sarcastic tone but which the former affected not to notice. 
               "I must apologise for this intrusion, Mr. Maitland," he replied; "but I could not resist the temptation I felt to congratulate our young friends here on their miraculous and providential deliverance from a frightful death, and their restoration to the shores of old England." 
               "Hark ye, Sir Raymond Perceval," observed our hero, with mingled resentment and suspicion; "you are a rich man, while I am but a simple sailor, rough and plain spoken; but still I flatter myself as honest a neart beats beneath this humble jacket as ever swelled the breast of the proudest nobleman in the land; nor am I either afraid or ashamed to remind those who deem themselves my superiors, of their faults, when-ever I see occasion for it. You will understand me, no doubt; however, to speak more distinctly, if you ask your own conscience, you must admit, I think, that you owe an apology of a very different description to that you have just alluded to; so, in order to belay all unnecessary trouble and palaver, the sooner you make it the better." 
               The bold and haughty tone of the young mariner filled the guilty breast of Sir Raymond with rage and indignation, but stifling his feelings as well as he could, and beneath that cloak of hypocrisy he could so skilfully assume at pleasure, he said:- 
               "It would be useless for me, my gallant young friend, to pretend that I do not understand the drift of the observation you just made use of; and, when in all sincerity I am ready to acknowledge my error, and express my regret that, in a moment of foolish thoughtlessness I so committed myself; I hope my apology will be received by yourself and your friends in the spirit with which it is offered." 
               Mr. Maitland looked at the baronet with an expression of doubt and suspicion, as he replied:- 
               "Sir Raymond Perceval will be pleased to understand that, while animosity is not one of the passions inherent in my nature, and myself and my family are always ready and anxious to pay due respect and deference to those whom fortune has placed above us; we will never fail to resent an insult, come from whatever quarter it may. You have admitted your error, sir, and I trust that your regret is sincere." 
               Sir Raymond bit his lips, and his pride was mortified in the extreme; nevertheless he had a nefarious game to play, the success of which entirely depended on his using the utmost precaution; he therefore sub dued his wrath, and still endeavored to conceal his real thoughts and feelings that were passing in his mind from observation. 
               "Believe me, Mr. Maitland," he observed; "I fully appreciate all that you have said, and respect and honor you for sentiments and forbearance. That I am sincere, I must leave my future conduct to demonstrate. But what says your daughter, the fair and gentle Alice? Surely after this explanation, she will not entertain any angry feeling towards me?" 
               Our heroine blushed, and casting down her eyes, she was unable to reply, while her bosom was agitated with mingled emotions of fear, doubt, and misgiving, which she could not conquer. The keen eye of Sir Raymond penetrated her thoughts, and he felt chagrined, abashed, and disappointed. 
               "Avast there, Sir Raymond," said Ben; "let's have all fair and above board, if you please. My Alice possesses too kind and forgiving a spirit to bear animosity towards any one; and the man who would dare to insinuate anything of the kind towards her, no matter who, even if he were one of the Lords of the Admiralty, must answer the same to Ben Bolt. However, there has been enough said upon this subject, and, as your honor has lowered your flag and cried for quarter, why, with the plain and honest feeling of a British seaman, I say I forgive you-everybody forgives you I suppose, and that's all about it." 
               "Bravo, my lad!" said old Ben; "there spoke the spirit of a British tar, every inch of him, and those are exactly my sentiments. After a storm comes a calm, and so now, if your honor is agreeable to bring yourself to an anchor, just to settle the business, we will splice the main brace in the cracking of a biscuit." 
               The baronet affected to smile at the bluff good humor of the old man, while he cursed them all in his heart, and secretly resolved to lose no opportunity to gratify his revenge, and to effect the accomplishment of his diabolical designs. 
               "I thank you for your kindness, my worthy old friend," he remarked-"but business prevents my accepting your invitation. I wish you all good day, and once more congratulate you on the events that have recently taken place. Remember that the doors of the Manor House are always open to receive you with a hearty welcome." 
               Bowing politely to them, but scarcely daring to direct his gaze towards Alice, (for the eyes of our hero and Mr. Maitland were upon him,) he retired from the cottage as he spoke. 
               "Indeed?" said Ben, when he was gone; "this invitation may be a very friendly one, but I have my doubts upon the subject, and I think we had better steer clear of that coast as much as possible. I like not this Sir Raymond Perceval, and am glad he is gone. Years ago I could never look upon him without an unpleasant feeling stealing over me, for which I could not exactly account. I am certain he is a villain inherent, and that, if his past actions could be overhauled, his character would not stand very well upon the ship's books. But what say you, my dear Alice?" 
               "Heaven forbid that I should judge him or any other person wrongfully," replied the damsel; "but much I fear that the baronet's conscience is not clear of crime, and that the strange observations of Maud of the Ruins are not without foundation. God grant that we may experience no further trouble from him, but I would that we resided not near him." 
               "Nay, my love," remarked Ben; "you must not encourage those fears, though, after what has occurred, notwithstanding his present plausible manner, we have a right to look upon him with suspicion. Should he again venture to annoy you with his insolent addresses while I am near you, he will have good cause to repent it, depend upon it." 
               "But you will ere long be again separated from me, dear Ben," she sighed, and tears of regret trembled in her eyes; "distant lands will divide us once more and then-" 
               She could not finish the sentence, for her vivid imagination pictured the future in the most fearful colors, and her emotions overpowered her. 
               "Now, Alice, lass," said Ben, and he kissed a tear from her cheek; "I shall chide you if you give way to these gloomy ideas. Will you not have your parents and friends to watch over your safety? And when I am away, you should console yourself with the reflection that I am doing my duty to my king and country, and fear not but your lover will meet with an ample reward. Come, come, away with all sad misgivings, and look forward with bright and sanguine feelings of hope to that happy time when I shall again return, with plenty of shot in the locker, a heart throbbing with love and constancy, and kind friends and cheerful hearts shall be making merry on our wedding day." 
               "Aye," said his friend and benefactor, "won't that be a joyful day? Lor'-lor'-how I do wish for to-morrow. But I feel confident that this old hull of mine will not be placed under hatches before it arrives, and that all will turn out as Ben foretold." 
               The observations of her lover and old Ben, did re-assure Alice, and struggling with her feelings she became more composed. An animated conversation then ensued, in which they all took an active part, and the day having passed away in the most agreeable manner, they did not separate until they had made arrangements for the festivities of to-morrow, which they resolved should be celebrated with all the spirit that the occasion demanded. 
               Alice and her sister retired at an early hour to their chamber, and bright hopes once more dawning upon their minds through the restoration of their lovers, those cares, those fears and anxieties, that had beclouded them were dissipated, and they slept more calmly and serenely than they had done for some time before. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE GUILTY DETERMINATION OF SIR RAYMOND.-SEIZURE OF THE WIERD WOMAN.-SCORN AND DEFIANCE.-THE FEARFUL DOOM. 
               HEARING the voices of the party assembled at Woodbine Cottage in loud conversation, Sir Raymond Perceval, thinking he might hear something which might useful to him in the furtherance of his guilty plans, and put him on his guard how to act; paused for some time outside and listened, and by that means was enabled to gather all the particulars that have been related, their opinions of his recent conduct, and arrangements for the celebration of the return of our hero and Harry Helm on the following day, an arrangement which afforded him much satisfaction, as he hoped it might be productive of some favorable result to his own nefarious wishes. 
               "'Tis well," he muttered to himself; "the opinions you form of my character, are no more than I anticipated, but they shall not daunt me from the execution of my purpose. The proposed festivities of to-morrow I may be able to turn to some account; at any rate, it shall be no fault of mine if I do not. Fair but scornful Alice, in spite of the return of your lover, the fate to which I have doomed you may be nearer at hand than you or your friends can dream of. Now to conceal my real thoughts and intentions under the mask of the hypocrite." 
               Having thus soliloquized, the baronet knocked at the cottage door, and being admitted, with what followed, the reader has been already made acquainted. 
               On leaving the cottage, Sir Raymond walked slowly towards the Manor House, reflecting deeply upon all that had passed, and in a frame of mind which we need not stop mintuely to describe. 
               "Fools!" he said; "in spite of your sarcastic observations, and the suspicions which you evidently entertain of me, methinks I have now succeeded in deceiving ye; and I will not fail to take advantage of the opportunity thus obtained. Alice is more surely mine than ever; and to-morrow's sports and revels will terminate far differently than what they imagine, or I am much mistaken. It would be folly of me to hesitate, or neglect the chance which now presents itself. Let me but boldly venture, and certain triumph must be mine." 
               He paused for a moment or two and reflected, and some ideas and remembrances of a torturing nature seemed to flash across his brain, which somewhat damped the ardor of his recent feelings. 
               "Why does the fearful past arise to my memory in such vivid characters," he said in a hoarse voice, and looking hastily around as though he was fearful of being overheard by some one; "would that I could bury it in oblivion. But no it will not be; it is written in characters of blood; those nothing whatever can efface. To gaze upon that noble-minded youth makes me shudder, and I must be cautious when in his presence, or one single word, even a look, might betray me, and then I should be inevitably ruined. Why did not the angry billows overwhelm his hated and dreaded form or the sword of the enemy lay him low? His features haunt my imagination like a ghastly phanthom and-but, psha!-this weakness is unworthy of me; let me be firm, and banish all such cowardly thoughts from my mind. It is the woman, Maud, whom I have more cause to fear, for should she appear at the revels to-morrow she would probably denounce me, and a terrible retribution would then be sure to overtake me. Are there no means of preventing that?" he added, after another pause. "There are. Why should a feeble old hag like her be permitted to keep me in a constant state of dread? This night, this very night shall secure her person in my power, or Fortune will prove a jilt to me altogether. To Luke Harden, and let together arrange our plans without delay." 
               As Sir Raymond came to his determination he increased his speed, and in a short time afterwards arrived at the Manor house, and without any more delay sought the presence of the pirates to whom he disclosed all that had passed at the cottage, and unburthened his plans in as few words as possible. 
               "And do you not think," said Luke, after he had listened to him; "that what you have just proposed is rather precipitate, and might be frustated?" 
               "No," replied Sir Raymond, hastily; "my impatience will admit of no more delay, and I am most sanguine in my expectations of success. We must hit upon some plan by which you and your associates may take the persons assembled by surprise, and, in the confusion that will naturally ensue, Alice-may easily be seized and hurried to this secret retreat of which no one has the least suspicion." 
               "And yourself, Sir Raymond," demauded Harden. 
               "Of course I will be present at the sports," replied Sir Raymond, "to prevent all surmises of the intrigue originating with me; and when you make the attack, I shall appear to take an active part in attempting to defeat you, and to rescue the girl. So you will be on your guard!" 
               "Aye, that shall be attended to," answered his companion; "though I still think the scheme is a hasty one, and may be fraught with danger, so soon after what has occured between yourself and Alice." 
               "Psha!" ejaculated the baronet, impatiently, "I never knew you so doubtful, and to hesitate so much before, Luke. My determination is fixed, and a bold venture is almost certain to command success." 
               "Well be it so. But what is your propose respecting old Maud?" 
               "She must not be permitted to be an obstacle to the accomplishment of our wishes. That must be prevented this very night." 
               "By death, I presume?" said the villain, Luke. 
               "No," returned Sir Raymond; "I would not that her life should be sacrificed at present. I am anxious to know more about her. Could she be secured it would answer every purpose." 
               "There will be no difficulty in accomplishing that," observed the pirate. "We will arrange everything between this and night." 
               "Enough," said the baronet; "be prepared to see me again in a few hours, by which time we may be able to make up our minds what-is best to be done." 
               To this Luke Harden assented, and, after a few more observations they separated. Sir Raymond betaking himself to his study, where he gave way to the busy train of thoughts that crowded upon his brain, and flattered himself with the idea that his villanous projects were now in a fair way of speedy accomplishment, and exulted in the thought that the beauteous Alice Maitland would soon be in his power. 
               "I will run every risk," he soliloquized; "for what danger is there which I would not boldly brave to achieve so great a triumph? Lovely Alice, little do you even dream of the fate with which you are now threatened. Every moment of delay does but increase my impatience, and heighten still brighter visions of the future in my fertile imagination. Sweet Alice! the village pride! must be mine, and now I swear that no earthly power shall prevent her." 
               An unnatural expression of exultation and guilty determination overspread his features, as he gave utterance to these words, and he looked forward to the arrival of the morrow with the greatest anxiety. 
                
               Night set in, sad, sombre, except when at lengthened intervals, the moon for a brief space, peeped from behind a heavy cloud, and then again retired, making the darkness if possible, appear the more intense. The solemn silence of the hour was only interrupted by the low murmuring of the wind, or the dashing of the waves against the rocks, and all nature seemed otherwise wrapped in sleep. 
               Again the moon for a minute showed her pale face, shedding a ghastly light upon the old castle ruins, and a tall dim figure issued forth, and, after pausing a moment or two at the entrance, slowly descended the narrow and dangerous path which led from the cliffs to the beach below. 
               It was the mysterious wierd woman. Any one who could have seen them must have observed that there was even a more wild and anxious look in the expression of her features than usual on that occasion; and that it was quite evident that her mind at that moment was pervaded by thoughts of the most torturing and conflicting kind. 
               She paused when she reached the sea-beach, folded her arms across her breast (for she was without her usual companion, her staff), and as she gazed through the heavy mist which hung upon the waste of waters, her eyes seemed to penetrate the darkness, and a deep sigh escaped her bosom, which spoke of some agonizing feeling within, which only in the silence and secresy of solitude she would suffer to find vent. 
               At length the wretched and mysterious womon spoke, and solemn and impressive were the tones of her voice as she thus gave utterance to the feeling of her troubled breast: 
               "How dark-how lonely-and how omnious is the aspect of all around; and yet how truly in keeping with the wild tempest of passion that holds dominion in this wretched care-worn heart. 'Tis such a night as would aid the murderer in the perpetration of his dark and hideous 
                   
                     THE WELCOME RETURN. 
                   crimes, when no eye might watch his actions but that of heaven. 'Twas on such a night as this when I lost all that was dear to me in life, and nothing was left me but misery, despair, and the hope of vengeance. Oh, Alfred! Alfred!-noblest of men, and best of sons, why did cruel fate thus rob me of thee? Here stands the aged wreck of what was once so fair, so gentle, and so pure! May lightnings blast the guilty wretch who has been the cause of all!-But patience, patience, Geraldine; you have hunted the villain to his lair, your eyes constantly watch his actions, and when the fitting time shall have arrived, a terrible revenge shall be yours." 
               A noise as of several approaching footsteps at that moment interrupted rupted Maud in the midst of her soliloquy, and starting hastily round, she beheld several armed and masked ruffians standing with threatening attitudes before her, while one stood by, whose form was enveloped in a large cloak, and his hat so drawn down over his brows as to completely conceal his features. 
               Perfectly convinced of the danger which menaced her, and aroused into action, in an instant she drew forth from her bosom a couple of pistols, and in a fierce and determined voice exclaimed: 
               "What dark and guilty purpose brings ye hither? What seek ye with old Maud of the Ruins? Back, back! cowardly ruffians, bloodhounds, back! or this arm, old and feeble as it is, shall deal the first who dares advance a step towards me, death!" 
               "Heed not her threats!" cried Sir Raymond, (for he it was who has been described as enveloped in the cloak) "heed not her threats, but seize her and away with her!" 
               "Ah!" exclaimed old Maud; "'tis you, villain!-murdeeer! I know you now, and will not tamely yield to the fate you have doomed me to. Begone! or at your peril seek to molest me, miscreant." 
               "Why do you all stand as though petrified and alarmed by the idle threats of this wretched old hag?" passionately demanded the baronet "Perform my bidding, I say, if you are not cowards all!" 
               The pirates now made a rush towards her, but the moment they did so, Maud discharged the contents of both pistols, and the foremost of them, with a loud cry of agony, made one slight bound into the air, and then fell to the earth, weltering in his blood, and a ghastly corpse. 
               With a bitter oath, the enraged Luke was about to rush upon her, and bury his deadly weapon in her breast, but Sir Raymond arrested his arm, and, in a voice of command, cried: 
               "Hold! hold, Harden! shed not the wretched being's blood! I have a more terrible and lingering fate in store for her!" 
               "Monster!" returned Maud, in tones that made the adjacent rocks resound again; "fiend in human form; I scorn, I defy your threats; you dare not put them into execution; vengeance is mine upon your guilty head!" 
               "Stifle her cries," said the baronet; "and let us begone; we do but waste time." 
               In a moment the villains rushed upon the now defenceless woman, and, in spite of her violent struggles drew a cloak so closely over her head that she could scarcely breathe, and pinioning her arms, she was completely at their mercy. 
               "To the boat! to the boat with her!" directed Sir Raymond; "and convey her, with all speed to the secret entrance in the rock, where your associates are waiting to receive her. I will go by another route, and meet you there anon." 
               The pirates immediately obeyed these commands, and raising Maud in their arms, proceeded towards the boat which they had moored in a convenient place close by. 
               "I triumph, I triumph!" cried the baronet, in a voice of exultation, as he watched them away, and then departed from the spot; "Maud of the Ruins, one of the principal objects of my dread, is now secure in my power, and my future designs no doubt will work well. This is but a prelude to my future success. Now shall I be able to ascertain who the mysterious woman really is, and my fearful secret will be safe from discovery." 
               He hurried on his way as he thus gave an expression to his feelings, and soon arrived, without being observed by any one, at the place of his destination. Immediately he made his way to the cavern, and was somewhat disappointed when he found that the pirates, with their prisoner, had not yet arrived. 
               "The tardy knaves," he said, in an impatient tone, as he hurriedly paced the cavern; "what can detain them." 
               He had scarcely spoken the words, when the paddling of oars was heard outside, followed by a shrill whistle. 
               "Ah!" he cried, as he advanced towards the secret entrance, which two or three of the pirates ascended too; "'tis well, they are here. Assist them to hand in the prisoner." 
               Luke Harden now appeared at the mouth of the cavern, followed by two more of his companions, hoisting up their helpless burden, who was soon handed safely into the place, and the pirates following, the aperture was closed, and Sir Raymond stood for a few moments and gazed with a look of malicious triumph upon his unfortunate victim. 
               "Fortune has favored us," he said, "my mysterious enemy is safely lodged at last. Let her view the pleasures of her situation" 
               The arms of poor old Maud were now unbound; the cloak was removed from her head and having fixed one look of mingled reproach, hatred and defiance upon the guilty baronet, completely exhausted with what she had to undergo, sank on a seat, and covered her face with her hands. 
               Sir Raymond could not restrain a laugh of exultation, as he said, in accents that showed the malignant nature of his feelings. 
               "So I have already found the means to crush the spirit of her who so boldly dared to threaten and denounce me. 'Tis well; the power of the hag is not then so great as she was wont to boast of." 
               Aroused at his words, and quickly recovering her usual demeanor, Maud started to her feet, and boldly confronted him. 
               "Miscreant! murderer!" she cried, "and thinkest thou that the spirit of Maud can ever quail before thy proud yet empty menaces; or that triumph o'er her shall continue? No, thou mayest taunt and mock me as long as thou think'st proper, but still I will scorn and defy thee!" 
               "Indeed?" returned Sir Raymond, "those are bold words old woman, but they fall harmlessly on my ear. We shall see what time can effect; and methinks you will yet be glad to sue for mercy to him whose helpless prisoner you now are." 
               "Sue for mercy to thee!" she repeated, and her eyes for the moment seemed to flash fire; "fool! sooner should thy murderous weapon pierce my heart, than I would succumb to thy power. Oh, man of blood think of the fiendish deeds of the past, perpetrated by thy remorseless hand, and tremble; for the hour of retribution will come, and a terrible fate hurls thy black and guilty soul to perdition!" 
               "Why do you thus stand to listen to her wild taunts, her threats and denunciations, Sir Raymond?" said Luke; "why not at once exercise your power, and stop her bold tongue for ever." 
               "Aye," returned Maud, glaring fiercely upon him; "I know thee well, Luke Harden; thou art the fit associate of him whose ready instrument thou hast ever been in deeds of blood. Fear not but thou wilt yet meet with thy due reward, villain. For what purpose am I brought hither?" she sternly demanded, turning to the baronet. 
               "Need you inquire?" he returned. "Have you not proved by your conduct that you are my bitterest enemy, and that you are possessed of dangerous secrets?" 
               "Aye!" replied Maud, with an expression of triumph; "and dost thou doubt my knowledge, Sir Raymond Perceval? Oh, it should make thy guilty soul quail, to recapitulate the fearful deeds of the past, and which now call aloud to Heaven for vengeance. Rememberest thou that man, thy friend, whose dearest confidence thou didst betray? Rememberest thou his unfortunate wife, the beauteous Emeline, whose blood-" 
               "Hold! hold!" interrupted the baronet, in a hoarse voice, and trembling violently; "dare not to repeat the dreadful tale, or shudder at the consequences." 
               "Oh, then," said Maud, sarcastically; "thon canst not deny the truth of my words, Sir Raymond, with all thy boasting? And thy cheek is blenched with terror; and thy quivering lips show the workings of thy guilty conscience, notwithstanding all thine efforts to conceal them. The depised Maud of the Ruins has still food for exultation. Ha! ha! ha!" 
               "Taunting devil!" shouted Sir Raymond, passionately; "I know you not; why then thus pursue me with your fiendish malice? Who are you?" 
               "That wilt thou know anon, to thy cost," she answered; "but not all the tortures thou mayest think proper to inflict, shall at present force the secret from me." 
               "Fool that I am to heed what you say," observed the baronet after a brief pause; "you are either mad, or some base imposter, who seeks to intimidate me.' 
               "Imposter!" repeated Maud; "thou knowest that thou liest in thy guilty soul, Sir Raymond Perceval, or why dost thou fear me? Why tremble to gaze upon me, even though I am now in thy power?" 
               "And shall I submit to be thus braved, defied and insulted?" demanded the baronet, fiercely; "what folly and weakness is this?" 
               "Folly and weakness," repeated Luke Harden; "aye, you may well say that, Sir Raymond, and I am surprised at you, when in a moment you could rid yourself of the annoyance." 
               "But I have yet other means to quiet her bold tongue, and to make her yield to my demands," said Sir Raymond. 
               "I scorn all that thou canst do," returned Maud; "do thy worst I am prepared to meet it." 
                
               "I will hear no more," he cried; "away with he to the dungeon; and there let her ponder in silence and horror on her wretched fate." 
               "Aye, villains, away with me," said Maud of the Ruins, firmly; "there are no terrors to which you may consign me that shall daunt my soul; but rest assured, Sir Raymond Perceval, that my predictions will be fulfilled, and that the fearful vengeance of outraged heaven will shortly descend upon your head. Lead the way; I am prepared to meet my fate, whatever it may be!" 
               Sir Raymond motioned the pirates impatiently to execute his commands, and they obeyed, leading Maud from the cavern, as she fixed a look of deadly malice upon him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE DUNGEON-THE ATTACK, AND THE RESULT. 
               FOR two or three minutes after Maud had been forced away, Sir Raymond traversed the cavern with disordered steps, and reflected deeply on her observations. At length he was interrupted in his meditations by the return of Luke Harden and his companions. 
               "Have you secured the hag in the dungeon?" he enquired of Luke, eagerly. 
               "Aye," replied the latter; "and if the terrors of the place do not soon cool her courage, I am much mistaken." 
               The baronet paused and reflected for a few minutes, and then observed: 
               "'Tis well-'tis well;-the old woman secured, the success of my designs against Alice Maitland to-morrow seems all but certain. You will hold yourself in readiness, Luke, when the shadows of evening have fallen upon the earth, to act with promptitude." 
               "Yes;" replied the pirate; "and it will be strange to me if I do not also, before long, obtain possession of the person of her equally lovely sister. You know that is a part of our bargain, Sir Raymond." 
               "True," agreed the latter; "Rose Maitland is indeed a prize worth seeking to secure, and you have my best wishes for your success, Harden. The Bloodhound will be ready for sailing on the shortest notice, should we see occasion, will she not?" 
               "She will," answered Luke; "my preparations are all made, and I flatter myself that we may weigh anchor at any time without exciting the least suspicion in the breasts of the land-sharks." 
               In this state of mind Sir Raymond left the cavern, and once more returned to his chamber to brood over his guilty projects. The adventure of the night and its result had excited the most lively interest in his breast, and he looked forward to the morrow with the utmost confidence. 
               The dungeon to which old Maud was consigned, was indeed a fearful place; and many were the unfortunate individuals, no doubt, who in years past had there met with a dreadful and lingering death. It was situated on the left of the subterranean passage which led to the cavern, and was secured by an iron door. 
               The bare contemplation of this place was enough to strike the soul of the beholder with terror, and it seemed totally impossible to exist in it for any length of time. It was a low vaulted cell of the smallest dimensions, and the only portion of light or air it received was from an aperture in one of the walls. The whole aspect of the place was black, dreary and loathsome; and the air which the wretched occupant had to breath was painfully oppressive and poisonous. The walls were reeking with unwholesome dew, and the damp earth was covered with filth, and the mouldering bones of those who had formerly perished there. A miserable heap of straw in one corner was the only substitute for a bed, and an old stool was everything in the shape of furniture it contained. 
                
               The joyful morrow came at last, and nothing could be more propitions than the manner in which it was ushered in. The weather was all in favor with the glad occasion, and was as bright and cheerful as the happy hearts of all who were to take part in the pleasures of the day. 
               At an early hour the guests began to assemble, and honest pleasure was depicted on every countenance. 
               As Sir Raymond from one of the windows of his mansion viewed the preparations making for the festival, and thought of the dark designs he had in contemplation, and of the complete success of which he felt quite confident, an expression of satisfaction settled upon his features, and exultation predominated in his breast. Himself and Luke Harden had held an early conference that morning, and finally arranged all their diabolical plans, which the baronet fondly flattered himself could be executed without the slightest suspicion falling upon him, and long before the hour of midnight he hoped to claim the beauteous Alice Maitland as his own. 
               Refreshed by tranquil sleep, Alice and her sister arose at an early hour on the morning of that eventful day; and having arrayed themselves in neat and appropriate attire for the occasion, descended from their chamber to the parlor to meet their parents, who embraced them with hearts o'erflowing with the fondest affection and delight. 
               And never had the fair sisters appeared more lovely than they did on this joyous morn. Health and hope lent their sweetest charms to their cheeks, and their bright eyes sparkled with even more than animation. 
               For the better accommodation of all, and to render the scene more joyous and animated, the festivities of the day were arranged to take place in a verdant meadow adjacent to the village; and tables for refreshments were laid out with much care and taste in front of the comfortable hostelrie of Matty Muggins, who, as has been stated beore, was in high glee on the occasion; for it must be acknowledged that the worthy host calculated upon reaping the profits of a whole year at least, on that day. 
               At this moment the party from Woodbine Cottage approached the spot, and loud shouts of joy and welcome rent the air, and every one gathered eagerly round to give the young seamen and their lovers and friends a cordial greeting, which was returned by them with the same warmth and sincerity. 
               A morning repast was set upon the tables, to partake of which all were invited, and which had scarcely concluded, when Sir Raymond Perceval made his appearance. 
               At the sight of him, an uneasy feeling came over our heroine, and the ardor of the joy she had previously felt was for a moment checked. Ben observed her emotion, and whispered in her ear: 
               "Be not alarmed, my love; it would be wrong to judge too harshly of Sir Raymond, after the apology he made yesterday; and I cannot for the life of me, bear malice towards any one. No doubt he comes in every friendly spirit, and not to interrupt our happiness." 
               Alice felt re-assured by the observations of her lover, but still she averted her eyes from the baronet, who advancing towards the happy guests, with a condescending air, said: 
               "Do not let my presence disturb or embarrass you, my friends; I came, a self-invited guest, with the hope that I may be permitted to take part in your festivities. Mr. Bolt, and you, my gallant young friend, Mr. Helm, it affords me much pleasure to have to congratulate you on this happy occasion." 
               Luke Harden, in rustic disguise, now joined the happy throng, in order to watch the proceedings, and he and Sir Raymond exchanged significant glances with each other. 
               While these festivities were going on, and each one was too busily and too happily engaged to watch his actions, Sir Raymond Perceval took the opportunity of drawing Luke Harden aside, and speaking to him. 
               "So, Luke,' he remarked; "all appears to go on as we could wish. These happy revellers little suspect the sad change which is in store for them, and which will turn their boisterous mirth to woe." 
               "True," answered the pirate; "I have prepared everything for action as soon as the shades of evening set in Two or three of my crew disguised, are in the tavern, and at the proposed signal will execute my instructions. With the rest of my brave fellows I will be at hand and in the confusion which will be sure to follow, we will rush from our concealment, and the abduction of Alice may be accomplished without much difficulty" 
               "Right, right, my worthy friend," said the baronet; "I depend upon you, and feel confident of success." 
               "But you must beware how you act your part, Sir Raymond," urged Luke; "you must remain here till the last, and then appear to take part and sympathise with the friends and lover of the girl." 
               At length evening set in, and the bright moon gave additional effect to the scene. Several of the guests, in merry groups, had dispersed themselves in different parts. 
                
               Alice and her sister, with their lovers, were seated at a separate table, when all were startled by a cry of "Fire! fire!" and huge flames rushed forth from one of the upper windows of the old tavern. 
               The men all made towards the burning house, and in the general panic, Alice and her sister found themselues alone! 
               Struck with awe and terror, they stood transfixed to the spot, and gazed aghast on the fearful scene. But they were not long suffered to remain so; a shrill whistle saluted their ears, which was quickly answered by another from a different part, and the next moment they found themselves surrounded by armed men, wearing masks, and before they had scarcely time to call for help, they were rudely seized, and hurried towards the wildest part of the coast. Still their piercing shrieks for help rent the air, and at that moment our hero, Harry Helm, and Sir Raymond, followed by several others, rushed hastily to the spot and looked anxiously around them. 
               "What means those cries of distress? From whom do they proceed?" exclaimed Ben, in breathless haste; "Alice!-Rose!-where are they? Oh, mad that we must be to desert them!" 
               "My children! my dear children!" cried Mr. Maitland, in a voice of agony; "oh, heavens!" 
               "Some foul treachery has been at work," observed the guilty Sir Raymond, with much apparent concern. 
               Loud screams were again heard, and with frantic eagerness all eyes were directed towards the place from whence they seemed to proceed, the reflection from the fire assisting their view. 
               "Ah! see!" exclaimed Harry, "the shadows of men are moving rapidly in the distance. Ben, my friends-quick, let us pursue the villains, and we may not yet be too late to rescue the poor girls from their power!" 
               Ben, Harry, and most of the seamen, together with Sir Raymond, hurriedly started off in the pursuit, while others remained behind to assist in subduing the flames. For a moment they lost sight of the ruffians, but the shrieks of the hapless girls directed them, and they again beheld them, and notwithstanding the advantage which the pirates had had, they evidently gained fast upon them." 
               "Although Ben and his friends considerably outnumber them," muttered Sir Raymond to himself; "I fear not; Luke and his colleagues are so well armed that they must triumph." 
               Their pursuers now gained so rapidly upon them that, the pirates seeing it was useless to attempt to avoid them, came to a stand, and prepared to defend themselves resolutely. 
               Alice, who supported on the arm of Luke, and Rose on that of another of the ruffians had now fainted, and the sight of this had now aroused all the courage and indignation of our hero and Harry. 
               "On to them, my friends," cried Ben, "and we will soon draw the teeth of the sharks!" 
               In a moment the gallant young mariner rushed upon one of the pirates, and so suddenly that he took him by surprise, and wrested his weapon from him without much difficulty. Harry Helm and two or three others of the sailors followed his example, and the combat now commenced with the same obstinate determination on both sides. Several of the pirates were quickly disabled, but the others still fought with redoubled resolution, so that the issue for some time appeared to be extremely doubtful. 
               Our hero attacked Luke Harden with the most indomitable courage, and tried to tear the senseless Alice from his hold. Harry Helm also sought to rescue his beloved Rose, and fought with the most consummate bravery with the ruffian who held her; but for some time success did not attend the efforts of the two friends. 
               Sir Raymond Perceval, who had pretended to take part in the rescue, seeing the danger of Luke, and that he was every minute becoming weaker, watched his opportunity when he thought no one could observe him, and aimed a blow with a poinard at Ben, but at the instant Luke turned suddenly round, and the deadly weapon entered the thick part of his arm. 
               "D-n!" exclaimed the ruffian, as he released his hold of our heroine, whom Ben secured; and at the same moment Harry Helm succeded in rescuing Rose and felling his assailant to the earth. 
               "The coast-guard! the coast-guard!" cried two or three of the ruffians. This caused a general panic, and discontinuing the combat, the pirates fled in dismay, and were soon lost to the sight. 
               But what was the tumult of fierce passions which raged within the breast of Sir Raymond Perceval at that moment? The reader may easily imagine them, when he thus saw all the sanguine hopes he had formed at once annihilated. He, however, stifled his feelings as well as he could, and, assuming a tone of the deepest commisseration, he said- 
               "Who can possibly be the wretch who has concocted this villanous design against those innocent maidens? But they have been defeated, and that affords me the most infinite satisfaction." 
               At this moment Alice and her sister recovered, and opening their eyes and beholding themselves in the arms of their lovers and surrounded by their friends, they uttered a mingled exclamation of astonishment and gratitude. 
               In the meantime the fire at the Jolly Topers was extinguished, having done far less damage than might have been anticipated, and when the party arrived there on their way home, they found a number of their friends waiting to receive them, and to congratulate them on the defeat of the ruffians who had put so alarming an end to their festivities. 
               On their return home the friends sat discussing the mysterious and alarming adventure of the evening for some time, and when Ben and his friend separated from their lovers, it was with the understanding that they would keep watch during the night, in case the ruffians should venture an attack on the cottage; and they had also the assurance of immediate assistance from several of their neighbours, who would arm themselves for the purpose. Independent of this, old Ben and our hero, having seen the officer of the coast guard, and made him acquainted with the whole particulars of the outrages, he promised that there should be a sharp look-out. Thus every precaution was taken to meet any danger which might threaten, that time and circumstances would permit. How the fellows could have escaped the coast-guard, who were so close upon them, was a mystery. They had vanished so suddenly among the rocks that it had seemed like the work of magic; and it was evident, if they were smugglers, as it was supposed they were, they had some secret place of concealment, which had hitherto remained undiscovered. 
               When our heroine and Rose separated from their parents and retired for the night, they sat for some time conversing upon the alarming subject. But they racked their brains to no purpose, for they found it in vain to endeavor to form the slightest conjecture as to who their secret enemy could be. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               SIR RAYMOND PERCEVAL'S RAGE AND DISAPPOINTMENT-FRESH SCHEMES TO DISTURB THE PEACE OF ALICE MAITLAND. 
               THE most ungovernable rage and disappointment held fierce dominion in the breast of Sir Raymond Perceval as he bent his steps to the Manor House. Fearful maledictions escaped his lips, and he felt in a fit humor to perpetrate any deed, however desperate and monstrous, to satiate his deadly feelings of revenge. 
               "To be thus defeated," he exclaimed, "when my plans were so well arranged and success seemed all but certain! Oh, curses light upon that wayward fate which has brought this disappointment! Surely the rascals might have easily conquered the weak forces opposed to them had they been determined. Oh, how fondly had I cherished the hope that the beauteous Alice would this night have been in my power! I would willingly have sacrificed half my fortune for the triumph of my plot. But no; at the very moment when I thought the envied prize was within my grasp, accursed Fate snatched it from me, as if in mockery of my presumptuous wishes. And shall all my hopes be thus annihilated? Shall I suffer the girl to escape me altogether, and the young sailor to whom her affections are devoted to bear her off in triumph? No; by all the infernal host I swear, this shall not be. Let this disappointment but make me the more firm and resolute, and I may yet surmount every difficulty." 
               Deeply occupied by these guilty thoughts the baronet walked on, and having arrived at his mansion he lost no time in departing to the secret rendezvous of the pirates, whom he found had arrived there some time before him, and were in a state of great excitement and confusion, discussing the disasters of the night, and quarrelling among themselves. 
               Luke Harden was sitting in a corner, apart from the rest, his arm bandaged, and his compressed lips and contracted brows showed that he was in no very amiable temper. He arose on the entrance of Sir Raymond, and advancing towards him, met his stern look with one of equal anger, but said nothing. 
               "So," said the baronet, in accents of rage, "a pretty job you have made of this, after all your boasting. You have suffered the girl to escape at the very moment when she seemed securely in our power." 
               "And who is to blame for it?" demanded the pirate sternly. "Do you reproach me? Methinks I have more cause to complain, seeing the ugly wound I have received at your hands." 
               "Aye," remarked Sir Raymond; "that was, I admit, an unfortunate job, and I regret it. Need I tell you that the blow was intended for my detested rival?" 
               "Would that it had reached his heart," said the pirate savagely; "it was that cursed mistake on your part, Sir Raymond, which caused me to resign the girl; and it would have been madness for us to have prolonged the combat, on the appearance of the coast-guard. I think great credit is due to us for the way in which we contrived to elude them, and escape detection. Yet you now throw the whole blame of the failure on my shoulders." 
               "No, no," returned the baronet, seeing that the ruffian Luke was in no humor to bear rebuke, and fearful of offending him; "you misunderstand me, Luke; bear with me. Can you wonder that I feel vexed and disappointed at our defeat at the very moment when I thought that the girl was securely mine? Curses light on the disaster which has thus marred my hopes. What is now to be done?" 
               "Done!" repeated Harden, sulkily; "nothing at present; we must wait awhile till the excitement consequent on this affair shall have somewhat abated. We could not, with any degree of safety, make any immediate attempt to put our designs into execution for our enemies will now be on the alert." 
               "'Tis too true," coincided Sir Raymond, with an oath. "And yet my impatience can ill brook the delay." 
               "There is no alternative, and you must submit to it. Ben Bolt it seems intends to go to sea again; and his friend Helm. I heard to day, have already joined the Spitfire, which is expected to sail in a few days; when we have thus got rid of them, we may calculate upon the success of our plans." 
               "Ah!" exclaimed Sir Raymond; "then my hopes are entirely crushed. But no, even at the cost of half my fortune, I am determined that Alice Maitland shall be mine. Present defeat does but make me the more anxious. I may still depend upon your aid, Harden?" 
               "Of course you may," answered Luke; "I have cause to feel as much anxiety on the subject as yourself, for the fair Rose has excited passions in my breast as powerful as your own, and I am resolved that I will not rest until I possess her. So, you see, Sir Raymond, our interests are mutual, and if we only act in unison, and watch our opportunity, our triumph is certain." 
               "Your words revive me, Luke. And yet the failure of this night cannot but annoy me greatly. Oh, the transport I had anticipated would now have been mine. Alice never appeared more lovely than she did to-day, and as my eyes gloated on her superlative charms, my heated passion rose to such a pitch that it is a wonder I did not betray the nature of my feelings." 
               "'Twas well, however, that you were upon your guard. I watched your conduct narrowly, and consider that you acted your part well." 
               "Yes," observed the baronet; "I think my plausible manner completely quieted all their suspicions against me. The combat was a determined one, and I cannot but give you and your men every credit for the bravery you displayed." 
               "Aye," returned Luke, "the lads of the Bloodhound are no cowards, as they have proved in many a fierce engagement on the deep. Your rival and his friend fought like lions; two braver fellows are not to be found in the British Navy, I'll be bound." 
               "True, the boy does honor to the noble blood that flows in his veins," said Sir Raymond, and a pang of remorse shot through his breast. "Oh, how generous, how open-hearted was his! Villain that I must have been to act the base, the treacherous, and monstrous part I did towards him. I-" 
               "Psha!" interrupted Luke, "what's the use of reproaching yourself with that now after the lapse of so many years." 
               "Ah, Luke it is impossible for me to quiet the voice of conscience. Lord Alfred was my best, my warmest, most disinterested friend,--" 
               "And you betrayed him," replied Luke, "that's all." 
               "I did," replied the baronet, "most brutally deceived and wronged him; heartless, ungrateful miscreant that I was!" 
               "Well, well-think no more of that. 'Tis strange, however, that you never heard what became of him." 
               "It is," said the baronet, "but something seems to tell me, that he still lives." 
               "That is not very likely," answered Luke, "or he would have found you out." 
               "Resolved to act the part of a villain from the first," returned Sir Raymond, "I introduced myself to him under a fictitious name, and he would therefore have no suspicion of me by my present title. Time, too, must have altered my features, that even if we should ever meet again, he could not recognize me." 
               "Then," said Luke, "at any rate, you may set your mind at rest on that score. Old Maud, however, is evidently acquainted with all the facts." 
               "True," answered the baronet; "and by what strange means they have come to her knowledge-who she is, and why she pursues me with such vindictive feelings, I cannot conceive." 
               "And it does not appear very probable that you will be able to force the secret from her," remarked Harden; "the old hag will remain obstinate to the last, depend upon it, for my own part I think it would be the wisest and the safest plan to silence her at once. You know the dead tell no tales." 
                
               "No," said the baronet; "is she not safe from doing any harm where she is? and why should I therefore recklessly embrue my hands in her blood?" 
               "Well," returned his companion, "be it as you will; but mind that she does not escape." 
               "Escape! How is it possible for her to do so, secure as she is?" 
               "It shall be no fault of mine if she does. Enough, however, on that subject, for the present. We have met with one defeat to-night; but fear not, Sir Raymond; let but these young seamen slip their cable and once more quit these shores, then can we pounce upon our prey, and what will there be to frustrate our designs?" 
               "Nothing!" replied the baronet, confidently; "my hopes are reanimated. In a few days you say the Spitfire is expected to sail." 
               "Yes," returned Luke; "she goes to join the English squadron in the Baltic, and-" 
               "Ben Bolt shall never behold his beloved Alice again," added Sir Raymond vehemently, and with a look of guilty determination. "Deprived of the protection of her lover, what can save her from falling into my power? Oh, how impatiently do I await the time when the object of my heart's fondest desire shall be within my grasp. Alice Maitland, for the present you have escaped me; and your doom is sealed, and my triumph is close at hand." 
               An expression of exultation passed over his features as he gave utterance to these words, and conquering his rage and disappointment at the failure of that night, he looked forward to the future with the most sanguine hopes of complete success; and after some further, conversation of no importance, he retired from the place and sought his own chamber. 
               But the mind of the guilty baronet was too busily occupied to suffer him to think of retiring to rest, and he remained absorbed in thought, and deeply reflecting on all that had occured on that eventful day and night, till the light of morning broke in at his chamber window. 
               Notwithstanding the defeat which Luke and the other pirates had met with, he could not but acknowledge the courage and determination with which they had fought, and he placed every confidence in them. The information which Luke had given him of Ben and Harry having joined the Spitfire, also afforded him every satisfaction, and he impatiently awaited the arrival of the time for the vessel to sail. 
               We will now return to poor old Maud, who in the deep solitude of the frightful dungeon in which she was confined brooded gloomily on the sorrows of the past, and endeavored to form some conjecture of what was in future in store for her. 
               "So," she muttered to herself, as she sat crouched in one corner of the dungeon, and her eyes fixed upon vacancy, "the savage murderer of the unfortunate Emeline holds me in his power, and thinks by exposing me to terrors such as those by which I am at present surrounded to intimidate me, and to draw from my breast the secret which has there so long been hidden. Miscreant! fool! he little knows the character of her he has to deal with, or he would cease to encourage any such futile ideas. He may rack me-torture me-tear these old limbs asunder, but still shall he find me remain inflexible! Wild Maud, the wretched outcast, is a stranger to fear, and years of suffering have taught her to treat it with indifference. And shall these black and gloomy vaults long confine me? Shall I remain caged like some wild beast? No! Maud of the ruins shall soon again be free to wander the dreary waste and climb the craggy steep. Aye! and her hour of triumph will come; she will live to redress the wrongs of the injured, and to invoke the most terrible and overwhelming vengeance of heaven upon the head of the guilty. Sir Raymond Perceval, the time will come when, in abject fear and horror, thou shalt cry aloud for that mercy which thou refused to others and which shall be denied to thee. Oh, with what feelings of gratification and delight will I then gloat upon thy anguish, and mock at and triumph in thy despair. It is for this that I have continued to live, and those wishes he shall not fail to see accomplished!" 
               The wretched woman exulted at the thought, and a malicious grin disturbed her haggard and shrivelled features. 
               But at length one of the pirates entered the cell, bringing with him a pitcher of water and a black loaf, which he placed on the earth before the unfortunate prisoner. 
               And thus the hours passed drearily away until the morning after the daring outrage which has been described, when as old Maud was seated in her usual attitude, immersed in painful reflection, she was suddenly aroused by hearing the door being unlocked, and the next moment Sir Raymond Perceval entered the dungeon. 
               Maud started to her feet when she beheld him, and fixed upon him a look in which deadly malice, revenge, and defiance were combined. 
               "Now, miscreant," ejaculated the prisoner; "what wouldst thou with old Maud. Is not thy vengeance sufficiently gratified now that thou hast her confined in this living tomb; or seekest thou to torture her with thy bitter taunts and feelings of exultation? Proceed; she is fully prepared for all that your narrow mind and implacable malice can give utterance to." 
               "Obstinate woman," replied Sir Raymond, "have you not brought your present miserable situation upon yourself? You have boldly dared to avow yourself my most inveterate enemy, and proved that you are dangerous to my peace, and can you wonder that I should thus prevent you from doing that mischief which you have threatened?" 
               "I can wonder at nothing which the villain Sir Raymond Perceval may choose to do," replied Maud; "thou dost well to acknowledge that 'tis fear, coward fear, suggested by thy guilty conscience, which prompts thine actions. And thou hast ample cause to fear, if thou didst know all. Nay, seek not to deny thy feelings; they are evident on thy blanched cheek, thy quivering lips, and restless gaze. And thinkest thou by securing me in this loathsome cell to avert the avenging wrath of heaven for the hideous crimes thou hast committed, villain? Tremble, I say; for the fearful doom, the doom of the libertine and the murderer, rest assured, sooner or later awaits thee. Darest thou venture ture within these dreary precincts? Fearest thou not that the ghastly shade of thy hapless victim, the innocent and unfortunate Emeline, shall rise before thy appalled sight to blast thee with its presence, and-" 
               A fearful oath again escaped the lips of Sir Raymond, and he paced the cell for a minute or two with hasty and disordered steps. 
               "Woman," said he at length; "what think you this conduct will avail you? You talk madly. You are now in my power, and think you that I will ever allow you the opportunity to put your threats into execution? If you would expect any mercy from me, you will be more compliant with my wishes." 
               "Mercy from thee!" replied Maud, comtemptously, "I ask it not, neither do I expect it; but in spite of all thy fancied security, mark my words, I will yet evade thy boasted power, and continue to be to thee a terror and a curse. Maud of the Ruins has not yet completed the mission she is destined to fulfil; and it is not in thy power to prevent her doing so. Aye, I read thy dark thoughts; the form of the fair Alice Maitland occupies them, and already hast thou sought to accomplish thy diabolical ends; but beware, there is one who will yet live to protect her, and to avenge her wrongs." 
               "I must be mad to endure this," observed Sir Raymond, with increased rage; "however, I will leave you to reflect upon the folly and obstinacy of your conduct. No doubt a few days seclusion in this agreeable place will curb your spirit, and make you the more ready to succumb to my will." 
               "Indeed!" retorted the old woman, sarcastically; "continue to flatter thyself with the idea, villain, if thou wilt, but be not too confident lest thou shouldst be disappointed. Scorn not my words, for sure as the purple current of life now circulates in thy viens, they will be fulfilled, and the awful fate thy crimes so justly merit, will most assuredly overtake thee." 
               The tone in which the mysterious woman uttered these words was most impressive, and their import sunk deep into the heart of the guilty baronet. 
               "Woman, you seek to alarm me by your wild predictions; but you have much mistaken my character if you think that they can have any other effect on me than to excite my utmost contempt." 
               "Thou wouldst fain make me believe so," returned Maud; "but thou canst not deceive me, Sir Raymond Perceval; I know thee too well. Thy black conscience acknowledges the truth of my words, and fear and misgiving make thee tremble. But begone, and leave me to the gloom of my dungeon, and in secret exult if thou canst. Thou seest thou canst not shake the resolution of Maud, and it is only a waste of time to endeavor to." 
               "Rash woman!" exclaimed Sir Raymond, with indignation; "you little imagine what it is you brave. When next we meet, I shall expect to find you in a less obdurate mood." 
               Maud fixed upon him a contemptuous look, and the baronet then retired from the dungeon, taking good care to secure the door after him." 
                
               This interview as may be expected, was anything but satisfactory to him; on the contrary it only served to increase the doubts and anxieties of his mind; and he saw plainly that old Maud was a being whom it would not be easy for him to mould to his will. Every time he had seen her had only served to involve him in still greater perplexity as to who she was, and the pointed observations she had never failed to make use of served to convince him that she was one whom he had every cause te dread. 
               "And yet you will submit to be thus annoyed; to be thus taunted, threatened and defied, when it is in your power at once to prevent it, and to get rid of all those apprehensions which at this time, I know disturb your breast," remarked Luke Harden, when the baronet had related to him the particulars of the interview; "bah! Sir Raymond, I am surprised and ashamed of you." 
               "You would have me then at once imbrue my hands in the blood of this mysterious woman?" said Sir Raymond with a shudder. 
               "And should our designs against the fair sisters succeed," said Luke; "I suppose it is your intention to bear them away on board my craft; and how will you then dispose of the old woman?" 
               "Convey her on board," answered the baronet. 
               "What, to be there a constant source of annoyance to us," said Harden, in a dissatisfied tone; "however, I suppose you must have your own way, and it is useless for me to argue the point with you. But there is one important thing I have been thinking of Sir Raymond." 
               "And what is that?" interrogated the latter. 
               "Of course you do not wish it to be suspected that the girl is in your power?" 
               "Certainly not; for in that case it would be impossible for me to show my face in this part of the country again." 
               "In what way, then, will you account for your abrupt departure from the Manor House at the same time as the disappearance of Alice and her sister?" 
               "Ah! that must be managed," replied Sir Raymond, reflecting; "I have it," he added, after a pause; "a day or two before the sailing of the Spitfire, I will pretend to leave the Manor House for London, on particular business, and I can easily remain secreted here." 
               "A good plan," remarked Harden, approvingly; "no doubt it will serve to remove all snspicion from you." 
               "It must," said the baronet; "would that the time had arrived. Let me but witness the departure of the Spitfire, with Ben and Harry on board of her, and I shall consider that all obstacles are surmounted, and that success is certain." 
               "True," agreed his companion; "the girls once seized must be conveyed on board the Bloodhound at the earliest opportunity, and them away from England with as little delay as possible. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               THE SAILORS' DEPARTURE-SAILING OF THE SPITFIRE. 
               
                   
                     THE HURRICANE. 
                  
                
               A week had now elapsed since Sir Raymond had made the daring attempt to accomplish his diabolical designs, and the excitement and alarm of the beauteous sisters had very little abated, nor had they since ventured to leave the cottage only in the daytime, and not then unless they were accompanied by their lovers. 
               The mysterious disappearance of Maud of the Ruins was a circumstance which likewise created no little surprise in the neighborhood. 
               But Alice and her sister had now something more to agitate and dis tress their minds; their lovers had joined the Spitfire, then lying in the harbor, and which was expected to sail in a week at farthest, and it was in vain that their friends tried to arouse them from the deep melancholy which that thought excited in their breasts, whilst the most dismal forebodings constantly haunted their imaginations and made them anticipate the hour of separation with the most unconquerable feelings of dread. 
               At length the day preceding that on which the Spitfire was to sail arrived, and a sad one it was in Woodbine Cottage, and the village altogether. Ben and Harry were to be on board in the evening, and the hours that must intervene previous to the separation must therefore be short. 
               The heart of Alice was full to bursting, and that of her sister was equally tortured. It was in vain that their lovers, their parents, and old Ben exerted themselves to the utmost to abate their anguish and inspire them with hope. Dark presentiments of evil crowded upon the imagination of the lovely sisters with overwhelming force, and baffled and defeated all their endeavors to compose them, and as the time rapidly wore away and the fatal hour approached, their anguish became the more intense. 
               From this state of feeling, however, they endeavored to arouse themselves, and at last succeeded much better than might have been expected. 
               "Come, come, my dear Alice," said Ben, and he imprinted a fond kiss upon her pale cheek as he spoke, and looked into her tearful eyes with an expression that told full well the feelings which at that moment were passing in his manly breast; "you must not take on so, lass, nor give way to fears of squalls and dangers which may never take place. Remember it is his duty to his king and country which calls your sailor-love away, and I know you would not have him shrink from that which honor demands. Think of the happiness which is in store for us when we shall meet again, and bear this parting with the fortitude of a woman." 
               "Aye, that she will, I'll be bound for it," observed old Ben; "for Alice is formed to be a sailor's wife, and will not suffer such a thing as fear to take her in tow." 
               Alice and her sister, in order to satisfy their lovers, and not to add to the anguish they well knew they must experience, though they tried so hard to conceal it, did struggle with their feelings, and sought to appear calm and resigned. 
               The dreaded moment at last arrived. It was the time for Ben and Harry to go on board. 
               The last moment arrived; the signal gun from the ship had three times sounded in their ears, the summons must be obeyed. In frantic haste our hero and his companion tore themselves away, followed by old Ben, and poor Alice and her sister fainted in the arms of their parents. 
               As has been before stated, the vessel was to sail at an early hour on the following morning, and notwithstanding all the arguments and persuasions suasions of their parents, Alice and Rose were resolved to be present at its departure. 
               On arriving in the harbor they found many individuals assembled on the same melancholy and affectionate errand as themselves, and with eager haste the eyes of the poor girl wandered to the noble and stately ship, which contained those whom they so fondly loved, and which was evidently preparing to weigh anchor. 
               How violently throbbed the heart of Alice Maitland as she gazed at the gallant craft, and she trembled so much that, had it not been for the support of her parents, she must have sunk upon the earth. Having entered a boat they put off towards the ship, which they approached as near as was convenient or practicable; and the eyes of our heroine and her sister eagerly and anxiously were directed towards the several seamen who were bustling about the deck, with the hope of beholding their lovers; but they were doomed to disappointment, and while they were thus occupied a gun was fired, which was answered from every vessel in the harbor; a deafening cheer from the seamen and the persons assembled on the shore rent the air, and the noble ship sailed on its way. With clasped hands and beating hearts the sisters watched it till it became little more than a speck upon the horizon; their feelings then overpowered them, their senses left them, and they remembered no more till they arrived at home. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               THE SEIZURE OF ALICE AND ROSE, AND DEPARTURE OF THE PIRATE SHIP BLOODHOUND. 
               SIR Raymond Perceval, although, as the reader is aware, it was supposed that he had left the Manor House, and it was uncertain what time he would return, was still secreted there, at least in the subterranean retreat beneath the building, and only awaited the fitting opportunity of putting his diabolical plans into effect. 
               All his efforts to subdue the spirit of old Maud, or to wring the secret of her real character from her breast, proved ineffectual, and unable to resolve to follow the monstrous advice of the villain, Luke Harden and to embrue his hands in her blood; also fearing that it would not be safe to leave her where she was, when he should in all probability be far away with his destined victim, he had her at midnight secretly conveyed on board the pirate craft, which was ready to sail at a moment's notice, and where he felt convinced she would be securely in his power. 
               In the meantime he and Luke had fully arranged all their guilty clans for the future, and he now felt confident of their complete success. 
               "The excitement caused by the attempt which we recently made has almost passed away. All is prepared, I believe, for the reception of the girls on board the Bloodhound?" 
                
               "It is," answered the pirate; "and let our gallant craft get but once clear away from these shores, and, with the wind in our favor, we may then set pursuit at defiance." 
               They now changed the topic of conversation, and here we will leave them to the concoction of their guilty plot, and return to the cottage. 
               A day of misery and anxiety was this to our heroine and her sister, and in vain did their parents and old Ben Bolt seek to console them, and to banish the dismal thoughts that had taken possession of their minds. 
               How drearily the hours passed away now that they were deprived of the society of those noble-hearted youths whom they so fondly loved. But had they been aware of the misery that was in store for them, how doubly powerful would have been the anguish and horror of their minds. 
               Towards the evening a storm which had long been gathering portentuously in the clouds broke forth with great violence, and added to their terror and misery, for their parents had not yet returned, and they wondered what could have detained them, when they knew that they were alone and would feel uneasy at their absence. 
               Another hour passed away and it was quite dark, still they came not; and they felt still more uneasy and melancholy as old Ben was also away, who, had he been present, might have served in some measure to have cheered their spirits. 
               At that moment Alice started and clung to her sister, for she could almost have sworn that she had seen by the lightning's flash a pair of dark eyes glaring steadfastly in at the window, but in an instant they were gone, and she endeavored to persuade herself that her imagination had deceived her. Still, however, their parents came not, and naturally their apprehensions for their safety increased. 
               In this state of anxiety and suspense a few more minutes elapsed, and the sisters remained silent; but they were at length aroused by hearing a knock at the door. 
               "Ah! thank heaven, they have returned," cried Rose, and she was advancing towards the door when Alice arrested her. 
               "Who knocks?" demanded Rose, in a firm voice. 
               "A poor traveller," replied the strange voice of a man, "who seeks a temporary shelter from this fearful storm. For the love of heaven do not refuse him." 
               Rose hesitated and looked at her sister, who was also half irresolute what to do. 
               "I have travelled far, and am wet to the skin," again ejaculated the stranger; "you have nothing to fear from a poor miserable wretch like me; so I once more earnestly beseech you, do not refuse to comply with my request." 
               The tone of voice in which this appeal was spoken completely disarmed the fears of our heroine, and she motioned to Rose to unbar the door, which she did, and a man clad in tattered garments, and with a most forbidding cast of features entered the room, and fixed an inqnisi tive and suspicious look upon the sisters which made them shrink, and trembling cling to ach other. 
               In an instant the room was filled with armed men; a large mantle was drawn tightly over each of their heads, so as to stifle their cries, and they were then carried, fainting and helpless towards a vehicle which was in waiting close by, into which they were lifted, followed by Luke Harden and two other pirates, and it was then driven off with the utmost rapidity, and by an unfrequented route, towards that part of the coast where the Bloodhound, unsuspected of being anything else but a fair trader was lying at anchor. 
               The storm had now abated, and at length entirely ceased, and Mr. and Mrs. Maitland, who had been unavoidably detained both by business and the storm, arrived at the cottage anxious for the safety of Alice and Rose, who they knew would be greatly alarmed at their protracted absence. 
               We need not attempt to describe their surprise and apprehension on beholding the cottage door standing wide open, though the light still glimmered in the window. But their alarm was increased beyond all bounds on entering the cottage, and finding that they were not there; while the marks of several footsteps on the floor, showed that a desperate struggle had taken place. 
               The inhabitants of the village were alarmed. Several of the men armed themselves in the best manner they could, and the whole party then set forth on their important expedition. 
               An officer of the coast-guard was also informed of the monstrous outrage, and a number of men were despatched in various directions to endeavor to discover the villains, and to rescue the unfortunate girls. 
               In the meantime, the unfortunate Alice and her sister, after their seizure, remained in a complete state of insensibility, and the vehicle pursued its way, without attracting any notice, until it had arrived at the place of its destination, when they were lifted out, and conveyed to a boat which was moored close by, and then rowed in the darkness of the night to the pirate ship, which was lying at anchor at no great distance off; and the storm which had recently raged so violently, had now entirely ceased. 
               Sir Raymond Perceval had been on board some hours. 
               Nearer and nearer the boat approached the pirate ship, and so great was the anxiety and impatience of Sir Raymond, that he could almost have leaped into the ocean and swam to meet them. 
               In a few more seconds the boat had gained the vessel, and the insensible forms of poor Alice and her sister were handed on deck, and were quickly followed by Luke Harden and the other pirates. 
               It would, indeed, be a difficult task to do adequate justice to the feelings of the guilty Sir Raymond at this moment. With the most unspeakable transport he clasped the form of our heroine in his arms; gazed triumphantly in her pale but beauteous countenance, and dared to pollute her lips with his unhallowed kisses, while the ruffian Harden held the unconscious Rose to his guilty breast, and his feelings of exultation were equal to those of the baronet. 
                
               "Luke," at length said Sir Raymond; "you have performed your task well, and I owe you a debt of gratitude which I can never repay. The prize we have so long thirsted to obtain, at last is ours, and what power can now tear it from our grasp!" 
               "Not heaven nor hell shall oppose the gratification of our wishes," answered the miscreant; "the hour of our triumph has arrived; the fair sisters are safe on board the pirate barque, the eye of suspicion rests not on us, the storm has subsided-the darkness of the night favors us, and before the first blush of day shall appear on the eastern horizon, the Bloodhound will be far beyond the reach of pursuit. But see; they revive." 
               A sigh at that moment simultaneously escaped the bosoms of Alice and her sister, and opening their eyes, and beholding themselves in the loathsome embraces of Sir Raymond and Luke Harden, they uttered a cry of horror, and struggled to disengage themselves. 
               "Gracious heaven!" exclaimed our heroine, as she fixed her eyes upon him with an expression of terror, loathing, and disgust; "Sir Raymond Perceval! Miscreant; is it then you who are the author of this monstrous outrage? Oh, villain, villain!" 
               "Milder terms will best become those pretty lips my scornful beauty," he returned, and fixed upon her a look which called the blushes of shame and indignation to her cheeks; "kind fate has at last crowned my wishes; you are mine, I press you with rapture to my throbbing bosom; there is no one here to thwart or obstruct me, and my happiness is complete!" 
               "Oh, God! where are we?" cried both the distracted sisters in a breath. 
               "On board the pirate ship, the Bloodhound!" answered Luke Harden, triumphantly, "which, ere many hours have elapsed, will have borne you away upon the surging billows." 
               "Oh, horror, horror!" shrieked the unfortunate girls; a deadly faintness came over them, their brains turned giddy, and quite overpowered by their emotions, they once more became insensible. 
               Again Sir Raymond and Luke Harden contaminated their hapless victims with their bold and odious caresses, and, as they gazed upon them, their feelings of exultation increased. 
               In less than an hour from the time of Alice and her sister being brought on board, the anchor was weighed, and with the utmost secresy the Bloodhound sailed from the place where she had so long laid moored, in the character of a fair trader, and in the name of the Water Nymph. 
               The reader must now suppose a month to have elapsed since the departure of the Spitfire, and the occurrence of the events recorded in the foregoing chapter. 
               It was Saturday night at sea, and the gallant crew were enjoying themselves to their heart's content. The grog went freely round; the yarn was spun, and the joke, the song, and the dance, were, by turns, called into requisition. 
               'Here, Ben," said Lieutenant Morton, "a word with you." 
                
               "With me, your honor," said Ben. "I-I hope I've done nothing wrong, and that you are not going to overhaul me." 
               The lieutenant looked at him intently and a shade of deep emotion passed over his features. 
               "No, no, my brave fellow," he replied; "you misunderstand me. You are too good a seaman ever to disgrace the jacket you wear. You are a brave lad, Ben. Oh, how proud ought your parents to be of such a son." 
               "Ah, your honor," returned Ben, "that's where it is, you see, that I'm all adrift; because your honor I never had any parents." 
               "How?" 
               "That is, sir, I mean I never knew my parents. I am what they call an innocent foundling. Old Father Neptune was my nurse; salt water was my mother's milk; the only cradle I was ever rocked in was the cradle of the deep, and the blustering wind as it swept o'er the heaving billows, was my lullaby." 
               "Your observations move me strongly," remarked Lieutenant Morton; "pray explain yourself." 
               "Why, you see, your honor," answered our hero, "I might say that poor old Ben Bolt, from whom I take my name, has been both father and mother to me. He picked me up when an infant clasped to my mother's breast, from a crazy boat, about twenty years ago, and-" 
               "Proceed!-proceed-the name of the vessel to which that boat belonged?" 
               "Ah! that they never knew, and my mother couldn't tell them, because, you see, she was dead-murdered, poor soul!" 
               "Dead! murdered!" repeated Lieutenant Morton, and his agitation increased; "Oh, my heart! But tell me, was there nothing found upon her which might lead to a discovery of who she was?" 
               "Yes," replied Ben; "a locket, containing the miniature likewise of a gentleman, was found suspended from her neck." 
               "Ah! and that locket!" cried the lieutenant, eagerly. 
               "Is here!" replied our hero, producing it. 
               Lieutenant Morton snatched it impatiently from his hand, and as he gazed upon it, a groan escaped his breast, and his limbs trembled with a powerful and most indescribable emotion. 
               "Gracious heaven!" he exclaimed; "can I believe my senses? It is-it is the very locket I gave to my wife, my deeply wronged Emeline! The promptings of nature are now explained. My son! my son! 
               And with these words he embraced the astonished Ben frantically, and hysterical sobs, for the present choked his further utterance. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               THE TALE OF SORROW-THE SUSPICIOUS VESSEL. 
               IT was some minutes before our hero could sufficiently recover from his amazement to speak, but at length gently disengaging himself from the arms of the lieutenant, he said: 
                
               "Ah! what! am I dreaming? Your honor-my gallant officer-sir I-I" 
               "No, no," hastily ejaculated his companion; "the tale you have told me-the period at which you were saved-this locket-your features, all convince me of the truth. You are indeed that son whom I had thought was lost to me for ever. Oh, my Emeline, that you should have met with such a dreadful fate! May heaven's curses light upon the head of the inhuman miscreant who perpetrated the hellish deed! Yes, boy, in me you behold the unfortunate author of your being. No longer Lieut. Morton, but Lord Alfred Sidney!" 
               "Lord Alfred Sid-" faltered our astounded hero; "and my father? Oh, have I indeed one whom I can hail by that dear, that sacred name? And that father, too, one of the bravest officers in his Majesty's navy! I-I-oh, I am taken all aback! father! father!" 
               Overcome by his feelings, the young seaman sunk at the feet of his parent and sobbed aloud. Lord Alfred raised him, and once more embracing him, for a few minutes in silence they gave free indulgence to their emotions. 
               "I can scarce believe my senses," said Ben, at last; "your honor-your lordship, the father of such a poor fellow as me!" 
               "'Tis true; but," he added, "you say that your unfortunate mother was murdered; how know you that." 
               "Alas!" replied Ben, with emotion; "poor dear soul, it was too evident; she was fastened to the bottom of the boat, when she was found-quite dead, and a ghastly wound in her side showed too plainly by what foul means she had perished- 
               "Bloodthirsty monster!" exclaimed Lord Alfred, with a shudder; "could not her innocence arrest his remorseless hand?" 
               "Who? who? Oh, tell me how is this?" eagerly interrogated our hero. 
               "Alas! it is a fearful tale," replied his father; "and I almost tremble to reveal it. But I will be as brief as I can, and at another time you shall be made acquainted with the whole particulars. I was once the happy husband of one of the most amiable and lovely of women; and who, to complete my bliss, presented me with one smiling babe, and ah, how bright was the sunshine of our hopes, till a fiend in human form stepped in, and at one fell blow destroyed them all for ever." 
               "Ah! his name." 
               "He called himself Roland Sommerton; but I have reason to believe that was only an assumed one. But hear me out. At the death of my father it was necessary that I should go to Granada in the West Indies, where I had a large and valuable property. My wife and my mother accompanied me; and for some time nothing occurred to interrupt our happiness. It was accident that introduced me to Roland; he did me a great service, and that established a friendship between us, which, heaven knows, was most sincere and fervent on my part. At that time he was a young man of the most prepossessing appearance and insinuating address. He stated that family matters had called him to Granada, and that his father was a large property owner residing ing in England. I believed him, for what reason had I to doubt his statement? I admitted him to my house on terms of the greatest intimacy, and treated him with the regard as if he had been my own brother. The heartless, the unprincipled miscreant, what was the return he made to me for my kindness? He dared to raise his unholy thoughts to my wife-your mother, boy. Aye! well may you start and shudder, while the glow of indignation mantles in your cheeks. Watching his opportunity when business called me from my home, he made a midnight attack upon the house, and forcibly conveyed my beloved Emeline, and yourself on board a strange vessel, which had been anchored for a few days near the coast. It immediately set sail, and left me to misery and despair!" 
               "Oh, villain! villain!" exclaimed our hero; "poor unfortunate mother!" 
               "The next day," continued his lordship, after a brief pause to recover himself; "the next day I returned to hear the awful tale from the lips of my mother, whom he had secured in the house. Oh! my son! judge my feelings! I immediately gave chase in one of my own vessels, but could hear no tidings of her, and it was afterwards supposed that the ship which it was discovered was a pirate, was destroyed in some engagement and that all on board had perished." 
               "But your mother?" 
               "When I returned I found that she had disappeared in a most-mysterious manner, and from that time to this I have never been able to learn anything of her. Broken hearted, I scarcely knew what I was about, and I became disgusted with everything. I sold off my property in Granada, and having been brought up to the sea, I assumed the name of Morton and entered once more into the service. From that hour I have lived alone for revenge, for I cannot help thinking that the false destroyer of my happiness is still in existence, but Fate has hither to not permitted me to meet him." 
               "What a horrible tale is this," said our hero. 
               "Yes, it was indeed a dreadful blow, and I often wonder that I did not go mad. But, my son, for the present let all that I have told you remain a secret confined to your own breast; and-" 
               He was interrupted by the hasty entrance of one of the seamen. 
               "How now, Hawser?" he demanded. 
               "Sail a-head, your honor," replied Hawser. 
               "Have you made her out?" demanded the lieutenant. 
               "A black-craft, your honor, and she flies before the wind like a bird." 
               "Ah! she seeks to shun us, then; that look suspicious. Is the captain on deck?" 
               "He is, sir." 
               "We must crowd all sail in pursuit of this craft, and see what she is made of. On deck, Ben-my-, follow me!" 
               "I'm astonished!" said Ben, when Lord Alfred was gone; "the gallant lieutenant my father, and a great lord! Who would ever have thought that Ben Bolt would arrive at such a dignity? Oh, won't my pretty Alice be astonished? Ah!" he added, as the report of a gun sounded in his ears, "we have saluted the stranger. We shall have some sport presently." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               CABIN IN THE BLOODHOUND-PERILOUS SITUATION OF ALICE-THE CHASE. 
               WE will pass over the sufferings to which Alice and her sister had been exposed from the persecutions of Sir Raymond and Luke Harden; but hitherto they had been able to resist all their importunities, and to bear up against their trials with much greater fortitude than might have been expected. For some days past they had been separated, and Alice was thus left to her own melancholy reflections. Thus was she situated on the evening when the Spitfire was seen bearing down upon them, and most anxiously did she await the result. 
               "Oh, how I shudder," she said, "as I listen to the rude and boisterous mirth of those hardened wretches, and my disordered fancy pictures to me, in still more vivid and torturing colors, the fate which is probably in store for me." 
               She now heard the voice of Luke Harden without, and shuddered with fear. 
               "See to my orders, Redford," he said; "I will be with you on deck again anon." 
               "Ah! the pirate captain comes this way," she said; "oh, heaven protect me." 
               Luke Harden entered the cabin as she spoke. 
               "The wind is in our favor," he muttered to himself, "and we shall yet outstrip them. Now Alice," he added aloud; "still hoisting signals of distress. Thinking of your lubber, I suppose. However, Sir Raymond will be here presently, and perhaps he will be able to arouse you from this gloomy mood." 
               "Oh, villain!" cried our heroine, with a look of disgust. 
               "Villain!" repeated Luke "humph! not very complimentary at any rate. However, I do not disdain the title, for I think my daring deeds upon the dark blue waters have fairly won it. Oh, it was a glorious triumph for myself and Sir Raymond, when we succeeded in capturing such fair crafts as the pretty Alice Maitland and her sister Rose." 
               "Cowardly ruffian!" she replied, firmly, "you bear the outward form of man, and yet can delight to taunt and triumph over the weak and defenceless. But though you and the guilty Sir Raymond hold myself and my sister in your power and threaten our destruction, we will still defy you. We are armed so strong by virtue and justice, that we may boldly laugh your base designs to scorn." 
               "Ha! ha! ha!" laughed the ruffian, triumphantly; "very pretty and heroic. But, hark ye, my proud beauty, the time for forbearance is nearly past; in a few hours we shall arrive at one of my secret haunts among the rocks near the Devil's Creek, and then the triumph o myself and the baronet will be complete." 
               "Oh, never! never!" exclaimed Alice; "heaven will not permit so monstrous a sacrifice!" 
               "Indeed," said Luke; "but you will find that you will be disappointed. 
               Ha, what's in the wind now?" he demanded, as Redford hastily entered the cabin. 
               "The ship is gaining rapidly upon us," replied Redford, "I do not think it is possible to avoid her." 
               "Then we must prepare to give her a hearty welcome," remarked Luke. "She will find the Bloodhound no easy conquest." 
               "I know not, Captain," returned Redford; "I do not like the look of her build, and I'm afraid she might prove more than a match for us." 
               "On deck-on deck!" said Harden; "we have the wind in our favour, the Bloodhound is a clipper, and if I like not her appearance, we must endeavor to give her the slip. Away!" 
               And they both hastily departed, and again left our heroine to herself. They were scarcely gone, however, when Sir Raymond Perceval entered, and advanced boldly towards her. 
               "Beauteous Alice." he said, "even at this moment when danger seems to threaten us, I cannot resist the temptation to visit you, and once more pour into your ears the impassioned sentiments of my soul," 
               "Hold, villain!" she cried; "nor dare to shock my ears with your odious vows." 
               "Nay," he returned "this obstinate and scornful resistance shall avail you not. You are mine, Alice, and by this fond embrace I seal the compact." 
               "Forbear, miscreant!" exclaimed the damsel, retreating; "dare not to approach me; your sight is odious to me, and your very touch would freeze my blood with horror!" 
               "Alice," replied Sir Raymond; "this is no time for trifling, and thus do I seal my happiness on your lips." 
               He seized her in his arms as he spoke and endeavored to put his threats into execution; but she struggled violently. 
               "Unhand me, ruffian!" she cried; "release your hold! Oh, help-help!" 
               Suddenly she snatched a pistol from his belt, and rushing from his arms, levelled it at him, and he started back alarmed. 
               "Villain!" she cried, resolutely; "move but a step-advance but an inch, and my woman's arm, strong in the defence of honor, shall deal you death!" 
               "Confusion!" exclaimed the baronet; "thus foiled and defeated; Alice, I-" 
               "Nay," she said; "dare me not, for I am resolute; offer not to obstruct me, or you die!" 
               Before he could make any reply the door was thrown open and Luke entered followed by Rose, who rushed to her sister's arms, and she dropped the pistol, which Sir Raymond regained possession of. 
                
               "Come, Sir Raymond," said Luke, "we have other business to look to just now. Follow me on deck; the girls will be safe enough here." 
               Redford now appeared. 
               "All I fear is lost," he said; "the vessel skims the ocean like a water-witch. She is nearly within gun-shot of us!" 
               "Have you made her out?" demanded Luke. 
               "Yes; it is the Spitfire." 
               "The Spitfire!" exclaimed Sir Raymond, "'sdeath!" 
               "The Spitfire!" cried onr heroine and Rose, in a breath; "thank heaven, we shall yet be saved." 
               "What is to be done in this emergency?" said Sir Raymond, with a look of alarm. 
               "There is no time to be lost," remarked Luke; "secure the girls in the hold," he added, speaking to the pirates. 
               A gun had been fired from the Spitfire, a signal for the pirates to heave to, and this was quickly answered by one of defiance from the Bloodhound, and the pirates prepared with the greatest coolness and determination for the deadly strife which was about to ensue. A few minutes more and the two vessels were alongside each other, and the conflict then commenced. 
               Just before the Spitfire approached the pirate ship, Lieutenant Morton, as we will still continue to call him, drew our hero aside, and in accents of emotion addressed him: 
               "My son, should the crew of this vessel give us battle, there is no knowing what the result to any of us may be. I may perish, and-" 
               "You perish, my noble father," interrupted Ben, with a look of affection, and grasping his hand-"Heaven forbid!" 
               "Nay, if it is the will of heaven, it must be so," remarked the lieutenant. "Should I happen to fall, I repeat," he continued, as he took a small packet of papers from his pocket, "these documents will be indispensable to you to establish your rights, and to see that justice is done. Take them, my brave boy, and should Fate ever bring you to a knowledge of the monster from whom I date all my sorrows, and those of your murdered mother, do not forget that the wrongs of your parents call aloud for retribution on his guilty head." 
               "If I do," replied Ben, vehemently, "may the curses of the Commander aloft pursue me. But fear not, my father; all will go well. We have nothing to fear from this piratical craft." 
               "True, Ben, my friend," said Harry Helm, who at that moment joined them; "no doubt this business will be settled off hand. I ask your honor's pardon, I didn't see you" 
               "My brave fellow," replied the lieutenant, "you are the friend of-of-Ben Bolt, and I honor you for it. At some future time I may have a better opportunity of convincing you of the sentiments of friendship I entertain towards you." 
               "Oh, your honor's too kind and condescending," said Harry; "but see, we are now nearly alongside the pirate, and no doubt we shall be yard-arm and yard-arm with 'em presently. So we must bear a hand, Ben; for it appears after all that they are resolved not to yield without an effort. Ah! why shiver my timbers! don't you see? If it ain't the very vessel that was lying in the port at the same time as the Spithre, and which they called the Water Nymph." 
               "It is," cried our hero, gazing with a look of astonishment towards the ship. "I could swear to her. So she has been sailing under false colors after all. Well, it strikes me that we shall soon make her humble herself, or the Spitfire will never plough the salt waters again. Dear Alice, may heaven watch over your safety in this moment." 
               "And my faithful Rose, too," said Harry. "But I trust they are both secure from all danger." 
               They had not time for any further observations; the pirates had been called upon to yield, and having replied by boldly opening fire upon the Spitfire, the combat commenced in real earnest. 
               The scene which now ensued was of the most exciting description. The pirates fought with the most determined courage; but it was quite evident they could not long resist their powerful antagonist, and that if they remained obstinate to the last, the destruction of human life which must inevitably take place would be dreadful. In a short time after the commencement of the engagement the pirate vessel, which was greatly shattered from the heavy guns of the Spitfire, was boarded, and then the combat was continued with redoubled courage on both sides. 
               Our hero and Harry, in the confusion of the strife, became separated from Lieut. Morton, and the rest of the sailors who had rushed with them on board the Bloodhound, and fought their way below, while those on deck continued the fight with the most fierce determination. The pirate ship, however, was so much damaged that it was rapidly filling, and must shortly sink, so that the lieutenant gave the word to fight their way back to the Spitfire, and leave the wretches to their fate; when turning round suddenly, his eyes encountered the form and features of Sir Raymond Perceval, who was fiercely engaged by the side of Luke Harden. 
               He started back a few paces and gave utterance to a mingled exclamation of surprise and horror, while the baronet, who recognised him at the same instant, evinced as much emotion and terror as if he had encountered some ghastly phantom. 
               "Powers of mercy!" cried Morton; "it is Roland-the monster whom I have so long sought in vain!" 
               "Aye," replied Sir Raymond, recovering himself; "at last we meet, Lord Alfred." 
               "Miscreant! villain! murderer of my Emeline! revenge! revenge!" exclaimed the infuriated nobleman, as he rushed upon him, and the fight which ensued was frightful. But the danger that threatened every instant became more imminent, and the lieutenant and the sailors were at length compelled to retreat to their own vessel, after leaving many dead and wounded behind them. 
               Loud shrieks were heard, and the next moment cur hero and Harry appeared upon deck with Alice and her sister in their arms, and followed by two or three others of the crew of the Spitfire with old Maud. They all succeeded in reaching the boats, and soon after their ship. From the deck of which they beheld the last vestige of the Bloodhound and her guilty crew sink beneath the gore-stained waves. 
             
             
               CONCLUSION. 
               WE will not detain our readers with any lengthy detail of the voy-of the Spitfire to England. Suffice it to say, that after a pleasant run they safely reached their native shores. 
               Alice and her sister were much shocked at the awful fate of Sir Raymond Perceval; but now that their bitter enemy was no more, their minds were relieved of a weight of care, dread and anxiety, which had before been almost insupportable, and mentally they returned their heartfelt thanks to that Supreme who had mercifully watched over them in the hour of adversity, and rescued them from all the terrible dangers that had formerly surrounded them, and that, too, at the very moment when they thought all hope was at an end. 
               The manner in which these events had been brought about was so extraordinary, that they appeared to be almost incredulous, and they could scarcely believe but that it was all a dream. 
               "So," observed Ben, when they had returned to Woodbine Cottage, and were sitting discussing the important subject; "after many a tough engagement with the enemy, the victory is at last ours, and all the squalls that we formerly had to encounter are at an end." 
               "Yes," returned Mr. Maitland; "thank Heaven, the vindictive enemy of our peace can no more disturb us, and I trust that I shall yet live to see my dear children completely happy, and to be able to bury the gloomy past in oblivion. The ways of Providence are wonderful and just, and ever must our hearts rise in boundless gratitude to heaven for the mercy shown us." 
               "True," coincided Lord Alfred; "a terrible retribution has at last overtaken the guilty, and my heart is relieved of the heavy burthen which before oppressed it. But you, my noble parent," he added, turning to Lady Geraldine, "how can I ever sufficiently express my wonder and admiration at the remarkable energy, patience, and fortitude with which, for so many years you have been enabled to bear up under an accumulation of misery and misfortune, the bare contemplation of which is sufficient to appal even the stoutest heart." 
               "Ah! my son," replied her ladyship; "terrible indeed were the trials to which I was subjected, and at times my spirits drooped before the dreadful ordeal. Scorned, and shunned by the low and vulgar; looked upon as a thing of hate, and doomed to pass my days and nights in a state of solitude even more awful than the grave, what could possibly be more wretched than my fate? But still the hope of vengeance, and of one day being restored to you, sustained me; and I braved everything with a moral and physical courage which it is impossible for me now to look back upon without the most indescribable feelings of wonder der and incredulity. But, thank heaven, my hopes are realized, the blood-stained miscreant who was the cause of all those miseries has at length met with that fate which his diabolical crimes so justly merited. I am again surrounded by those beloved beings who are far more precious to me than my own existence. My every wish is accomplished, and I am satisfied." 
               "Aye," remarked old Ben; "I knew the infernal sharks must at length strike to an enemy who had justice on their side. But now we have cleared the rocks of misfortune, let us toss all dull thoughts overboard, and look forward to the future with the same glad feelings as the toilworn mariner views the white cliffs of old England after his return from a long cruise." 
               With the feelings of honest old Ben, which he so simply, but heartily expressed, every person present coincided, and they continued to converse for some time longer in the same strain. 
               It was several days ere the excitement caused by these events at all abated in the neighborhood, and when the manifold crimes he had committed were taken into consideration, there was no one pitied the awful fate of the guilty Sir Raymond Perceval. As for Alice Maitland and her lover, they could never be sufficiently grateful to heaven for their preservation from so many dangers. 
               A peaceful calm having succeeded these fearful storms of misfortune, Lord Alfred proposed without any further delay to reward the love and constancy of our hero and his "sweet Alice," by uniting their fates together. 
               The happy day was fixed, the nuptials of Harry Helm and the beauteous Rose being appointed to take place at the same time; the ceremony was to be solemnized in the old village church of Mayland, and all was joy and expectation; while the preparations that were being made for the auspicious occasion were on the most extensive scale. 
               The family mansions and domains of Lord Alfred Sidney were situated in one of the most fertile and romantic parts of Yorkshire, and his lordship's disappearance, and all endeavors to ascertain what had become of him or his noble parents leading to the conclusion that they were dead, for many years the family estates had been in the possession of his lordship's nearest relation. Sir Robert Glanville, a most amiable gentleman, who was held in the highest esteem by all who had the honor of making his acquaintance. 
               On his arrival in England his lordship lost no time in writing to this gentleman to make him acquainted with the same, and all the extraordinary particulars that have been related, particularly the discovery of his long lost-son. 
               Only two days previous to the one appointed for the union, Sir Robert arrived at Mayland, and the meeting which took place between him, his cousin, Lord Alfred, Lady Geraldine, and our hero, was of the most cordial description. 
               The happy morn at length arrived, and all was joy and festivity in the village of Mayland, and the surrounding neighborhood. 
               Followed by the blessings of their numerous friends and acquaintances ces, the Hon. Alfred Sidney, alias Ben Bolt, and his long-tried friend Harry Helm, led the beauteous sisters to the altar, where the sacred ceremony was performed with all the due pomp and solemnity. 
               The next day the happy party, of whom honest old Ben was one, departed to the mansion of Lord Alfred, in Yorkshire, where the restoration of their lord, his noble mother, and the introduction of our hero and his beauteous bride was celebrated by the domestics, tenantry, and gentry and nobility, in the most joyous manner for a month. 
               We have little more to add. Ben Bolt and Harry, blessed in the possession of the lovely Alice and her sister, forgot all past troubles, and in future enjoyed all the happiness that Providence could bestow upon them. 
               Mr. Maitland and old Ben resided with those so dear to them for the remainder of their days, and lived to see them surrounded by a numerous family of lovely and smiling children, who as they increased in years, emulated all the virtues of their parents. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
