
    ----CITATION----
        Hazel, Harry, (1814-1889). The Flying Dutchman, or, The Wedding Guest of Amsterdam .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6929
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE FLYING DUTCHMAN; 
               OR, THE WEDDING GUEST OF AMSTERDAM. 
               A Mysterious Tale of the Sea. 
             
            BY CAPTAIN MERRY, UNITED STATES NAVY. 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               H. LONG & BROTHER,  
                     43 ANN-STREET. 
                  
                
               CINCINNATI: 
               H. B. PEARSON & CO.,  
                     17 EAST FOURTH-STREET. 
                  
               
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the Year One Thousand Ei by J. JONES, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court . 
          
       
      
         
            The flying Dutchman, or, The wedding guest of Amsterdam 
             
            THE FLYING DUTCHMAN: 
            OR, THE WEDDING GUEST OF AMSTERDAM. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE FLYING DUTCHMAN OFF THE CAPE. 
               THE last day of February, in the year A. D., 1808, one hour past midnight found the good ship Helena, off the Cape of Good Hope, bound for the Mauritius encountering a terrific storm, which threatened the destruction of the noble vessel and every soul on board. 
               Dense black clouds, like funeral palls, veiled the sky. The crests of the waves shed a wild phosphorescent light, and the wind roared and shrieked among the shrouds, as though it were loaded with invisible demons. Every rag of canvas had been scattered to shreds, for the storm had come on so suddenly that there had been no time to shorten sail. All that the captain could do, was to lash himself to the helm, and keep the ship's head to sea-ward as much as possible, while the tempest each moment increased intensity. 
               Above the roar of the gale, and the astounding lashing of the waves, might occasionally be heard the hoarse cries of the captain, as he would place the speaking-trumpet that hung round his neck to his lips, and give some orders to his crew for the greater safety of the vessel. 
               There was a lull for the moment. The ship rolled heavily in the trough of the sea. 
               "Batten down the fore-hatch now, my men!" cried the mate, "Cheerily there!" 
               "Hold on for life!" roared the captain. "It is coming again!" 
               The words had scarcely left his lips, when the ship lurched over to larboard frightfully, and every soul aboard that fated ship thought their last hour had come; but she righted again, and then they saw what the storms really was, and what it was capable of, in the hour of its wildest fury. 
               Every portable article on deck was whirled away in the air; the larboard bulwarks were stove in as though they had been so much paper, and the foremast came down with all its shrouds and top-hamper, with a frightful crash upon the deck. 
               For the space of a few minutes the battling winds appeared to blow simultaneously neously from every point of the compass. Five men had been swept overboard, and their dying shrieks only mingled for a moment with the maddening war of the elements. A vivid flash of blue lightning for an instant lit up the sea and air, and showed that despair was upon every countenance. A long streak of blood was upon the captain's brow, for he had been struck by a falling spar; but he raised again his trumpet to his lips, and the words, "Clear the wreck!" rose above the gale. 
               "Lost! lost!" shouted the crew, as now the mizzen mast, after bending like a reed, snapped asunder like the crack of a musket, and went over the side. 
               From that moment all discipline ceased-oaths, prayers, wailing sobs, and wild shouts of laughter, arose above the sterm, and the wind roared and whistled amid the torn and dismantled rigging. The waves made a furious lurch right over the vessel, and ever and anon the long vivid flashes of the forked lightning lit up the scene with lurid grandeur. 
               "A sail! a sail!" screamed a voice. 
               That voice was well known in the ship-It belonged to a boy who was the nephew of the captain, and all eyes were eagerly turned to windward, with the hope of seeing the vessel. 
               The captain called out to the lad- 
               "Harry! where is she?" 
               "On the weather-bow, sir, with every inch of canvas set!" answered the boy, in a shrill treble voice. 
               Ere the captain could attempt the utterance of a word of incredulity of such a statement-for well he knew that for any ship to carry sail in such a gale, involved an impossibility-the clouds broke in the east, and a strange yellow light burst over the ocean. One shout arose from every lip, as not three cables' length from the Helena, was seen a large ship coming full towards them, with every stitch of canvas she could carry set to the breeze. It was awful to see it. 
               "Hard lee!" shouted the mate. "She'll run us down!" 
               "No!" shrieked the captain. "No! Oh, God, help us now! It is the Flying Dutchman!" 
               As the words came from his lips, the stately vessel, with all its sails set, shrivelled up and disappeared like a burnt scroll, as it were within twenty yards of the bow of the Helena, and then, as if at the fiat of some one mightier than the winds and the waves, the storm ceased. The dense clouds opened, and left the soft light of the dawn fall upon the deep; the waves hid their crested heads; the gale no longer roared, and, save the seething wash of the sea's surface, there was but little left to point to the fact that such a strife of the elements in their maddest hour had taken place. 
               "God, it's over now!" cried the captain. "Clear the wreck, my lads. Cut away everything." 
               The sailors gave three loud cheers, and then, animated by the idea that the storm was over, they commenced with alacrity ridding the ship of the dragging mass of sails and cordage that hung over her sides into the water. As soon as that was done she righted, and although she was little better than a sheer hulk, she rode the billows bravely. 
               "We are saved, indeed," said the captain to the mate. 
               "Ay, sir, I take it as we is; but it was a close rub that, sir." 
               The captain took the rough seaman by the collar, and placing his lips close to his ear, he said- 
               "Did you see it?" 
               "Ay, ay, sir." 
               "Upon your oath, Wilson, do you not think it was a delusion?" 
               "A collusion, sir?" 
               "No, no-a delusion. Did you, or did you not, Wilson, see a large square-rigged vessel under full sail, bearing down upon us in the midst of the storm, while, if we had hoisted only an inch of canvas, it would have gone to ribbons like a piece of old bunting?" 
               "Yes, I, saw it, and so did the whole ship's crew. Hilloa, my lads! Who saw the strange craft that was going to run into us, and then went off like a wreath o' smoke from the cook's galley?" 
               "All-all!" cried the crew. 
               "And what was it, my hearties?" 
               "The Flying Dutchman!" was the cry from every throat. 
               The captain turned pale. 
               "Where is the boy?" he said. "Where is Frank?" 
               "Here I am, uncle." 
               "Keep by me, Frank. I think that this is the last voyage that any of us will make in the Helena." 
               "Land ho!" cried a man who was on the look out. 
               Capt. Franklin sprang on to the nettings, and with his glass took a long look. 
               "Yes," he said. "There's the Table Mountain. We are nearer the Cape than I supposed. We must get into Table Bay as well as we can. Wilson, get up a jury-mast, and I will be up again soon." 
               "Don't you hurry, sir," said the mate.-"This night has proved almost too much for you, sir." 
               "Very well, Wilson; get her into the Bay if you can. Give the men an extra ration of grog. I will rest if I can, but--" 
               "But what, sir?" 
               "My heart misgives me. The Phantom Ship don't appear for nothing. Well-we shall see-we shall see." 
               "Ah!" said Wilson, when the captain had gone below. "We shall see. If the Helena makes a port, why I'm a Dutchman, that's all. But we will try. The Phantom Ship is a pretty sure sign; but it won't do to discourage the men. Now, shipmates, cheerily to work!" 
               A loud shriek from the captain's cabin at this moment struck upon the ears of the crew, and they all looked at each other in dismay. 
               "What's that?" cried the mate. 
               "Help! help!" shouted Captain Franklin, and he rushed upon the deck more like a mad-man than a human being. Terror was in every feature of his face, and as the early morning light fell upon his eyes, they seemed starting from their sockets. "Help! Oh, help! Mercy! I knew it would come to something! The cabin-the cabin! The Phantom Ship! We are doomed! Doomed are all of us, and the good vessel that has stood between us, and the waves, will never more see her part! The storm was not the work of Heaven! Fiends raised it from the bosom of the deep, and now they are aboard of us. Help!-help! Oh, help! God save us all!" 
               He fell heavily upon the deck of the vessel, before any of his panic-stricken men could interfere to save him, for they all seemed as though they were turned into stone, as they heard their captain wildly utter such a strange and frantic speech. 
               The mate first recovered sufficiently to lift Captain Franklin to his feet, and to cry out: 
               "What is the meaning of all this? Oh, sir, say what it is that has so terrified you. Speak to us now. The sea is getting as smooth as glass, and there's not wind enough to ruffle the curls on a girl's cheek. The old craft, sir, is yet stout and strong." 
               "Where is he now?" cried the captain, faintly. 
               "Who-who?" cried every body. 
               "It's the storm," said an old sailor; "it's the storm that has been too much for him. It takes a younger man to battle with the winds and the waves of this coast, where there is almost always a wild sort of sea running." 
               "No, no!" said Franklin, as these words reached his ears; "do not say that. I can face storms, as I have faced many. Let the wind blow its worst, and let the salt sea lash the bark. I can laugh at its fury; but when we see sights that are more than human, we may well be affected, and shrink before them. Where's Frank?" 
               "Here I am, uncle," cried the boy. 
                
               "What sights! what sights!" cried the crew. "We can't work the ship if there's anything wrong in her. What is it?" 
               "Look to the helm, you lubbers!" said the mate. "Do you mean to let the old Helena float at the mercy of the winds and waves? To your duty, men-to your duty!" 
               The seamen had, as with one accord, crowded round their captain; but now, somewhat abashed at the reproof of the mate, they shrank back to their stations. 
               "I must tell you all," said Captain Franklin. "I have said enough to excite curiosity, and I must satisfy it now." 
               "No, sir, say nothing." interposed the mate. "They are quite frightened enough as it is. There ain't a greater superstitious creature in the world than a sailor. Don't tell 'em anything, Captain. Don't, I beg sir." 
               "It will be worse to leave it to their imaginations; besides, it must be told-there's a stranger in my cabin." 
               "A stranger!" cried every voice. 
               "Avast! belay there!" cried the mate. "If we are to hear it, let's have all the ins and outs of it in a judgmatical way. Silence, all of you, and let the captain speak." 
               You might have heard a pin drop, at that moment. The man at the helm grasped the wheel with both hands, but his head was inclined towards the captain, who, holding on by a gun carriage, with his face as pale as death, and his gray hair dancing in the light wind, that only now swept softly over the ship, thus spake:- 
               "You know, my men, that I had been at the wheel for the whole of the passage of the gale over our fated ship: you know that I flinched not from my duty; and when the storm was over, you know that I went below, being then confident that I might trust you all to work the ship; but-in my cabin there is a stranger. Who and what he is, or how he came there I know not, but there he is. Only a faint light came in by the one open window that I unlocked, as the spray does not reach it now, and there I saw him sitting on a bulkhead, and looking as I never saw mortal look. I cannot go into that cabin again." 
               The captain shuddered, and leant heavily upon the arm of Wilson for support. He was evidently deeply affected. The crew looked aghast at this information, and Wilson cried out- 
               "If there's any one in the captain's cabin, let's have him out of it at once." 
               "I'll go and see," said the boy Frank. 
               "No-oh no!" objected the captain. "You must not, Frank. Do not let him go, I beg of you. I promised his widowed mother that I would shield him from harm. Do not let him go." 
               "Hold hard, Master Frank!" cried Wilson. "This is no boy's business. Let me go, I am not afraid of man or devil!" 
               "But! I am not a boy," said Frank. "I was fifteen last Christmas, and you have no right to call me a boy; and I don't fear fifty men or fifty devils." 
               "Let's all go!" cried one of the crew. 
               "What!" said Wilson, "all the ship's company go together to the captain's cabin, because there is some one there that ought not to be! How many of you lubbers are to get down the companion at once, eh?" 
               The crew drew back. 
               "Avast, all of you," added Wilson. "What manner of man was he, captain?" 
               "Pale and sad, and dressed in an ancient suit of faded brown, trimmed with rusty lace. Oh, Wilson, do not go! I beg of you to be careful of yourself, for if I fail, and I feel that I am failing fast, what is to become of the old Helena, if you are not up to the point?" 
               "Never fear for me, Captain. I haven't ploughed the salt sea, man and boy, for forty years, to be afraid at a trifle, and if it were the devil himself, or even the Flying Dutchman, Vanderdecken--" 
               A shout of surprise and terror arose from the crew, as at this moment a tall dark figure arose up the companion way leading to the captain's cabin. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE SPIRIT IN THE BOAT 
               THE ship's company of the Helena might well be excused for regarding the personage who ascended to the deck from the captain's cabin with a fearful and absorbing interest. 
               In person, he was thin to emaciation; rather above the middle height, and his face and hands were of deathly paleness; he wore a sort of plum-colored suit of apparel, open at the knees, and then laced with a rusty silken cord. The sleeves of his jacket or doublet were long and slashed; his hose was of a dusky brown, and his shoes were adorned with massive silver buckles; he wore a three-cornered hat, and a mass of jet-black hair descended to his shoulders; a broad black belt was round his waist, to which hung a canvas bag. Weapons he had none-at least none were visible. 
               Such was the figure that with a slow and stately step came up from the cabin and faced the crew. Consternation and terror sat upon every face. 
               "'Tis he-'tis he!" cried the captain, and he fainted and fell upon the deck. 
               The crew all shrank back to the farther end of the vessel, excepting Wilson and the boy. 
               "Who are you? Where do you come from?" asked Frank. 
               "Ah!" cried Wilson, in a voice hoarse with contending feelings. "Who are you, and where do you come from?" 
               The figure advanced a step or two. 
               "Keep back!" cried the boy, as he strove to drag the insensible form of his uncle out of reach of the extraordinary appearance-"Keep back! you have no business here." 
               In a soft, melancholy voice, the deep cadences of which were irresistibly attractive, the figure spoke- 
               "Kind and gentle friends," it said. "Is there no pure humanity in all your souls? Can you have no pity for a shipwrecked man, who is thrown upon your mercy? Oh, be gentle and kind to one whom fate has thrown into your hands. Am I so wild and terrible that you should all shrink from me? Ah, no-ah, no." 
               That "Ah, no," was so exquisitely musical, that it lingered upon the air like the memory of some half forgotten tune. Frank looked at Wilson, and Wilson looked at Frank. Fear was subsiding into wonder, and then the boy said- 
               "But how came you here? and who are you?" 
               "My ship," said the stranger, as he waved his arm. "My ship went down in the storm. But I am a bold swimmer, and I made my way through the surging waters. I clutched the stern-galley of your vessel, and made my way into the cabin. I am a shipwrecked man, and ship-saved likewise. Will you pity me?" 
               Again the last words that came from the lips of the mysterious stranger sounded like the wail of some distant music. As this brief conference had proceeded, the crew had crept closer and closer to the spot upon which it was taking place, and the captain, too, showed signs of consciousness. 
               "Hush! hush!" cried Frank. "There is nothing to fear. Look up. Hush! Indeed, there is nothing to fear now." 
               "Then, he is gone?" sighed the captain. 
               "Alas!" said the stranger, holding up both his hands; "what have I done that I should awaken such terror in the heart of a brave man? What have I done that I should be shrunk from with horror? The wild waves have spared me, and will man reject me?" 
               The captain's eyes fell upon the figure of the stranger guest, and with frantic vehemence, he cried- 
                
               "Away with him! Overboard with him! He is not of this world! Away with him, I say. Look into his eyes. They have not the light of life in them. We are doomed while he is with us!" 
               "Oh, this is sad!" said the stranger. "This is sad, indeed! and in a Christian vessel. I ask of you nothing but what you all freely ask for, and freely get, if your ship had been wrecked. There were many mortal souls, but they all perished. I only wish a passage in this bark to your port, after you leave this part of the world." 
               "No, no!" cried the crew. 
               "Sad again," said the stranger. "Look, my noble comrades of the ocean! I have gold that will pay you well for my passage; and I am still and inoffensive. Behold!" 
               He poured out of the little canvas bag that was attached to his waist a number of pieces of money; but they were all so black with age and tarnish, that it was quite impossible to say of what metal they were made. One of them dropped upon the deck at his feet. 
               "You all see," he said, "that I can pay. These are broad gold pieces and will satisfy you. Take them all, so that you carry me to Europe, and land me at-at-" 
               "Amsterdam!" cried a sailor." 
               "Yes," said the stranger, "at Amsterdam!" and as he spoke the word, there was the same soft musical cadence in his voice that had been so striking before on addressing Frank and Wilson. 
               "I knew it," added the sailor, stepping forward, "I knew it." 
               "You knew what?" said Wilson. 
               "That he wants to go to Amsterdam. Look at him-look at his clothes, and the tarnished lace, messmates; look at his gold, as black as ink; look in his face. Of course he wants to go to Amsterdam. Did you never hear that Vanderdecken, the captain of the Flying Dutchman, always wants to get a passage to Amsterdam, for which he would pay any price?" 
               "Vanderdecken!" cried the crew, as they recoiled with horror from the vicinity of the stranger. 
               "Yes," added the old sailor, in a voice struggling with excitement. "His ship went down, as he says, on our weather-bow; but it was the Phantom Ship, and he was her captain. Look at him now." 
               The stranger smiled faintly. 
               "Vanderdecken; Vanderdecken!" cried the crew. 
               "Nay, my noble messmates," said the stranger, "you give too much way to idle superstition. Look at this gold-will not a hundred of such broad pieces pay you well for the passage of one man?" 
               "Tis he," shouted Captain Franklin. "'Tis Vanderdecken, the Captain of the Flying Dutchman, and he will prove a Jonah to our ship. We will not take him for all his gold. He knows well that we are bound to the Mauritius, thence to take ivory to Amsterdam, and he would secure a passage with us. If Vanderdecken can once get passage in a Christian vessel to Amsterdam, which is his port, he will get rid of the curse that clings to him." 
               "Alas! alas!" said the stranger. 
               "He admits it," cried the captain. "Away with him. Cast him overboard, my men; we will not have him in the ship. No vessel can live that has him on board." 
               "Oh, this is wicked and cruel," said the stranger. "I stand before you here as a Christian man, in a Christian ship. I am saved from the fury of the elements, but I am not saved from the fury of my fellow creatures." 
               "Away with him! Overboard with him!" cried the sailors, and they advanced threateningly. 
               "Nay, look at the gold, the sea air has tarnished it a little, but it is like many a human heart, rough and dark-looking on the outside, but within of purest ore." 
               "Overboard with him! It is Vanderdecken! Down with him! He is accursed! Kill him!" 
                
               "If I am accursed, why is it that Heaven has spared me? Oh, if you be men, I implore you grant me the passage that I ask of you. Only to Amsterdam-to the port of Amsterdam. You all understand me? I will enrich every man in the ship. There is more gold-gold in heaps, to be got. But, oh! if you have Christian souls and hearts, take me to Amsterdam." 
               The shouts of the sailors now assumed the most threatening aspect, and cries of "Vanderdecken! Down with him! Into the sea! Slay him!" were shouted in every possible variety of intonation. 
               "You hear, bad spirit," cried Captain Franklin, vehemently, "that this is no place for you. Each moment, my men, that he remains on board our vessel, she settles in the water. Yonder is Table Bay; if we would reach it, he must be got rid of. He is the Jonah, I tell you, who will be our destruction else." 
               With yells and cries of rage, and with the feelings of men who were about to make an effort for their lives, the sailors seized upon various weapons, and in a threatening mass advanced. 
               "What would you?" said the stranger. "Here is a ship, there is the sky, and below is the sea. Where would you that I should go?" 
               "Over-over with you!" they shouted; "we won't have you here. Overboard with you, as you came, you may go." 
               "Yet a word." 
               "No, no. Not one-not one! Over with him." 
               Another moment, and they would, with pikes and hatchets, and some with cutlasses, have made a simultaneous attack upon the stranger; but Frank threw himself between them and him, crying out with all the power of voice he was master of- 
               "No! I say, this is unfair. It is cowardly." 
               The infuriated men paused. 
               "You shall not kill him! You shall not throw him overboard. I don't want to keep him in the ship more than any of you. He may be what you say. He, perhaps, is Vanderdecken; but that's no reason why we should do a dastardly thing. If you will make him leave the ship-" 
               "He shall-he shall!" yelled twenty loud voices. 
               "Well, then, the sea is calm, and Table Bay is only some eight or nine knots ahead of us. Give him or lend him a boat, and let him go; but, boy, as I am, I won't see any one, if he were ten times Vanderdecken the Flying Dutchman, cut down like a pirate, or thrown into the sea like a rotten plank. It's unmanly, and not like true tars. You shan't do it-you won't do it." 
               The revulsion of feeling in favor of the proposition of Frank was immediate. A rousing cheer burst forth from the sailors, and there was a loud shout of- 
               "A boat-a boat! Give him a boat!" 
               The storm had swept away all the boats but one very small yawl that hung at the stern, and that had received some damage. Nevertheless, it was speedily let into the water, and then there was a general cry of- 
               "Away with him-away with Vanderdecken." 
               The figure slowly moved to the side of the vessel, and then turning and smiling very sweetly, while a gentle look came across the whole face, he said- 
               "Frank Wilding." 
               "That's me," said Frank. "He knows my name pat enough, though it has not been mentioned." 
               "Frank Wilding, take this piece of gold. Nay, boy, do not shrink. I do not give it to you as money. Keep it ever about you as you follow your profession on the sea; and while it is with you, the waves may boil and bubble around you, and the wild winds may do their worst-the gaping planks of the best and bravest ship that ever stemmed the sea may part beneath your feet, but you shall not go down. This will preserve you." 
               Frank held out his hand, and the stranger dropped one of the broad gold pieces into it. Then lightly mounting over the side of the vessel, he dropped into the boat. 
               "Cast off!" cried Wilson; and the boat was alone upon the water. The ship was soon some twenty feet from it, and then they saw the stranger stand up in it, and clasping his hands above his head, he cried in a wailing voice- 
               "A passage to Amsterdam! a passage to Amsterdam! Will no Christian ship take a benighted soul to Amsterdam?" 
               There was then one loud shriek, and boat and stranger both in one instant disappeared below the surface of the sea. 
               A shudder pervaded the crew of the Helena, and each one looked in his neighbor's face, as though there he hoped to gather some courage that he felt not himself. 
               "He is gone," cried Captain Franklin; "and we may all live to see port again. Frank, do not, as you value your happiness, retain his gift." 
               "Oh, yes, master," said the boy. "I'll keep it; there can't be any harm in an old gold coin." 
               "If's there's any good," said one of the sailors, who had been most violent in denouncing the stranger passenger, "here is another of 'em that he dropped upon the deck." 
               As he spoke, the sailor stooped to pick up the piece of gold that had dropped through the fingers of the mysterious stranger when he showed his money from the canvas bag. 
               The sailor had no sooner got that piece of gold in his hand, than he gave such a roaring cry, that he startled every body in the ship, and every one crowded round him. 
               "Help!-fire!-murder!" he shouted. "Oh-oh-oh!" 
               "What's the matter?" cried every body, in a breath. 
               The piece of money had gone, festering and hissing like a red-hot ball, right through his hands, and falling upon the deck, it still burnt its way right on through the planking into the cabin below, and through its floor again, and soon was right through the ship, until, with a hissing noise, it reached the sea. 
               Consternation sat upon every face, and all was still as death aboard the Helena. 
               "God of Heaven!" cried the captain, "where will all this end?" 
               "A leak in the hold!" shouted a man from below. "A leak in the hold, and the water is bubbling in fast." 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               CONDUCTS THE READER TO AMSTERDAM. 
               LEANING now the good ship, or rather the once good ship Helena, we beg the reader's company to the ancient city of Amsterdam. 
               It is the summer time; the trees are in full leaf, and from every balcony the gorgeous tulip shakes its flaunting head. There is in and about the whole city an air of sleepy contentment, as though all its inhabitants had had quite enough of the world, and were intent upon a long rest by the shore of the placid canals and dykes of the city. 
               On this special occasion, however, there was one mansion which bore an exception to the general rule. This was the mansion of Mynheer Von Straken; and from the interior of it came forth sounds indicating that something of an unusual character was going on within. 
               In a large apartment upon the ground floor an extensive party was assembled. These were the Von Strakens for no less than three generations-that is to say, in some degree, for an old lady of ninety-two years of age was the representative of the first generation, and a chubby little girl the representative of the last. Liquor was flowing in abundance, and a dance in wooden shoes, to the music of a violin and a wind instrument, had just been perpetrated upon the highly-polished floor of the room, which had ended in a couple suddenly reaching it with a shock that would have materially discomposed any young lady but a Dutch one. 
                
               The fall of the couple seemed to be considered as a good joke, for it was greeted with a roar of laughter. Old Von Straken himself was so much amused at the fall of the couple, that he actually took his pipe from his mouth, and said- 
               "Dunder and blitzen-ah!" 
               The young lady who had fallen regained her feet, and when she faced the light, a prettier pair of eyes, rosier cheeks, and sweeter lips never tempted a mortal, than those belonging to the young and lovely Wilhemina, the daughter of Von Straken. 
               "I'll not dance with him again," said she, pouting as she crossed the room, "and what is more, I won't have him at all now." 
               "Vat do I hear?" cried Von Straken; "you mine child won't have the great Simpson & Co." 
               "No, father. Why should I have him? You know there's Von Strogokiff who loves me, and-I don't know how many others-but nothing will satisfy you but my marrying the Englishman, and he's so-so-" 
               "So what?" cried half a dozen. 
               "So thin!" replied Wilhemina, and she burst into tears. 
               By this time the author of the disaster of the fall had, after a number of ineffectual attempts, scrambled to his feet, and got rid of the wooden shoes with which he had been accommodated to dance the national figure which had ended in his sudden downfall. He was a slim young man with rather a profusion of light hair, and the undoubted representative of the house of Simpson & Co., of London, who traded with Amsterdam, and whose agent in Amsterdam was Mynheer Von Straken. 
               "Well," he said, "upon my 'onor I havn't had such a downer as that since I don't know when. I tell you what it is, Mr. Straken-you ought to do something to this floor to take the polish off. Why, one might as well try to dance on the polish off the floor." 
               There was a great uplifting of hands at this, and the ladies looked upon Mr. Tom Simpson as rather a barbarian than otherwise; but as that individual had been sent to Amsterdam on purpose to consolidate the interests of the houses of Simpson and Straken by a union in his own proper person with the angelic Wilhemina, they were not disposed to take affront even at the polished condition of the place of his father-in-law that was to be; and putting on a look of hilarity, he said- 
               "Come now, my duck, never mind the trouble; why, I have seen folks fall down while waltzing in London even." 
               "I don't love you," said Wilhemina. 
               "You don't like-you-don't love me!-Ha, ha!-that is rather impossible." 
               Mr. Simpson settled his cravat, which was of a bright blue, with such little yellow sprigs of flowers upon it as never were seen; and arranged his waistcoat, which looked as though it were fastened to him by the contortions of a gold chain that went round and round it, and in one button-hole, and out at the other, in the most extraordinary manner. "Not love me? Ha, ha!" he continued; "that is a joke. Let me tell you what it is, Miss, you are the prettiest girl I ever saw. There's Jane Williams, she's ready to eat me up; and then there is Matilda Batters. Lord bless you! she would if she could, only the parish don't allow it, pull up the paving stones that I step on, and have them in bed with her! Oh, she is so fond of me. But it must he said, if it were the last word I had to say in the world, that you are the sweetest girl my eyes ever beheld." 
               "But you ought not to fall down," said Wilhemina. 
               "Ah, mine tear childer," said old Straken. "Mine peautiful childer, kiss and pe frients. Ha!" 
               "I won't," said the maiden. 
               "Oh, tish too pad; I must fill mine pipe again; tish too much. Ha! mine two leetel childer, come to mine arms, poth of ye. Wilhemina, I vill give you de house by de boompier, all for your own self; and more, Tom Simpson & Co., I will give you one tousand gilders more with mine own child-ha!" 
               "Very good," chimed in Simpson. "I will answer for the old man in Newgate gate Street, that he will fork out for us another thousand on the strength of yours, Mr. Straken, and if we don't do well, then it will be very odd. Come, my Wilhemina, let's have a kiss, and be friends again. Oh, you love." 
               "Will you always love me?" she inquired. 
               "To be sure I will." 
               "And be submissive and obliging, and let me have my own way." 
               "Oh, of course." 
               "You know that you are ugly, and that I don't and can't love you, but suppose I-" 
               "Oh, that will do, my dear," said Tom; "we don't want to be particular. All we desire is love among the roses and all that sort of thing; and as Holland is a nice quiet place, where one can enjoy life without any disturbances-" 
               Bang-bang-whang, rattle boom! came a thunder-clap that made the old mansion tremble from the roof to its foundation. 
               A scream burst from the lips of the ladies present. Wilhemina caught hold of Simpson and fell with him again upon the highly polished floor. Old Straken dropped his pipe, and the greatest terrors prevailed among them all. 
               "One storm," said the old man. 
               "Der Tuyfel!" said Tom Simpson, trying his tongue at Dutch. 
               "Oh, we shall all be killed!" cried Wilhemina; "it is the end of the world! we shall all be killed." 
               Boom! came a dull heavy sound upon the air. It was a gun from some ship at sea. Every one waited a moment or two in breathless surprise; and then the report was again heard. 
               "A wreck in the Zuyder Zee!" exclaimed the old Dutchman. "Ha, somebody will have his pipe out, I'll warrant. Ha!" 
               Darkness now began to spread itself over the sky; dense black clouds were careering over the sky from sea, and every minute there came the dull sound of the gun from the sea, while now and then a loud peal of thunder would awaken every echo in the old city. 
               The festivities at the house of Mynheer Von Straken were suspended; crowds of people began to fly through the streets, and Amsterdam might be said truly to be frightened from its tranquillity. 
               "I don't hear te guns now: te goot ship is gone town," said the old Dutchman, refilling his pipe as if nothing had happened. "I saw a ship go town vonce-ah!" 
               "When was that?" inquired young Simpson. 
               "Dat is von strange story-yaw; if mine tear childer will sit town, I vill tell it all to you now; 'twill make your hair to sthand and, yaw, and durn all your plood to cream cheese, ha!" 
               "Oh, father," said the pretty maiden, "you have often promised to tell that story." 
               "Yaw, mine child, but I vash not like to tell you; put it now seems as if a voice said to me-Mynheer Von Straken, tell te sthory of te wreck, and te mysterious man vot gave you te proad golt pieces, and den went up te chimney. Now listen. Perhaps you don't know, any of you dat dish house pelonged to te celeprated Captain Vanderdecken, now called the Flying Dutchman." 
               There was a movement of terror among the guests. 
               "Yaw," resumed the old man; "von huntred and tirty years ago he lived in dis house, and te bortrait over te chimney-piece is te bortrait of his vrow. Ubstairs in von old room, vere dere is a ped dat noboty has slept in since the captain did, dere is von old box vith some of his clothes, and many oder dings about te room vat as his. Mine grandfader, Solomon Straken, pought de house of te good provisor Vanderdecken-it has peen in our family ever since." 
               "But that is not the story, father," said the sweet Wilhemina. 
               "No, mine tear, tish not; put how tark it gets." 
               "It is sunset," said one of the guests; "we had better have lights." 
                
               "No," said the old man. "Mine goot frients, te story had petter pe told vithout a light, for it's quite sure to frighden you all, and den you von't see one anoder." 
               They drew closer together around the old man, who, after about half a dozen extraordinary whiffs of his pipe commenced thus: 
               "Dere vash a storm as dere is now, and it vas dish time of te year, ven many ships of many nations come to trade vith te old city. The dunder and blitzen-oh!" 
               A thunderbolt seemed at that moment to explode just above the house, and Wilhemina sank upon her knees at her father's feet, while Tom Simpson screwed up his lips, and tried to whistle a tune, but failed entirely. 
               "Ah! dat vash te vay te dunder come, and den de blitzen-mine cot!" 
               Whiz-z-z! came a bewildering flash of lightning past the window of the room. 
               "Oh father, father!" entreated Wilhemina, "do not tell the story now. At some other time when there is no storm, but not now. It seems as if the storm rages worse and worse as you proceed." 
               "Mine child," said the old man, "something seems to say to me just now, 'Von Straken, tell dat terrible story apout the wreck,' and so I must tell it. Never mind te sthorm, but listen to me-ah!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE MYSTERY OF THE UNBIDDEN GUEST. 
               "WELL, mine childers," resumed old Von Straken, "dere vash a storm like as now; and dere vash a ship out peyond te Zuyder Zee, and she fired goons of distress-boom! boom! every minute, and I vash out 'pon de goast, and saw te light, and te pleu rockets she sent up all in von great plaze; and then town vent te ship-right town into te sea, and te vater come pubbling up ash von caultron; and ven it vash all over, and te goot peoples say not a soul vash saved, I came home vith mine heart heavy at te thoughts of te brave men dat vent town in te ship, an' te nutmegs made me veep-ha!" 
               "How did nutmegs make you weep, father-in-law that is to be?" cried Tom Simpson. 
               "They all vent town, town! the ship had a cargo of nutmegs. Oh, oh! it vas sad to think of. I came home and sat in dis chair, ven dere came a loud rap at te outer toor, and an old servant, named Maria, opened it, I heard some one talking in te hall, and den dat toor opened and a man came into dish room vith a face so vite as von plank sheet of paber. He said, 
               "'Mynheer Von Straken, I am the only, only one who was saved from the wreck in the Zuyder Zee; will you give me shelter for my weary head, for I am forlorn and desolate.' 
               "Vith mine childers I vas smoking mine pipe, just ash now, and I said-Yes, come in, mine goot man, and den he crebt up te fire, and he said, 'Mynheer Von Straken, you are goot man.' Yaw, said I. 'And you have a sweet little child, Wilhemina?' Yaw, said I. 'The good people in the city tell me that she is fair as a rose, and like a tulip in her beauty, and that her voice is more sweet as a canary on a house top than a little girl's. 'Yaw, dat ish te truth, said I. 
               "Oh, what a nice man he must have been," said Wilhemina. "Did you not pity him, father, and give him the best the old house could afford?" 
               "I did, mine child, I did; and he took his pipe and we sat and smoked py te chimney-side, and den he said, as he bulled a box out of his preeches bocket, 
               "'I have here, Mynheer Von Straken, a little string of jewels, which I will leave with you.'" 
               The old man had got only thus far in his narrative, when there came a violent rapping at the door, and every body started up in amazement. Wilhemina shrieked ed out, and Tom Simpson made a violent effort to crowd himself into the chimney-corner. 
               "Oh, dear, murder!" he cried; "what does it all mean? Is that him at the door?" 
               At this really awful suggestion. Wilhemina turned as pale as death, and the guests made such a rush to the end of the room where Von Straken was, that that exemplary person was upset, chair, pipe, and all, into a corner, where he lay, looking the picture of misery and helplessness. 
               Bang came the rap at the door again, and then the black servant of the family rolled into the room, crying- 
               "Oh, massa, him sailor at 'em door, and he say him a shipwreck, and want to ab de pleasure ob seeing ob you, massa." 
               "Oh, ter tuyfel, I'm not at home," gasped the old Dutchman. 
               "Massa him not at home!" cried the negro. "Oh, Lor bress me, him sailor hab come in. Only tink, massa-it jolly long way to the shipwrack, and de chap am here a'ready. Oh, Lor! dat what me call witchcraft, massa." 
               The negro had left the door open, and now upon its threshold there stood a tall figure, enveloped in a cloak. All eyes were bent upon it; and then, amid the intense stillness of the room, the figure slowly advanced, and in a soft voice of peculiar beauty, spoke- 
               "Much I fear," he said, "this is an intrusion; but a large ship has gone to pieces off the coast, and I am the only survivor, I fear, of the wreck. May I hope that some compassion will be shown to me here, for when I inquired, as I came along in the city, who was the most kind and hospitable man in Amsterdam, the people said, Mynbeer Von Straken; and then they pointed out the house to me." 
               By the time this speech from the stranger was finished, Von Straken had been raised from the corner into which he had fallen, and Wilhemina felt assured that the stranger had the finest eyes she had ever seen in all the world. 
               "If," continued the stranger, "my presence here is a great intrusion-and, alas, the presence of the unfortunate is too often considered to be such-I will go at once; but yet I linger, with the hope that it is not so." 
               "No, no," gasped Mynheer Von Straken. "No, Oh, tear, no. I-dat ish-mine pipe. Van-Oh no, not at all." 
               "I truly thank you, sir," said the stranger, "and I thank also this good company, with all my heart and soul." 
               "But I say, old fellow," cried Tom Simpson, "how comes it that you are here, when the ship is a good five miles off, and the minute guns of distress have only been fired a little while ago?" 
               "When the storm raged," replied the stranger, "some of the crew were washed overboard, some lashed themselves to portions of the rapidly breaking-up vessel, and rather chose to trust to the mercy of the winds and the waves than to the chances of being sucked down in the vortex of the sinking vessel. I was one of those who, with only a plank between me and eternity, chose to go into the sea. A friendly current drove me to the shore, and in a but on the banks of a stream that you call the gilder stream, a peasant lent me this suit of dry clothing, which I fear is old-fashioned." 
               As he spoke he took off his large cloak, and then they all saw that he had on a suit of plum-colored cloth, made in a very ancient style of cut and fashion. Old Von Straken groaned loudly, and goggled his eyes about in such a way that his pretty daughter became alarmed, and two of the guests banged him about to prevent him from fainting. 
               "Oh, father," she cried, "what is the meaning of all this? Do you know this gentleman?" 
               "No-yes-that is-no, I don't-mine pipe!" 
               "It is here, father-it is here." 
               "Oh, gentle maiden," said the stranger, "you are rare and beautiful; and your heart spotless as the conscience of a dove! What a glorious tress of silky hair is this!" 
                
               
                   
                     Von Straken conducts the mysterious stranger to his bed-chamber. See p.23 
                  
                
                
                
               As he spoke, he passed his fingers across one of the long tresses of her hair, which had escaped from the silken net that confined the remainder of her curls. She smiled, and with a strange abstracted look, she stood as though entranced. 
               "Aye," added the stranger, "such a lock of hair as this it was that I once pressed to my heart, amid the strife of the billows, and then I heard a faint voice sing; 
                      
                        'The ship's on the billow, 
                        The wind whistles free; 
                        But the pledge of your true love 
                        Is still dear to thee. 
                     
                      
                        The wild waves may rack, 
                        And the storm-cloud may lower, 
                        But the pledge of your true love 
                        Is sweet in that hour.' 
                     
                  
                
               "And that pledge was a lock of hair like this." 
               The stranger pressed the long silky tress of hair to his lips. A shudder passed through the form of the maiden, and yet pleasure beamed from her eyes. 
               "Come, I say," said Tom Simpson, "I don't see the fun of all this. I tell you what it is, Mr. shipwrecked sailor, or whatever you are, you will be so good as kiss your own intended, not mine." 
               Old Von Straken suddenly rose to his feet, and with unwonted energy cried out." 
               "Help, all of you! Help to turn him out! Vere ish te goon? Oh, vere ish my grandfather's goon?" 
               This effort of the old man's was so great a one, that after he had made it, he fell back in his chair again in a half swoon. Wilhemina became alarmed, but instead of appealing of those old friends who were about her, it was to the mysterious stranger that she turned, saying- 
               "O sir, he is my father; what shall I do? Is he very ill?" 
               "No, fair one, he is not," said he; "and I am sure he would like to speak with me alone." 
               "Would you, father?" 
               The old man nodded his head in acquiescence, and at Wilhemina's request, the guests all retired into another apartment. 
               The tone of voice in which the stranger had addressed the maiden, was to her inconceivably sweet, and appeared to dwell in the air, and to linger in the ear like some soft echo. 
               The old Amsterdam merchant was alone with his mysterious guest. 
               There was a fire burning on the iron dogs on the ample hearth; for although the summer had come, the damp of that low-lying district required a cheerful blaze to render the apartment comfortable. The wind, too, moaned hoarsely past the lattice windows, and a strange sound came from afar. It was the subdued roar of the sea, which in the old city always has a very strange effect to visitors. 
               "Von Straken, do you know me?" at length asked the mysterious stranger. 
               A slight movement of his hands was the only reply that the merchant could make to him. 
               "Enough; I see that you know me; others may have their doubts about me, but you have none. Oh, Von Straken, do you remember your oath?" 
               The old man, with a groan, moved his hands again. 
               "You must speak to me," said the stranger. "It is necessary that you and I converse. Do you know what date this is, old man? Can it have slipped your memory that this is one of the anniversaries of meeting with you. Surely your memory can travel back the space of eleven years?" 
               "I have not forgotten," essayed the Dutchman; "put-put-" 
               "But what?" 
               "I thought you would never come after so long a dime." 
               "Yes, old man, I knew what you thought; but you see that I am here, and you recognize me. When last we met I gave you a string of jewels of rare value, and I warned you that you were not to take more than one from the rest in each year, and convert it into capital, for the purpose of carrying on your mercantile affairs. Was it not so?" 
               "Yaw-yaw." 
               "'Tis well. When I came here you were a poor man; you were on the verge of bankruptcy; and this old house, which your grandfather had bought, you were on the point of being compelled to give up to your creditors. Is not that true?" 
               "Yaw-it ish true." 
               "But the first jewel from the twenty-five that I gave you, and that you sold, produced three thousand gilders. Then you emerged from your poor condition, and from time to time you kept your word, and only parted with one jewel in one year; you have thriven and become a rich man; your ships crowd the quays of Amsterdam, and you have successful venturers in every port in the world. You are rich, Von Straken?" 
               "Yaw." 
               "Well-there was a condition accompanying the gift." 
               The old merchant slid off his chair on to his knees, and lifting up his hands, he said. 
               "Oh, mine Cot, no, no! Do not come now to take from me the light of my old age-the treasure of my house-the diamond of my heart! What to me are all my riches-all my spacious warehouses-all my ships-if you take from me forever mine only tear, tear child." 
               A rattling peal of thunder at this moment shook the old house, and the portrait that was on the chimney-piece, of Vanderdecken's wife, fell with a crash to the floor. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               A MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCE. 
               VON STRAKEN rose from his knees, and uttered a cry. 
               It reached the ears of his guests, and Wilhemina rushed into the room, and towards her father, exclaiming- 
               "Oh, father, father, what has happened? Help! help! The lightning has struck him!" 
               "No," said Von Straken; no-it has not." 
               "Oh, thank Heaven!" 
               The mysterious stranger stood with his back against the wall, and his arms folded across his chest. At first he was not observed by the guests, who had rushed in after Wilhemina; but Simpson saw him, and going towards him, he said- 
               "I tell you what it is, old fellow, I don't want to say anything unpleasant, but the sooner you take yourself off from here, the better." 
               "I have business with Mynheer Straken," said the stranger. "It is wonderful that the fall of an old portrait from these time-worn walls should cause so great a tumult. There it lies." 
               All eyes were now directed to the portrait that lay upon the floor; and one of the guests cried out- 
               "Why, it's the portrait of Vanderdecken's wife! he who is now the Flying Dutchman, and who cruises, in fair weather and foul, off the Cape, and can never double it, or touch the land again." 
               "Yes, it is the portrait of her you speak of," said the stranger; "but my business is with Mynheer Straken. I am sure the fair Wilhemina will not say that I shall go. Alas, there are many poor souls with Vanderdecken in his fated ship!" 
                
               He gently touched Wilhemina's arm as he spoke. She shuddered, and yet smiled; and then, in a strange, wild, plaintive voice, he sang, or rather repeated in a kind of recitative: 
                      
                        "The wild winds are dashing 
                        That ship on the sea; 
                        From the storm of the ocean 
                        It sighs to be free. 
                        But the curse has gone forth, 
                        And it stems the salt wave, 
                        Washed by tears of the trustful, 
                        The good, and the brave." 
                     
                  
                
               There was a pause, and a death-like stillness reigned in the room for a few minutes. Wilhemina smiled sadly, and it was evident that she was in a state of strange abstraction. The chanting tone in which the stranger spoke to her, seemed to have deprived her of all consciousness of surrounding objects. 
               "Mine child-mine only child!" exclaimed the old man. 
               She started as though awakened from a dream, and gazed around her. 
               "Where am I? Oh, father, what has happened?" 
               "Noding, mine child, noding, tarling tear. Leave me now; leave me, all of you, I bray you. I have pusiness, inteed, mit dis man." 
               Wilhemina, in obedience to the orders of her father, left the room, the guests following; and the merchant and his mysterious guest were again left alone. 
               "I will resume my discourse," said the latter, after a moment's pause. "You made me a promise, bound by an oath that in its conditions called down perdition upon your head if you broke it in word and spirit. I have the contract here!" 
               He took a metal box from his pocket, and slightly tapped its lid. 
               "Oh, mine cot!" exclaimed the old man in agony. "Will nothing content you but the fulfillment of the bond?" 
               "Nothing." 
               "Oh, consider. I am getting old now, an' Wilhemina is de brop of mine house; te vine of my heart: te light, te joy--" 
               "But I gave you the jewels," interrupted the stranger, "telling you take one and dispose of it, but not to take more than would meet your wants, and to trade industriously." 
               "I did; I took but one." 
               "You showed me in her cot a sleeping child." 
               "Mine Wilhemina!" 
               "Yes, and you swore that if, when she arrived at woman's estate, I came to claim her as MY BRIDE, that she should be mine if a father's commands and influence could bring her to the union. I am here to claim fulfillment of my bond. Wilhemina is fair, and I am here to make her mine." 
               "Oh, mine Cot, help me! I thought you vash drownt long dime ago; and so I lookt 'pon te bond as noding; but now you have come pack-let a fader's heart plead for his only child." 
               "I'll listen." 
               The old man's voice shook as he spoke, and he fixed his eyes, as well as he could in the darkness, upon the face of the mysterious stranger, who, with a calm and wan expression, replied with his eyes to the gaze. 
               The fire crackled and hissed in the old grate, and from the rattling noise without, it was evident that the storm had degenerated into a heavy rain. 
               "O! mysterious man!" resumed Von Straken, "It is true that I took your jewels. It vas for te sake of te little child you den saw. I have parted mit put one of them, an' from dat von I've grown rich. I vill now return pack all te oders, and douple te value of te von I sold in goot gilders. Let dat satisfy you; and, oh! let my child be mit me still." 
               The stranger heard him to an end without an interruption, and then he replied in a deep solemn tone- 
               "Von Straken! from where those jewels came, I could heap them up before you like household sand, or like pebbles upon the sea-shore. It is the jewel of your daughter's love I crave, not your gilders." 
                
               The old man groaned. 
               "Beware how you tamper with your oath, old man!" 
               "Put I cannot force my child." 
               "You will not need; with your consent she will be mine. Already the spell of fascination she cannot easily rid herself of, is upon her spirit. The fair and gentle maid is willing to be mine." 
               "But tell me who and what you are, mysterious being! Are you mortal?" 
               "Alas! I am." 
               "Your name-your family-whence come you? I cannot give my taughter to a nameless stranger!" 
               "My name is Diedrich. Let that suffice." 
               "No, no; I cannot sacrifice mine only tear child. She ish so goot to me. I sent from mine house one who lofed her to bring te English youth to mine old home; for he ish rich!" 
               "Whom sent you from the house?" 
               "Wurtem Carlis; but he ish boor, and I could not marry her to a fallen house." 
               "The Carlis' were rich a hundred years ago." 
               "Yaw; but now dere ish no purgomasters among de Carlis." 
               "So change the fortunes of the world," remarked the stranger. "Why, it was but one hundred and sixty years ago that a Carlis gave laws to all Amsterdam, and was the king of all the commerce. How is it that they are now in such a state of decadence?" 
               "The first ship dat dey lost vas the von commanded by Vanderdecken. Dat vash long dime ago. Misfortune followed misfortune, and dey sunk to rise no more." 
               "I have been long from Amsterdam. Tell me, how was this Vanderdecken lost?" 
               "Do not ask me for de date. Ven any von in this house speaks of Vanderdecken, something is sure to happen, too strange for comprehension. In von of te upper rooms dere are many dings vot vere his." 
               "But how was he lost?" 
               "If you must know I vill tell you, and who knows but te story may sofden your heart to me and mine Wilhemina? You understand, den, dat Mynheer Vanderdecken commanded te goot ship Dottenswald, and it vash boun' for te Isle of France; put a gale of wind from the nor-vest kept it peating apout te Cape of Good Hope for seven nights and days, and Captain Vanderdecken swore more and more at te weather. His mate, a bious man, named Elkenwalden, vent up to him on the seventh tay, and said to him-'Captain, it is quite clear that it is not the will of Providence we should double the Cape. Let us put about ship and go home,' and then, Vanderdecken, he shook his fist into te face of te clouty sky, and he swore dat neider man, nor tuyfel, nor Heaven should make him go pack, and dat he vould peat about till te tay of judgment pefore he would give it up; an' he call upon te crew, crying out, 'Who will back me in that, my lads?' and dey all raised a shout, and a laugh, and swore dey'd stay py him; put the mate, he flung himself into te sea, declaring he'd not remain apoard of such a craft, and vash bicked up by a spice-trader, and prought safely to Amstertam." 
               "And Vanderdecken, what became of him?" 
               "Ah! his vrow vaited for him, his childer vaited for him, and his owners vaited for him, out te ship Dottenswald never came into bort again; and dey say when te weader ish foul at te Cape, den de ship ish still to be seen mit all her sails set, and de wretched Vanderdecken on her deck, mit his vantom crew apout him; and dere he will cruise till te day of judgment!" 
               "Ha! an idle tale." 
               "Idle or not, mine friend, dere's not a soul in all Amstertam put pelieves 'tish true." 
               "But you, Mynheer Straken-you, who are a man of sense, surely you do not put any credence in this story?" 
               "Mine own cabtains have seen the Vantom Ship. They call it the Flying Dutchman, for all the sails are set. Vy should I doubt it?" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               VON STRAKEN SHOWS THE STRANGER VANDERDECKEN'S ROOM. 
               THE stranger rested for a few moments his face upon his hands, as if meditating upon the strange tale he had heard. He then shook as with violent emotion, and then looking up with his glittering eye and pale and ghastly face, he said- 
               "I am sad and weary. Let me go to my rest." 
               "Yaw, put mine child? you will take te gilders?" 
               "Mynheer Von Straken-this day week I will come to claim my bride!" 
               "Oh, no-no-no!" 
               "Yes. On your soul be it to make such proposition by that time as will befit the occasion. You have ample means and need spare no cost. This day week, remember. That will give you time to break off your engagements with the young man, whom I find in the character of a suitor in this house. Remember your oath." 
               "I must-I must. I cannot tamper mit Heaven. Vanderdecken ish a sad example of such danger; put should Wilhemina refuse?" 
               "Then you are free, and yet your oath will be kept; but if by word, or look, or action-if so much as by a single tear, you tempt her to you tempt her to refuse from love or sympathy for you, your oath is broken. Remember Vanderdecken who outraged Heaven, and keep the oath. Now I will to my repose." 
               The old merchant rose, and lighting a lamp, he led the way out of the room and up the staircase. At the end of a long corridor, he opened a door that conducted to a dim suite of apartments, that had not been entered for years. The air was damp and musty, and the lamp burned dimly within them. 
               The stranger paused for a moment at the entrance to these rooms, and shuddered. 
               "Ah! dese vere Vanderdecken's rooms," sighed the old man. "You slept in von of dem many years ago." 
               "Yes; it was the last time we met." 
               "Yaw; it vas ven you gave me te jewels, vot I den brized so mooch, but vich now--" 
               "You think little of, as it is the fashion of the world to think little of the stepping-stones that lead to fortune after the fortune is obtained. Is it so?" 
               The merchant felt the truth of the rebuke, and walked in silence into the first of the suite of rooms, which consisted of five tolerably spacious apartments, the only blemish to which was, that the ceilings were very low and heavy, being crossed by huge oaken beams, in every possible direction. 
               "Here you may rest," said Straken; "and if you only say vot you vill eat, or trink, your vants will be supplied." 
               "No, no-I want rest; nothing but rest." 
               The tone in which these words were said, was one of such sadness that even the old man did not reply, but cautiously retired and went to the room below, where he was heartily glad to regain his pipe and call his company to the fire again. 
               "Gone, father?" said Wilhemina, "is he quite gone?" 
               The old man shook his head, refilled his pipe, and then replied in the affirmative. 
               "Oh, Wilhemina!" said a young lady, "what is this that has fallen from your pocket, as you pulled out your tablets?" 
               "I had nothing else." 
               "Oh, yes, look! It is a little bit of rock coral." 
               "Rock coral in my pocket!" said Wilhemina. "Ah! how I wish I could remember the words of that song! He had fine eyes!" 
               "Who? who?" gasped Tom Simpson. 
                
               "The poor shipwrecked man; and how gentle and soft his voice was, too. Will you have the bit of coral, Flora? Take it." 
               The young girl took it, and then Wilhemina, with a suddenly changed expression of countenance, said- 
               "Father, if you make the house into a hospital for shipwrecked ugly men, it won't be endurable." 
               "Mine tear, vot do you mean?" ejaculated Von Straken. "Dell me, mine child, do you love that strange man or not?" 
               "Love him, father? Impossible! I hate him!" 
               "Den noding vould induce you to-to-" 
               "What, father?" 
               "Noding-noding. Give me mine pipe-mine pipe, tear. I must try to dink of all dis; mine prains seem all in von vhirl." 
               While Flora continued to turn the small piece of coral in her hand, she continued to pour forth praises of the shipwrecked stranger. 
               "What is his name, Von Straken?" asked Flora. 
               "Diedrich." 
               "Why, that was my dear uncle's name," cried the rather corpulent widow, Jansens. "Did he really say his name was Diedrich? ah, dear me. Do let me see the piece of coral, Flora." 
               "Oh, certainly. Here it is-he certainly was handsome! (Flora handed the coral to the widow) that is to say he-he-did I say handsome? Oh, he was an old wretch, and his eyes seemed like pieces of tin!" 
               "Bless me!" exclaimed Widow Jansens; "now, want't he really a noble looking man? He reminded me of my first husband, and he was considered the handsomest man in all Rotterdam, when we were wedded. Heigho! Mynheer Straken, do you know where the handsome stranger has gone to?" 
               The company stared, and Tom Simpson cried out- 
               "Why, upon my life, ladies, you seem to take it by turns to fall in love with that Mr. Diedrich. What can be the meaning of it all?" 
               "Oh, noding-noding!" cried the old man, dropping the pipe from his trembling hands. "It ish noding-noding!" 
               "But where is he?" queried the widow. 
               "I-I don't know." 
               Upon this there was a general movement among the guests, and if the cordial waters, and the baked meats had not come in at that moment, there is no knowing how many of them would have recollected that they ought to be home early. 
               The long stories of the Widow Jansens were the dread of all Amsterdam. 
               It was midnight when the party broke up. The widow carried away the piece of rock coral; Wilhemina kissed her father, and retired to her chamber; and the old merchant remained by the embers of the fire alone-no, he was not alone. He had his pipe. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               PARTICULARIZES AN EVENTFUL NIGHT. 
               LONG sat Von Straken in that banquet hall, after all his guests had left him, and that light of his eyes, the beauteous Wilhemina, had retired to her pillow. 
               The storm that lashed the Zuyder Zee into a fury had not quite subsided, for ever and anon there were mysterious mutterings of the wind, and thunder rolling in the distance. 
               For an hour Von Straken sat and smoked his pipe. Only twice he took it from his mouth to utter two loud groans. Never before had his mind been disturbed to anything like the extent that had taken place that evening. 
               "Ah!" soliloquized he, "pefore dat dreadful man came, who, if he ish not te Vlying Teutchman, ish ter tuyfel, I vash a happy Straken; put now I ish te most miserable man in all Amstertam." 
                
               After coming to this conclusion the old merchant reached out his hand to the bottle of Hollands that was left upon the table, and applying it to his lips, he took a deep draught of it, that would have been enough to suffocate an ordinary person, and put him forever out of his troubles. 
               "Ah! dat ish goot," said he; "I always find dat apout one bint of goot old Hollants makes one's prains clear-yaw, it warms up te judgment." 
               His soliloquy was here interrupted by a slight tap at the outer door of his house. 
               His did not start. It was rather, we opine, out of the question, for that mountain of flesh to be much disturbed at that time; but he opened his eyes a little wider, and his ears moved. 
               Tapmdash;tap, came the rap again. 
               Like a huge mass of jelly the old Dutchman shook a little, and then said- 
               "Vat shall I do?" 
               Tap-tap, came the sound, again, but from the quiet manner of them, it was quite evident, that whoever was there he had no desire to disturb the whole household. 
               Tap-tap. 
               "I do pegin to dink now, dat somepody ish at te door!" 
               He arose with some difficulty. It was never a very easy job for Mynheer Von Straken to rise. He made his way towards the door of his house, and ere he opened it, like a prudent man, called out- 
               "Who ish dere?" 
               "It is I," answered a voice. 
               "Who der tuyfel ish I?" 
               "Oh, Mynheer, do you not know young Wurtem Carlis, who was once rich, but who now, alas! alas!-" 
               "Ish very boor!" added Straken. "Yaw, all Amstertam knows dat. Put vat you vant mit me, young man? Have I not forpid you ever crossing my threshold?" 
               "Yes, you have-you have." 
               "Vell, and here you ish again!" 
               "Listen to me, Mynheer Von Straken, and let me tell you why I am here. I have never since you forbade me your house set foot within it. I might have done so, for there was no one in all your household who would have told you, if I had been in any of your chambers; but I forbore, although I loved your dear, kind daughter Wilhemina, as man never loved before; and though I feel that I shall love as long as I live-" 
               "Hold your idle tongue!" interrupted the old man. 
               "Ah, Mynheer, I am going far away from Amsterdam forever. Oh, no, no!" 
               "Vot does te poy mean? Is he mat?" 
               "No, Mynheer; but if you will open the door, I shall tell you something very important. Do open it. Wilhemina I dare say is in bed." 
               "Now, if dish ish not imbudence I don't know vot is," said old Straken, angrily; "He vants me to open te door, pecause Wilhemina is in ped-the setucing rascal! You villain! how dare you speak to me in such a vay?" 
               "Ah, Mynheer, you misconstrue me very much. I meant no offence. I only meant, that, as the dear Wilhemina-bless her bright eves and sweet lips-was in bed, you could do no harm in opening the door, as we could not see each other." 
               Von Straken acknowledged to himself that there was some truth in what young Carlis said. He felt almost inclined to let him in, for at that time he felt so lonely that he could almost have smoked a pipe with his greatest enemy. 
               "If I let you in," said the old man, "vill you promise to go avay again beaceaply te moment I tell you?" 
               "On my soul, yes." 
               "Come in den. It shall not pe said dat Von Straken, at a dime ven he felt comfortable and happy, kept any von outside te toor. Come in." 
               With this decidedly hypocritical speech, the merchant opened the door and admitted Wurtem Carlis. 
               The poor, discarded young lover stepped over the threshold of the house, where, if poverty had not come upon him and his race, he would have been ever a welcome guest. 
                
               "I salute you, Mynheer Von Straken," said he, "with all the respect due the father of Wilhemina." 
               'Bah! ve will have no more of dat;-if you have anyding really to say, say it at vonce, and I peg dat you, vill admire-" 
               "Wilhemina, Mynheer?" 
               "No-no. It ish te vonderful condescension I exhibit in permidding you to come into dish house dat I expect you to admire." 
               "It is something," remarked young Carlis. "Something do I call it? Oh, it is very much to be in the same room, to breathe the same air with my dear, very dear Wilhemina." 
               "Poh! hush! hiss! boh!" cried Von Straken. 
               The young man sighed deeply. 
               "Mine young friend, if you have noding to say to me put dat you are crazy apout mine daughter, you had better say noding, for she is to be married to Simpson and Co., as you and all Amstertam know well. So I von't hear anyding more from you apout her! dat I d--" 
               A scream came upon his ears, and cut short his speech. 
               "Mine Cot! vat's dat?" 
               Another and another scream, each louder than the first, proceeded from the upper part of the old house. 
               Carlis sprang to his feet quicker than any Dutchman had ever sprung to his feet before, and cried out- 
               "It is-it is the voice of my Wilhemina!" 
               "No, no-don't say dat," said the old man, shaking as if he had been seized with an ague fit. 
               "It is, it is! I will fly to her rescue!" exclaimed Carlis. 
               The old merchant himself rose, and got half way towards the door that opened to the dark staircase. A huge table stood between the youth and that door, but to save time, he made but one vault right over it, and alighting partly on the back of Straken, he knocked him flat to the floor, and then galloping over him, without the least ceremony, he dashed the door open, and rushed up the staircase, calling out as he went- 
               "Wilhemina! Wilhemina! it is I-your own Wurtem. Let me know where you-" 
               Another scream guided the young lover to a door some short distance along the corridor to his right. It was fast, but one rush that he made against it sufficed to open it, and he rolled headlong into the chamber of the sweet and pure Wilhemina. 
               By the light of a night lamp, young Carlis saw something enveloped in white drapery lying upon the floor. One glance showed him that it was no other than his own beloved Wilhemina. To raise her in his arms was the work of a moment, and then he held her to his heart. She struggled faintly, and opening her eyes, gazed sweetly upon him. 
               "My own dear Wilhemina!" he said. 
               "Oh, Wurtem, is it you?" 
               "It is-it is." 
               "I am going to faint!" 
               "Oh, never mind-never mind. Faint, faint, dear Wilhemina! Faint in my arms, dear!" 
               Wilhemina took him at his word, and closing her eyes, fainted at her lover's request in his arms. 
               We cannot say where young Carlis got his recipe for restoring a young lady who had fainted; but it was quite evident that he thought an extraordinary amount of kissing was the very thing to do it. He kissed her all down her face, beginning at her forehead, and then he kissed her all the way up again, beginning at her chin; and he kissed her cheeks and her eyes; and all the time he held her in his arms; and she had on a very small amount of drapery, indeed, as regards the quality and the thickness of it; but that was no matter. 
               The most extraordinary thing was, that the more he kissed her, the more perfect fect appeared to be the fainting fit into which she had fallen; and at length he carried her to the bed, and laid her very gently down. 
               "Oh, my darling Wilhemina, do look up!" he said, "I am going far away from Amsterdam, and this is the last time in this world that we shall see each other. Oh, Heaven! and you cannot speak to me!" 
               He clasped her in his arms again, and at that moment a voice at the door of the room said- 
               "Oh, crickey! My eyes! if that isn't going it rather strong, I don't know what is! Simpson & Co. don't quite like such-Oh, murder!" 
               Carlis snatched up a pillow and flung it right into the face of Simpson & Co., who fell backwards, and rolled all the way down the stairs, being just in time to take old Von Straken off his legs again, as he had got about three steps up towards the floor above. 
               "Oh dear, where am I?" essayed Wilhemina. 
               "In your own bed, my charmer." 
               "Oh, Carlis, and so are you!" 
               "Am I? Dear me, I didn't think I was. Never mind, you see that I am at a respectful distance from you." 
               The respectful distance was just on the floor by the side of the bed, with his arm around the neck of Wilhemina. 
               "What has been the matter?" she asked. 
               "You fainted, that was all. You were frightened at something, I suppose. I was conversing with your father below, when we heard a scream. I rushed up stairs and broke the door of your bedchamber open. I found you on the floor, and placed you on the bed. Oh, tell me that your feel better now?" 
               "Wurtem-Wurtem, I hope that while I was quite insensible you did not presume to kiss me?" 
               "Oh, no, my dear!" 
               "But, Wurtem, the idea of your seeing me in these garments only, and in my bed, too. I shall never be able to look you in the face again." 
               The maiden began to weep. 
               "Oh, my dear, sweet beauty!" said he, "do not suffer yourself to be the victim of a false delicacy. You know that I love you, and that ought to be sufficient. Besides, you have on your what-do-you-call it, you know!" 
               "Oh, yes, I know; but yet 'tis very dreadful." 
               "It would have been dreadful had I been a wretch instead of your own faithful, respectful, and loving Wurtem. But tell me, love, what was it that alarmed you?" 
               "Wurtem," said the modest maiden, "there is a horrid looking sailor in this house, with such eyes. Ugh! they look you through and through, and they are so fiery. If I ever saw any thing plainly in all my life, I saw him standing at the foot of the bed, looking at me with those dreadful, death-like eyes. Oh, they are horrible! most horrible!" 
               "The devil." 
               "I think he is really just that. Father has given him leave to stay in the house, and he sings such strange songs, and looks so hideously that it makes one's flesh creep. I feel chilled all over." 
               "So you do," said the youth, as he kissed the maiden's soft cheek. It showed how occupied her mind was, that she took no notice of his doing so, and just went on talking as before. 
               "Yes, I am quite sure that he came into the room, and I screamed out, and rose from my bed to rush down stairs, but I fell to the floor, where I suppose you found me, and I had not strength enough to rise." 
               "The scoundrel! The man who could come into the chamber of a young and innocent girl, and frighten her, deserves the severest reprobation." 
               Here the bold lover kissed Wilhemina again. 
               "Hush! hush!" she cried. "I hear some one coming up the stairs. Go away, do." 
               The youth had no wish to compromise in the smallest degree, the maiden whom he so fondly loved. He started away from the bed, and arming himself with the poker, he assumed an attitude of defence, and then cried aloud- 
               "Rest in peace, Wilhemina. I will protect you until your honored father comes to do so himself." 
               The door of the chamber was opened again, and old Von Straken appeared with a carbine in his hands, and Tom Simpson behind him with a light, which he held about a foot above the old man's head. 
               "There he is!" cried Simpson. 
               "I see him!" shouted the old Dutchman, raising the deadly piece. 
               Bang! went the carbine. The mortal career of Wurtem Carlis would then and there have terminated, had he not have had the precaution, when he saw the carbine levelled, to drop to the floor, and allow the half dozen jagged bullets with which it was loaded to fly over his head, and shiver into ten thousand atoms a mirror that hung upon the wall behind him. 
               "Take that!" exclaimed the old man. 
               "Father! oh, father! you have murdered him!" shrieked Wilhemina, making a rush from the bed, with all the bed-clothing with her, and throwing herself upon Carlis' prostrate form. 
               Now, indeed, did the poor youth run a serious risk, for Wilhemina was none of the lightest; and the bed clothing, with her, entirely covered him. He could only cry, in a smothered voice- 
               "Murder! murder! oh help, murder!" 
               Von Straken let the gun drop upon the toes of Simpson & Co.; and then, Wilhemina, suspecting that Wurtem was not quite dead, jumped up again with a scream, and rushed to the bed in a twinkling. 
               Carlis drew a long breath and said- 
               "I live again!" 
               "It's Wurtem!" said Von Straken. 
               "But you havn't shot him!" cried Simpson. "Confound the fellow; he don't seem hurt at all. Load the gun again, Mr. Straken, do." 
               "You wretch!" said Wilhemina, "do you come here to commit murder? Of course, you do; that is just what the genius of such a horrid wretch may be supposed to amount to. I hate you, that I do." 
               "Oh, tear! dis ish an awful piece of pusiness. Vash it you, mine child, dat screamed?" 
               "Yes, father, it was," answered Wilhemina. "I think the horrid sailor with the ugly eyes was in my room, and Wurtem Carlis coming, frightened him away." 
               "And here," added Carlis, "I stood with the poker in my hand, in this very spot, waiting for you, Mynheer Von Straken." 
               The old merchant groaned. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE TERRORS OF THE NIGHT ARE NOT QUITE OVER. 
               POOR Von Straken! never had he been so thoroughly troubled-never was he so completely unable to come to a conclusion upon affairs in general, and the disturbances in his own household in particular as now. Each hour seemed only to add to his bewildered condition. 
               He looked towards his daughter, and then led the way from the room. Wurtem Carlis was obliged to follow him, but Wilhemina managed to poke one hand out from the mass of bedclothes, and waved it in signal of adieu to him. Von Straken then closed the broken door, and turning to the two young men, he said, solemnly- 
               "Follow me!" 
               The rival lovers followed their would-be father-in-law along the same gloomy portion of the house that he had taken the shipwrecked sailor some hours before. His real object was to ascertain if the mysterious guest had quitted his house or not, or if he were wandering about it; for although the fright that Wilhemina had exhibited might have been the result of a dream, yet he could not take upon himself to say that it was such. 
               "Come on," he said to the two young men. "Don't quarrel, I peg of you. Alas! we live in fearful dimes, inteed." 
               "I don't know that," said Simpson. "Exports are lively, and tallow is rising; butter slides off quickly, and bottled beer is brisk; so I cannot see but that the times are as good as need be." 
               "I differ from you," said Carlis, in melancholy tones. "The times are bad; honesty is at a discount. An idiot, with a good sum at his banker's, is preferred to a man of sense and judgment with no banker at all. A fellow, as ugly as an ape, aspires to the hand of the loveliest of her sex, just because he is in a thriving business." 
               "Do you mean me, sir?" demanded Simpson & Co. 
               "Ay." 
               "Then I-I-yes-I despise you too much to take any further notice of your insulting language," stammered Simpson. 
               By this time Von Straken had reached the door of the chamber in which he had placed his guest. He rapped gently. 
               "Who's there?" said a voice. 
               "Mine Cot! he ish dere!" whispered the Dutchman. 
               "Hush! he is singing!" said Carlis. 
               They all listened, and they heard the shipwrecked man singing in his low, wailing, yet exquisitely musical voice, a strange song, which being concluded, old Straken said-"Come avay, poth of you-I am an unhappy man. Never take fair girls in barter for your heart's best treasure. Oh, vat am I saying?" 
               "Go on, Mynheer," said Carlis. "There is no one here, let us hope, who would take any advantage of what you might say." 
               The old man walked on now in silence till he got to his parlor, followed by the two rivals. Then turning to Carlis, he said- 
               "Wurtem, go now, put remain near to de window. Ven I vant you, I vill tap against te casement. If I do not tap for you in ten minutes, you can go avay for ever. You have done vat you could for me and mine child. In te morning, if you go to Swaghenhausen & Co., te pankers, you shall get fifty guilders. Mit dem you can go and seek your fortune." 
               "What!" exclaimed Simpson & Co., "throw away fifty guilders, and every one of them worth no less than one pound five and tenpence halfpenny sterling!" 
               "I have said it; go your way, Wurtem Carlis." 
               "I will pray for you, Mynheer Von Straken, and God bless you. I will take your fifty guilders as a loan, and you shall have them back with interest." 
               "Go-go." 
               "I obey you, Mynheer, as it would have been my pride to have ever obeyed you like a son, if I had had the felicity of wedding the fair--" 
               "Be off!" cried Simpson. 
               "-- Wilhemina," added Carlis, as he walked out of the room quite heedless of the indignation of his rival. 
               "Confound that fellow!" exclaimed Simpson. "He has the very impudence of the very deuce himself." 
               "Mynheer Simpson," said the old man, reaching out his large, bony hand, and grasping the arm of young Simpson, "you dink of marrying mine daughter?" 
               "Why, yes, I certainly have thought of it, and that is what I am here for." 
               "Den lisden. You tink me von rich man, put I ish dwenty dimes as rich as you tink me. You tink dat mit mine capital. I can drive a goot import and export trade; put I can have fifty ships to one that I now have, if I like. I could nearly puy Amsterdam, dat I could." 
               "Oh, my dear sir!" 
               "Ah! mine Cot! you worship golt. You tink of noding put money." 
                
               "And Wilhemina. 'Pon my soul, I'd do anything rather than not marry her." 
               "Goot. Dat ish just te point, Simpson. Dere is von leetel ding dat I vould have you do-den you shall pe te huspand of mine child, and te master of all mine ships, houses, and goots; and dat von leetel ding is ven I have gone to ped, you go up to te room vere te stranger man is, and-and-" 
               "Well?" 
               "Cut his troat!" 
               "Oh, gracious!" 
               "Yaw, mine son. Leave his pody tead in dat room vat nopody else vill go to, and some tark night throw him into te water." 
               "Oh, law! I'm all over of a cold shiver. Why, it's a regular right down murder. I beg to decline with all possible respect." 
               A pause of a few moments duration followed Simpson's refusal to cut the throat of the stranger. At length it was broken by the old man. 
               "Ha, ha, ha! ha, ha, ha!" he shouted merrily. 
               But it was a forced laugh, and came near choking him. 
               "Dunder and blitzen! ha, ha! it vas such a goot joke!" said he. 
               "Joke was it?" queried Simpson. 
               "Yaw, it vas von joke to dink that you should dink dat I should dink dat you should dink it would be goot to commit murter!" 
               "Then you didn't intend me to cut the fellow's throat after all?" 
               "Ha! no! ha!" laughed Von Straken. "Go to your ped now, Simpson & Co. I vill smoke mine pipe, and den I vill go to ped." 
               "Good night, father-in-law; good night." 
               "Go-go-to der Tuyfel!" added old Von Straken, when the door closed after Simpson. "Mine Cot! he will not do it; and now I must try young Carlis-I dink he vill do it; and ven te strange man ish tead den I shall rest in peace." 
               Von Straken rose, and approaching the window, he tapped at it with the stem of his pipe several times. 
               In a moment Carlis entered and stood before the merchant. 
               "I heard your summons, and I am here," said Carlis. 
               "Young man," said Straken, "sit town and lisden to what I shall say. Wurtem, I vant you to take a solemn oath-vill you take de oath?" 
               "I don't know, Mynheer. Those who take oaths lightly break them lightly, and therefore it is that I like to know beforehand what it is that I am to swear to." 
               "Dat ish right, young man. Te oath den ish dat you will not, mitout mine consent, repeat now vat I am apout to tell you." 
               "That I will swear to at once. So help me Heaven! I will keep your confidence and secret from all the world." 
               "Dat ish enough, Wurtem. Now, I vill make great confidence mit you, Lisden. Dat strange man who is above stairs claims from me te hand of mine tear child, and he has a right to claim it. Some years ago, ven Wilhemina vas von leetel paby, I vas much poorer than you are now. Den it vas dat von stormy night, ven te dunder-Holy Virgin! dere it ish now." 
               Boom! came a clap of thunder over Amsterdam, that seemed to be sufficient to shake the whole city to its foundation. Old Straken looked the picture of consternation. 
               "Do not be alarmed," said Carlis. "At this time of the year we are accustomed to thunder storms. Pray go on with your story." 
               "I vill try. Dis man, den, who ish in mine house-" 
               "The man whom I heard sing in so strange a manner?" 
               "Te same. Dis man came to me in mine poverty, and gave me jewels of immense value, mit condition dat ven he came again, he should have Wilhemina for his pride. I consented. I never used but von-it vas vorth seventeen dousant guilders. Now he comes and claims his pride, and te condition of te pond. Now, mine lat, you are te only man who I dink can get me out dis sea of troubles." 
               "I'll do it-I'll do it!" exclaimed Carlis. 
                
               "Give me your hand, den. Upon your vord you vill do it?" 
               "'Pon my word and honor." 
               The old merchant stretched his hand over the table, and he and Carlis shook hands for the first time in their lives. 
               "To assure you of my sincerity," said the lover, "I will marry her to-morrow!" 
               "Marry her to-morrow? Mine Cot!" exclaimed Straken, almost breathless at Carlis' misconception of his intention. "Marry her! I had no such thought in mine head. You lapor under von mistake." 
               "Alas! alas!" said Carlis, whose hope was for a moment raised to the highest point; now the poor youth was dumb with disappointment. 
               Von Straken at length thought that it would be good policy to smoothen down his feelings a little and conciliate him. 
               "Mine excellent friend, dis world ish full of disappointments; put it you'll hear vat I shall say, you'll find dat, though it may not pe dat you shall ezpouse mine daughter, I have von offer to make vat vill pe quite as goot." 
               "Impossible!" 
               "Not at all-it ish petter. You shall have monish." 
               "Money! And do you think, Mynheer Von Straken, that I value money as placed in competition with my own dear Wilhemina? No, Mynheer! If all the world were one large ball of virgin gold, and I had nothing to do but to coin it into guilders, I'd give it all in a lump for the love of Wilhemian!" 
               "If e'er I marry any one but Wurtem Carlis," said Wilhemina to herself, as she shivered in her night dress, on the first stairs of the flight that led to her room above, and listened to what her father was saying to the young man, "I hope I may turn ugly!" 
               It was very wrong of the maiden, as the reader will readily admit, to get out of her bed and to creep down the old stair-case, to listen to her father's conversation with her lover, but she felt an uncontrollable interest in the youth, and under no other circumstances could she have played the part of a spy upon her father's conferences with any one. 
               The merchant was rather chagrined at Carlis's un-Dutch-like notions about money. 
               "You have spoken," said Straken, "and now I vill speak. If you do vat I shall ask of you, I vill give you the command of my ship te Jang Frau, and you shall have five hundred guilders to puy a cargo mit, and you vill pecome von rich man." 
               "The Jang Frau," replied Wurtem, drily, "they say is leaky, and that she is not worth repairing. There's not a captain in all Amsterdam will go out in her." 
               "Then," said the merchant, somewhat confused at Wurtem's knowledge of the unseaworthiness of the Jang Frau, "you shall have te Isabel." 
               "She is worse," added Carlis. "She has been in dry-dock for two years, and they say is in a sad condition. You are offering me the worn-out ships that you ought to break up." 
               "Mine Cot! no! Preak up te Isabel! Ah, no! Did you never see her bottom." 
               Wurtem shook his head. 
               "Now," added Von Straken, "all I desire you to do for what I offer you is to cut his troat!" 
               "What?" 
               "To go up stairs, and cut te stranger's troat-him vat gave me te jewels, and who now is te only enemy I have in all te world. Dat, mine excellent young friend, ish all I vish you to do for me. Tish a small matter, and I hope dat you vill do it at vonce." 
               Wurtem Carlis rose. 
               "Von Straken," he said with a serious air, "what did you ever see in my speech or conduct that could induce you to think I would be guilty of such a deed? Do you take me for an assassin? Oh, Von Straken! wealth has indeed vitiated your mind, and made you something scarcely human!" 
                
               'Bah! Pofe! bah!" 
               "You may disregard what I say, but I will still speak to you, because of the pure love I hear your daughter. Better far would it be for you to walk forth into the city without a guilder, than that you should stain your soul with that worst of crimes, murder. Good night, Von Straken. I leave you to your own thoughts." 
               The young man at once left the room, and the bang of the outer door shutting convinced the merchant that he had left the house. 
               "He ish gone," he whispered, "and he knows dat I contemplated a murder. Vill he tell? No, no. Te man vat vill refuse to commit a crime, vill keep his oath; while te man who-who-oh? dat ish no matter." 
               Poor Von Straken was going to give rather a terse description of himself, but thought it was just as well left alone. 
               He sat in a brown study for some time, and then starting up, he exclaimed- 
               "Ah! I vill do it mineself, and get forever rid of dat treadful man. Yaw, dis ish te dime to do it." 
               Bang went another peal of thunder ever Amsterdam, and it would seem as if it chose the space just above Von Straken's house, in which to go off, as it were, for the old mansion was shaken to its foundation by the stunning report. 
               "Vat a night it ish!" he exclaimed. 
               He stood for some few minutes, trembling and listening to the storm without; and more than once he thought he heard a wailing voice cry in strange unearthly accents, that struck terror to the soul- 
               "Van-der-deck-en, ho!" 
               That "Ho!" died away so in the distance, that it seemed to him lengthened indefinitely. 
               Staggering to his large chair, he ejaculated- 
               "Te Saints breserve me! Oh, have mercy, have mercy upon me!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE MYSTERIOUS OLD CHEST. 
               IT was not for a long time that the storm continued to have any remarkable effect upon the spirits of the merchant; and although the wind howled, and the rain came down like a second deluge, and the thunder rolled fearfully, he was not to be frightened from his fell purpose. 
               It did not occur to Von Straken at first that he had no suitable weapon with which to carry out his murderous design, and he paused to consider what in that line his domicile afforded. 
               At length he took his way to a little room, in which there was a miscellaneous collection of curiosities, which the captains of his ships from time to time had brought from abroad. As Straken held up his lamp and glanced around him, his eye fell upon an Indian war-hatchet. 
               "Yaw; dis vill do to peat his prains out." 
               It was an odd thing to behold the corpulent Dutchman in his peaceful-looking dress, with the war-hatchet of an Indian chief in one hand, and a lamp in the other. 
               Slowly, now, and treading as softly as his ponderous weight would permit him to do he took his way to the stranger's chamber, bent on the most murderous intentions. 
               Anon he reached the door leading to the apartment occupied by the stranger. It stood ajar, so that Von Straken was enabled to peep in, and there he beheld what induced him to pause. 
               In the room there was a strange, white kind of a light, which seemed to be emitted from particular spot, and when the eyes of Von Straken were bent upon that particular spot he saw-oh, ravishing sight-a diamond, about the size of an 
                   
                     The wonders of the deep revealed to Vanderdecken. See p. 37. 
                  
                  
                   egg, which seemed to send out from every point of its dazzling surface, millions of little rays of light of the most dazzling, resplendent description. 
               Never had the merchant seen or heard of such a diamond as that. In comparison with the few celebrated diamonds in the world, and which were worth such immense sums, what was the value of this? It was truly magnificently beautiful, and as he gazed upon it he was dazzled by the long silvery rays of light that darted from it, and crossed and re-crossed each other in all directions, and he quite forgot that he had come there to commit a murder. 
               It was with difficulty that he took his eyes off the resplendent gem; but he heard a slight noise in the room that aroused him, and upon looking in the direction whence it came, he saw his mysterious guest. 
               The stranger had drawn from a corner of the room a huge chest, which for many years had been lying there rotting, and which no one would touch, because it was believed to contain wearing apparel and other personal property that had belonged to Vanderdecken, when many years before he had inhabited that house. 
               The mysterious man was upon his knees by this box, the lid of which was wide open, and he was taking out the contents one by one. His manner as he did so was remarkably striking. The clothing, which were children's, seemed much to affect him. 
               At length the box was, to all appearance, empty; but then the stranger touched the bottom of it in a peculiar way, and out he lifted a false bottom, the existence of which Von Straken had never suspected. From underneath that he took out several little miniatures, and then with a strange and frightful cry, he began to sob and kiss them. 
               "Ah! my children, my dear children!" he sighed. "These are the miniatures I had painted of you all, to take with me upon my last voyage, but they were left behind. Had these been with me I think I might have been saved. My dear-dear little ones. God bless you all. Alas! alas!" 
               He wrung his hands and wept, and kissed the miniatures over and over again, and then he cried. 
               "All dead-all dead long ago, and here am I still! Oh God! how long? how long?" 
               Von Straken softly placed the Indian hatchet against the wall by the door. 
               "No," he gasped. "No, I cannot kill him. Oh, tear no-" 
               "Yes," interrupted the mysterious man, "they are all dead, long ago, and had ceased to think of me. Oh, when will this dreadful state end? Oh, Heaven have mercy upon me! Hush! Yes! The voice-I hear it now on the roaring blast. I am called-" 
               "Van-der-decken, ho!" sounded a voice, as if from afar. 
               Von Straken felt the perspiration standing in large drops upon his face, as terror beat loudly at his heart. 
               "Yes, I am called, and will obey the summons quickly," said the strange man. 
               "Van-der-decken, ho!" 
               "There again. I come-I come." 
               Von Straken fell upon his knees in terror. 
               "Call me the third time, and I come," said Vanderdecken. "You have ever called me thrice, so that I might not be deceived by other sounds. Call me again, oh, invisible spirit, and I come." 
               There was an awful stillness. The wind seemed suddenly to drop, and the rain to be suspended in mid-air. You might have heard the fall of a pin; and then suddenly there came a strange, strange, startling whisper in the room itself, and it said- 
               "Vanderdecken!" 
               "I come-I come. I will meet you now," said Vanderdecken. 
               That this much-to-be-dreaded individual, concerning whose identity there could now be no possibility of doubt, would, in passing out of the room, tumble over him, was Von Straken's dominant idea, and it got up in his mind a feeling of such absolute desperation that he was able, in defiance of all his fear, to cry out- 
                
               "Mercy! Oh have mercy upon me, and leave me my money and mine child." 
               Von Straken fell into the room on his hands and knees. 
               Vanderdecken looked at him in silence, and he fixed his glassy eye upon the merchant in such a way, that the latter felt fascinated as though by the glance of a serpent; he could neither move nor speak, nor for one instant withdraw his glance from the eyes of Vanderdecken; but there he still knelt, and looked like some stranded monstrosity, that for the first time found himself face to face with a man. 
               Vanderdecken at length moved slowly towards the great chest that was open, and now completely empty. He turned not his serpent-like gaze from Von Straken for a moment. Reaching the chest, he stepped into it, and crouching down, be was completely within it. The lid suddenly came down with a clap like the discharge of a cannon, and the old man rolled back upon the floor. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               A SCENE IN VANDERDECKEN'S CHAMBER. 
               THE consternation of the old merchant was so great at this strange disappearance of the spectre, for such he began to consider his strange guest to be in the huge chest, that he lay upon the floor without sense or motion. 
               His fall however, had had such an effect upon the household, that it alarmed every one within it. The result was, that in the course of a few minutes everybody in the house was up, of course including the fair Wilhemina. 
               There was a grand rush to the merchant's bedchamber, but a slight examination of that was sufficient to convince all that he had not slept in his bed that night. 
               Wilhemina suspected that her father must be with the mysterious stranger. 
               "Go, all of you," said she, "and see what has befallen my father." 
               Thus urged, the servants, partly actuated by shame at exhibiting cowardice so unquestionably in the matter, and partly from fear of losing their place, went in a body to that dismal and unfrequented part of the house. 
               Full of dread at what they might see and hear when they got there, for they all held those unfrequented rooms with a superstitious dread, Carl and Hans, servants, proceeded. Having reached the door Carl gave it a push. It was quite evident that something held it upon the inside; and the most remarkable thing was, that when it was pushed it yielded a little, and then closed again with a sharp clap, that made them all jump. 
               "Have you found my father?" cried Wilhemina from below. 
               "Push the door open, Carl," cried Hans. "Push it open." 
               By a vigorous effort Carl succeeded in opening the door sufficiently wide to thrust his head in. 
               "Master," he said. "Oh, murder! Help! I'm a dead man!" 
               The truth was, that the old Dutchman had rolled on to the floor, and had just recovered sufficiently to sit there with his back against the door of the room, which held it shut, although in his consternation he had no sort of perception that such was the position he occupied. 
               "Father, father! where are you?" cried Wilhemina, ascending the stairs. "Speak to me, and let me know that you are alive." 
               She reached the door of the mysterious room, and rapped upon it. 
               "Who ish dere?" asked her father, in a dolorous voice. 
               "It is I, father." 
               "Oh, mine child! mine tear child! vat a night dis ish! Come in-oh, come in." 
               The maiden hesitated. 
               "Is not this room, father, that of the shipwrecked sailor? Is he here?" 
                
               "Yaw, mine child!" 
               The servants by this time had gathered additional courage; and they ventured into the room, Wilhemina, however, taking the lead. 
               "Father," said she, gazing fearfully around, "what has become of your mysterious guest?" 
               "Ah, mine child, dat ish it. Carl, open dat chest, for, as I am a living man, I saw him get into it." 
               Upon this intimation, Carl, far from accepting so easy a mode of showing his entire devotion to his master, made but one stride from the room, followed by Hans, and both servants disappeared down the staircase, leaving only Wilhemina and her father in the old decayed, ill-omened chamber. 
               For a few moments they both gazed at the chest in silence. 
               "Nay, father," said the maiden, you do not mean that the shipwrecked sailor is actually in that chest?" 
               "Yaw, yaw; it ish true; and as nopody vill open te chest, vill you, mine tear, help me do so?" 
               "I will open it, father! Heaven will shield me from harm. My motive is a good one, and I will not shrink from doing so, conceiving it to be a duty to you, I ought not hesitate." 
               "Mine tear, prave child!" exclaimed the old man. "I vill take von end of te lid, and you take te other, and let us both pray as we open it." 
               Wilhemina while uttering the words of a simple childish prayer, raised the lid of the chest. One glance was sufficient. The chest was empty, with the exception of some old faded apparel! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE STRANGE MEETING IN THE CAVERNS OF THE DEEP. 
               WE must now, for a time, materially change the scene of our story, and request the reader to accompany us in imagination to the Cape of Good Hope. 
               The sea is running mountains high, and a furious storm is breaking upon the rocky shore of that portion of the southwestern coast of Africa. 
               It was just about midnight that one vivid flash of blood-red lightning shot out of the mass of black cloud and then all the elements in their wildest fury began to rage. 
               Thunder; lightning, and the roaring of the sea, made up a scene truly sublime and awful; and far out at sea the vessels were tossed to and fro, like little black specks in an eternity of waters; and the hoarse cry of the sea-bird mingled with the despairing shout of the seaman, as he found that his floating home was too weak to battle with the fierce elements of nature. 
               But it is to the wild and rocky shore that we must now conduct the reader. There is a promontory which runs out into the sea for some little distance, composed entirely of rock, into which the sea had worn caverns, and natural tunnels, through which the sea dashed in furiously. By the base of one section of this promontory, is the mouth of a huge cavern, into which no mortal man had ever dared to venture, for it was believed to be the retreat of things of evil, as strange unearthly sounds would at times issue from it. 
               Strewn upon a little strip of yellow sand, in which gold dust sparkled brilliantly, just in front of the mouth of this cavern, were rare shells cast up from the bosom of the deep, together with a few human bones, borne there by the action of the waves. It was a sad place to look at, and in storms a fearful one. The mouth of the cavern looked as though it were the entrance to the innermost caverns of the earth. 
               One o'clock came, and the raging storm was at its height, when a small boat touched the slip of yellow sand at the foot of the rocks. There was but one person in that frail craft. That man was Vanderdecken! 
               "Oh, Heaven!" he cried. "Just in thy decrees, even when thou seemest most merciless, how long-oh, how long must I yet suffer?" 
               A wild shrieking laugh came over the waste of waters. 
               "Spare me-oh; spare me!" continued the fated man. "The demons of a lower world exult in the decree that has gone forth against a mortal soul! Oh, spare me, and let me die! I only ask to die! I know it is the night and the hour when, once in each succeeding year, I am compelled to seek this spot, and to hold converse with the dread being who appears to be the minister of the vengeance that is meted out to me!" 
               "Vanderdecken!" called a low, wailing voice. 
               "I come! I come!" he replied, tottering in a devious course towards the mouth of the cavern. 
               "Vanderdecken!" again called the voice. 
               "Oh, peace-peace! You know that I come." 
               Vanderdecken fairly entered the cavern. At that moment there was such a yelling shout at the entrance of it as if a thousand devils hovered near. 
               How intensely, horribly dark was that dismal cavern. 
               All was again still, and Vanderdecken next proceeded in the cavern until he felt the rock before him impeding his progress, but he knew that there was a way through it, and stooping to the ground, he felt for a narrow crevice, through which he began to creep. 
               This opening in the rock was so small that it was with the greatest difficulty Vanderdecken forced his body through, and emerged into a vast interior cavern that had in it a dim and mysterious green light. 
               In the centre of this large cavern there was a glistening pool of water, but so still was it that it looked more like a huge mirror, laid there for the purpose of reflecting the beauties of the gem-glittering roof. 
               The pool was about thirty feet diameter, and the cavern itself upwards of two hundred, and was of a circular form, the roof being at least one hundred feet from the floor, which was strewn with coral, and fine shells, and many a brilliant gem from the great deep. 
               Vanderdecken stood there, with his hand clasped before him, and in attitude of supplication mingled with alarm." 
               "I am here-I am here," he said. 
               "The pool! the pool!" cried the voice of the invisible. 
               "I come-I come!" replied Vanderdecken. 
               With one bound he plunged into the pool. There was a shriek, and the water closed over his head in many whirling circles. 
                
               We must now conduct the reader to a strange abode. It is far-far beneath the surface of the sea. A huge cavern is decked with sea weed, and coral, and rare gems, that borrow light from the upper air shining right through many fathoms of pellucid water. 
               Vanderdecken is there! 
               The man of many sorrows and of one great sin stands in the centre of a charmed circle, which he has reached through the mysterious pool into which he had plunged. The water cannot drown him; air is not essential to his strange and frightful existence; the curse of immortality is upon him; steel will not let out the ruddy stream of life from his veins; the bullet, which in its frightful progress carries death to mortal hearts, will not reach. 
               Vanderdecken spoke! 
               "I am here," cried he, "for such is my destiny. Oh, let me die! let me die! let me die! It is all that I can ask. That death, which others shrink from, I crave as a merciful boon!" 
               The frantic manner in which he utters these words it is impossible to describe. He seemed choking with emotion, and battling for life, with the water around him. 
                
               "Peace, wretched mortal," said an invisible spirit; "it is not I who bid you live, but a higher power. You know the condition upon which you might have escaped the curse that clings to you. It is not permitted you to touch the land unless some Christian vessel gives you a passage to the shore. It is well known how you have tried to tempt the captain and crew of many a ship, with gold picked up in the deep bed of the south sea, and with jewels gathered from the bones of dead men, and from the cargoes of sunken vessels. Compelled to look as you look-compelled to carry with you, too many evidences of what you are, you were always hurled from the decks of ships into the sea again. You have tried many a cunning device to get yourself a passage to the shore, and you have failed; until lately when they gave you a boat-a boat built by Christian men. That carried you to Amsterdam, the city of your birth." 
               "It did; and it is fifteen years since, upon the spar of a wrecked vessel, upon which a holy symbol-a cross-was rudely cut, that I floated into the Zuyder Zee." 
               "It is known to me that you did," resumed the invisible. "But there was another condition upon which you might have obtained pardon from the curse that hangs over you, and redemption for the future." 
               "Yes, there was." 
               "That condition was that if you could by any means induce a young and virtuous girl to be your wife, you would, for her sake, be absolved from the curse; but you were neither to force her, nor to practise upon her fears. If, in any way, through her affection the end could be attained, it would suffice." 
               "Ah! but it was a despairing one," replied Vanderdecken, "for who, with youth and love about them, would look upon me except with loathing?" 
               "And yet the girl, Wilhemina, was by her father betrothed to you?" 
               "Ay; by her father." 
               "You gave him jewels of rare value, and thus bought his consent. You had the piece of magic coral, through which, by placing it in the possession of any female, you could incline her heart towards you." 
               "Ay; but it was one of your conditions, that if by its means I secured the love of any damsel, I should take the coral from her for the space of two days and two nights before our marriage, to see if her affections had really been gained. That would be fatal." 
               "Not so, Vanderdecken. It is much to get women to listen, and then the tongue of passion can do everything." 
               "But you imposed on me another condition." 
               "I did, which was, that one hour before marriage, you should declare to the bride, who, and what you really were." 
               "I know it, and all is lost!" 
               "Not so. Go again into the world. One more chance of success can be given to you, and that is, the capacity to appear in a different costume to the one you have hitherto been condemned to wear. You may not alter in look or in feature, but you may change in dress and general appearance." 
               "Well," said Vanderdecken faintly, "that is something." 
               "It is much. Our conference is now ended." 
               At these words a strange rushing noise ensued, and the previously calm and placid water began to surge up, and to be violently agitated. Huge rocks toppled down and dashed to fragments, disclosing in their innermost recesses, rare and exquisite gems. 
               "The spirit is gone," said Vanderdecken. "And now, once more to earth! but ere I go, I will visit the remains of my poor ship that lies embedded in the sands near by. Oh, God! would that I might be permitted there to lie!" 
               He walked now with a slow and solemn step along the bottom of the sea. He trod upon dead men's bones-upon old anchors eaten with rust-upon chests of wearing apparel-upon heaps of gold and silver, that had showered out from the disjointed ribs of vessels which had sunk beneath the surging waters-upon cannons, whose mouths were forever still, he made his way, scarcely casting a glance upon the many objects around him. 
                
               After proceeding for some distance, he came to the brink of a precipice, far beneath which was a submarine valley. It seemed as if there lay rotting the broken timbers of a fleet. But what was most strange of all were the sea monsters, which sailed past Vanderdecken so closely as to touch him with their broad wing-like fins. There were creatures so physically organized that they had not the power to rise, but which passed their whole existence at the bottom of the sea. These were horrible to look upon. 
               There was one monster fastened to a rock by its power of suction. The body of that creature was some forty feet in width, by fifty in length. It had thirty or more arms or feelers of enormous length, which it had the power of curling up like the tendrils of a vine, and these arms it kept swaying about to catch whatever came in their way. 
               The monster caught Vanderdecken! 
               One of the long arms twisted rapidly around him; but then, as if his very touch had been death, the sea-monster made a bellowing noise, and fell powerless, and Vanderdecken was free again. 
               "It is in vain," said he; "even such a death would be welcome!" 
               Vanderdecken passed on unheedingly, and took his course slowly and solemnly down into the old sea valley. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               MORE TROUBLES AT VON STRAKEN'S. 
               OF the many vessels which had been wrecked during the recent storm off the Cape, there was a large merchantman, and she had gone down into this very valley to which Captain Vanderdecken was now bending his supernatural steps. 
               Not a soul had been saved from that ship. The dead bodies were lying all about the spot. It was a sickening sight to look upon. 
               Vanderdecken passed this new wreck, and took his way between a ridge of rocks along the valley. He kept his eyes fixed now in one direction, and he soon came in sight of the object that he sought. 
               The ship in which he had sailed as master so many years ago, when he had made his impious oath at the Cape, lay there half hidden in the sands. Vanderdecken at length reached the ship and clambered up on her deck. No sooner had he obtained a foothold, than from the hatches, the bulwarks, the nettings and the boats, there came swarming around him a hideous throng of spectres-the spectres of his crew-the suffering spirits of all those who had joined him in his blasphemy off the Cape. They looked at him with frightfully glassy eyes, and then with one piercing shriek, they cried- 
               "Save us, Vanderdecken! Oh, save us!" 
               He waved his hand for silence, and then he spoke- 
               "Benighted souls, I will save you. It is my duty-my toil. Oh, God! yes. I will save you all. Away-away! the time has not yet come." 
               "Save us, O Vanderdecken!" cried the mournful crew again. It was repeated more than twice or thrice, but each time it grew weaker and weaker, until it ceased; and as though a deep sleep had come over them all, the phantom crew drooped into their several places of repose, and in a few minutes all was quiet aboard the wreck. 
               Vanderdecken sat down upon one of the old rusty guns of the ship, and covered his face with his hands, but he did not weep. The fountain of tears was dry. In deep thought he sat there for the space of half an hour, and then he arose, and hurried on till he came to the valley. There was a cavern, into which the water rushed, boiling like a cauldron. He cast himself forward into the stream, and was in an instant sucked in by the force of the sea, and disappeared from the valley.*   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   * 
                
               The dawn of a new day is just touching the tops of the churches and of the highest houses in Amsterdam. Upon some of the balconies the tulips, which are thought quite as much of in Holland as the children, were being attended to; and at the quays were men already hung on the yards of the shipping. 
               In another half hour Mynheer Von Straken had crawled down stairs, and so had Tom Simpson, notwithstanding the bewildering scenes they had passed through during that night of terrors. 
               "Likely to be a fine day, Mynheer?" saluted Tom Simpson. 
               "Mine Cot, I don't know," replied the old man. 
               "I can't help thinking," remarked Simpson, "that some very odd things happened last night in this house." 
               Von Straken started. 
               "I tell you what it is, Mynheer, I can't help saying that things are not quite satisfactory in this establishment. Confound that Wurtem Carlis. I'm satisfied that Wilhemina rather likes him, beggar as he is." 
               "It ish no matter," answered the old man. "You shall have Wilhemina, and a share in te pusiness." 
               "Very good; but-" 
               "Dere ish no puts. Mine child shall ved you, Tom Simpson & Co. That-for Wurtem Carlis." 
               To exemplify how little he thought of this individual, the merchant puffed out a wreath of tobacco smoke into the air; but as if to show him that the person he spoke so disparagingly of was not to be got off so easily, the smoke formed itself into a ring, and after reposing upon the air for a few moments, went right into the face of Tom Simpson. 
               "Confound him!" he exclaimed. 
               "Yaw," said Straken. "Dat ish noding. You shall have her for your vife, and you shall-ah! put here she comes." 
               At this moment, Wilhemina-who really looked very charming in her morning dress, notwithstanding she might have spared about fifteen petticoats, and then have had quite enough of them for all useful purposes-made her appearance in the breakfast room. Her hair was done up in the neatest little plaits possible, and her rosy cheeks looked as though some of the most delicate and exquisite fruit had been gently placed upon them; but such was not the case. It was nature that had dyed her pure cheeks with her best rose tint. 
               "Good morning, father," she said, advancing and kissing his check. 
               "Mine child, goot morrow," said the old man, and there was a visible tremor on his lips as he spoke. 
               "Good morning Miss Von Straken," said Simpson. 
               "Good morning," said Wilhemina, as with all her petticoats she brushed by him, without condescending even to look at him. 
               Breakfast was soon prepared, and father, daughter, and would-be son-in-law sat down to partake of it. 
               "Mine child, give Tom Simpson & Co. his drink," said the merchant, when he saw that Wilhemina paid no more attention to the guest than if he had been but the effigy of a man. 
               Upon this, Wilhemina poured out a huge cup full of very hot coffee, and by accident or design she placed it so near to the edge of the table that, when it was given the least touch, over went the boiling stream into Simpson's lap. 
               The poor fellow sat for a moment or two almost paralysed, while the hot liquid made itself freely acquainted with his legs. Then he jumped up with a roar like that of a mad bull, and began dancing about the room in a manner that so astonished the old man, that he actually dropped his pipe. 
               When a Dutchman drops his pipe he has reached the acme of astonishment, and can get no further in that way. 
               "Murder! murder!" roared the suffering Englishman. 
               "Mine Cot!" exclaimed the old merchant, "He is mad!" 
               "Mad!" shouted Tom Simpson; "so would you be if a cup of hot coffee was poured upon you." 
                
               "Ish dat all? dat ish noding-leetle pit of fun, and von leetle trick of von leetle girl." 
               "If this is Dutch fun and a mere trick of a young girl, Heaven preserve me always in Newgate Street. I feel-I don't know what I feel." 
               Poor Simpson, bent double with the pain he was suffering, hobbled out of the room. When he was fairly gone, the merchant shook his head and said, 
               "Mine child, you shouldn't do such dings to te man who is to be your huspant." 
               "Yes; but I don't intend he shall be my husband. He is a vain, finikin, cold, selfish, dishonest piece of vulgarity." 
               "Mine Cot!" 
               "There isn't a good quality about him. He is a coward, too, as his conduct last night sufficiently testified. It is quite impossible that any wife should respect such a husband, and therefore I won't have him." 
               This was such an extraordinary speech for Wilhemina to utter, that the old merchant could only, with his mouth and eyes wider open than usual, look at her with amazement. 
               "Mine child, who vill you marry? You can never get a better offer." 
               "No one, father. I will remain with you and conduct the affairs of the house." 
               Their conversation was here interrupted by a loud rapping upon the ceiling above them. 
               "Vat ish dat?" 
               "Alas! I know not," replied the maiden. 
               "It ish ominous. Frightfully ominous. Mine tear, I cannot help suspecting that that dreadful man has come again." 
               "I pray not." 
               "Yaw, pray, mine child. Pray for your poor old father, who, vith all his ships that crowd the quays of Amsterdam-vith all his warehouses, full of rarities from every quarter of te globe, is yet von of te most unhappy of men. Pray for me, mine child." 
               Von Straken had advanced within a few paces of the door, when it was suddenly flung open, and Vanderdencken appeared upon the threshhold, with his arms uplifted, and looking frightfully wan and pale. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               WURTEM CARLIS'S PROJECTS AND DESPERATE SCHEME. 
               WE must now, for a very brief space, follow the fortunes of Wurtem Carlis after his refusal of the offer to assassinate Von Straken's mysterious guest. Poor a Carlis was, his honest and brave soul rose superior to all temptations, though when he left the rich merchant's house, he possessed not money enough to purchase a single meal; but he felt as if he were rich as Crsus in one thing, and that was in the pure love of Wilhemina. 
               He wended his way towards one of the principal quays of the city, and seating himself upon a coil of chain-cable, he gave himself up to painful thought. 
               "Here I am," he soliloquised, "a wanderer in Amsterdam, without the means of obtaining food for a breakfast, and my family used to walk about on this quay, and be gazed at as so many princes-for they were in the shadow of their own ships that lined yonder basin. What am I now? A beggar. No-I never begged." 
               With something of the pride of youth about him, Carlis looked up and dashed the tears from his eves. 
               He arose and took his way into the city again. 
               It will be remembered that Von Straken had told the youth that he might call at his bankers for fifty guilders; but he would not avail himself of it, despite his desperate circumstances, for it was the price of secrecy-not to reveal the old merchant's foul intent. 
               "No, let my fortune be what it may," said Carlis to himself, "I am determined that I will never compromise my principles. I will be true to myself." 
               By the time the young man had come to these conclusions, which were alike honorable to his head and his heart, he had reached a portion of the city, where he knew that the dissolute, the lawless and abandoned principally dwelt. The inhabitants, for it was yet early, appeared to be all asleep, except in one, from a window of which there streamed a light. He looked up at the window with some curiosity, when suddenly the door opened, and a throng of men issued forth shouting- 
               "Kill him!-cast him into the canal!-cut his throat!-run him through the body!" 
               Rather surprised at their cries, Carlis advanced a little closer, and then he saw that the ruffians had another in their grasp, whom they were dragging along towards the canal, and who was making all the resistance in his power. 
               As they passed Carlis, a long, bright sword fell to the ground, and lay glittering there. 
               Without a moment's hesitation, the young man darted forward, and snatched the glittering sword from the ground. 
               "Cowards! Villains? Assassins!" he cried, and then he made a dash at the assassins, who in another moment would have thrown their victim into the canal. 
               The attack of Carlis was so utterly unexpected, and withal so furious, that it spread consternation among the desperadoes. Two of them received serious wounds, and a third fell to the ground mortally wounded, while the others fled in dismay. 
               All this was the work of so brief a space of time, that the stranger who had been rescued from death by the gallantry of our valiant hero, could hardly believe his own senses, but stood in amazement, without being able to aid his deliverer. 
               Carlis rested upon the sword. 
               "The rascals!" he exclaimed. "They are all gone. Are you hurt, sir?" 
               "Hurt? Never mind my hurts, but tell me if you are at all injured?" 
               "Not a scratch." 
               "Thank Heaven for that." 
               "Amen. Is this your sword?" 
               "It is, sir." 
               "Why, the hilt is of pure gold, else am I but a poor judge of the precious metals." 
               "Oh, no, no," replied the stranger with some confusion of manner. "But never mind that. Only tell me to whom I am indebted for my life." 
               "Let me beg of you in turn," said Carlis, "never to mind that, but to leave this place at once, or them fellows, finding that we are not in force here, may come back to us and finish their work by adding me to their list of murders." 
               "True-most true. This way. We can take a boat. Come, my good friend and noble preserver, come with me." 
               "It is so immaterial whither I go," replied Wurtem, "that I will willingly enough accompany you." 
               "They both sprang into the boat, and it was not a minute too soon that they did so, for with frantic shouts there now rushed from the suspicious house more men, who made their way to the edge of the canal. 
               "Pull away," cried the stranger. 
               The man in the boat did so, and in a few moments the little craft was lost to sight from the shore in the fog that at that time was upon the canal. 
               "Have you any objection to tell me who you are?" 
               "None in the least. My name is Wurtem Carlis, and I am-" 
               "Why do you pause?" 
               "Just because I know not what to say." 
                
               "Pardon me," said the stranger; "it ill becomes me, after receiving such a service at your hands, to ask you any questions that may embarrass you;" and turning to the boatman, he gave him an order to land them at a certain spot, and during the few minutes that elapsed before the boat was run into the landing-place, nothing was said by either Wurtem or the stranger. 
               They walked together for some distance, when the latter halted and said- 
               "Various circumstances prevent my asking you at this time to come to my house, but-" 
               The stranger paused, and taking from his pocket a pocket-book and pencil-case, and tearing a leaf from the former, he wrote as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Pay my friend, Wurtem Carlis, the bearer of this, the sum of one hundred guilders, and oblige 
                           
                              JAN VAN VAN JAN. 
                               
                                 To Von Rotter & Co." 
                              
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Take that," said the stranger, "to Von Rotter & Co., and they will cash it. Do not be afraid to spend it, and meet me to-night, at twelve, at this place. Farewell!" 
               The stranger was gone ere Carlis could utter a word of thanks. 
               "One hundred guilders!" he exclaimed. "Why, it is a sum that will last me a year, and he told me to spend it without fear! One hundred guilders! Surely I am deceived. I am so used to disappointments, however, that I will not felicitate myself upon the idea of this order being honored at the banking house; but I will go with it for all that, and if it should be all right, why then I will remain in Amsterdam, and if anybody only does so much as to look at Wilhelmina, they shall have to answer to me for it, that's all." 
               Poor Wurtem felt the pangs of hunger hard upon him, but still he could see no way of assuaging them. It wanted a good four hours before the banking-house of Von Rotter & Co. would open. After wandering about for a time, he crept inside the doorway of an old-fashioned deep doorway, and huddling himself up in one corner, he soon fell asleep.*   *   *   *   * 
               Carlis slept undisturbed for nearly four hours, when he was awakened by a voice, crying out- 
               "Hilloa! get up and be off! Mine Cot! we don't want any drunken rascals here! Get up and be off, or a prison shall be your portion!" 
               This threat was succeeded by a hearty kick, which at once aroused all the energies of the young man, and raising his hand, he caught the foot of his assailant, and giving it a pull, upset him, and sent him rolling into the gutter. 
               "Murder! help! help!' shouted the discomfited individual. 
               Upon this, several people rushed out of the house, and laid hold of Carlis, who had risen, and was looking in rather a confused manner about him; and the individual who was lying in the gutter was lifted up, and brought limping up the steps. 
               "I hope," said Wurtem, "that this will be a lesson to you." 
               "A lesson to me!" cried the individual; "all I did was to give a slight kick to a vagrant who was sleeping on the door-step, and for that I am to be thrown into the gutter at the risk of my life, and bruised from top to toe! But I will have the law of this rascal, who I am sure is poor." 
               Poverty is almost as great a crime in Holland as it is in England. 
               "The idea," said one, "of a poor person daring to sleep on our door-step Oh, how I hate poor people!" 
               "And so I do," said another; "they have no right to sleep at all." 
               "Nor to live," remarked a third. 
               "No," cried another, "they ought all to be thrown into the Zuyder Zee as rubbish; and the notion of one of them sleeping upon the door-step of the illustrious house of Von Rotter is enough to drive one mad." 
               "What! is this Von Rotter's, the banker?" ejaculated Carlis. 
               "Oh, you wretch, you knew that before; and your business here was to rob the house, but your design has been frustrated." 
                
               "I must see Mynheer Von Rotter himself immediately!" said the young man. 
               "And, pray what can you want with Mynheer Von Rotter?" 
               "That is my business. If Von Rotter does not see me, I will close his doors before noon." 
               Upon this they all laughed loudly, and swore that he was mad. 
               According to the old trades law of Amsterdam, if a banker did not honor a check upon him, the holder of it could close his door and fasten them up from the outside until the affairs of the house were properly investigated. 
               "I demand to see the banker, Von Rotter," said Carlis, with an air of dignity. 
               There was now a solemn pause, as one of the clerks went in a very slow and methodical manner to inform Von Rotter that he was wanted. 
               Now, the great Von Rotter was just four feet six inches in height, and about six feet four inches in width, so that, for the taste of the Hollanders, he was considered the handsomest figure in all Amsterdam. There was not a maiden in all the city who did not sigh to be Mrs. Von Rotter; and when he went out for a walk to the corner of the street and back again, he was always followed by an admiring throng. 
               This was the great banker of Amsterdam, who now appeared with his cheeks inflated by anger at being summoned to see somebody that there was all the reason in the world to believe was dreadfully poor, if not something worse-no, there could be nothing worse than being poor. Rage choked the utterance of the great banker, as he looked up to Carlis, who looked down to him with great disdain. 
               "Well?" at last gasped out Von Rotter. 
               "I have an order for money." His voice faltered a little, for the dread then came over him that the slip of paper he had received from the stranger might be worthless. 
               At the idea of any one with such a shabby coat, having an order for money, was so preposterously absurd, that Von Rotter looked indignant. 
               "Who has gone for the guard?" he asked. 
               "Kicki, great sir!" replied one. 
               "Yaw! We will give this had character into custody. You say that you have an order for money?" 
               "Yes, and here it is," answered the young man, as he handed the little scrap of paper to the banker, who deliberately placed across his nose a huge pair of spectacles. 
               The latter looked at the paper for about half a minute, and then he let the spectacles fall smash to the floor, and he was seized with a fit of trembling that astonished all who were present. 
               "Oh, Mynheer-pardon-pardon!" he exclaimed, and the great Von Rotter fell plump upon his knees. "Pardon! you are the friend of Jan-Van Van-Jan, and that is more than enough; you are welcome to the heart and inside of Von Rotter!" 
               Upon hearing these words, the clerks all shrank back in amazement and terror. 
               Summoning all his calmness, the young man spoke. 
               "I bear no malice to any one, but let me hope for the future that poverty will not be considered such a crime as you appear to regard it, until you discover whether it be the result of misfortune or criminality. Think no more of the past, and allow me to assist you to rise." 
               The banker was helped to his feet, and the clerks all bowed in a semi-circle round Carlis. 
               "Come into my private house," said Von Rotter. "Bring an hundred guilders here, Kreken!" 
               "Yaw, Mynheer," said the cashier. 
               Our hero followed him into a little dingy apartment, and he was politely requested to be seated. 
               "Shall you see Jan-Van Van-Jan soon?" enquired the banker. 
               Carlis nodded. 
               "You-you-will not tell him exactly-" 
                
               "I understand you; I'll not mention the character of my reception here, you may depend." 
               "Ah! you are very kind; but you are the friend of Jan-Van Van-Jahn?" 
               The merchant again looked at the check, to be quite sure that the word "friend" was there. 
               "Ah, then, I too will be your friend, and you may draw upon my house for what you like." 
               Poor Wurtem passed his hand across his eyes. He began to feel that this was one of those glittering dreams with which fortune mocks the poor and destitute. 
               "Yes, Mynheer Carlis, or forty thousand guilders," added Von Rotter, "for you are the friend of Jan-Van Van-Jan." 
               Oh, what would not Carlis have given to be able to say-"And who is Jan-Van Van-Jan!" but in the midst of all his perplexities, he felt the great impropriety of asking such a question as that, which might do him the greatest injury, by expressing his own ignorance of who his important friend really was. 
               "Now, my young friend, when you speak to Jan-Van Van-Jan, if you will say that I am your friend, I-shall be so happy. Mine Cot! yaw-the contract!" 
               What was meant by the contract, Carlis could not understand; but he replied by saying- 
               "You may depend upon my saying everything that I possibly can in favor of one who is so very kind as you are." 
               "Oh, mine friend, mine friend!" 
               The banker was quite overcome with joy at these words. 
               Carlis having received his hundred guilders, he arose and said,- 
               "Good morning, Mynheer; I am in the habit of breakfasting early-when I can get any, (added Carlis, aside)-and my hour is past, and I am faint for want of refreshment." 
               The banker actually howled at the idea of the friend of Jan-Van Van-Jan being faint for want of refreshment. It was too terrible a thought. He caught up a little silver bell, and began to ring it at a rate that brought a couple of clerks into the room in a moment. 
               "Go!" cried the banker, "to mine goot sister, and tell her that the best breakfast that can be laid for the best friend of Von Rotter, is to be got ready at once. Go-go!" 
               "I regret," said Carlis, "to give you all this trouble." 
               "Trouble! Mine Cot! the trouble would be if you did not breakfast with me. Come up-stairs, mine young friend. Oh, this is a happy day for thee, Von Rotter! The contract! Ah! the contract! Ah!" 
               "What on earth can he mean by 'the contract?' "thought Wurtem; "but at all events if this be a happy day for thee, it is surely anything but a bad one for me." 
               The half-famished young man followed the banker to the festive apartments of his house, which were upon the floor. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               RETURNS TO VANDERDECKEN. 
               WE left Vanderdecken upon the threshold of Von Straken's breakfast room, at a time when no one could be more thoroughly unexpected than he. 
               The consternation of the merchant was most excessive, and even the young and fair Wilhemina, although she could not tell herself that she had anything to fear from the mysterious man, turned rather pale, and trembled at his sudden and most unlooked-for appearance. 
               Wilhemina was the first to recover from the great surprise into which his sudden appearance had thrown her, and with more courage than she usually exhibited, said- 
               "Who and what are you? Why do you come here to make my father unhappy? What is it that you want in this house?" 
               The stranger replied at first by his strange melancholy smile, and then advancing and lightly touching the arm of the young girl, he said- 
               "Ah, me! maiden fair! do not-oh, do not gaze into my eyes with an unfriendly aspect. The admiration of my heart, however humble, is a compliment that the brightest beauty in all the world might well appreciate, and feel a kindly sensation in acknowledging." 
               There was so much pathos in the tone in which these words were uttered, that Wilhemina could not help in her gentle heart, feeling a sensation of pity for the stranger. 
               "My father," she said, "is rich, and if you are unfortunate, and knows you to be deserving, he will do much for you." 
               "I am much beholden to him already," said the stranger, "and it is a great thing to find his child so full of holy compassion. Oh, maiden, let me tell you that gentle pity is a more laudable thing than all your beauty-that one tear which you may shed in real sympathy with human sorrow, is of more account in Heaven than all the gold and jewels which the great world possesses." 
               There was quite a fascination in the manner in which these words were spoken. 
               "I will leave you, Mynheer, with my father," said the maiden, "who will better understand your wants than I can; but-" 
               "Say on fair one-say on." 
               "Was it a dream, father, that this man last night disappeared, as no human being could have done?" 
               Vanderdecken shuddered. 
               The old merchant gave a slight groan, as he said- 
               "Mine child, te safest and te pest vay is to dink it a tream." 
               "Like a dream," said Vanderdecken, in a hollow tone. 
               Wilhemina said no more, but she left the room. When the door was closed, Vanderdecken said in solemn tones- 
               "Von Straken, last night I had to leave you for a little time. It was well that I did so, for you had murderous designs against me." 
               "I-murderous designs?" 
               "Yes, you-fat, and quiet, and plethoric as you look, you conceived the idea of taking away my life, because you could not think of any other way of getting rid of me. But know, that not you, nor a hundred like you, could let out from this mortal fabric my spirit! and it is but loading your heart with guilty thoughts that can give you no recompense in this world or in the next." 
               "Mine Cot!" gasped the old man. 
               "My nature is not one that bears malice for such an evil. Oh, would that you could only-" 
               Vanderdecken paused, and clasped his hands together, and then a strange kind of convulsion passed over his features. 
               "Now," he resumed, "I demand of you the fair Wilhemina in marriage, according to our agreement, or I will take such means as will leave you a beggar in the streets of Amsterdam, with your name loaded with the infamy of being poor; and there is no greater infamy in the city!" 
               "Mine Cot! no. Listen, Mynheer Diedrick. I only used one of your jewels." 
               As he spoke, the old merchant took from his pocket a carefully folded piece of leather, and having unwrapped it, he produced the exquisite jewels that had been intrusted to him. 
               "Here are enough to purchase the crown of Holland. Mine Cot, I never saw such jewels! The one that I did part with is now in the Imperial Diadem of Russia. Oh, Mynheer Diedrich, you might be king of all the kings of the world, if you can find such jewels as these." 
               "I laid hold of them by dozens at the bottom of the Indian Ocean." 
               "At te-pottom of-te Indian Ocean?" 
                
               "Yes." 
               "Then you went down?" 
               "I did. One of two things must have happened: either the bottom of the sea must have come up to me, or I must have gone down to it. I leave the astute Mynheer Von Straken to decide which is most probable." 
               "Yaw! Do you dink dere ish any more dere?" 
               "Ay; I know where to plunge my hand into a cleft of a rock where there are bushels of such gems." 
               "Pushels?" 
               "Ay; they can be brought up in any quantity. How they came there is a mystery, for you perceive that they are finished gems, and that the finest polish that the lapidary can give to such baubles is upon them." 
               The idea of there being bushels of such diamonds to be had for the grasping, even though they were at the bottom of the Indian Ocean, had evidently, for the time, come between the old merchant and his wits. 
               The old man dropped his pipe, and rocked to and fro upon his chair. Then suddenly looking up, he said- 
               "Ah, no; I could not sell mine child for von pushel of tiamonds!" 
               "'Tis well." 
               "Take pack te jewels. Dere ish all put von." 
               "Do you forget, old man, that we have a written agreement, in which the whole of these gems, with their weight and value, are described, and that the conditions of your having them all were that I was to be the husband of your daughter?" 
               "I do not forget; I vish I did! put dere dey ish: take them." 
               Vanderdecken took the jewels, and after running them through his fingers for a moment or two, he east them into the wood fire that was blazing and crackling upon the hearth! An explosion immediately ensued that shook the house, and in nine brilliant sparks, like ascending stars, the jewels dashed up the wide chimney and were gone! 
               Von Straken fell flat upon his face on the floor, for now he gave himself up for lost, indeed. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               A WIDOW CALLS UPON THE MERCHANT. 
               TAP, tap! rapped somebody at the merchant's door, and in a few moments the widow Jansens looked into the room,- 
               "Mynheer Von Straken, I have come to ask you where that dear, delightful man is who came to you last evening, and was saved from the wreck. I have not been able to sleep for thinking of him." 
               The widow had got thus far, in her haste to speak, without noticing that the dear delightful man she alluded to was in the room, and to all appearance alone, for Von Straken had rolled out of sight. 
               "I am here," said Vanderdecken. 
               "Oh-oh!" exclaimed the widow, "that ever I should have said what I have, and allowed any human man to know that I--Oh, dear me, what will you think of me, sir!" 
               "Just what I thought before," said Vanderdecken. 
               She sank into a chair, and looked as languishing as possible at Vanderdecken, who slowly approached her. 
               "And you, then, have come to see me madam?" he said, 
               "I confess to the truth when I say that I have, you delightful man!" 
               "Humph! Then you love me, and you would have no objection to wed me, I daresay, madam?" 
                
               
                   
                     Wurtem Carlis rescues Jan-Van from his assailants. See p. 43. 
                  
                
                
                
               "Oh, how precipitate you are, to be sure! Are you sure nobody will come? Wouldn't it be better to lock the door?" 
               "Not at all. I have come to Amsterdam expressly for a wife; but I am rather choice, and there is one condition." 
               "Oh, ask it! What is it?" 
               "I must marry a maid!" 
               "A what?" 
               "A maid. I trust there is such a thing even in Amsterdam!" 
               "Gracious!" 
               "If you cannot come up to that description, madam, you will be so good as to consider that you cannot have me." 
               The widow felt a little fired. 
               "You wretch!" she exclaimed; "I did, I confess, like you a little, but now I-And yet-oh, you are only joking! I feel sure of that, you handsome, seducing man! You are only joking!" 
               "You have a little bit of rock coral belonging to me, madam?" 
               "Oh, yes, I have it here in my bosom. It is a small piece only, and will you believe me when I tell you that I took it home in remembrance of you, placed it under my pillow, and dreamed all night of you." 
               "Not a doubt of it. Show it to me." 
               The widow, with a good deal of coquetry, took the little piece of coral from her bosom and handed it to Vanderdecken, who looked her in the face the moment he got it, and waited in silence to hear what effect the abstraction of the magic coral from her possession would have upon her feelings with regard to him. 
               The effect was speedy and significant. The whole expression of her charming countenance changed, and she looked at Vanderdecken with a shudder of horror. 
               "Good gracious! why am I here?" 
               "I do not know, madam!" 
               "How could I for one moment-oh dear!" she exclaimed. "Why, the man is a perfect fright, and looks as if he had been dead and buried for a hundred years, and dug up and let walk about. Don't come near me, you horrid, uncomfortable-looking wretch!" 
               "Allow me to show you to the door," said Vanderdecken. 
               The widow arose with many shudders, and made what haste she could from the house, ejaculating to herself her own wonder that she had ever come to it on such an errand. 
               "Rise, Von Straken!" said Vanderdecken to the old Dutchman, who had now assumed a sitting posture under the table. "The time has arrived when it is proper that you and I should fully and clearly understand each other." 
               The merchant groaned. 
               "Rise, I say, and speak to me like a man." 
               "Mercy!-ish dere no hope?" asked the old man, on regaining his feet. 
               "Yes, abundance of hope! your daughter will be my bride!" 
               "Alas! alas! She can't love you." 
               "A shallow argument. If you can't consent to such a course, say the word, man, and I will go now and lodge my complaint concerning the jewels with the syndic, and you know the consequences-you are lost!" 
               "Oh, no, no! Anyding but dat! A ruined merchant-te jest of every idle tongue-imprisoned in te tamp cells of te old quay prison, for not paying what I never owed! Oh, no-it ish petter to die at vonce!" 
               "No, it is better to try to do your best to accomplish my wishes." 
               The old merchant gasped several times like some great fish who finds air not so congenial to him as water, and then he just managed to say- 
               "I-I-I vill-yaw. I vill." 
               "Then that is settled. We understand each other. One hour after the wedding you shall have a bushel of diamonds!" 
               "A pushel-a whole pushel! Oh, mine Cot! a whole pushel of tiamonds! Dat ish much. A pushel. You will give me goot measure, too, no doubt, mine goot friend?" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               SHOWS HOW WURTEM CARLIS ROSE IN THE WORLD. 
               IT is quite clear that the course of true love runs not a whit smoother in Holland than it does in England; and poor Wilhemina and her fond and faithful lover, Wurtem Carlis, experienced the truth of the fact, that the heart's best roses are ever the most beset by thorns. The poor girl was to be the victim of all this covetousness upon the part of her father, provided he could devise any means of inducing her to break faith with Wurtem Carlis, whom she really loved; and it is to him we have now to return. 
               "I do not know, Mynheer Von Rotter," said Carlis, after getting up from a substantial repast, "how I am to repay you for all this kindness to me." 
               "The contract, my friend," said the banker. 
               "I do not precisely comprehend," said the young man. 
               "I'll explain. The contract for the repair of the dykes and drains of the coast is given each year to some wealthy citizen, and I want it this year." 
               "And can Van Jan-" Carlis paused. 
               "Do so much for friendship'sake? Yaw. He can and will if you ask him." 
               "But I have heard that in nine cases out of ten those who undertake this contract are ruined by it." 
               "Ah, true; but I am in possession of a secret process that will do the work much more effectually than it has ever been done, at about one third of the expense. But you must keep this fact a secret." 
               "Upon my honor, I will. Now, I understand you." 
               "And now let me tell you, Mynheer Carlis, what I will do for you. I will give you five thousand guilders." 
               "Not one guilder, Von Rotter; but since you are disposed to assist me, I ask the loan of the sum you have named, so that I can go into the old house of my family and resume the export and import trade, and I am certain that I can repay it, with interest, in the course of time." 
               "Listen, Mynheer Carlis. I have faith in you. You may draw upon my house for ten thousand guilders, in such sums as may suit your convenience, and all I shall require of you will be your acknowledgment of the debt. And, mine good friend, you will speak to Jan-Van about the contract?" 
               "Assuredly. I will ask it of him as a favor for you the next time I meet him." 
               Von Rotter embraced Carlis at once, and then in a loud voice he called out- 
               "Truchden-Truchden!" 
               "Pray, who is Truchden?" asked Carlis. 
               "Truchden is mine child, and the most beautiful maiden in all Amsterdam; yaw, in all the world." 
               "Hem!" 
               "Yaw; she is so fat that she has to come in sideways at that door-a solemn fact-an immense fact." 
               "Rather a greasy fact," thought Carlis; but he inclined his head to signify that he had no doubt that the banker's statement was no exaggeration. 
               Truchden now made her appearance, and actually verified her father's description by coming sideways through the doorway. 
               The complexion of the banker's daughter was very fair, and her hair was of that faint, flaxen color, such as is very popular upon the heads of children's dolls, and resembles tow more than anything else. She was just four feet in height-and we are really afraid to say how many in width. She had little sleepy-looking eyes, a pretty mouth, white teeth, and there was a good-tempered expression on her face, fact as it was. 
                
               "Mine darling child," said Von Rotter, after he had waited a reasonable time for Carlis to be thoroughly struck with the beauty of his daughter; "this is Mynheer Carlis, your father's best friend, and it is my particular desire that you embrace him at once." 
               Truchden, with all obedience, advanced to obey her father's mandate. 
               Wurtem was rather alarmed, to tell the truth, and although he had risen upon the entrance of the young lady, he now shrunk back till he got to his chair again, and as he could get no further, down he sat; but that did not save him. 
               "Father," said Truchden, "it shall never be said that your own child did not do as you bade her." 
               With this, she flung herself plump into Wurtem Carlis's arms and as the chair could not stand their combined weight, over it went backwards with them both, and poor Wurtem found himself very nearly smothered beneath a mountain of flesh. 
               Truchden gave a slight scream and rolled off Wurtem, and there she lay kicking, until the latter and the broker got her up and placed her in a chair. 
               Truchden began to cry. 
               "Pray do not let this little accident affect you," said Carlis. 
               "But what must you think of me?" she asked. 
               "Nothing, but that you are a very charming young lady." 
               Truchden looked languishingly at him. 
               "I feel rather faint," said she. 
               "Then mine good friend here will carry you to your chamber." 
               "I must try, I suppose," thought Carlis. 
               It was a difficult job; but he did at length get her in his arms, and then staggered up the stairs with her. Von Rotter followed them a part of the way to direct Wurtem how he was to go, and rubbing his hands together all the while with great apparent satisfaction. 
               Carlis, obeying the directions of the banker, entered a chamber, and very carefully deposited Truchden upon the bed. At that moment Von Rotter was summoned below, leaving our hero in a very agonized situation. He prepared to follow, but the Dutch beauty recovered a little, and holding him tightly by the sleeve of his coat, she said-- 
               "Oh, do not leave me!" 
               "I hope you are better?" said he. 
               "Yes-yes; what has happened?" 
               "I suppose you fainted, and now I am happy to see and hear that you have recovered; so I will leave you, as this is your chamber, and I beg to assure you that nothing but the necessity for some one carrying you to it would have induced me to intrude upon its sacred privacy." 
               Truchden still held him quite tightly by the coat, as she said, in soft, winning accents, "Oh, Mynheer Carlis, you will not leave me? there is no one who really loves me in this house, and I am not well enough to be left alone." 
               "Let me beg of you for your own sake, as well as for mine, to let me go." 
               "No; I am getting very faint again--" 
               With this, Truchden turned upon her face, and began to kick in such an extraordinary manner, that after looking on for a moment or two in amazement. Carlis thought she was very ill, and he took hold of her to raise her up. At this unfortunate moment the door of the chamber was violently opened, and some half dozen people rushed into the room, crying out- 
               "Where is the villain? Where is the seducer?" 
               "Oh, this is dreadful!" cried an old woman. "This is too shocking. Pray go away everybody who is not married or a widower. I have got hold of him. Oh, you wretch, to go about to ruin a mere child, like our pretty little innocent Truchden!" 
               Uttering this, the old lady seized Wurtem by the skirts of his coat, which ended in their coming off into her hands. 
               "Murder!" shouted the old woman. 
               "Help!" cried the loving maiden. 
                
               "The devil!" said Carlis. 
               "What uproar is this in my house?" ejaculated Von Rotter, now suddenly appearing upon the scene of action, and looking as innocently as possible. Alas! what do I fear? My heart misgives me. Who can tell me the cause of all this?" 
               "This is the cause," said the old woman, advancing with the coat-skirts in her hands. 
               "Oh, this is terrible," said the banker. 
               "Perhaps," said Carlis, "you will allow me, Mynheer Von Rotter, to say a word or two in explanation." 
               "Oh, no, no-I desire to hear nothing. I am assured that you are a man of honor, Mynheer Carlis, however your feelings may have overcome you for a moment. I give you credit for being a man of honor; and as after this scene the reputation of my child must suffer, I give my cordial consent to your immediate union with her." 
               "How like the noble heart of my dear, dear father!" sobbed Truchden, as she flung herself upon her father's neck. 
               "There is only one little objection," said Carlis, gravely. 
               "We will waive all objections," said the banker. 
               "Pray, Mynheer, will you have the goodness to explain to me the meaning of all this?" asked the astonished youth. 
               "Don't you know?" 
               "Then I will tell you that I give my free consent to your marriage with my dear and innocent young Truchden." 
               "With all due deference to you," replied Carlis, "and admiration for the beauty and the talents of the young lady, I beg leave to decline the very flattering and totally unexpected proposal." 
               "Very well; there is no harm done. I decline, you decline, and there's the end of it. So shake hands and be friends, if you cannot be anything else." 
               Truchden came forward, and timidly shook hands with him-and then old Von Rotter shooks hands with him likewise, and to all appearances the affair terminated as amicably as possible; but yet Wurtem could not help thinking that all the fuss that had taken place could not be for nothing. 
               "Come down stairs, Mynheer," said Von Rotter; "we will leave the pretty Truchden to recover by herself. Ah! she is but a young tender creature; and you might have done worse than make her your wife." 
               The banker led the way to the odd little room in which he and Wurten had been sitting, before the odd little episode took place. He here renewed his promise of the loan of ten thousand guilders, when he rose and begged to be excused for a few minutes. Going down stairs to the counting house, he said, in a loud voice- 
               "Credit Wurten Carlis, who is to be my son-in-law, with a loan of ten thousand guilders, that he borrows of me preceding his marriage!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               VON STRAKEN TAKES ENERGETIC MEASURES WITH HIS DAUGHTER. 
               ALL the while these singular things were going on at the house of Von Rotter (things which would have been very interesting to Wilhemina to know) that young lady was in anything but an enviable condition between her three admirers, Tom Simpson, Wurtem Carlis, and lastly, Vanderdecken, who, to escape the dreadful doom that is hanging over him, would lead her to the altar, pledged to him by her father's cupidity. 
               And poor Von Straken. What a situation for one of the wealthiest of the great princely merchants of Amsterdam to be in. 
               "Father, said Wilhemina, "you look ill." 
                
               "Yaw, mine Cot, I am; put I vant no physician. You can cure me, and you only." 
               "I, father?" 
               "Yaw, mine child, and I vill tell you te vay. It ish von great secret, and you must keep it locked up in your own preast just as if it vas a precious jewel in a pox." 
               "I will, father." 
               "You must know, mine child, dat te sailor man who came here has it in his power to ruin me and turn me into te streets of Amsterdam vithout a guilder, or make me richer than te stadtholder himself." 
               "That horrid man, father?" 
               "Yes-dat ish no-he ish not horrid looking-ho ish not pad looking, and te only price he asks for abstaining from ruining me, and for giving me so much wealth, ish your hand." 
               "My hand? Why you don't mean te say he wants to marry me?" 
               "Mine peautiful and gentle child, I do." 
               "Then I won't." 
               Von Straken dropped his pipe, and glanced at his daughter out of his pig-like eyes in amazement. 
               "She won't!" gasped the old man. "How like her dear departed mother she is, to be sure." 
               "No, father, I'll not marry anybody that I don't love; and I love but one." 
               "And dat one ish-" 
               "My dear Wurtem Carlis." 
               "Mitout a farding." 
               "Ah! but I love him for all that; and you are rich, father. You only say this to try your daughter's heart, that is all, and at the end of it you will send for poor Carlis." 
               "Will I?" 
               "And you will say-Take my child, Carlis, and love her and cherish her; and here is my blessing and ten thousand guilders." 
               "Oh!" 
               "And then we will both fall upon your neck, as I do now, and bless you, and you will feel as happy as possible; for then you will know that the two people who love each other best in all the world, and who love you-for Wurtem will love you for my sake-are happy likewise." 
               As she spoke, she flung herself into the arms of her father, and very nearly sent him backwards, chair and all. 
               Under ordinary circumstances the daughter would have carried the day; but the old merchant was too firmly possessed with the idea of the certain ruin that would come upon him if he refused to carry out, as far as in him lay, the expectations of Vanderdecken to hesitate, and after a great struggle with his conflicting feeiings, he cried out, 
               "No, no, no! Hark ye, Wilhemina, I command you to marry the highly respected Diedrich." 
               "What! a spirit! a man who can get into a box and then disappear?" 
               "Oh, that was only a bit of his fun, and a little conjuring trick that he thought would please you, that was all." 
               "Father, I will not have him. 
               Tap-tap, came a sound at the door of the room at that moment, and the old merchant said, hurriedly- 
               "Dat ish Slipperhauss, mine head clerk, come to show me te books. Go to your chamber, girl, and dink over vat I have told you." 
               The door of the apartment was slowly opened, and a most magnificent figure appeared upon the entrance. Wilhemina was quite dazzled with the richness and the rarity of the apparel of the intruder. 
               He was dressed in a suit of the richest pale purple velvet, and it was trimmed with the finest silver lace, and studded with such a multitude of little silver buttons, hanging by three or four links of a little chain, each of them; and the lace of his collar was half a yard in depth. A hat of somewhat darker colored velvet, with a large single feather of the brightest crimson, and a loop composed of four diamonds of the most dazzling beauty, completed his attire. 
               Von Straken was thunderstruck at the gorgeous apparel of the brave stranger, and it was not until he had stepped forward into the room that the old merchant and his sweet daughter saw that it was no other than the mysterious sailor who was proposed to her as a husband. 
               Vanderdecken took off his hat, and bowed very low to the young lady, and executed a melancholy smile. 
               "May I hope," he said, in the calm quiet tone that he so usually spoke in, "that I am welcome here?" 
               "Yaw, Mynheer," faltered Von Straken. 
               "And here, too," said Vanderdecken, as he approached closely to the maiden. "Am I here welcome? Let me hope so." 
               As he spoke these words he walked completely around her, and she felt that he touched her dress, but it was so very imperceptible, the touch, that she did not feel inclined to be offended. 
               "Sweet Wilhemina," he said; "will you strive to think of me as one who loves you?" 
               "Yes," she said faintly. 
               "Mine Cot!" cried Von Straken; "how strange it ish dat some men can turn te mind of a female so soon." 
               "Oh, Mynheer," said Wilhemina, "what diamonds you have!" 
               "Trifles," said Vanderdecken, as he pulled from his hat the four diamonds that were upon it. "Mere trifles! allow me to beg you will accept these as a gift from one who loves you." 
               The bright eyes of the maiden looked brighter than ever. She let him place the diamonds in her hand, and she seemed completely fascinated at their glitter. 
               "Do you really give them to me?" 
               "Yes, love, most freely." 
               "Oh, mine child, how happy you make me," cried Von Straken. 
               "Happy-happy," said Wilhemina, musingly. 
               "Surely one like you, so full of beauty, was formed for happiness," remarked Vanderdecken. "You admire those diamonds. I can array you with them in a shining heap of gorgeous beauty." 
               The maiden looked confused. 
               "If I thought that it would be a right and holy thing to think of you at all; if I could only think that all my superstitious fears whisper to me was but a delusion I should then, perhaps, not-" 
               She paused. 
               "Not refuse to make me blessed with this hand," said he, as he clasped it in his own. 
               "How cold!" said she, as she hastily withdrew her hand from that of the mysterious man. 
               He sighed deeply, and then sang a sweet but mournful strain. 
               "How very beautiful!" she exclaimed. "What tones are those?" 
               An invisible echo seemed to repeat the words that he sung with such tenderness. 
               "Where are those voices?" she asked. 
               "You mistake, love. It is but the waivy echo of my words hanging in the air." 
               Wilhemina, with an air of abstraction, put the diamonds into her pocket, and then, with a look of surprise, she drew forth a small gold ring in which was set a piece of red coral. 
               "Why, how came I by this?" she asked. 
               "I wished," replied he, smiling, "to make you a little present of it, but I thought you might reject it, so I dropped it into your pocket." 
               "Oh no, I'll not reject it." 
                
               "That is kind. How well it fits that finger upon which you place it; and now may I call the fair and gentle Wilhemina mine?" 
               She looked confused, and yet her lips shaped themselves to the word "Yes." 
               "Mine! mine!" cried Vanderdecken. 
               "Yaw," responded old Straken: "let me have te vedding over as soon as possible-to-morrow!" 
               "To-day is better," said Vanderdecken, as he gazed at Wilhemina. 
               "Oh, yes!" she responded. 
               Mynheer was astounded at his daughter's ready acquiescence. 
               "Take her," he said. "Mine tear frient, take her mit all mine heart." 
               The half kind of groan with which the old man said this was quite sufficient to show that it was entirely insincere. 
               "To-day, then, fair one," said Vanderdecken, "let it be; and now I have a simple request to make-that you-will keep that ring upon your finger, and upon no account whatever, even for half a moment, remove it." 
               "Oh, I can easily promise that." 
               "You do promise it upon your soul?" 
               The maiden was a little startled at this oath, but after the pause of a few seconds, she said- 
               "I promise, and upon my soul." 
               "Enough," he replied; "and now, Mynheer, let the preparations be made for the marriage." 
               At this moment there was a rap at the door, and Tom Simpson appeared. 
               "Oh, father-in-law, that is to be," he cried, "I have been down to the quays, and I find that two of your ships have arrived from the Indies, with, oh! such cargoes; and so I'll overlook all that has taken place, and lead the fair Wilhemina to the hymenial altar." 
               "Indeed!" said Vanderdecken, turning upon him. 
               "Hilloa! why, if you ain't the-the-" 
               "Mynheer Simpson & Co." said Straken, "when I tell a sensible business man dat nobody vants him, he generally goes avay at vonce, and dat ish te sort of remark dat I now make to you. Te hand of mine daughter ish given to dis gentleman mit her own free consent." 
               "What! are you going to marry that ghost of a fellow, Wilhemina?" 
               "Yes," she replied. 
               "Certainly," said Vanderdecken, "if Simpson has no objection; and if he has, I've only one proposal to make to him." 
               "And what may that be, sir?" 
               "That as we both love the lady, and as we cannot both have her, that we jump hand in hand into the sea off the highest point we can find above it, and that we each try to drown the other, and the survivor shall wed this fair maiden without hindrance." 
               "No, thank you, I-" 
               "Or suppose we are both put into a dark room with two knives each of us, and left for an hour. The survivor then can marry the lady with a clear conscience." 
               "Can he! well, all I can tell you is, that you may marry the lady, and eat her afterwards, for all I care. Good bye, Mynheer Von Straken; good bye, Miss Fat. Bah! good bye, Flying Dutchman. I believe you are the devil, and you and Fatty will have imps with little green tails, instead of children!" 
               With this parting salutation Tom Simpson bounded out of the house. 
               "Let the wedding," said Vanderdecken, "be two hours after dark this evening; and I will be here one hour before for the bride." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THE WEDDING OF WILHEMINA IS INTERRUPTED. 
               "BOAT ahoy! boat ahoy!" 
               Such was the cry of a tall, mysterious looking figure at one of the quays of Amsterdam soon after the interview that Vanderdecken had had with the old Dutchman and his daughter. 
               An old phlegmatic Dutch waterman waddled to the spot. With the stem of his pipe he pointed to the boat which called him owner, and the stranger jumped into it at once. 
               "Where to, Mynheer?" said the waterman. 
               "To sea." 
               "Yaw." 
               The boatman cared not whither his passenger chose to go, nor who he was, so long as he was well paid for the job. 
               We need only to say that the dress of the stranger was of rich velvet, trimmed with lace, and that his cap had in it a brilliant crimson feather, to show the reader that it was Vanderdecken himself. 
               They had now got a considerable distance from the quay, and were rapidly making their way towards the sea. The daylight, too, was fading in the west, and the long crimson streaks of light were rapidly going, and towards the east everything looked black and dismal. Large piles of dense clouds gave threatening forewarning of a rough night that was to come. 
               The boatman began to look rather uneasy. He spake not, for he was awed by the rich dress and the haughty look of his customer. 
               Hark! what is that? A strange whistling noise in the air. It is the first indication of a coming gale of wind-the light outskirts as it were of the blast. The boatman heard it, and said- 
               "Mynheer, did you hear that?" 
               "I did; but are you afraid of the storm?" 
               "Afraid!" 
               "Ay; do you fear the winds and the waves?" 
               "Fear is a strong word, Mynheer. There's many a thing that a man don't choose to do or to like, and yet that he is not afraid of." 
               "You seem a bold fellow. Pull further out." 
               "But, Mynheer, the boat cannot live in a storm; we shall fill with the first ugly sea that strikes us, and then down we go." 
               "Oh, dear, no; you are very much mistaken; I will take care of that. The object of my coming here was-" 
               "For pleasure, I fancy, Mynheer, so now let us go back." 
               "Among other objects I do get the pleasure of a trip upon the water; but the real fact is, I came to bathe." 
               "Bathe?" 
               "Ay; is there anything so extraordinary in that?" 
               "What, Mynheer! bathe in a sea already heavy enough to make a frigate uncomfortable? Bathe in the dark, and with the wind howling about your ears? Here we have it!" 
               A tremendous wash of the sea at this moment came into the boat, nearly swamping it. 
               "There," added the boatman, "I expected that." 
               "Then you are not disappointed," said Vanderdecken. "You fancy that you run she risk of a loss of your boat and of your life; but neither shall happen. Take this." 
               As he spoke, he took from his pocket a curious old piece of money 
                
               "Keep that," he said, "and your boat will float; if the waves should conspire with the winds to toss it to destruction, you will not sink." 
               Sailors are all superstitious, and the man took the old coin with a gaze of infinite awe, and tried to examine it by the strange lurid light that was reflected off the water. 
               "Heed not what it is," said Vanderdecken. "Let it suffice that it will save you while I am gone." 
               "While you are gone, Mynheer?" 
               "Yes. I intend now to have what most of all amuses me, namely, a swim and a dive in the sea when it is rather rough. You will wait for me, as best you may, and keep as near this spot as possible. I shall return soon." 
               "Oh, Mynheer, you will perish if you attempt to leave the boat in such a sea as this. Nothing human can buffet such billows as these." 
               Vanderdecken paid not the slightest attention to these words, but suddenly casting off the ample cloak that was wrapped about him, he flung it towards the man. 
               "That will keep the wind from getting to your heart and marrow," he said. "And now, do not suppose that I have come here to seek death by what you see me do, for, as sure as the sun will rise again to-morrow, I will return to you; and if you leave this spot, perdition catch your soul." 
               With these words Vanderdecken closed his hands over his head, and with one plunge he went over the side of the boat, and cleaving the waves like a shot, he disappeared from before the astonished and bewildered eyes of the waterman. 
               "Help! help! Oh, mercy!" cried the man. "He is gone! he is lost! Oh, help! help!" 
               The wind howled fiercely, and the waves rose mountains high, and dashed over the boat, but it was still buoyant. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               VANDERDECKEN MAKES A PROMISE TO THE PHANTOM SHIP. 
               WE must leave the bewildered Dutch boatman, while we follow the wild and wayward course of Vanderdecken. 
               No mortal man could have lived for a moment in the sea into which he had so madly plunged; and, oh! what a joy it would have been to that man of many griefs if the wild waves had suddenly found the power to hurry him to death! But his time had not yet come. 
               Down, down, he went through the surging waters; until he came to a kind of hollow chasm, into which, with a hissing sound, the water seemed to be pouring. Headlong he plunged into that hollow. 
               A few minutes only elapsed, when he rose to the surface of the sea again, but it was upon the African coast that he was now, and there was scarce a ripple upon the water's surface. Vanderdecken rose up and stood upon the water. It was a strange thing to see that man there standing, with his pale face turned up to the moonlight, and his rich apparel not even damped by the world of waters he had gone through to reach that spot. 
               "Once again," he said, in sad accents, "I am upon this coast, which has been the scene of all the horrors that beset my existence. Oh, Heaven, have mercy upon me!" 
               A cloud swept over the face of the moon, suddenly, as if a hand had been placed across its disc. 
               "That is an answer; my doom continues," said he. 
               The cloud disappeared again. 
               "Be it so," he added; "I must endure and blaspheme not. Oh, busy devil, do not tempt me to say one word, or to think one word that is inimical to the greatness and justness of God. Even now, there is a fiend by me, whispering to me that I shall gain more by defiance than by prayers. But I will not heed him. Oh, Heaven, you see-you hear that I heed him not!" 
               The moonbeams fell more sweetly around the spot where he stood, and the sea was more peaceful even than it had been before. He accepted these omens as indications that Heaven had heard him, and was not displeased at his words and his patience. 
               But now Vanderdecken set about what he sought to do, and waving his arms over the sea, he sang, or rather chanted the following words:- 
                      
                        "From the sand and the rock, 
                        Where thy old timbers lie, 
                        Come up, my brave ship, 
                        To the light of the sky; 
                        From the sea-weed and shell, 
                        From the wave-monsters' homes, 
                        Come up, my brave ship, 
                        From the dead, and their bones. 
                        The soft moon is shining 
                        The air it is light, 
                        Oh, come, then, oh, come, 
                        'Mid the stillness of night. 
                        Spread the sail-spread the sail, 
                        Shipmates, oh, shipmates, 
                        To thee I now call." 
                     
                  
                
               The echoes of the sounds went over the surface, in endlesss reverberations. 
               Suddenly, about a cable's length from Vanderdecken, there began to be a strange commotion upon the surface of the sea. It seemed to be bubbling and boiling up from the bottom in huge masses, and presently the topmast of a ship appeared, with a long silken streamer pendent from it. Higher-higher still came that mast, followed by mizen and fore-masts, and then the shrouds became visible. Every inch of canvas was set, and in the course of a few moments, a large ship rose up, and sat upon the still waters. 
               The flag of Holland fluttered gently at the stern. The deck on the starboard side was crowded with men, gazing over the bulwarks. There was a singular blue and shiny look about the ship; long snaky fish crawled out at the port-hole and the cabin-windows, and fell with a sudden plunge into the sea. Her sides were thickly encrusted with shell-fish, and tons upon tons of sea-weeds clung to her, and hung pendent from her rigging, and huge fish, which made strange blowing noises like a whale, sprang from the deck and disappeared into the sea again. 
               "Vanderdecken!" cried a wailing voice from the ship. 
               "Ship ahoy!" responded Vanderdecken. 
               There was now quite a bustle among that ghastly crew. The sailors moved about noiselessly, gliding rather than walking, and presently a boat was lowered and four men glided into it. The oars dipped into the sparkling ripples, and in the course of two or three minutes the boat was alongside of Vanderdecken. He stepped into the boat, and the phantom crew silently rowed him to the vessel, and in the course of another minute he stood upon the deck of the phantom ship. Seizing the wheel, and with his eyes steadily fixed upon the south-west, he tried to steer. The spectre crew looked on with curious metalic-looking eyes. The prow of the ship rose and fell, but not an inch did she make progress through the water. 
               Vanderdecken dropped his hold of the wheel, and the whole crew, with one voice, uttered a despairing shriek. The crew crept slowly towards him. 
               "Hold!" cried Vanderdecken. 
               The crew raised a yell of rage. 
               "Home! home!" they cried. "Port! our homes-our wives-our children, call for us. To port! Home-home!" 
                
               "Hold!" cried their captain again. "I will give you words of comfort. Listen to me." 
               They all crouched around him. 
               "Oh, men of many sorrows-men of unfathomable griefs! I come to tell you that the fiat has gone forth, that unless I can get some young and innocent heart to love me, and to wish, for my own sake, knowing who and what I am, to save me from eternal destruction, we may not get to our port." 
               A scream of dissatisfied rage burst from the crew. 
               "Hear me out! In Amsterdam there is a young maiden, who has consented to be mine. If she still, after hearing my sad story-which I shall be obliged to tell her-takes me for her husband, I will be here at the hour of midnight, and then we will sail for our old port. I came to tell you that there is hope, and now again I leave you. A boat is waiting for me in the Zuyder Zee, without which, you know, I could not touch the shore. Farewell!" 
               By the gestures of the phantom crew, it was evident they thought the hope but a faint one; nevertheless, they no longer yelled at Vanderdecken, but took him up, and with one plunge he went down into the sea. 
                
               With his hair on end-with terror depicted upon his countenance, and shivering in the fierce wind, the waterman waited for the mysterious being who had hired him and his boat from the quay at Amsterdam. 
               Vanderdecken was not gone above thirty minutes, when his voice was again heard, crying- 
               "Boat ahoy!" 
               "Holy St. Nicholas protect me!" said the waterman, "that is the dreadful man! No, he is no man at all. He is-" 
               "Boat ahoy!" cried the voice again. 
               "Ay, ay," responded the boatman, his teeth chattering, and he fancied he saw something black upon the crests of the waves. 
               "Boat ahoy!" again cried the voice. 
               "By St. Nicholas, or the devil, if you like that better, I am here," said the boatman. 
               "Help me in, friend. Ah, that is well. Let us to port now." 
               "Yaw," said the waterman; "and now, if I only had a light, I should feel quite happy, for the boat don't ship water as it did." 
               "You shall have a light," said the other; "but, remember, that none of the wonders you see are to be repeated to mortal ears." 
               "I'll remember." 
               "Now, where will you have the light?" 
               "I should like it in the head of the boat, as it will then show me what I am about." 
               "Very well. There it is." 
               As Vanderdecken spoke, he stepped forward to the bow, and gave a slight puff of breath upon the top of a roughly carved ornament, and in a moment up flew from it a bright blue flame of about six inches in height, which cast a lurid glare over the boat and occupants. 
               The waterman was terrified; he wished he had not asked for a light at all; he began to think that if his boat should go into the quay at Amsterdam with such a light burning at her bow, he should be the wonder and alarm of the whole city. He was so terrified that he could not perform his duties. 
               "What is the matter now?" asked the passenger. 
               "No-no-thing; but the-the light!" 
               "What of the light?" 
               "It is so-so very blue!" 
               "Oh, it is the color you object to, do you? That can be easily changed." 
               Vanderdecken blew upon the light, and in one instant it changed to one of the most brilliant and dazzling crimsons that could be imagined. 
               "Holy St. Nicholas!" said the boatman; "was there ever such a light?" 
               At the instant he spoke out it went, and the darkness seemed to be double in intensity to what it had been before. 
                
               "It is gone!" said he. 
               "Ay," said the passenger; "no doubt St. Nicholas blew it out. It would have been better not to have mentioned the name of the Saint just now; but perhaps you will do without it." 
               "Ah, and so can I!" cried the boatman, joyfully; "I could laugh outright for joy, for I never expected to set my foot upon shore again. Hilloa! Hans!" 
               "Yaw," replied the sleepy watchman upon the quay. 
               "Catch the hawser, Hans! All's right! That's the way to do it! And now, Mynheer, here we are safe at last." 
               Vanderdecken stepped on to the quay, and the delighted boatman followed him. Turning then, abruptly to him, he placed a handful of old mouldy coins in his hand, and said- 
               "Remember-secrecy-for the sake of your soul." 
               "I will-I will! And what is more, I-Oh, he is gone! He's a strange fellow! but he has paid me well. Hans, take two or three pieces of money, and run to the lustenrust, and get a bottle of the best schnapps." 
               The watchman started off on his errand, and in a few moments returned, and holding up his lantern after he had given the bottle to the boatman, he said, 
               "Friend Snoggenhausen, here is your change, and here is your other money." 
               "Change, and other money? What do you mean?" 
               "Why, just that you must have been out of your senses when you gave me so much gold to get a bottle of schnapps with; and Mynheer Tunklerheld, at the lustenrust, would not have given the change, only that he is a man of learning, and knows the value of the coins. He says that they are old ones of the Stadtholder who was in Holland more than a hundred years ago; and here is the silver, and here are the other gold pieces. They are all good gold, but a little rusty, and Mynheer Tunklerheld thinks they have been in the sea." 
               The boatman staggered back till he came to a coil of rope that was upon the quay, and that upset him, and he sat down in the midst of it. 
               "What did you say about the money?" he gasped. 
               "That it was all gold." 
               "And what else?" 
               "That it had lain in the sea for a long while." 
               "It's true-it's true! I-I saw the fellow dive for it!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               THE CONFIDENCE OF VANDERDECKEN IS RATHER MISPLACED. 
               THE hour had not yet arrived at which the bridal party was to go to the church of St. Nicholas. When Vanderdecken reached the merchant's house, the door was open, and he therefore unceremoniously entered the parlor. Hearing conversation in an ante-room, he tapped at the door. 
               The old merchant and Wilhemina, who were closeted together, suddenly started. 
               "Who is it?" ejaculated Wilhemina. 
               "Do not fear, mine child. It is the-the bridegroom," Von Straken was going to say, but the word stuck in his throat. 
               "Come in, mine friend," continued the old merchant. 
               The door was slowly opened, and Vanderdecken, with a strange and sickly smile upon his face, entered the room. 
               "You are welcome," said the merchant. 
               "And welcome here, likewise, dare I hope?" said Vanderdecken, as he approached Wilhemina. 
               "Oh, yes-yes-our friends are-" 
               "She means to say, dat our friends vill meet us at the Church of St. Nicholas." 
               "I thought, Mynheer Von Straken, that it was understood between us that this marriage was to be strictly private?" 
                
               "Mine Cot, yah; but yet it ish necessary, according to te law, dat no marriage can take place, witout dere are five vitnesses present." 
               "Well; be it so; let us go at once; but I do not see that the bride is attired for the occasion. Is it not usual that when an innocent girl goes to the altar, that she should, at all events, make change in her apparel?" 
               "Oh, yes," said the maiden, with an abstracted look. "I will soon do that. In good truth, I had quite forgotten it." 
               "Take these orient pearls," said Vanderdecken, as he produced a string of large pearls; "they will do to bind up in your hair, or to wear around your neck." 
               "Mine Cot! are they real?" ejaculated the merchant. 
               "Real as nature can make them, sir." 
               "Mine Cot! den dey are vorth ten tousand gilders! What peauties, to pesure; how dey smell of salt-water and sea-weed." 
               "They went down in the wreck of a British Indiaman. The pearls belonged to one of the native princes of India, and they were stolen from him by the agents of the East India Company." 
               "The ship was lost?" said the maiden. 
               "It was." 
               "And the pearls lay at the bottom of the sea?" 
               "They did." 
               "Mynheer Diedrich, how, then, did you come by them?" 
               "I was bathing, and diving very deep, I saw them half-hidden in the sand, and I deemed them a suitable present for the fair Wilhemina." 
               "Mine child," said Von Straken, who had been fidgetting very much while this explanation was being given, "do not ask questions. Let it suffice that you have the pearls, and that they will become you well." 
               "I thank Diedrich for them," said Wilhemina; "and now I will go and get myself ready to go to the church." 
               "You have the ring upon your finger, I see." 
               "Oh, yes; and I should not like to part with it. It is a beautiful ring, and I quite love it." 
               Vanderdecken rose and held open the door to allow the maiden to pass out. Their eyes met, and the young girl shuddered as she left the room. 
               "You mean to persevere in marrying mine child?" remarked the merchant. 
               "Ay; I have bestowed fortunes upon her, and I will give her diamonds to play with. The sea is richer than the land. Many a good ship has gone down; and as her timbers part, the wealth that she was carrying from one land to another rolls out, and lies glittering amid the sea-weed." 
               "I should like to see it." 
               "You would not, for it would strike fearfully upon your heart! Within the circlet of a coronal of diamonds I saw a sea-toad feed its young. The banked-up sand half hid the lustre of the jewels, but they were worth a kingdom!" 
               "Couldn't you manage to get that same coronal, Mynheer?" 
               "Ay. Ah! here comes the bride!" 
               At this moment Wilhemina appeared, attired for the nuptials, and attended by a young girl, who had recently come into the service of the merchant. The rich pearls that Vanderdecken had given her were on her neck, but they were scarcely whiter than the fair skin of the bride. 
               "Ah!" said Vanderdecken, "you shame the pearls by your wondrous beauty. But let us at once depart, for the hour has come!" 
               Some clock at hand struck, and the bridegroom shook a little as he laid his hand upon that of the bride. She felt a chill from that touch which went to her heart like an arrow of ice. 
               A lumbering old coach drew up to Von Straken's door, and in it they went to the church of St. Nicholas, the coach groaning and creaking awfully. 
                
               A wedding in this ancient sanctuary always attracts more or less visitors; and when it was known that a bridal party had entered the sacred edifice, several curious spectators followed, and among them Tom Simpson and Wurtem Carlis, little dreaming that their flame was the bride of the occasion. 
               And, now the candles that the old verger had lighted began to burn brightly, and to throw a tolerable radiance around the altar. The old verger now opened a door upon the side of the church, and the bridal party entered, headed by the priest. 
               In a few moments they were within the rays of light shed from the altar, when to the astonishment and horror of Wurtem Carlis, he beheld the portly form of the merchant, Von Straken! 
               Leaning upon his arm was a female form, in white satin, and with a lace veil thrown over her face, but his heart told him in a moment that it was his Wilhemina. 
               The shock of this surprise was so great at the moment, that Carlis was fixed as a statue, and could only glare at the proceedings without having the power to interfere with them in any way. 
               Tom Simpson was similarly affected, for at the same moment Carlis had made the discovery he had made it too. 
               Now, one thing was very curious in this affair, and that was the mistake into which both of these parties labored under, as to whom Wilhemina was about to wed. Carlis thinking it was Simpson, and Simpson believing it must be Carlis, for neither had recognized the other in the church. 
               The bridegroom was with the party, but the shadow of a pillar partially concealed him from the spectators. 
               The priest took his place at the altar, and beckoned the party to advance. Vanderdecken did so quickly, and going very near him, he placed something in his hand resembling a purse, saying- 
               "I have something to say to the bride before the ceremony proceeds, holy sir. Will you allow me five minutes?" 
               "Certainly, my son," said the priest, "and I can easily perceive that you are a very worthy person. Pray step into the little sacristy. The verger will show you the way." 
               "Come," said the bridegroom, as he touched the white glove of the bride. "I have something to tell you ere you pronounce those irrevocable words." 
               She followed him, shuddering and shivering as she went. The old verger led the way, and a heavy door that opened into the sacristy swung behind the illassorted pair, and the verger bolted back to the steps of the altar. 
               "Is this proper, holy sir?" asked Von Straken. 
               "Proper?" repeated the priest, as he handled the well-filled purse in his pocket. "To be sure it is-twenty at least-" 
               "What do you say, holy sir?" 
               "Oh, I-that is, nothing; I think your son-in-law a worthy gentleman." 
               "Well, but--" 
               It is of no consequence what the merchant and the priest had further to say. Let us listen to what is going on in the sacristy. 
               "Listen to me, my beauteous bride," said Vanderdecken. "Ere you give me your hand, let there be no doubt upon your mind as to who and what I am. You know that I love you-that I am rich; and when I leave you, there will be no one in all the world so rich as you. But I cannot let you wed me without knowing who and what I am. I-I-am--". 
               He hesitated, covered his face with his hands, and shook as though he were seized with some sudden convulsion, and then he looked so despairingly at the young girl, that she was terrified. 
               "What can it be that you have to tell me?" she asked. 
               "Wilhemina, many years ago, there was a man who offended heaven, and he was doomed to suffer for so doing, until he could find some one who would love him, and who could say with perfect truth-'Oh, God, forgive this man, for he is dear to me.'" 
               "And you are-" 
               "That man! Yes, Wilhemina, I am that man!" 
                
               
                   
                     Vanderdecken engages a boatman to take him down the river. See p. 58. 
                  
                
                
                
               The maiden shuddered. 
               "Is there more to tell?" 
               "Yes. As yet you know not my true name; but I will not deceive you." 
               If he had dared, gladly would he have deceived her, and yet insured his own purpose; but the condition upon which he was to emancipate himself from the dreadful fate that hung over him, was that he should tell all before the marriage. 
               "But who are you?" she again asked. 
               "I am Vanderdecken! and they call me The Flying Dutchman." 
               Wilhemina uttered an ear-piercing shriek. 
               That shriek was the death-knell of the hopes of Vanderdecken, and the expression of absolute despair that immediately crossed his face was truly horrible to look at. 
               Along with that shriek came a feeling of insensibility, and she fell to the floor of the sacristy. Vanderdecken placed himself against the door so as to keep it shut. 
               "Speak-speak, Wilhemina!" he cried. "From your own lips let me hear my condemnation. Oh, speak!" 
               "God!" was all she could say. 
               But the scream that had come from her lips was loud enough to penetrate the thick old oaken doors of the sacristy, and it echoed with startling vehemence through the church. It fell like a thunder-clap upon the ears of Von Straken, and he was forced to stagger to a seat. The priest made a grand rush behind the altar; and the old verger, for the first time in many years, fell upon his knees and prayed. 
               Tom Simpson at once fell flat down, and began bellowing out for mercy, as he thought some serious riot was about to take place. 
               Upon Wurtem Carlis the effect was very different. The cry of Wilhemina had at once the effect of arousing him from the state of perfect apathy into which he had fallen upon seeing the wedding party, and with one bound he made his way to the centre of the afflicted group near the altar. 
               "Where is she?" he shouted. 
               "In the sacristy," replied the frightened verger. 
               With a rush that seemed sufficiently impetuous to carry him through the door, he darted towards it, but his efforts were of no avail. 
               "Wilhemina!" he cried. 
               Heedless of the mad shouts of Carlis without, Vanderdecken still strove to arouse the half-fainting maiden. 
               "Speak to me!" he urged: "You know who and what I am. Tell me if in your woman's nature you pity me?" 
               "Have mercy!" she cried. 
               "There is no need to sue for mercy; I've neither the power nor the will to harm you. If you cannot pity me so far as to be mine, knowing who and what I am, say so, and you are free; but oh! Wilhemina, if you can in the sight of Heaven, and with the approval of your own heart, do such a deed of charity as to snatch my soul from the abyss of despair into which it is plunged, do so, and be something more than a saint upon earth for doing so." 
               The assurance that no harm was intended had the effect of calming her fears a little, and she was just able to stammer out- 
               "Oh, no, no, no-I cannot." 
               "You cannot what?" 
               The maiden said something, but it was lost even to the fine senses of Vanderdecken in the terrible uproar that was now at the door of the sacristy, and which was so tremendous that it seemed to threaten the destruction of the church itself. 
               Wurtem Carlis, upon the outside, looked around him for some ponderous weapon with which to burst open the heavy door. 
               "Ah, this will do!" he shouted, as he rushed to the nearest candlestick, and extinguishing the light he had it upon his shoulder in a moment. 
               "Sacrilege! sacrilege!" cried the priest from behind the altar. 
                
               "Sacrilege be --!" he replied, as he commenced making a thundering appeal at the door of the sacristy, which prevented Vanderdecken from hearing the maiden's reply. 
               Bang! bang! bang! it went in such an awful and stunning manner, that one of two things must happen-either the heavy candlestick must break or the door must give way. 
               At length, with one furious blow just over the bolt, he broke both candlestick and door, and it swung open. 
               "Wilhemina!" he cried. 
               "Wurtem!" she shrieked, and in the next moment she was in his arms, and had really fainted. 
               "Lights!" he cried. "Bring a light-she is saved." 
               Lights were brought, and the spectators rushed pell-mell into the sacristy. There was Carlis with the bride in his arms; and upon the floor was an extinguished candle; but the bridegroom had disappeared, without leaving the least vestige of his person behind. 
               Carlis now made his way from the sacristy, bearing the insensible maiden; and as we are quite assured the reader will not let it go any further, we may say that he took the opportunity of kissing her a great many times. No doubt he thought it might restore her to consciousness, therefore there was no harm intended the innocent beauty. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               JAN-VAN VAN-JAN TURNS OUT TO BE A SUSPICIOUS CHARACTER. 
               POOR Wurtem Carlis! Every thing seemed to conspire now to make him wretched. What to him was it that the great banker offered his coffers to him? What to him was it that the little tantalizing, provoking daughter of Von Straken all but offered herself to his arms? His Wilhemina was now lost to him forever, and how could he be otherwise than wretched? 
               The impulse came strongly over him to rush after her and call her back, and offer even then to wed her; but he did succeed in controlling it, as lovers and others will do, until it was too late to be of any effect. 
               He madly rushed from the church, shouting as he went- 
               "Wilhemina! Wilhemina! I am still thine own, despite your promises never to wed another." 
               Alas! she was by that time half way home, and poor Carlis only found the echo of that loved name returned to him in mocking cadences at the corners of the streets. 
               "All is lost!" soliloquised the lover; "and like the dim and airy fabric of some wild distempered dream visiting a sick man's brain, my love has flown from me, and I am desolate. Oh, Wilhemina! did you not pledge your hand to me? Did you not tell me that nothing should induce you to give yourself to another, since you could not give your heart with your hand? Did you not wind your arms around my neck, and whisper to me that I was your own Carlis? I will fly from my native city. In America there is yet space enough for a broken heart to be laid." 
               He had just finished this speech when the hour when he agreed to meet Jan-Van was tolled from a church-clock near by. 
               "I had forgotten! It is the hour when I am pledged to meet my benefactor." 
               The distance was not great, though he started off at the top of his speed, and when he reached the spot he was very much out of breath. He paused to look around, when some one touched him on the shoulder, and turning suddenly he saw a figure wrapped in a cloak close to him. 
               "Stand off!" said Carlis; "I am a dangerous man." 
               "Not to your friends, I hope," replied the figure. "Do you not know me? I am-" 
                
               "Jan-Van Van-Jan." 
               "The same. I came to meet you according to promise." 
               "Which you perceive I have duly kept." 
               "Duly kept," said Jan-Van coldly. "Do you make a merit, my young sir, of keeping a promise?" 
               "Oh, no, Mynheer." 
               "Well, you are here, and that is sufficient; and now let me ask you, if you, found the banker agreeable to your wishes?" 
               "Quite so; and his daughter was a little more than agreeable. The fact is, the great banker wanted me for his son-in-law; and he desired me to ask you for the contract about the dykes." 
               "Tell Von Rotter that we will converse on that matter at another opportunity." 
               "I will, Mynheer. And now as I intend, if it please Heaven to permit me so to do, to quit Amsterdam forever. I am anxious to know what service I can perform for you in requital of your great kindness to me?" 
               "Young man," said Jan-Van, in a serious tone, "you talk of performing services in requital for kindness. Know that kindness can only be repaid by kindness, and that continuity of friendship which knows no lapse." 
               "But I will do all in my power for you." 
               "You quite forget that it is I who am indebted to you. You saved my life." 
               "It was a great joy to me that I was able to do so." 
               "That I can well believe," said Van Jan. "And now I will tell you what I want of you, which is, that you should save me from the consequences of such another misadventure as that which befel me upon our last interview." 
               "Do you expect that the villains will have the audacity to attack you again." 
               "I do, indeed. But come with me, and you will soon know precisely what it is that I want of you." 
               With these words the mysterious Jan-Van led Carlis down an obscure street, and then along another avenue, bringing them in front of a large dingy-looking house, that had all the appearance of being shut up. He paused before this house, and in a low tone said to Carlis- 
               "We must manage to get into this dwelling. It is empty, but the tenement next to it is occupied by certain people, with whom I have a disagreement; but still I do not desire that they should know me as an open foe. My designs, which I wish to accomplish as secretly as possible, I must keep a secret even from you for the present, or until I get the leave of another person to tell you." 
               "I am content, Mynheer." 
               "Come, then, and let us try our skill upon the lock of this door. Have you any skill in picking locks?" 
               "I fear not." 
               "I have, and will try it myself." 
               Jan-Van, upon this, took from his pocket rather a suspicious-looking instrument of iron, and began to work at the key-hole. Carlis was getting anything but delighted with his quaint acquaintance, for, to tell the truth, his operations savored much of housebreaking; and yet there was such a calm, gentlemanly manner about him, that it forbade the supposition that he was a thief; and besides, surely Von Rotter, the great banker, would not bow so low at the very pronunciation of his name, if he were anything but some very great personage. 
               "Yes," said Jan-Van, after a few minutes, "it yields. Ah! we shall be successful. Confound it, no, and yet the lock is picked. There is some fastening on the inside, and that makes me suspicious there is some one in the house." 
               "What's to be done?" 
               "The best way is to persevere. There is another door by the side that always before was bolted on the inside. It is possible that some one may have been in the house and fastened this door and then left by the other." 
               The smaller door was evidently one that was used by the servants of the house. On examination they found it secured by a padlock. 
               "We'll soon break this lock, and then we are in the house." 
                
               Jan-Van found a large stone in the street, and with one well directed blow he demolished the padlock, and the door was open. 
               Upon the principle he had laid down to do whatever his mysterious friend required on that eventful night, Carlis entered the dark passage within the little door. Jan Van closed it, and shot a bolt into its socket. 
               "You will recollect," said he, "that the door is bolted at the top, if we should want to open it in a hurry." 
               "Yes, I will recollect." 
               He then followed Jan-Van through a long, narrow passage of the empty house. After proceeding some distance the latter lighted a wax taper, which shed such a feeble light, that, although it prevented them from running against the wall, or stumbling over the staircase, or coming into contact with any article of furniture, it did nothing more. 
               There was a long and crazy flight of stairs close at hand, and they commenced the ascent. They creaked in an ominous manner, as though they had a decided intention of breaking down with their weight, but they did reach the top in safety. 
               "Now," said Jan-Van, "this house has no story above the one that we are upon now; but we must get upon the roof through a small trap-door that we shall find in one of the rooms." 
               "Then you have been here before?" 
               "Oh, yes. The next house to this, into which it is my object to penetrate, is the one which you saw me come out of, pursued by those rascals, who, but for your aid, would, in good truth, have made short work of me." 
               Jan-Van now led the way into one of the rooms, where there seemed to be some rough accommodation for sleeping. A large deal table was in the middle of the room, upon which he mounted; and then he observed to Carlis that there was a square door in the ceiling, secured on the inside by a couple of bolts. These were speedily withdrawn. 
               With considerable agility Jan-Van clambered through the little square aperture and on to the roof of the house. Carlis followed him. The broad silver disk of the moon was just peeping up from the horizon, beginning to shed a soft light over all lofty objects in the ancient city. The night air, however, blew keenly, and Carlis could not but shiver from its influence as he stood upon the housetop. 
               "You are cold, my good friend, but you shall soon be under cover again, for there is a similar trap-door to the one we have come through in the roof of the next house, and it is through that I hope to get admittance to that residence." 
               The trap-door was readily found, and from the rapidity with which Jan-Van opened it, Carlis came to the conclusion that that was by no means the first time he had made his way into that house in so illegitimate a manner, although he had not absolutely stated that it was by that mode he had before gained admission. 
               "All is clear," said Jan Van, and he disappeared through the hole in the roof in a moment. 
               "Is the depth great?" asked Carlis. 
               "Oh, no, no. Speak low. You may drop down here with perfect confidence. There is a soft bed beneath the trap." 
               Upon this assurance. Carlis, with a faith that did him credit, let himself drop, and sure enough, he alighted upon a very soft bed indeed; but hardly had he done so, than his companion said- 
               "Hush! some one comes." 
               The flash of a light the next moment came upon the walls of the apartment, and a voice-it was a female's-said 
               "Are you here, Fanchette?" 
               All was silent, although Carlis felt, he knew not why, was strongly tempted to say- 
               "Yes, here am I." 
               "Where can that girl be?" said the voice again, and then the light flashed again, and all was still and dark as before. 
               "That is an escape, I suppose?" whispered Carlis to his companion. 
                
               "Certainly; it would have deranged my plans had we been discovered," replied Jan-Van. 
               "If you wish me to serve you well," resumed Carlis, "it is really necessary that you should tell me something more concerning what you desire me to do, and be a little more explicit than you have been." 
               "I am about," replied the other, "to seek the chamber of a young lady, who is either the wife or mistress of a German dragoon. If I can persuade her to leave the house with me I will. The husband is no doubt out enjoying his pipe and his beer at some house of entertainment; but he may come home at any moment, and I wish you to stand on the staircase and keep watch, and if you hear anything of him, to give me notice." 
               "I will, Mynheer; but it is not exactly the sort of employment I like, to stand watch while you pay your addresses to another man's wife. The affair is not a dignified one, Mynheer Van-Jan." 
               "Quite the reverse; and I don't wonder at your repugnance to it. I honor your virtue; but, believe me, my errand here is an honorable one, or I would not have engaged you in it." 
               "I thank you for saying that, and now I can keep watch upon the stairs with a good heart." 
               "Do so, and believe me you will have no cause to repent your compliance. But we waste precious moments. Let me beg of you to take your post at once." 
               Saying this, Van-Jan took Carlis by the arm and led him from the room on to a long coridor. 
               "Here, my dear friend," he resumed, "you will take your stand. Should the dragoon come, bringing with him a lot of his drunken companions, you will give me notice at once by making your way to the room you will see me enter." 
               "I will." 
               "But you will understand that the notice of the approach of the dragoon must be early, or we shall not have time to escape him." 
               Uttering this caution, the decidedly mysterious personage walked along the corridor, and Carlis saw him tap at a door. 
               "Come in," said a female voice. "Is it you, Grogenhoff?" 
               "Yes, my love," said Jan-Van. 
               He was admitted to the room, and the next thing Carlis heard was the door slammed to very violently, and then a loud shriek from some one in the room. 
               All was then silent as the grave. 
               Wurtem advanced two steps towards the door of the chamber, and then he paused. 
               "No, no," he said; "honor forbid." 
               He took two steps back again, and then he heard a loud sobbing from some one in the chamber. 
               "I do not know this man," thought he; "who shall say he is not a great villain, and that he may have come here to perpetrate some great crime, the consequences of which it may be a part of his plan to throw entirely upon me?" 
               With this feeling, Carlis stepped towards the door and listened. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               THE NIGHT'S ADVENTURE IN THE MYSTERIOUS HOUSE CONTINUES. 
               WE do not intend to take upon ourselves to say whether our hero was right or wrong in listening to what was going on in the chamber. He thought he was right, and what a man thinks is right in honor, is to him so right in all circumstances. 
               At first Carlis could hear nothing but sobs from the female. At length the silence was broken by Jan-Van. 
                
               "Oh, Luca-Luca!" he said, "can you look me in the face?" 
               "No," replied the young lady. 
               "Well, where there is shame there is yet virtue." 
               "I hear you," said the lady; "have you said all that you have to say?" 
               "No, Luca. This is my second visit to this house." 
               "Ah! then it was you who so narrowly escaped death?" 
               "It was." 
               "Oh, how could you think of venturing so much. Do you not think what a convulsion your death would occasion in the state?" 
               "I thought of nothing but that I had loved you once." 
               "And you love me no more?" 
               "No more. My love has altered its complexion. I now pity you." 
               "Oh, Heaven! And I have lived to be pitied by one whom I refused-" 
               "Ay, and one whom you refused with flippant scorn, Luca. Do you not remember, when at the court of Pomerania, in the orange grove, I told you that I loved you. And you told me, too, that you were forced to wed no one whose destiny was not much higher than mine." 
               "I did-I remember." 
               "And you knew me as a gentleman and a soldier. Well, I was beneath your notice, and in three months afterwards you eloped from your father's court with a dragoon, whose sole merit consisted in his obesity." 
               The girl upon this gave a scream, partly of rage and partly of grief; and then she said- 
               "And so you don't love me now?" 
               "No." 
               "Then leave me to my fate." 
               "No; that I will not do. I have letters from your father, which I shall show to you." 
               "I will not see them. Go away, I beseech you. Grogenhoff loves me, although he is but a trooper, and ill-uses me at times." 
               "Alas! my poor wretched Luca, you do not speak as you think. I come to rescue you from a fate that might be to you worse than death. I tell you plainly you are not even a wife; you have not even the poor merit of saying that you wedded the man of your choice; you are only his mistress; but still there are those who, if they really love you as they did-for love, Luca, is mixed up with so much reverence for the beloved, that it cannot exist in its purity when the object falls as you have fallen-will pity you, and provide for you an asylum from the jeers of the world." 
               "What! Do you tell me that the common people will have the audacity to say anything about the daughter of an independent prince, except in honorable reverence of her?" 
               "Yes, Luca. The common people, as you call them, are as good judges of vice and virtue as you are; and now, in a word, I offer you the greatest possible advantage that I can." 
               "And pray, sir, what may that be?" 
               "Listen. By force it would be easy indeed to lay hold of you and of the rascal who brought you from your father's court; but such a course would induce a certain degree of publicity, which, it is wished, for your sake as well as for the sake of your afflicted family, to avoid. It is therefore proposed that you should quit this house secretly, and I will have you conducted to your father's palace, where you will be kept in secret; and your betrayer, the ruffian who has torn you from virtue and repute, will have no clue to your retreat. That is the proposition." 
               "I scorn it." 
               "Then, lady, my mission with you is ended, and I have but to bid you farewell forever." 
               "Oh, farewell! farewell!" 
               "Have you no word, no tender message of condolence to your afflicted father?" 
                
               "None whatever. I do not wish to hear of my former home nor of my relalations again. The only favor I ask of you and them is, that I may be left alone, and allowed to do as I wish." 
               "And you are yet but seventeen years of age?" 
               "Well, what is that to you?" 
               "Oh, nothing. But I am faint. Luca, will you give me a glass of water?" 
               "You will find water upon yonder beaufet. It is not fit that I, the daughter of an independent prince, should wait upon one who is but a soldier." 
               "Only a soldier! What is the villain you have left your home with but a common soldier-a mere trooper-while I have rank in the service?" 
               "I have made him a field-marshal." 
               "You made him such?" 
               "Yes; I am a princess; and I considered myself entitled to do so if I thought proper." 
               "Well now, indeed, Luca, I think you are mad," said Jan-Van, helping himself to the water. 
               "What is that you are putting into the water?" 
               "Only a little restorative that I always carry about with me in this small bottle, that is all; but I tell you candidly, Luca, that I don't intend to leave this house without you." 
               "You do not intend? Liar! slave! how dare you talk to me in such a way as that?" 
               "There, how do you feel now?" 
               Wurtem Carlis heard an odd noise like the splash of water, and then there came a faint scream upon his ears, after which all was profoundly still, save that there was the fall of some heavy body to the floor of the room. 
               Poor Carlis was in an agony of apprehension, for although the conversation of the young lady was not such as would attract any one to admire her, yet it seemed a horrible thing to murder her. 
               While he was thinking what he ought to do, the door was opened suddenly, and Jan-van looked out. 
               "Hilloa! my friend." "Yes; it is I," said Carlis. 
               "So close to the door, too! Have you listened?" 
               "I have." 
               "Was this right?" 
               "No, I-I-don't think it was; but I had fears that you were a bold, bad man, when I heard sobs coming from the room; and the agony of being made your unsuspecting accomplice was such, that I could not help listening. That is the whole truth." 
               "My dear friend," said Jan-Van, "I do not think it very unnatural that you should do as you have done; but now tell me what you know." 
               "Little enough beyond the fact that I now feel that I may think as I wished to think." 
               "You speak in riddles. What do you mean?" 
               "That I wished to think you great and good, and that now I know you to be so." 
               "Ah! great, said you?" 
               "Are not the good the truly great? for although you are but a soldier, yet your errand here is one of mercy." 
               "True, Wurtem, you are right. Let there be no ill blood, not even the shadow of a vexation between us, and let us now carry off the girl." 
               With these words Jan-Van re-entered the room, and was closely followed by Carlis, where, to his surprise, he saw the young girl, and she looked almost a child, lying as though dead upon the floor. 
               "There she is, my friend. We will wrap her in this cloak, and carry her off with us." 
               "Is she really living?" 
               "She is. It will be many hours before she awakens to a consciousness of her condition; but she lives, and the cause of her trance will leave no ill effects. Can you not take my word for as much as that?" 
                
               "I can, and do." 
               Jan-Van motioned to the young man to take her in his arms, and follow with her from the house. 
               Upon this, Carlis very carefully wrapped her up in the cloak; he then lifted her into his arms, for her weight was as nothing to him, and turning to Jan-Van he said- 
               "I am prepared to follow you. 
               "Do so. This way." 
               "You find the carrying her irksome to you?" said Jan-Van as they passed along the corridor. 
               "Oh no, not all; but if you prefer to take her yourself do not hesitate." 
               "Oh, no; I loved her once, and it would break my heart to hold her in my arms again. I cannot do it." 
               They reached the head of the stairs, and Jan-Van had begun the descent, when a sudden laugh from the street smote upon their ears, accompanied by the shout of the chorus of a drinking song, and at the same moment there was the rattle of a key in the lock of the street door of the house. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               WURTEM AND JAN-VAN HAVE TO FIGHT FOR THEIR LIVES. 
               THIS sudden arrival of the drunken Dragoon, with his dissolute companions at such a moment, was a most cruel blow of fate. 
               "We are lost!" said Carlis. 
               "No, not until we are killed, and then churchmen will tell you we are found. But remain here on the corridor. You are armed?" 
               "I have a good sword." 
               "And I another. Listen!" 
               They both shrunk back from the staircase, but not so far as to prevent them from hearing all that passed below. The chorus of the drinking song went on merrily, although from the tipsy pronunciation of those who gave utterance to it, it was quite evident that it was as much as they could do to articulate at all. They yelled like fiends, and in the midst of all these discordant noises the door was opened by the German dragoon, and with a sudden slam it struck against the wall of the passage. 
               "Good night, and the devil take you all!" roared the dragoon. 
               "Good night!" responded half a dozen tipsy voices. "We meet to-morrow at the old place?" 
               Bang! went the door of the house, and, half-drunk as he was, the dragoon busied himself with its fastenings. 
               "It is as I suspected," whispered Jan-Van. "He has brought three of his drunken companions into the house with him." 
               "So it seems; but two sober men are more than a match for four drunken ones. Here are our foes." 
               "Come on-up-stairs!" roared the hoarse voice of the dragoon. "We'll go and sing a song to my young wife. She's a princess! Ha! ha! we brought away stores of jewels with us, and while they last I'll lead a jovial life." 
               They now ascended the staircase, and Jan-Van and Carlis retreated with their burthen, until they again got into the chamber from which they had taken the young girl. 
               The drunken trooper and his boon companions now mounted the stairs, and the former staggered to the door of Luca's chamber. Jan-Van had extinguished the light, leaving the place in profound darkness. 
               "Hilloa! What! no light! wake up, Luca! A thousand devils! do you hear me, and not wake up!" cried the dragoon. "I hear the little wretch breathing. How sound she sleeps. D-n her! when the jewels are gone, I'll see if she can't be sold for a good round sum. I am tired of her, but she might be attractive to some one else." 
               Uttering these words, he staggered from the room door, beyond which he was heard shouting the chorus of a bacchanalian song with his companions. 
               "A narrow escape," whispered Jan-Van. 
               "Yes; there would have been no recourse but to have killed the scoundrel; and I must confess, that, after what he said, I could have slain the wretch with a good relish. You heard his words, Mynheer?" 
               "I did; and it was for such a beast that this young girl, nurtured in the lap of luxury, and idolized by her parents, left her home. I loved this girl once, but now when I think of her, there comes over me a loathing sensation; and were it not that I made a promise to her father to rescue her, if possible, from this degrading companionship, she might remain. Well, well, we will not talk of her. Let us step into the corridor, and ascertain what our chances are for escape." 
               Once more Carlis took the girl in his arms. He bore her partly upon his shoulder, with his left arm encircling her, so that he had his right arm free to draw his sword should there be occasion. They quickly reached the passage below, when Jan-Van ignited a taper, and commenced examining the fastenings of the door. 
               "Confound the fellow-he's got a complicated contrivance here. A chain so linked and twisted that it seems impossible to get it straight." 
               The roaring and shouting of the drunken men came again upon their ears, while Jan-Van was working away industriously at the chain. 
               "Thunder and the devil!" cried the dragoon from above; "I wonder my wife doesn't wake up! I want her to fetch me a bottle of schnapps; but I don't care-I ain't so drunk but what I can go down and get it myself." 
               There was but one chance left for Jan-Van and his friend to escape, and that was, the dragoon might, when he reached the foot of the stairs, at once turn to the left to seek the drink he was in quest of, without so much as turning a glance at the door. 
               He reached the foot of the stairs, and unhappily then, the girl uttered a groan. 
               "Thunder and lightning! what was that?" ejaculated the dragon, and he glanced his eye upon the intruders. "Ah!" he cried,-"thieves and cut-throats!" 
               But, instead of advancing upon them, he turned and rushed up-stairs, shouting to his companions to come to his assistance. 
               Jan-Van had extinguished the light, and although he was making every exertion to gain an egress, he could not succeed. 
               "We must fight!" he exclaimed. "Lay the girl close to the door, so that as long as we live she shall be protected." 
               The furious cries of the dragoon had the effect of alarming and partially sobering his trio of friends, and they came on with lights in their hands, desiring to know what was the matter. 
               "Thieves and cut-throats! in the passage below!" cried the dragoon. 
               "How many of them are there?" asked one of the convivial party. 
               "I don't know; but we will count them after we have slain them; so now come on!" 
               They rattled down the stairs, and soon had the satisfaction of knowing that there were but two in the passage to oppose them. On this discovery they became quite eager for the fray, and clashed their swords and swore in a very heroic manner. 
               "Surrender! you wretches! or we will make mince meat of you!" demanded the dragoon. 
               Jan-Van and Carlis answered not, but stood with their swords in their hands, in such attitudes that it was evident they meant to fight. 
               "A thousand fiends!" cried the dragoon; "who are you?" 
               The latter saw that the courage of his three friends of the bottle was fast evaporating; so he thought if anything was to be done, it were better to do it at once; and with a rush, crying out, "Come on!" he made a dash forward as the foe. 
                
               His three friends were ashamed not to follow him, and a scene now occurred of rather a fearful character. 
               The passage, unfortunately, was just wide enough to let some four or five people stand abreast in it; and Jan-Van and Carlis feared, notwithstanding, that their flank might be turned by some one of the four, while they were engaged with the others. 
               This, in fact, did happen. 
               Already had Carlis inflicted a wound upon the dragoon, who, the moment he saw his own blood, began to fight like a maniac. Jan-Van run one of the bottle companions through the body, and he fell dead with a groan. It was then that the dragoon made a dash past Jan-Van, and got behind Carlis, whom he grappled by the back of the neck with a yell of satisfaction, and was about to deal him a death blow, when the weapon was knocked from his grasp by Jan-Van, who cried- 
               "Ah! they fly, the cowards!" 
               The truth was, that the other two, finding things were not going on exactly in the order that they wished, rushed up the stairs, leaving the dragoon alone with his foes. He was speedily disarmed. 
               It was then that the rascal showed his great strength and agility, for he suddenly shrunk to the ground, and then making a tremendous bound, he shook off the hold of Jan-Van, and alighted some twelve feet beyond them both. 
               "Ah, ha! not yet. Another sword, my brave friends! Where are you?" 
               The brave friends had reached the top of the staircase; and there, with no small amount of terror, they were gazing down to see how affairs were going on below. 
               "Don't let him escape," said Jan-Van, advancing; but the dragoon seized the dead body of his comrade, and flung it at them with a force that arrested their progress sufficiently to enable the dragoon to rush up the stairs. 
               "He has fled," said Carlis. 
               "Then, depend upon it, he will soon return." 
               This was a prediction on the part of Jan-Van that was very shortly confirmed, for the dragoon soon came back with a short carbine in his hand, and he cried with exultation- 
               "Now, you burglarious scoundrels, we'll soon see what you are made of. If you don't surrender this moment and cry for mercy, I will blow you both to atoms." 
               "Stoop, Carlis!" whispered Jan-Van. 
               Wurtem flung himself on the ground, and Jan-Van made a dash towards the staircase. 
               The German trooper fired, and the whole contents of the carbine went over the heads of his foes and lodged in the street-door. 
               Jan-Van did not wait to give him time to reload the piece, but, with his drawn sword in his hand, he rushed up the staircase, and had nearly reached the top of it before the dragoon saw him. 
               As he went, Jan-Van, with his left hand caught up one of the lights; and now a chase began, which, had it not been of life and death, would have partaken somewhat of the ludicrous. The dragoon turned and fled with the discharged carbine in his grasp, making frantic efforts to reload it, while Jan-Van kept close at his heels, pricking him with his sword. 
               In this way they went on till they reached the end of the corridor, and then, as the dragoon could get no further, he suddenly turned and levelled a blow at the head of his pursuer with the butt-end of his carbine, which, had it taken effect, would have put an end to the contest: but happily it did not, for Jan-Van stepped nimbly aside and avoided it. 
               As the dragoon raised the weapon to repeat the blow, Jan-Van, with one whirl of his sword, brought its point to the villain's heart, and run him through, pin rang him to the old wainscot panel so tightly, that Jan-Van could not get away his sword. 
               Sickened at the sight of the horrible form of the dying man, he left him with the handle of his sword projecting from his breast. He now hurried to the passage again, looking very pale and wan. 
               "It is all over. The dragoon is dead," he said. 
               "You do not regret that?" queried Carlis. 
               "Not exactly regret it, but yet I am sorry that there has been such a necessity. But, come, hold me the light, while I again make an attempt to open this door." 
               "It is done already." 
               "That is fortunate. Now, my friend, take up the girl and let us quit this horrible place." 
               Once more Carlis lifted the girl in his arms, and dashed out into the street, following Jan-Van, who went with rapid strides towards the canal. Reaching its brink, he hailed a boat, which speedily made its appearance, and a couple of men sprang to the shore. 
               "Take this person," said Jan-Van, pointing to the girl, "and place her carefully in the boat." 
               The men obeyed by taking the insensible Luca from the arms of Carlis, and placing her in the boat. Jan-Van sprang after them, and waving his hand to Wurtem, he cried-"Good-night!" 
               This cavalier-like mode of getting rid of him, after all they had gone through together upon that night, jarred terribly upon the feelings of the young man, and he made no reply. 
               "Hilloa, Carlis!" cried Jan-Van, when the boat had got a little way into the stream. 
               "Well?" 
               "You will hear of me again; and, in the meantime you can hold the price of the contract in your own hand, and let Von Rotter have it or not at your own good pleasure. Good-night!" 
               "Good-night!" responded Carlis, coldly. 
               The boat slowly disappeared from before his eyes as the rowers lazily urged it through the waters, and poor Carlis, after all his dangers, left shivering on the banks of the canal, while the man for whom he had done so much had been satisfied to leave him with a cold good-night. 
               "I dare say we shall never meet again," soliloquised the youth. "If Jan-Van had any wish that way tending, he would have said something of it; but he did not, so that is past." 
               The idea that all Jan-Van wanted of him was his assistance in getting the young girl away from the dragoon, and that being accomplished, their acquaintance was over, seemed to be the most natural one to adopt under the circumstances; so Carlis wandered slowly away. 
               Some one touched his arm. 
               "Ah! who are you?" demanded Wurtem. 
               "A friend." 
               "Show yourself, then! Why keep in the shadow of that tree?" 
               A tall man stepped before him, and as he looked upon the face that was just discernible by the pale light of the moon, started as he said, in a low voice- 
               "Why, you are he who-who-" 
               "Would have wedded Wilhemina Von Straken!" 
               "Ay, the same! Now, I know your voice, and you are likewise --" 
               "Hush! no more; heed not now who or what I am; go to the maiden whom you love; at her feet seek forgiveness for the manner you treated her in the open church. Wurtem Carlis, scion of the old race of Carlises, who were once princely merchants of Amsterdam, you did wrong." 
               "Ah, yes, I feel that I have, and at my heart broods despair." 
               "You love, too still?" 
               "Ah! in truth I do!" 
               "Go to her, and tell her that you so love her. Bid her look back to all the tender words that you have mutually spoken to each other. Bid her cast aside the pride that now would prompt her to deny you, and be happy with her. Can you forgive me?" 
                
               "Forgive you. I do not understand to what you allude," replied Carlis; "but if you think that you have offended me, I truly forgive you." 
               "That is well. And now, young man, the morning air is already sighing through the branches of those old trees, and awakening the lazy pennant from many a mast-head along the old quays of Amsterdam. Go at once to the house of Von Straken, and speak to her who sigheth there, and whose heart is heavy." 
               "I will! I will! But ere we part, let me ask of you one question. I would fain know who and what you are. Superstition would point you out as something too terrible to think of; but I am not superstitious, and desire to hear from your own lips who and what you are." 
               "Seek not, Wurtem Carlis, for that knowledge which is not good to know." 
               "Nay, but what possible harm can result from knowledge of any kind? I am not among those who think that information can by any means be ill." 
               "You are wrong. Look at yon moon, now, that is struggling with the day-light, and which will soon have all its glories eclipsed by the brighter sun." 
               Wurtem Carlis looked at it. 
               "Yes, I see that the bright face of the moon is waning, but yet--Where are you? Gone! gone! How is this? I am alone! Has he vanished into the air, or has he sunk into the earth? How am I to account for this? Are all my notions of the natural to be at once put to the rout by this most unnatural circumstance? Do spirits indeed walk among the living, and have they really power to show themselves where it is their pleasure?" 
               These were very pertinent questions, indeed, under the circumstances, but they were not such as he found it very easy to answer, and he remained upon the spot, gazing about him for some minutes, with the hope that something would aid him in unraveling the mystery of the sudden disappearance of the being who had spoken to him. 
               "Speak!" cried Carlis; "speak to me again! I have yet questions to ask of you. Appear to me again, be whom you may!" 
               All was still. Far off at the other end of the thoroughfare, Wurtem thought he saw a dim-looking figure striding along, and he pursued it with the hope that it might be the mysterious personage; but it got out of his sight round a corner before he could come up with it, and he paused to gather breath. 
               "What am I to think of this?" he said. "Is the advice good or bad that this mysterious being gave to me? Shall I go to Straken's house again, or shall I avoid it? Ah, Wilhemina! if all else were false that came from his lips, he told the truth when he said, I loved you still!" 
               The young man continued now to muse on the extraordinary adventure that had befallen him, and yet he walked on, and as if fate would have it, he went the nearest way towards the house of Von Straken. 
               Suddenly, upon looking up, Carlis found himself actually in front of the well-known mansion, and he started at the sight of it. 
               "Oh! what folly-what madness it was of me," he exclaimed, "when I might have made Wilhemina mine in the church of St. Nicholas, to refuse her as I did! Oh! I was mad!-mad to do so!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               WILHEMINA BEHAVES WITH A PROPER SPIRIT. 
               THE morning hour was indeed rapidly advancing. The tall spires of the ancient city, as well as the forest of masts, were now bathed in the glittering sunlight. 
               "Ah!" said Wurtem Carlis, "this is the home of all that I hold dear in this world. Oh, Wilhemina! why did you ever dream of giving yourself to another.!" 
               This was so agonizing a reflection that the young lover was half inclined to go away again, and leave the faithless Wilhemina to her fate; but then he thought of what the mysterious stranger had said to him-that man who seemed more than mortal, surely, and who, after he had spoken, had disappeared so suddenly and so inexplicably. 
               "Yes, yes! all he said is true!" he soliloquised; "I do, indeed, love her still." 
               At this moment a slight noise in the direction of the old house attracted the youth's attention, and looking up he saw a casement open, and a face appeared that he well knew. It was that of the object of his thoughts. 
               Carlis stood transfixed with love, and wondered what could have attracted her forth at so early an hour. She gazed upwards, and clasped her hands, and seemed to be praying in great agony of spirit. Then she covered her face with both hands and sank down near the window-sill; and even where he stood, Carlis could hear her sobbing. Darting across the street, he cried- 
               "Oh, Wilhemina! my Wilhemina!" 
               She uttered a scream when she recognized her lover, but taking no further notice of him, she closed the window suddenly. 
               "Oh, Wilhemina!" he again cried; "in repentance I come to you, and is this the way you receive me?" 
               He might as well have held his peace, for Wilhemina did not in the slightest degree deign to return an answer to this speech, and there the poor youth stood with a forlorn aspect, gazing up at the window, hoping against all probability that she would reappear. 
               The morning advanced, and several people passed by, but Carlis regarded them not, although they stared at him as if he had been a lunatic. 
               "I say, sir-if you please, sir," said a voice, "what sir-how sir--" 
               It was Tom Simpson, who, at a respectful distance, seemed desirous of saying something, although he appeared at the same time half afraid to do so. 
               "Is that you, idiot?" said Carlis. "What do you want here? Are you tired of your life, and wish me to sacrifice it to my just resentment?" 
               "Oh, dear, no! I only meant to say that if you have made up your mind, as I think you have, not to have anything more to say to Miss Straken, considering her, as you seem to do, to be not up to sample--" 
               "Not what?" 
               "I mean rather a damaged bit of goods, you know, and--' 
               "Wretch! Dare to utter one word against that incomparable and lovely girl, and I shall feel that I do a good act, entitling me to the thanks of society, by throttling you first, and then casting you into the nearest canal." 
               "The devil you would!" replied Simpson, as he started off at the top of his speed. 
               The despair exhibited by Carlis ought to have moved the heart of a flint, but then we happen to know that the heart of a flint is much more easily warmed than the heart of a woman who thinks herself scorned and slighted. We cannot say, however, that notwithstanding all her indignation, the fair Wilhemina was watching her despairing lover from the casement; but we think it very probable. 
               The youth, resolving at once to put an end to his doubts, determined to speak to Mynheer Von Straken; so he went soberly up to the merchant's door and knocked for admission. The door was opened by the old servant, and he made known his desire. 
               The servant promised to acquaint her master, but instead of going near Von Straken, who was in a deep slumber, she took her way at once to Wilhemina, and told her of the arrival of Carlis. 
               "I should like very much to hear what he has to say," remarked the Dutch beauty; "and I have thought of a plan which will enable me to do so. I will step into the blue bedroom and get into the bed, and you can draw all the curtains close, and tell him that my father is there, and then he will say what he desires to in my hearing. You know I have a talent in imitating my father." 
               The old woman had no resource but to comply with this notion of the fair girl, so she saw her snugly ensconced in the bed, and drew the old heavy curtains around it, and then went to summon our hero. Little did Carlis imagine, as he followed the old servant, that he was about to indulge in such an interview as that which was prepared for him. 
                
               "There, Mynheer Carlis," said the old woman, "you had better not disturb our master, but just say what you have to say, and then come away, if you please." 
               "I have no wish to intrude upon him more than is absolutely necessary," said the youth. 
               The old woman left the room, and Carlis felt himself rather obliged to begin an awkward conversation. 
               "Mynheer Von Straken," said he, "you are aware that I have long loved your beautiful daughter?" 
               "Yaw!" said a voice that so much resembled Von Straken's, that Carlis entertained not the slightest doubt that it was his. 
               "And, as you know, poverty came upon my house, and at times I doubted whether, even where she to consent to become mine, and had won your consent, it would be right and just on my part to wed her to my broken fortune." 
               "Yaw! bah!" 
               "Such is not the case now. Fortune now smiles upon me; I am comparatively rich." 
               "Pish!" 
               "It is the truth, and nothing but the truth. But I can guess what is passing in your mind. It is true that maddened by jealousy, I did, at the church of St. Nicholas, treat my adored one with scorn; but ah, if I had not loved as I do, I should not have rejected her." 
               "Pshaw! bah!" 
               "Nay, I beg that you will believe me; and the thought that she was the victim of some strange circumstance, in which her own innocent heart had no share. I wish, now in the face of all Amsterdam, to call her mine; and perish with my own sword he who shall dare to hint at other than the deepest respect towards the fairest bride in all the universe." 
               "Humph!" 
               "If, Mynheer, you will not favor me now in my suit to her, it will be as well for me to throw myself into the canal, and so end my life and woes together." 
               "Goot!" 
               "You wish me to do so?" 
               "Yaw." 
               "Oh, Von Straken, pause yet a moment. It may be that Wilhemina cherishes a spark of love for me." 
               "Go to te Tuyfel! Bah! Pofe!" 
               "Let me tell you, then, Mynheer Straken, that if I do not wed her, no one shall. If I set all Amsterdam in a blaze!" 
               At this threat there came such a sound of ironical laughter from the occupant of the bed that Carlis was wonderfully provoked. And without further ceremony, with one dash of his hand, he flung aside the curtains, with the intent to force a reply from the merchant; but, to his surprise, he could see no one, for the occupant of the bed had popped under the clothes so comfortably as to be completely concealed. The young man, getting desperate at this seeming childishness of the old man, caught hold of a corner of the bed-clothes, and began hauling away at it with all his might. The person beneath the clothing held on, and a brief struggle ended in Wilhemina being pulled from the bedstead with all its clothing, and she lying half smothered on the floor, unable to release herself. 
               "Murder!" she cried. 
               "Oh, Mynheer, I will soon bring you out," said Carlis. "You may cry murder as loud as you please, but I will have a thorough explanation with you." 
               As he spoke, he pulled away first a sheet, then a blanket, then a counterpane, when he heard a voice cry- 
               "Wurtem Carlis, it is I!" 
               It was the voice of his beloved. Bewildered for a few moments at this discovery, the young man stood like one turned to stone, and the fair maiden was just scrambling towards the door, when he recovered, and bounded after her and caught her in his arms. 
                
               
                   
                     The German dragoon firing down stairs at Jan-Van and Carlis. See p. 76. 
                  
                
                
               "Ah, Wilhemina! my own dear girl!" 
               "Unhand me! I do not love you. You are a wretch!" 
               "Anything, my darling, so that I am forever yours!" 
               "You are a monster! Will you let me go?" 
               "No." 
               It was a very odd thing, but somehow or other her arms had got entangled round the neck of the amorous youth, and she could not find a way to get them loose again. 
               "No, no," he added, "do not go until you have told me that you forgive me." 
               "Wurtem!" 
               "Yes, dear, yes. I listen." 
               "Do you deserve to be forgiven?" 
               "I feel in my heart that I do not deserve it." 
               "Then I-" 
               "Alas! alas!" 
               "Will-" 
               "You will-you really will? Oh, no, this is some dream! It cannot last." 
               He burst into tears, and wept convulsively. Wilhemina was very much affected indeed to see the tears of the only being in the world that she could really give her heart to, and she threw her arms about his neck, as she cried- 
               "Wurtem-my own Wurtem! I do, indeed, love you; and I freely forgive all the past. Do not cry, my dear." 
               Oh, what words were these for a lover to hear from the lips of his beloved! If the world had but come to an end just then, what would it have mattered to him? He had tasted the purest gush of joy that human existence was capable of giving to him. Speak to her he could not, for it was quite impossible that the Dutch or any other language could contain any words that would be sufficiently expressive of the joy that was at his heart. All he could do was to wind his arms round her, and hold her to his heart; and they were both in that rather loving situation when the door of the apartment opened, and Mynheer Von Straken, in a chintz dressing-gown and high-peaked nightcap upon his head, appeared upon the threshold. 
               "Mine Cot!" 
               "Yes, my dear, we will be very happy," added the maiden. 
               "My love-my own-my beautiful!" 
               "Let's run away, dear Wurtem." 
               "Indeed, we will, my sweet love." 
               "Mine Cot!" cried Von Straken, in thundering tones. 
               The lovers started like guilty creatures, and Wilhemina, darting into the bed again, at once covered herself up with the bed clothing. 
               Poor Wurtem thought that he had better do likewise, but he had the prudence not to attempt it. 
               "Dunder and blitzen!" again exclaimed the enraged merchant. "You are von villain. I vill have your life, pe Cot!" 
               "Mynheer Von Straken," said Carlis, "the honor of your child, the fair, lovely, virtuous-" 
               "Bah! bah!" 
               "Wilhemina is as dear to me as she can possibly be to you. She is all that is good, chaste and beautiful; but it was you, Mynheer, that I came here to see. I desired to tell you that I loved your daughter as fondly as ever, and that I was well to do in the world now; that I have a good credit at the house of Von Rotter, and that I am going to purchase a ship and send it to the Brazils for a cargo, and thus felt myself in a position to claim the hand of your adorable daughter." 
               "You surprise me. Is dish drue, mine child?" 
               She gave an assenting kick beneath the bed-clothes. 
               "Yaw! dat ish vell; I ish petter disposed, Mynheer Carlis; put you must call vonce again for an answer. Now go avay, mine young friend, and I vill speak to mine child apout it." 
               "Are you going, Wurtem?" asked the maiden, popping her head out from beneath the clothes. 
                
               "Yes, my love; but I will return as soon as possible, and meanwhile, my love, pray remember that-" 
               Here the bold youth stooped so low, that his lips came in contact with hers, and there was a peculiar sound that caused the old man to exclaim- 
               "Der Tuyfel! I von't allow any kissing in mine house." 
               Carlis took his leave, and wended his way towards the banking-house of Von Rotter, before which he soon halted. 
               "No," said he, "I'll not go in there. It is sufficient that I have a good account open there through the means of Jan-Van. There is that daughter of his, too, who annoyed me so excessively. No, I'll not go there." 
               "Ah! mine dear, honored friend!" cried some one; and in a moment Carlis found himself in the arms of somebody. 
               "Murder! who are you?" 
               "Do you not know the voice of your old friend, Von Rotter?" 
               "Oh, is it you, Mynheer?" 
               "It is; I am delighted to meet you; come in and take breakfast with us." 
               "But, Mynheer-" 
               "Nay, I will not hear you in the street; of course, you and I have many little private matters to talk over." 
               The little banker hooked himself to Carlis in such a manner that, without absolute rudeness, it would have been quite impossible to shake him off; so he felt compelled against his will to accompany him into the house. 
               "Now," cried the banker, the moment they had entered, "bustle, all of you; prepare the best breakfast that can be had in all Amsterdam for my son, Mynheer Carlis." 
               "Son?" 
               "Hush! It is a fashion of mine to call my friends, sons. Our house is very much honored; when did you see your excellent friend, Jan-Van?" 
               "I parted with him but a short time since." 
               "Ah, I am glad to hear that. You're an excellent young man, and Jan-Van is one of the best men in the world." 
               "I should prodigiously like to know who this Jan-Van is," thought Carlis; but he was determined not to confess his ignorance by making the inquiry. 
               Carlis was now seated in the very best room of the house, and in a very short time a capital breakfast was set before him; and to tell the truth his appetite yearned towards it. 
               "Do not wait, my friend," said Von Rotter; "she whom we both love, my fair and excellent child, will soon be here." 
               "The devil she will!" thought Carlis. 
               At that moment the door opened, and the banker's daughter made her appearance. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               VANDERDECKEN MAKES THE ACQUAINTANCE OF TOM SIMPSON. 
               WE must leave our friends at the banker's for a brief period, while we relate rather a startling adventure that befel Tom Simpson. The poor man was so harrassed by every thing that had occurred, and so thoroughly convinced that every thing in the shape of a matrimonial and commercial union of the two houses of Simpson and Straken was now out of the question, that he resolved to consign himself to London forthwith. With this view he went to the quay, and ascertained that a ship bound to the English port of Southampton, would sail at the turn of the tide. Then he went to the Stadtholder Hotel, and penned the following note to Mynheer Von Straken: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Sir-Having come to Amsterdam, per order, properly consigned and accredited, to marry Miss Wilhemina Straken, would have duly honored acceptance of hand, but found article not up to sample. Beg to decline carrying out order, and return to England forthwith, where shall be happy to be favored with advices from you on usual terms and stipulations. 
                           
                              Your obedient servant, 
                              THOS. SIMPSON & Co."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "I rather think that will settle the whole business," thought Simpson. "He can't say that I have acted shabbily, and gone off without letting him know, and it will stand better in Newgate Street for me to say I declined carrying out the transaction." 
               By this it will be seen that Tom had some cunning, and he evidently thought so himself. 
               "They call me a fool," said he; "but they will find I'm not such a fool as I look. I'll just go down and make a bargain for my passage." 
               "Mynheer Diedrich!" announced one of the hotel servants, suddenly flinging the door wide open. 
               "Who?" ejaculated Tom. 
               The figure of Vanderdecken appeared on the threshold, and the servant closed the door. 
               "The devil!" cried Tom. 
               "No," replied Vanderdecken, in his calm manner. "Why should you think that of me, Mr. Thomas Simpson, Newgate Street, London?" 
               "Oh," said Tom, "you know me, I perceive; but I don't want to have any thing to say to you, old fellow: so good evening." 
               "You cannot suppose," said Vanderdecken, as he looked at Simpson with his cold, icy eye, "that I came to you without a purpose, or that I will go without executing it." 
               "I am very busy, Mr. Diedrich; the truth is I am about to leave Holland." 
               "I know it. In the good ship, Mary Jane, lying off the quay. But still you must hear me. Would a consignment of indigo and Brazil wood, of the finest quality, at a reduction of eighty per centum off the current rate, suit your house?" 
               "I believe you," cried Tom. 
               "Would information where to pitch upon eight hundred barrels of gold dust be likely to be useful?" 
               Tom actually gasped. 
               "Would positive data by which you could fall in with a chest of pearls of about the estimated value of one million and a half of English money be at all in your way?" 
               Tom slid off his chair, and sat down on the floor as he said- 
               "Good gracious! you don't mean that?" 
               "I do." 
               "Then never mind the indigo and the Brazil wood. Let's be down upon the pearls and the gold dust. But you don't mean eight hundred barrels?" 
               "Ay. They are the produce of no less than four Spanish galleons that were wrecked just three hundred and thirty years ago." 
               "Wrecked? Then how are they to be got at?" 
               "As easy as that!" replied Vanderdecken, stretching out his arm; "but I don't bring you these advantages for nothing." 
               "Oh no-I-that is, the old man-my father I mean, will give you something for yourself, of course." 
               "Indeed? I would not trust him, Tom Simpson." 
               "What, not trust the old man? I can tell you, we always meet our bills promptly." 
               "You would find yourselves gazetted if you did not. But, my friend, that is not the question. I think of going to England, and before I go, be so good as to answer me one query. Do you think that a man with a couple of millions or more of money, could get a wife in England?" 
               "The devil could with half the sum." 
               "Good; then I shall go with you in the Mary-Jane, Mynheer Simpson, and as we proceed, I will relate the particulars of the treasures I have mentioned to you. You will introduce me to your father in London, and he and you both will take care to introduce me to society, as a gentleman with so much money, and I will see that the whole affair shall be worth your while. You have some rather heavy acceptances to meet in August next." 
               "The deuce! so we have." 
               "And that stock of muscovado sugar don't go off quite so well as you could wish. Besides, the extravagance of Mrs. Simpson at that villa of hers at Bays-water, doesn't improve the cash account of the house of Simpson & Co." 
               A cold perspiration broke out on the face of Tom Simpson, as he gasped out- 
               "Good gracious! it's all true! but how did you know it, sir?" 
               "That is of no consequence. Suffice it, that I do know it, and that my knowledge does not end there. But come; the Mary-Jane will sail in an hour, and we had better go aboard at once. Remember, you are to assist me all you can to an English wife, and I am to prop up the failing credit of the house of Simpson & Co., or else it will go. You came with the hope that this alliance with Straken would bolster up your credit, and so it would; but that has gone off, as you see." 
               "Why, yes, it has, rather." 
               "And I will stand in the place of such an arrangement." 
               "Then, sir, I can only tell you that if you visit England, and just so much as whisper that you want a wife, and have got money, you will have mothers and all the old maids flying down your throat, almost." 
               Vanderdecken shook his head. 
               "She whom I must wed," he said, with solemnity, "must be young and fair. She must give me her whole heart, or else it is useless. She must wish me to live, and she must be able to say-'Let him live, oh, Heaven, for my sake!' Come, I long to go with you to England." 
               "And you shall. Two millions! Oh!-two! You won't forget that box with the pearls in it, sir, will you? and the eight hundred barrels of gold-dust! Oh, my eye!" 
               "I forget nothing. Come on." 
               The half terrified, but yet half hopeful and delighted Tom Simpson, went with him to the quay, and hiring a boatman, they were soon alongside the ship. 
               "You are going to Southampton, and take passengers?" said Simpson. 
               "Ay, sir," answered a sailor. "You'll find the captain in the cabin." 
               They found no difficulty in securing berths, and Tom Simpson and Vanderdecken sat down to talk in a little round house on the deck, while the ship hove off with the turning tide from the quays of Amsterdam. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               WURTEM CARLIS FINDS HIMSELF HALF MARRIED AGAINST HIS WILL. 
               TO return to our friend, Carlis, who was breakfasting at Von Rotter's, at the moment the dubious daughter of that individual entered the apartment. 
               Now, Wurtem was so very ungallant, so far as the fair Truchden was concerned, that he would rather have been any where just at that moment than where he was; and although noise enough had been made about the arrival of Carlis, to inform the whole street of the fact, one might imagine that Truchden did not know it, by the look of surprise that came over her face upon seeing the young man seated at her father's hospitable board. 
               We do not mean positively to assert that this was a piece of acting upon the part of the fair Truchden, the reader must draw his own conclusion. 
               "Oh, is it possible?" she ejaculated. "Is this a dream or is it not a dream?" 
               "Mine child," commanded Von Rotter, with a gracious wave of his little fat arm, that resembled the fin of an enormous turtle, "mine child, sit down. This is our friend, Mynheer Carlis, as you perceive." 
                
               Truchden required but little effort to sit down, as a very slight movement brought her to that position. 
               "Good morning, Miss Truchden," Carlis felt himself compelled to say. 
               "Oh yes," said said she, "it is a good morning," and she laid such an emphasis on the adjective, that our hero would have needed to be as blind as a beetle, not to see that the goodness of the morning was contingent upon his presence. 
               "Now, mine beautiful child," said old Von Rotter, "take your breakfast. Mynheer Carlis, she is as delicate as she is good-a pound of sausages, and a little tripe, or any trifle of that sort, always serves her for dinner, and then-" 
               "Father," screamed Truchden, "how can you be so cruel as to joke about me in such a way?" 
               "Joke, mine child?" 
               "Yes, you know, cruel father, that the yolk of an egg, beat up with a little sugar, serves me all day!" 
               Von Rotter, at this, made such dreadful efforts not to laugh, that he very nearly choked himself. 
               "Ah, you beautiful child," said he, "you have all the wit of your poor departed mother, and all the genius of your father." 
               "A capital combination," remarked Carlis. 
               "Yes, it is; I have a genius, though I say it who should not. At twelve years of age, I could add up twenty-four rows of figures without making a mistake. When Truchden was a little thing she was as active as an eel, and used to get through a hoop in all manner of ways, and do such wonderful things, mine Cot, it was quite a treat to see her. But now, mine children," continued Von Rotter, rising, "I will leave you to bill and coo like a pair of turtle-doves, while I attend to mine books below, and see that no one is cheating the great firm of Von Rotter & Co." 
               "Mynheer," said Wurtem, rising, "I hope you'll do no such thing. I should be sorry to trouble the fair Truchden with my company, for I am sure we should not be at all amusing to each other; so I will now take my leave if you please." 
               Von Rotter, during the last few moments had knocked upon the door repeatedly with his heel, and then he said- 
               "Mynheer Carlis, I have something of great moment to say to you, and I will-yes, I will (pause) say it at once." 
               Von Rotter was evidently waiting for something; and when the door of the room opened, and one of the clerks said-"Mynheer is wanted below for a few moments,"-Carlis saw that that was what the banker waited for, as he immediately arose. 
               Wurtem arose likewise, but the banker curved his eyebrows and slightly smiled, as he said 
               "Is the gallant and brave Carlis afraid to be left alone even for a few moments with a young lady?" 
               Our hero dropped into his seat again. It certainly did look like gross cowardice. 
               "Mynheer Von Rotter," said he, "I hope you will return as soon as possible." 
               "I shall not be gone half a minute. My signature only is wanted to some document, I presume." 
               The banker left the room, and then when Carlis turned to the fair Truchden, he saw that she had both hands over her face, and that she was peeping at him through her fingers. The youth felt vexed and fidgetty. He was one moment inclined to swear, and another to laugh, for his eyes were wide open to the fact that the great Von Rotter and the fair Truchden were prepared to stir Heaven and Hades to inveigle him by force or fraud, into the chains of matrimony. 
               "I won't speak to her," thought Carlis, "and her father will return soon." 
               Truchden was not to be so easily put off as that, for after gazing at him a few moments through her fat fingers, she said- 
               "Ah, Wurtem, we're here alone again." 
               "So it appears." 
               "And none to interfere with us. I know that a scandalous attempt was made in the church of St. Nicholas to induce you to marry Von Straken's daughter; but you thought of me and it failed." 
                
               "Oh, stuff!" said he. 
               "Yes, it was stuff, indeed; but, my love, you don't look so well to-day. Does the dear head ache, or is the dear mind affected in any way? Tell its Truchden, do." 
               Carlis gazed at her in amazement. 
               "This is rich," said he. 
               "Yes," said she, "we shall be rich, indeed. Others have sighed at my feet-others have woo'd me, but I preserved my virgin heart for you, and you have it in your holy keeping." 
               "I tell you, Miss Truchden, you are mistaken." 
               "Oh, no, no. The head may be mistaken but the heart, never! Education makes the head, but the heart is nature, and she is perfect in all her works, from the little roadside flower to the noble sentiments of exalted humanity." 
               Carlis gave her credit for some knowledge, but he did not know that she had picked those words out of a novel the day before, and had committed them to memory, with but a vague idea of their meaning; but yet, Truchden had some brains, or she could not have played her part so well. 
               "Listen to me, Miss Rotter," said Carlis, "you are a very superior girl; but you have lent yourself very foolishly to this plot of your father's, of uniting yourself to me. I now inform you distinctly that it can never be. I love another. Do you understand that?" 
               "I understand nothing, but that you speak to me in the language of affection." 
               "You deceive yourself, Miss Rotter. I'm sorry to say so much to a young girl, but the fact is, I don't like you." 
               "Then is my heart desolate, and my brain on fire!" said Truchden, rising. "Oh, why did you ever say you loved me? why did you ever ask me to be yours, and follow me to my room, and bring scandal upon my name? Do you wish to be my ruin?" 
               "I don't care whether you are ruined or not," said he, indignantly. 
               At this moment a bell sounded somewhere in the house, and ere Carlis could get to the door, Truchden sprang upon him, and clasped him round the neck in an embrace, that, without striking her, he could not disengage himself. 
               "Ah, yes!" she cried, "we will live and die together!" 
               The door was flung open at this moment, and old Von Rotter appeared with a troop of people at his heels, and he cried out- 
               "Ah, mine children! billing and cooing as I expected, like two-turtle doves!" 
               "Come, come, you should have waited till you are married," said a priest, in his official costume, advancing. 
               "Dear Truchden!" screamed the whole troop of friends in chorus, "we wish you every possible joy." 
               "And we wish the bridegroom joy!" cried they all. 
               "Oh, dear-this is delightful!" exclaimed Von Rotter. "I feel that I am ensuring the happiness of my beloved child." 
               The amazement and indignation of Carlis at all these proceedings was so great, that he sat powerless in Truchden's arms; but she, well knowing that every one had seen in what a loving position they were, removed her arms, and, affecting to be very much shocked, retired to the farther end of the room, and began sobbing in a manner violent enough to deceive anybody. 
               "Don't cry, mine child," said her father in soothing tones; "I feel sure that Carlis will make you a kind and good husband." 
               "My son," said the priest, "we will now perform the ceremony which is to make you the happy husband of that young lady." 
               Carlis rose, and looking at Von Rotter, the priests, and the guests, in the face he said, calmly- 
               "So, you imagine by this base and ridiculous nonsense, that I am to be forced into a marriage with that bundle of deceit and treachery, who but too ably seconds her father, the old rascal, in his vile projects?" 
               The guests, the parson, and Von Rotter himself, all fell back a pace or two at this startling announcement, and Truchden gathered up her feet on to the couch, and affected to cry in a desperate manner. 
                
               "Oh dear-oh dear!" cried Von Rotter, "what dreadful thing has come over my son-in-law that is to be?" 
               "Is he mad?" ejaculated the wedding guests. 
               "No!" cried Carlis; "but I should be if I were to give way to Von Rotter's plot to force me into a hateful marriage." 
               "My son," said the priest, "allow me to say that I can be no party in forcing any one into a marriage; and if you have changed your mind, it is quite out of the question that all the world can compel you to marry the lady." 
               "Yes, that's it," said Von Rotter; "he has changed his mind. He comes here and makes love to my child-he wins the heart of my child, and after saying he will marry her, getting my consent, and inducing me to call together my friends, and to send for you, reverend sir, says that he has altered his mind." 
               "All of which is false!" cried Carlis. 
               "Shocking!" cried the guests. 
               "It will be the death of me," said Von Rotter. 
               "And break my virgin heart!" exclaimed Truchden. 
               "Very good," said Carlis; "whatever terrible effects my conduct may produce, I shall persevere with it. The truth is, I never loved her, never made love to her, never offered to marry her, and I won't!" 
               "Young man," said the priest, "as an answer to all you have said, was not the lady, when we entered the room, in your arms?" 
               "No! you saw me in the arms of the lady, and most unwillingly did I remain there," replied Carlis. 
               "Oh-oh!" screamed Truchden; "do I look like one who would go to the arms of any man? Is it likely that any lady would hold any individual in her arms? Are we all so bad in Holland that we do such things? No! he is a faithless monster!" 
               "Now," said Carlis, "as I have explained this matter, in justice to myself I beg to say, that I will never enter this house again." 
               "He is going!" said Truchden. 
               "Never mind," remarked Von Rotter. "There is law in Amsterdam, and I will call upon it to aid me in seeing justice done to my child, who is pure as she is fair." 
               "Very good," said Carlis; "that is just what I expected; and now good day to you, Mynheer Von Rotter. I acknowledge that you managed this little affair very well; but you see it is a failure. Good day to you, too, Truchden; I admit you played your part to perfection, but without success. Good day to you, ladies and gentlemen; it is quite impossible for me to classify you, and to say which are the duped, and which came here to dupe; but I have the pleasure of bidding you all good day." 
               Uttering this speech, Carlis left the house, fully resolved never again to cross its threshold. 
               To allay the perturbation of his spirits, Carlis walked rapidly through the streets, little heeding which way he went, and it was chance only that led him back to the house of Von Straken, where resided all that he really loved. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               FOLLOWS THE FORTUNES OF VANDERDECKEN AT SEA WITH TOM SIMPSON. 
               WE now turn our attention to the proceedings of Vanderdecken, and Tom Simpson, on board the ship bound for England. 
               The round-house or cabin, in which Tom Simpson and Vanderdecken, under his assumed name of Thompson, sat down, was about the size of an ordinary cupboard, but that on board a ship of that day was considered quite sufficient. 
               "Upon my life," remarked Tom Simpson, as he gazed through one of the little casements, "Mr. Van-a-Thompson, I begin to think I shall like the sea very much. I don't feel at all queer; do you?" 
               "I! I am used to the sea." 
               "Ah, no doubt you are, sir. It's a great thing to be used to the sea, and I think, if I had been brought up to the sea, do you know, that I should have been used to it likewise, and soon have liked it." 
               "No doubt," said Vanderdecken, drily. "Remember Mr. Simpson, that I rely upon you wholly, when we get to London, to introduce me to society." 
               "Yes, to be sure. We will give such out-and-out parties at our house in Newgate Street, and then you can come out showy, you know. But you wasn't joking about the gold dust, and the pearls, and so on?" 
               "Far from it. Are you any judge of pearls?" 
               "Why, I know a real one from a bit of glass, with some wax and wool in the inside of it, when I see it, I can tell you, because you see, the real article won't break, and the sham one will." 
               "Look at these, then." 
               Vanderdecken took from the deep pocket of his outer coat a handful of something that seemed like sand and seaweed, but after a little searching among it, he produced four large pearls, and then threw the rest into the sea. 
               "Oh, murder!" said Tom Simpson, "there were some more." 
               "Only small ones." 
               "Only small ones? But, you know they are worth something, and these, I should say, are very valuable indeed." 
               "Good day, gentlemen," said a rough-looking man, with a telescope under his arm, entering the round house at this moment. "Fine weather for us just now. We shall get through the Zuyder Zee with a flowing sheet." 
               "Shall we?" said Simpson. "Well, I'm glad of that, because we shall be more comfortable in the blankets, perhaps. You are the captain, I suppose, sir?" 
               "I am." 
               Vanderdecken slightly inclined his head, Simpson, as he held out his hand with the four pearls for the inspection of the captain, said- 
               "Are you a judge of these sort of things?" 
               "Not to a great extent, but if these are real they are very valuable." 
               "They are real," said Vanderdecken. 
               "Then they are the finest I ever saw." 
               "Well," said Simpson, with an air of great satisfaction, "they belong to my friend, here Mr. Thompson, you see, a highly respectable gentleman, who is going with me to London for a wife." 
               The captain laughed as he said- 
               "He needn't want a wife long, if he carries such pearls as those about him. I rather think they are the sort of things to dazzle the eyes of the ladies." 
               "I believe you," said Simpson. "You are a very sensible man, captain." 
               "Much obliged to you, sir," replied the captain, and he was about to leave the round house, when Vanderdecken said, in a low soft voice- 
               "Have you many passengers, sir?" 
               "Only three, besides you two gentlemen. There is a gentleman in not very good health, and a young lady, who I don't think will be often on deck. Oh, I forgot to say, though, that there is a servant of the old gentleman and the young lady." 
               Vanderdecken nodded his head as he said- 
               "And, no doubt, you expect a prosperous voyage, captain?" 
               The captain smiled. 
               "The ship is tough and good, and the voyage is a trifle. We shall soon be out into the green ocean and then all we have to do is, to spank away westward with a point or two north, and there we are, gentlemen. There's no great risk of our not making a prosperous voyage." 
               "Well," said Simpson, "that's comfortable; and now I think of it, I'm rather hungry, and will go below, captain, if you please. Come, Mr. Thompson, won't you step down and see what's going on?" 
                
               "I will follow you," said Vanderdecken. 
               The state cabin of the Mary-Jane, which could accommodate about a dozen passengers, was rather tastily fitted. It was, however, rather dark when Simpson and Vanderdecken entered it. The latter went to an obscure part of the cabin, while the former, with his usual conceit and garrulity, was resolved upon saying something to the other passengers, and particularly to the young lady. To his great disappointment, however, she was not there. 
               Upon a couch at one end of the state-cabin, sat the widow lady. Her name was Mrs. Bell. 
               Not far from her sat the old gentleman, who was not in very good health. He was a small, mild-looking old man, with a settled pain and nervousness upon his face, the result of long continued indisposition. 
               The gentleman's name was Holford, and the young lady, who was at the moment in her state-room, was Flora Holford, his daughter. 
               Tom Simpson, with a resolution to make himself agreeable, remarked to him- 
               "A nice day, sir. I hope you'll enjoy the voyage." 
               "I am much obliged to you for hoping so, but I fear that is out of the question," replied the old gentleman. "Are you a passenger?" he asked. 
               "Yes, sir-me and my friend-I am Mr. Simpson; my friend is Mr. Thompson-a gentleman; and if you'll believe it, though it's a secret," said Tom, whispering in his ear, "he's worth two million pounds sterling. "What think you o' that?" 
               "That the gentleman is very rich; but I'm sorry you told me, if it be a secret." 
               "I'm sure you'll not let it go any further, because, perhaps, he wouldn't like it. Well, ma'am, how do you?" 
               "Go away," said the fat lady, Mrs. Bell. "Go away. Oh dear, dear, my head-" 
               "Lor, ma'am, I'm sorry you are so bad." 
               "No, you ain't. Go away, you puppy!" 
               "Oh, very good, ma'am. Only let me advise a little cold brandy and water. 'Tis the only thing that ever does me good when I feel a little queer. But you don't mean to say that you are sea-sick already?" 
               "Yes, I am," said she, in a more amiable tone, for probably she felt a little mollified at hearing him talk of cold brandy-and-water. "Yes, I always get sea-sick from the moment I first get aboard-oh, dear!" 
               "Steward!" cried Simpson. 
               In a moment a negro popped his head into the cabin. 
               "You call, massa?" 
               "Yes, I did. Let's have something to eat and to drink." 
               "Ya, ya, massa! Praps de lady want a somethin'-got some fine fat bacon-hi!" 
               "Go along," cried madam. "Oh, dear-that I should be spoken to about fat bacon, while I am in such a state, too." 
               The negro went grinning out of the state cabin, and then Miss Flora Holford, with all the gracefulness of a sylph, appeared. 
               "Oh lor, what a beauty," thought Simpson. "She's a perfect angel." 
               Flora was just sixteen years of age, with blue eyes, auburn hair, snowy complexion, pearly teeth, rosy lips, and the sweetest complexion, and the sweetest expression imaginable. 
               Simpson was evidently struck by the surpassing loveliness of Flora, and he continued staring at her until she noticed it. Soon the steward brought in a tray with a luncheon. Simpson caught up a plate of pastry, and with the intention of passing it to Miss Flora, he stepped across the cabin, but the ship gave a lurch, and over went Simpson, plate and pastry into the lap of Mrs. Bell. 
               "You wretch!" screamed the old lady, as she caught him by the hair of his head, and shook him to and fro. "You monster! do you mean to make sport of a poor lone woman! Why did you throw those tarts and cheesecakes at me, you ill-bred ruffian?" 
                
               "I didn't mean to do it," replied Simpson. "I was taking them to that young lady, when the ship gave a lurch, and headlong I went, old lady." 
               Mrs. B.'s breath was rather bad now, and she could only shake her fist at Tom, who, approaching Flora, said- 
               "It was to you, Miss, that I was bringing the tarts-I was, indeed." 
               "Thank you; I would rather not take any." 
               "Oh, don't say so. Shall I cut you a sandwich?" 
               "No, thank you." 
               "My daughter requires nothing at present," said Mr. Holford. "This is a fellow-passenger of ours, my dear Flora, and I am sure he means to be kind." 
               Flora smiled, and bowed slightly. 
               "That I do, upon my life," added Simpson, "and it's very good in you, sir, to give one credit for his good intentions. I'm sure, sir, I have been to very many places, and have seen all sorts of girls; but, if there's a Venus in this world, it is your daughter, sir." 
               Flora laughed. 
               "You are too complimentary, sir," she said. "Perhaps you would like me to call you Adonis?" 
               "Well, I don't know him; but let him be in what line of business he may, he cannot possibly admire you more than I do." 
               That Tom Simpson was an original, with whom it would be nonsense to quarrel, appeared to be the opinion of both Mr. Holford and his daughter; so they only laughed at him, and as he was not at all offended, it suited all parties. Flora particularly was amused at his nonsensical volubility, while her father gazed intently at Vanderdecken, who sat silent and alone in a corner. 
               It will be remembered that Vanderdecken had attired himself very richly to go to the church of St. Nicholas. He still wore the same apparel; only that its value and richness was very much hidden by his cloak of ample folds. 
               "Is your friend well?" asked Mr. Holford of Simpson. 
               "Oh, yes; I told you, I think, that he had plenty of tin?" 
               "Plenty of what?" 
               "Tin. The browns, you know-money." 
               "Ah, I understand you now," said the old gentleman. 
               "By-the-bye, Miss Holford, do you like pearls?" asked Tom. 
               "Yes," laughed Flora, "of course I do." 
               "Then I'll just show you some that my friend has, that will very much surprise you." 
               Tom Simpson was making his way toward Vanderdecken, when the latter arose, and gracefully stepping across the cabin, he said, "If Miss Holford has any curiosity to see the pearls, they are here." 
               As he spoke, he presented the four large pearls to the young lady, who took them in her fair, small hand, and looked at them admiringly. 
               "Look, pa," she said; "are they not beautiful?" 
               "They are rare," added Mr. Holford; "I never saw one so large as that. These are of great price, I suppose?" 
               "Probably in the markets of the world, they would have a high value set upon them," replied Vanderdecken. "Do you admire that one your father alludes to, Miss Holford?" 
               "Indeed I do; although, perhaps, it is the acquired knowledge that these little gems are of great value that makes us think them much more beautiful than we should otherwise." 
               "We are but too apt to let our imagination elate us into a belief that what is rare, is valuable. Were pearls as plentiful as pebbles in the streets, no one would stoop for them." 
               "Oh, but I should," said Flora, "for, after all, pearls are beautiful for their own sake. You can't think, sir, what a pretty collection of quite common pebbles and shells I have at home. I sometimes flatter myself they are quite rare, and that I have a collection of precious gems." 
               "You should make such a collection," said Vanderdecken, and taking up one of the largest pearls, he added-"permit me to offer you this as a beginning." 
                
               Flora looked amazed, and so did her father, and Tom Simpson looked from one to the other of them, as though he wondered what they thought of such generosity. Mrs. Bell fidgetted along the couch till she got near enough to see the pearl, and then she muttered- 
               "Oh, imitation, of course." 
               "Sir," said Mr. Holford, "I can fully appreciate the princely generosity that would offer a girl such a pearl, but cannot permit her to accept of it." 
               "Oh, no, no," said Flora. 
               "Nay," added Vanderdecken, "do not scruple to accept it-I have others and heed it not." 
               "But, my good sir," said Mr. Holford, "I don't pretend to be much of a judge of precious jewels, but it seems to me that a pearl of that size and beauty must be worth two hundred pounds-perhaps much more." 
               "It doesn't matter, sir, about the price that some people would put upon it," said Vanderdecken; "I should never change it into gold, and, therefore, to me it is nothing, and of no positive value; nor is it offered to your daughter from any feeling that it is an expensive gift, for it is not so." 
               "You are very kind, Mr. Thompson, but it cannot be accepted." 
               "I will not press it upon the young lady," said Vanderdecken, "and am fully aware of the feeling that prompts you to decline it." 
               "I hope there is no offence?" 
               "None in the least." 
               "Dear me," cried Mrs. Bell, "is it a real pearl? And you don't want it, sir-you would have given it to this infant?" 
               "Infant, indeed!" said Tom Simpson. "A delightful infant." 
               "It came from the sea, madam," said Vanderdecken. 
               "I know that, my dear sir." 
               "And to the sea it returns," he added, as he flung it through the little casement of the cabin. 
               Mrs. Bell uttered a shriek, and Mr. Holford looked surprised, while an expression of regret was upon the face of Flora. Simpson ran to the window to look out, and got a dash of spray, which made him retreat, looking like a marine god, and sneezing dreadfully. 
               "It is gone," he said. 
               The little party in the Mary-Jane could not have looked more thoroughly amazed if a pearl had come in from the sea. 
               "Sir," said Mr. Holford, "I am very sorry that you have acted so precipitately. 
               "And so am I," said Flora. 
               "Oh lor!" exclaimed Simpson; "he might as well have given it to me." 
               "Or to me," groaned Mrs. Bell. "The man is mad-stark, staring mad, and he ought to be taken care of by his friends." 
               "Excuse me, all of you," said Vanderdecken. "It was not in a moment of passion that I cast away the pearl, but it was to convince this worthy gentleman that in offering it to the young lady I did not look upon it as a thing of much value. I simply offered it to her as a specimen of marine production-nothing more." 
               "But," said Flora, "that pearl might have dried away a tear upon a mourner's cheek-it might have made childhood smile with delight-it might have saved the widow and fatherless from despair." 
               An unusual bustle upon deck now attracted the attention of all the passengers, and they heard the captain giving various orders in a loud voice to the crew. Then there was a great tramping, and such a rattling of chains and creaking of pulleys, and hauling of ropes, and flapping of canvas, that it was quite evident some important changes were being made in the state of things above. 
               "Oh, dear," cried Mrs. Bell, "I feel certain that we are all going to-what's-his-name-David Jones, don't you call him?" 
               "I wish you wouldn't mention that individual's name aboard ship, ma'am. Don't now," remarked Simpson. 
               "It is nothing," said Vanderdecken; and then he retired to the corner again whence he had come, and sat down, resting his head upon his hands in gloomy thoughtfulness. 
               Flora crept closer to her father and looked inquiringly at him, and he smiled as he said, 
               "My dear, I believe there is no danger. The ship is a good one, the captain is a skilful navigator; so, my dear, you may dismiss all fears." 
               "Oh, yes-I will try." 
               "Nevertheless, my love, I think you had better go to your own cabin." 
               Mr. Holford, who had been several voyages, was enabled to keep his feet upon the floor, and he led his daughter to the ladies' saloon. 
               When he turned from the door, he saw Vanderdecken standing by one of the casements, gazing out upon the sea. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               THE GOOD SHIP MARY-JANE MAKES HER LAST VOYAGE. 
               THE fixed look of Vanderdecken seaward, made Mr. Holford regard him with curiosity. It was quite evident that he was in a state of the most complete abstraction from all objects in the cabin. After a pause he spoke in a low tone. Mr. Holford, by great attention, could just catch these words- 
               "Yes, it is coming!-'Twill find me out! The tempest is coming, boiling up from the deep! It comes-it comes. It will follow me and my path upon the ocean. Oh, Heaven, is there no mercy yet?" 
               The deep groan that Vanderdecken uttered after these most mysterious words, evidently came from the very depths of the wretched man's heart. 
               "I am afraid, Mr. Thompson, that you are not well," said Mr. Holford, in tones of commiseration, and lightly touching his arm. 
               Vanderdecken started and turned round in a moment, and looked keenly in the face of the inquirer. 
               "What did you hear?" he asked. 
               "You said that the storm was coming, and would follow your path upon the ocean, or something to that effect. Possibly, though, I misunderstood you." 
               "Possibly; but heed me not." 
               With these words he again retired to the same obscure corner of the cabin, leaving the kind old gentleman rather confirmed in his suspicion, that the mysterious and wealthy man, who had cast a valuable pearl into the sea, was not exactly in his right senses. 
               Feeling uneasy at the coming darkness, Mr. Holford thought that he would make his way to the deck, and see how matters stood there. A fierce south-west wind was blowing, and although the ship was making progress through the water, it was not towards her destined port. 
               All along the winter sky there was a strange yellow line of light that had a most portentous aspect, while to the south a huge mass of black clouds were slowly rising up, expanding the whole canopy of heaven. The water was singularly disturbed, and of a very unusual light green color, and the ship was rolling heavily. 
               The captain was in the main rigging, with a speaking-trumpet in one hand, while with the other he clung to the shrouds. He gave his orders to his crew in a cracked and harsh voice to shorten sail. 
               "Are we drifting, captain?" asked Mr. Holford. 
               "Drifting, no. By Heaven, we are scudding at the rate of eleven knots, almost under bare poles, too. Our main t'-gallant mast is gone. It snapped like a lath, and disappeared like a wisp of straw." 
               The few hands who were aloft, endeavoring to secure everything that might be carried away, now rapidly descended to the deck. Every portable article on deck had already been secured. The hatches were battened down, and the ship was as clear aloft as though a piece of canvas had never been bent to her spars. 
               The wind whistled fiercely through the cordage, and the waves run fearfully high. The crew lounged around the binnacle and whispered of terrible evils; and the captain, with hair streaming, and a look of anxiety upon his face, kept a roving glance to windward. 
               Anon, a strange wailing noise came over the surface of the deep. The captain then cried out in a loud, startling voice- 
               "A black squall! It's coming fast, my men! Give it a clear berth! Helm hard a-lee!" 
               "A-lee it is, sir," said the man at the helm, and the ship trembled in the trough of the surging sea. 
               The captain now felt convinced that a heavy squall was near at hand, and his object was that it should strike the ship as nearly astern as possible. 
               For the space of about half a minute there was a lull in the wind, and the ship rode comparatively easy; but the captain held his breath with expectation; and then, at the moment they expected the squall would strike her, there seemed to pass over the vessel something strange, and a shriek so loud and so appalling rang in the air, that it made the boldest heart quake. Not a cord stirred; the pennant at the mast-head hung idly; the ship gave a shudder again from stem to stern as though it had struck upon a sand-bank; and then through the water again it sped, hissing and splashing as before. 
               The captain dropped the speaking-trumpet-he looked pale and ghastly. 
               Mr. Holford clung for dear life by the lower part of the main-shrouds, and the crew crouched down under the weather bulwarks with looks of alarm. 
               From the companion-way now rushed Flora, her hair and dress disordered, and with every indication of fright in her countenance. 
               "Good God! what has happened?" she cried. 
               "Nothing," said Mr. Holford, with a tremulous accent. 
               "But there was a dreadful scream?" 
               "My dear," said Flora's father, as he placed his arm around her, "let me implore you to keep below. We do not appear to be in any immediate danger." 
               "Courage, fair lady," said the captain; "we must not be cast down because of a scream, though we don't know whither it came." 
               "As you please, father." 
               "Come at once." 
               "Yes," urged the captain; "take her below. How dark it grows, to be sure. Raise a lantern to the gaff, boys, and sling another on her bow." 
               "Ay, ay, sir." 
               "What's our course?" 
               "Noth-east by north." 
               "That won't do, by Heaven! we shall be on the coast of Denmark soon. Keep her off. Never mind the gale." 
               Uttering these words, the captain sprung to the helm, and altered the ship's course to the north-west; but now that she caught the wind on the larboard-quarter, she rolled heavily through the sea, and it was impossible for one unaccustomed to the motion of a vessel to keep their feet. 
               The lanterns that the captain ordered were hoisted, and they shed a lurid light through the darkness on to the deck. The dense mass of clouds that had been creeping up from the south had now spread over the entire sky, and it was as black as midnight. 
               Still, with a phosphorescent sparkle, the water showed itself of a faint green tinge, and the wind kept up the melancholy whistle that had characterized it from the first. 
               Upon the whole, the Mary Jane did her work bravely, and, save the spars that had gone in the early part of the gale, nothing had given way. 
               The captain had another lantern hoisted, so that the three formed a triangle. Mr. Holford had once more appeared on deck, and now stood beside the master. 
               "Well, captain," inquired Holford, "what think you of affairs now?" 
                
               "I know not what to think. There's not much to fear from the gale if we can steer clear of breakers; but that scream, sir-it forbodes evil I fear. Had it only reached my ears, I should say it was a warning that my sand was well-nigh run; but it reached the ears of us all; it can't mean that we're all doomed." 
               "No; it was the doom of the ship that it meant, else I'm a Dutchman," remarked Jenkins, the mate. "This is the last voyage of the Mary Jane." 
               "Then keep your opinion from the men, or their superstitious fears will destroy us whether the ship be fated or not." 
               "Ay, ay, sir," replied the mate. "Depend on't I'll keep my jaw-tackle belayed." 
               There was now a silence of some minutes, for all were too much affected to speak. Mr. Holford was gazing at the captain's features, when it became illumined with a dull greenish hue. 
               "Look aloft!" cried a sailor. "What's that?" 
               In a moment all eyes were turned upward, when they beheld, at the very truck of the mizenmast, a strange green flame of about two feet in height, and which apparently, in defiance of the wind and the motion of the ship, kept startlingly upright, as though it had been a flaming sword. 
               Amazement sat upon the face of all, and the crew clustered together and looked aloft with awe and consternation. 
               "Ah, it's a warning!" cried a sailor, "and we're on the deck of a doomed craft. It's no use to work now." 
               The captain when he heard these words, felt at once their effect upon his crew. 
               "Who says that?" he demanded in an authoritative tone. "Who talks of giving up while there is a ship beneath us and a heaven above us?" 
               The startling energy with which these words were pronounced produced a great effect upon the crew, and they gazed at each other now, instead of the green light at the mast-head. 
               "Keep her well to the wind," said he to the man at the helm. 
               "Ay, ay, sir," was the response. 
               "As for that light above," resumed the captain, "it is electric." 
               This definition of the strange appearance served partially to allay the apprehensions of the crew, though it was by no means satisfactory. 
               If possible, now, the appearance of things above and around the Mary Jane was more ominous than before. The sky seemed to be lighted up to a vast extent by the singular flame that still shot up from the mast, and it cast a ghastly radiance upon every object on the deck, and more particularly upon the faces of the crew. The water, too, as it dashed the ship, was highly phosphorescent, and the spray looked like millions of little particles of shining metal. The ship rolled heavily, and the wind, keeping in the same quarter, came now in heavy gusts. 
               The clouds now settled down upon the ship, and the sea rolled so heavily that every soul clutched violently at whatever was within reach. 
               "She's making leeway as well as headway, and the compass don't show it," remarked the mate. 
               "What makes you think so?" queried the captain. 
               "Look here." 
               The mate took the master to the weather bulwarks, and showed him a rope with a strip of old sail attached to it, hanging astern. 
               "Look at the drift of it," he said. 
               "You're right, but don't mention it. We shall be upon the coast of Denmark in an hour if there is no change. I cannot understand it." 
               "Nor I. What the devil is that?" 
               "Hilloa!" cried the crew, at this moment, as with one voice. "There's something on the ocean yonder." 
               The captain strained his eyes in the direction indicated, and discovered a strange object, but what it was he couldn't make out. As it neared the vessel some of the crew would have it that it was only a porpoise; others said it was a cask painted green; others that it was a dead body; but at length it came so
                   near that they all with a shudder drew back as they saw something that had the proportions of a human being rise on the surface of the ocean, and utter a shrill exulting scream. 
               In another moment it was gone. 
               The captain staggered back into the round house, and Mr. Holford rubbed his eyes with his hands in the hope that he should find all these strange things but the disordered fancies of a dream. The helmsman abandoned the wheel, and the ship was at the mercy of the elements. The master, aware of what had occurred, rushed out, and cried, 
               "Man the wheel, or we're lost!" 
               Two men sprang aft and put the vessel on her course again. 
               A wild cry from the crew forward caused every one now to look in that direction, and even induced Flora again to venture upon deck. Tom Simpson, too, who had sufficiently recovered just to reach the deck at this moment, fell flat upon his face with terror. The crew crowded round the wheel at which the two sailors clung, and then just about midships, crawling like some strange fish, came the object up the side which had been seen to rise on the waves so short a time before. 
               In form this object was certainly human, but it was of the color of the flame at the mast-head-face, hands, and every part of it. One of the little brass guns that the Mary Jane had upon her deck was just in the way of the object, and it rolled head over heels over the gun, and alighted upon the deck sprawlingly, such as some gigantic lizard might have done after such an exertion. 
               The green monster then rolled itself up into a kind of ball, and went across the deck uttering hideous cries, till it reached the main hatchway, down which it at once disappeared. 
               The captain lifted up both his hands, and cried out- 
               "Am I mad? am I mad?" 
               "The boats-the boats!" shouted the sailors. "We cannot stay with the ship. Out with the boats." 
               "No!" interfered Mr. Holford. "Mind what you do. You are men and christians, and all the fiends in the world cannot harm you if you keep together, and pray to God. I will go below and see what this is." 
               "No, father!" screamed Flora; "you must not-you must not." 
               "Yes, I will go below-it is proper that some one should." 
               "Thompson!" gasped Simpson. "Oh, dear! Thompson is there! Only listen!" 
               From the cabin now issued sounds of the most fearful description. Yells, shouts and shrieks fell upon their ears in one dense confusion, and it seemed us if some dreadful struggle was going on. Towards the hatchway the cries soon approached, and in a few moments, to the astonishment and terror of all, there emerged Vanderdecken, struggling with the green fiend, who had appeared so mysteriously aboard the ship. They rolled together upon the deck, and fought with a phrenzy that was terrible to behold. At length Vanderdecken rose, and by a great exertion of strength he held the writhing monster above his head, and rushing to the side of the vessel, he flung it into the sea. 
               "Oh, God!" he exclaimed, and fell prostrate upon the deck. 
               The hideous creature uttered a wild cry as it touched the waves; but down it went like a lump of lead, and at that moment the green light that had flashed upon the topmast flew upward and disappeared. 
               All was comparative darkness on board the ship, and the crew felt their blood almost curdle round their hearts at the terror of the scene they had just gone through. 
               The three lanterns that had been all but extinguished by the presence of the vivid green light, now began to shine out again, and the countenances of all looked no longer like so many spectres; and each man breathed more freely as he presumed a change in his own appearance by seeing a change in his neighbor's. 
               Even the captain seemed a little more composed. He went towards the spot 
                   
                     Vanderdecken and Tom Simpson aboard the Mary Jane. See p. 89. 
                  
                  
                   where Vanderdecken was lying, and a couple of the crew assisting, he was raised to a sitting posture. A lantern was brought, and they gazed into his face. How deathly pale it was; his eyes were half closed, and they thought he was dying. 
               "The monster has killed him," said one of the men. 
               "No," said Vanderdecken, faintly. 
               "He speaks," said the captain. 
               "Is it gone?" 
               "Yes, thanks to you. You threw it overboard." 
               "I? Oh, yes! It came into the cabin, and it called to me; but I would not go! Oh, God-no! this is a christian ship, and has been blessed by a christian priest; and here I am, and will not go. Oh, spare me-spare me!" 
               "The struggle with the monster has turned his brain," remarked the captain in compassionate tones. 
               "It looks like it," said Mr. Holford; "let us try to carry him down below. Perhaps he will sleep." 
               "Heaven help him," said Flora. 
               Vanderdecken opened his eyes and gazed into her sweet face. 
               "I am better," said he, and he arose and stood upon the deck, with his hair floating wildly in the wind, and took a long look at the sky. "Prepare for the gale; there it comes." 
               They now heard the sighing of the wind, which had lulled a little, as if to give time for the miraculous events that had just occurred. 
               "Hold on!" shouted the captain. "Here it is." 
               With a terrific blast that drowned every other noise the gale struck the ship, and for a few moments she careened over almost to her beam-ends, when she righted. Then with a shiver from stem to stern she stood before the wind, and the waters flew past her like those of a seething cauldron. 
               The energies of both master and crew increased as the circumstances that surrounded them became more familiar. The night was fearfully dark, and the ship labored more than usual. The helmsman was lashed to the wheel, and as the trio of lanterns had been torn from their lanyards, the only light left was the one in the binnacle. 
               That the gale would last at least twelve hours was pretty evident; but long before the expiration of that time daylight would come, when they would be enabled to ascertain their position. 
               Soon a vivid flame of fire illuminated the heavens, followed by a clap of thunder, which, it seemed, would rend the heavens. 
               "Land on the starboard bow!" was shouted from half a dozen seamen in the same moment. 
               Such a cry under such circumstances was the most suggestive of calamity of any that could be uttered, and it spread consternation among all on board. 
               The view that the flash of lightning had given of the shore was in the shape of some three or four high rocky points; and it appeared not more than a half mile distant. 
               It was a remarkable thing to notice how, with the presence of real and tangible danger, the character of the master began to show itself in its true strength. While his ship was surrounded by circumstances that seemed beyond his control, and beyond human comprehension, he certainly had displayed a degree of hesitation and doubt in his movements, which had, no doubt, a bad effect upon the crew; but now he saw and knew the dangers of his position, and he at once exhibited himself as the cool, calm, calculating mariner, and as one who had all the necessary knowledge to bring to bear upon such a contingency. 
               The ship, notwithstanding the heavy billows on which she was being tossed, obeyed her helm, and being under close-reefed main-topsail at the time, she was enabled to keep her distance from the rugged coast. 
               "A light ahead, sir!" called out a man from the fore-top. 
               "Where-away?" 
               "On the starboard bow, sir. It's a lighthouse, I think, sir; and I hear the roar of breakers!" 
                
               "Lost, then!" said the captain to himself. 
               "Oh, God, no!" screamed Flora, who had followed her father to the companion way. 
               "My child!" exclaimed the father, "it is for you only I feel, my dear Flora. Were you safe--" 
               The afflicted man could, say no more; the prospect of such a death for his young and beautiful daughter overcame him, and the tears that coursed each other down his cheeks choked his utterance. 
               It was then that the tall and majestic figure of Vanderdecken appeared before them. 
               "Weep not-I will save her!" 
               "No, no! save my father!" cried Flora. 
               "Hush!" said Vanderdecken. "The storm is yet to come; but the danger you dread is not that which will wreck the ship. There is little to fear from the breakers." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               THE MARY-JANE FINDS A HOME IN THE DEEP AT LAST. 
               ALL eyes on board the Mary-Jane were now turned towards the east, where a long line of greyish light streaked the horizon. It was really a cheering sight, even that faint glimpse of a new day, to all on board that doomed ship. 
               "Now, my lads," cried the captain, "to work, cheerily. The worst of the storm is over, and--" 
               It was at this moment that a voice cried out- 
               "Six feet in the hold!" 
               That cry again spread dismay throughout the ship, and even the countenance of the captain blanched as he heard it. 
               That cry, too, seemed as if it had an occult effect even upon the face of nature, and the operations of the material world, for no sooner was it uttered than the dense mass of clouds which had seemed to uplift themselves like a curtain, to show that the young day was coming behind them, dropped down again, and shut it out from mortal sight in a moment. 
               The darkness appeared more dense than before, and all shuddered with the thought that their trials and dangers were as yet by no means so nearly over as they had imagined them to be. 
               "Sound the well again," cried the captain. 
               "Ay, ay, sir." 
               "There must be some mistake." 
               The captain bit his lips as he said this. 
               The well was hastily, and yet carefully, sounded, and the report was made again. 
               "Six-feet-three water in the well!" 
               In less than five minutes the water had gained three inches. Everybody except, Tom Simpson and Mrs. Bell knew very well what that meant. 
               "Man the pumps!" cried the captain; "and send the carpenter forward here." 
               "Ay, ay, sir." 
               The clank of the pumps was heard above the whispered conversation in the little round house upon deck, where Tom Simpson had managed to ensconce himself, and where, too, Mrs. Bell was seated upon a heap of luggage. The carpenter of the Mary-Jane was a thorough practical seaman, as well as being as good a ship-carpenter as ever stepped between stem and stern, and in a few moments he obeyed the captain's summons. 
               "Well, carpenter, where is this leak!" 
               "Can't tell, sir." 
               "Perhaps it is not a leak; she has shipped some heavy seas." 
               "Ay, sir; but now only a little spray dashes over her decks, and yet the water in the hold gains upon us each moment." 
                
               "What's to be done?" 
               "Put her before the wind." 
               The captain, acting upon the carpenter's suggestion, himself sprung to the helm, and gradually the ship was put before the gale. The experiment was regarded with interest, for well they knew what it was intended to demonstrate; but the carpenter had made up his mind to quite a contrary view of the matter to what the captain entertained, and he only calmly waited until demonstration of the fallacy of the idea he raised, that the ship was taking in water through her upper planks by rolling in the trough of the sea, to become apparent. 
               "How does she go?" asked the captain. 
               "Easy, sir." 
               Clank, clank went the pumps as regularly as though the men werely exercising themselves. A quarter of an hour elapsed, and then with a slight crack in his voice, which betrayed the deep anxiety with which he was likely to listen to the reply, he enquired- 
               "How is the water in the hold now?" 
               There was a silence of some few moments, and the men ceased to pump. The carpenter made his observation, and reported- 
               "Six feet six inches water!" 
               A shudder ran through the crew, and the captain, for a moment, shook at the wheel so that the ship yawed out of her course. 
               "Hold on, sir!" said one of the crew. 
               That cry nerved him again, and he was as steady as a rock. 
               "Take the helm, Mr. Jenkins," said he, to the mate. 
               "Ay, ay, sir." 
               "Have you any idea where the leak is?" said the captain, in a low tone, to the carpenter. 
               "Ay, sir, in the after hatch." 
               "Where the copper is?" 
               The carpenter nodded. 
               "And it is about as easy to get it out as to move the keel of the ship." 
               "An ugly job, sir. It's death and the devil if it comes on to blow as it has to-night; and if a plank does start, why, it's all over with us." 
               "Hush! don't say that aloud. I will do my best while there are a couple of planks of the old craft holding together. Come, my lads," he shouted, "keep the pumps going." 
               "No disrespect to you, captain," said one of the sailors, "but it's no use pumping, and you, as a good seaman, know it as well as we do." 
               "Where's that chap as pitched the devil overboard?" said another sailor. 
               "You mean our tall passenger?" said the captain. 
               "Ay, ay, ay! Where is he?" demanded all the crew. 
               "Here!" cried a loud, clear voice. 
               There was one vivid flash of blue lightning-ay, as blue as steel-and it appeared to play around the very head of Vanderdecken. 
               "In Heaven's name, who are you?" demanded the captain. "If you can save the vessel do so, and you will have the thanks of us all." 
               "Hold on!" shouted Vanderdecken. "It's coming now." 
               The crew had just time to clutch whatever was nearest to them, when a tremendous dash of sea struck the ship midships. How it came, when the wind was in a different quarter seemed unaccountable, but it swept over the deck like a tornado, carrying everything that was before it. 
               The roar and rush of the sea soon subsided to a low hissing sound, like that occasioned by the receding of the waves upon a beach, and then a voice called out- 
               "She rights again!" 
               That voice was Vanderdecken's. The crew knew that, despite that awful whirl of waters which had gone over him-enough to have swept a thousand men to destruction, there he was yet standing upon the round-house roof. 
               "She rights!" he cried again. "Where is the captain?" 
                
               For a few seconds there was a pause; then one of the crew replied- 
               "Overboard, sir! Listen to that! there he is, far away!" 
               A wild, wailing shriek came faintly upon the night wind, and then all was still again, save the howling of the blast. The sea had swept the captain and five seamen to a dreadful death amid the surging waters. 
               "Put her head east by north!" shouted Vanderdecken. 
               "Ay, ay, sir." 
               "Get a spare sail, and pass it under her keel. Man the pumps again, my lads. We work for life now. The shore is not half the distance off your captain thought." 
               The seamen sprung to obey the orders thus given them by an individual of whom they knew nothing, except that they saw he had a perfect acquaintance with their profession. It was the carpenter only who said, in a whisper, to one near him- 
               "It is just as well to go down in deep water, as to go to pieces on a rocky reef." 
               "You are wrong, carpenter," said Vanderdecken; "there is a bay of some seven miles in width, with a clear, sandy bottom, lying nearly due east. We may lose the ship there, but save all on board." 
               "Confound him! how did he hear me, and it blowing great guns in this way?" muttered the carpenter. "I didn't know, sir, of the bay." 
               "But I know every pebble that lines the shore. The pumps, lads-the pumps, if you wish to behold another sunrise." 
               "Ay, ay, sir; we will work with a will." 
               The crew evidently began to have great faith in Vanderdecken, and they promptly obeyed him. The confident manner in which he had spoken of the distance of the vessel from the shore, and the description he gave of that shore, seemed so marvelous that fresh hope sprung up in the minds of the crew, and once more the working of the pumps was heard. 
               "Sound the well again, carpenter," said Vanderdecken. 
               "Ay, sir." 
               Six feet two, was the report. 
               "Bravo my men!" he shouted. "You are gaining on the water-work away cheerily, and you will see your sweethearts and wives again." 
               Thus cheered by the fact that they were actually gaining upon the leak, the men worked well. There is no class of men who will exert themselves harder or more cheerfully than sailors, when they know what is necessary to be done, and see a cheering result; but, at the same time, there is no class so easily distracted, and completely thrown aback, when they imagine, either from good or bad reasons, that there is no hope for them. 
               Anon there came a sudden and tremendous heavy squall, and the mainmast snapped asunder within eight feet of the deck, and with all its top-hamper, fell over to starboard. 
               This casualty stopped the working of the pumps, and the water was increasing rapidly in the hole. Ascertaining this fact, the carpenter suddenly sprang upon one of the carronade carriages, and thus addressed the men- 
               "Comrades, I dislike to see you throwing away your strength when you'll need it all. The leak gains upon us, and the ship is settling fast." 
               This was quite sufficient for the sailors. With a shout of fear and anger they at once left the pumps, and stood gazing around them in dismay upon the slippery deck, which was washed by salt water, and covered with broken spars, rigging, &c. 
               "No more work!" cried one. 
               "But plenty of grog!" shouted another. 
               "Hurrah for old rum!" screamed a third. 
               Vanderdecken, holding aloft his long arms, cried out in a voice that rose above the boisterous elements- 
               "Madmen, what would you do?" 
               "Oh, you know well enough what we are going to do," said the foremost of the gang; "and the best thing you can do is to come down from the round house, where the devil himself must hold you on by the hair of your head, and come with us." 
               "Where?" 
               "To the cabin, to be sure, where the captain has a few dozen of old rum and Holland gin." 
               "You would get drunk?" 
               "Ay; we know the old hulk is going, and we don't want to go along with her with faces as long as Methodist parsons, so we mean to have a drop to cheer us up. Come on, shipmates." 
               "Let me entreat you to let rum alone," said Vanderdecken. "I think it possible the ship may float till she runs ashore." 
               "No," said the carpenter, "I know better than that. There's one boat sound and whole, and that will hold a round dozen. Who feels disposed to leave the ship in that?" 
               "To certain destruction," added Vanderdecken. "It is madness to take the boat-it is insanity of the worst form to drink. Better trust to the frailest spar that ever floated than to the demon spirit of intoxication. Who will assist me to construct a raft?" 
               "I will," replied the carpenter. 
               "Rum!" cried one of the crew. 
               With a roar of drunken anticipation they rushed down the companion-way to search for the spirits. 
               Vanderdecken leaped to the deck, and despite the storm, he got together a few loose spars, and lashed them firmly together; the carpenter aiding him, they were enabled to construct a raft which would float with the passengers and themselves. 
               Vanderdecken now summoned all the passengers, assisted them to the raft, and then explained how it was possible they might be saved by it. They yielded to his directions, even to being lashed to it. 
               "Carpenter," said Vanderdecken, "I place the raft in your charge. If you can safely land these persons, you shall be richly rewarded. And now," continued he, "fear nothing; for as surely as there is a God in heaven, I will not desert you." 
               Flora began to pray, and Mr. Holford wept bitterly; for although he had ample faith in the good intentions of Vanderdecken, he could not but feel a dread that he would not be able to carry out his intentions. 
               And now the once good ship Mary-Jane settled still lower in the bosom of the deep, and as the water dislodged the confined air from below, the planking upon the deck began to yield by its force, and with yells and shouts of alarm, the drunken sailors rushed from the main cabin, into which the sea began to make a clean breach, so as quickly to fill it. 
               The rum and the Hollands had done their evil work, and the crew, with but one or two exceptions, were in a state of intoxication. 
               Oaths, shrieks, wild laughter, and every species of ribald execration came from their lips. 
               One approached the raft to which Holford and his daughter were clinging. 
               "Hilloa!" he cried: "here's the pretty little piece of goods who was our cabin dove. Come, my dear, give us a kiss." 
               Vanderdecken caught the ruffian by the waist, and flung him into the sea. 
               "Down with him! kill him!" cried the others; "he has thrown our messmate, Tom, overboard!" 
               "A sail!" shouted the carpenter. 
               Every one's attention was now directed to the weather quarter. Even Vanderdecken himself sprang into the mizen rigging to look out, and there coming right down upon them, was a ship, with every inch of canvas spread to the gale. 
               "Oh, Lord!" cried the carpenter, "it is the Flying Dutchman! It is all over with us now!" 
               "Vanderdecken! Vanderdecken!" came a long, wailing voice from a dim figure on the prow of the spectre vessel. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               TAKES A PASSING GLANCE AT AFFAIRS IN AMSTERDAM. 
               BY referring back a chapter or two of our yarn, the reader will find that Mynheer Von Straken, Wilhemina and our hold hero, Wurtem Carlis, were in a much more pleasant state of conjunction than they had yet been since the commencement of this recondite narrative. 
               In truth, the old merchant had found out, after all, that he might go farther in search of a son-in-law, and fare worse, than in selecting Carlis to fill that situation. 
               To be sure, Von Straken knew that the pecuniary position of the young man had vastly improved; and he had heard through Wilhemina that Vanderdecken had, in the handsomest manner given up all claims to her hand. 
               Imagine, then, Von Straken, in such a dressing-gown as surely was never seen before, at the door of his own house, inviting Carlis in. 
               "Come, mine young friend, come into te house-mine Cot-of your fader-in-law vot ish to pe. Yaw, how dings do durn in dis vorld." 
               "They do, indeed, sir." 
               "Yaw! I vonder vere ish mine pipe?-Nefer mind-I dinks I left it in de house, vere I left mine child veeping-veeping-mine Cot." 
               "Weeping, did you say?" 
               "Yaw." 
               Carlis made a rush by the old Dutchman, and in another moment was in the presence of his intended. 
               "Wilhemina! dear--" 
               "Go along with you-be off!" she interrupted. 
               "Oh, but you cannot be serious! Your father has given his consent to our union. Did you know that, darling?" 
               "I care not." 
               "Can this be possible? Is this the return for all my love-for all my constancy? Is this the reception I thought to meet with from the fairest maiden of all Amsterdam. Some one must have been maligning me, or you would not treat me thus." 
               "Yes, I would. I don't like you now. I begin to think you are ugly!" 
               "You don't mean that?" 
               "I do." 
               "But--" 
               "Oh, don't talk to me. Go and marry little Truchden. You're a wretch! quite a wretch, and I thank Heaven that I always hated you as I do now and ever-ever shall hate-I-go, do, and mar-marry-Truch-Truch--" 
               She could not articulate another word, but gave way to a flood of tears. 
               "Wilhemina!" cried Carlis, "do you desire me to go and kill myself? If so, only say that you do." 
               "I-I-don't care." 
               "Don't you? Then I will. Farewell!" 
               "Oh, you brute-stop!" she exclaimed. 
               "Why should I stop? I can very well see that you are in no condition to listen to reason. I cannot tell what foolish story you may have listened to, to my prejudice, but if any one has told you that I ever had any love for Truchden, I can only say that you are grossly imposed upon." 
               "Oh, stuff! don't tell me. Go and marry Truchden; she is to be your bride; it's all settled, I know." 
               "Then you know more than I do. Pray are you acquainted with this Miss Truchden Rotter?" 
                
               "No, the little wretch! and I don't desire to know her; so don't be bringing her here if you don't want the door to be shut in your faces. I hate you; and the only thing that surprises me is, that I ever thought of you for a husband. Go to your Truchden-go!" 
               "I will go, but not to Truchden. Thank the fates, there are several ships to sail from Amsterdam to day, and I can easily obtain a passage, and in some other land I shall strive to forget the false and the fair Wilhemina Straken." 
               "Stop! read that, you wretch!" 
               As she spoke, Wilhemina took from her snowy bosom a letter and threw it at Wurtem Carlis, whose curiosity was sufficiently awakened to induce him to pause to read it, and to his surprise he found that it contained the following: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "MY DEAR WILHEMINA:
                            
                           As I am going to be married to Mynheer Wurtem Carlis, and as it is all settled but the day, and my father has even paid to him some portion of my dowry, I take the liberty of asking you to lend me for the wedding-day your pretty garnet necklace. 
                           You may rest assured that I will take every care of it; and with apologies for, upon so slight an acquaintance, asking this favor, and with hopes that you will soon get a good husband like mine that is to be, 
                           
                              I am, dear Wilhemina, 
                              Your friend, 
                              TRUCHDEN ROTTER."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "There," remarked Wilhemina, "what do you say to that, sir?" 
               "I say that, upon the receipt of such a letter, any young lady has a right to feel just as you do; but I declare to you solemnly, as I would in the presence of my Maker, that there is not one word of truth in all this letter. After saying thus much, it would be impious for me to say more; I therefore leave you to come to your own decision upon the matter." 
               "Stay, Wurtem! If I could only believe it possible that a young girl could write such a letter as this without there being any foundation for it-" 
               "You may believe it of Truchden; she can do more extraordinary things than that, Wilhemina." 
               "Oh, the wretch!" 
               "It is not for me to call a young lady by bad names; but I satisfy myself by declaring the utter falsity of that letter." 
               "And the part of the dowry she mentions?" 
               "I have not received a farthing of it; on the contrary, Van Rotter still holds money of mine as a banker, for which he has the bill of one whose security he told me himself he would take for twenty times the amount." 
               "And who is that?" 
               "Jan-Van Van-Jan." 
               "That's an odd name; who is he?" 
               "I don't know; but since you no longer love me, I don't care for him, or for anybody, or anything in the wide world. Fare-" 
               "Wurtem, you don't really love me, do you? Because, if you do-I think-that is to say, I'm pretty sure that I-love-you-dear Wurtem." 
               In a moment the ardent youth was by the side of Wilhemina, with his arms around her neck. He covered her face with kisses till she could scarcely breathe, and then the door flew open, and old Von Straken rushed into the room, crying, 
               "Stop! stop!" 
               "Oh, sir," said Wurtem, "I am so happy." 
               "Very likely, mine son-in-law that ish to pe; but put off te kissing, mine Cot till after te vedding." 
               "Well, sir," said Wurtem, "I think I may as well mention that Wilhemina and I are quite agreed, and the sooner the happy day is fixed, the better; as I shall know then, that it will be impossible for envious fortune to deprive me of her whom I love better than life itself." 
                
               "Vell, mine childer, you must settle dat petween you. Te old man will go and smoke his pipe, and ven you have fixed te day, you can come and tell him, mine Cot." 
               "Very good, sir," said Carlis, "I will be sure to inform you. Allow me, sir, to hold the door open for you. I hope you will find your pipe agreeable." 
               Von Straken repaired to the kitchen, and winking in the most ludicrous manner to his old servant, he said- 
               "Martha, mine Cot! I have given mine daughter to Mynheer Carlis, and dey are in te oder room settling te vedding day. Now, Martha, if you hear too much kissing going on, you go to te room for someding, and say-Stop dat! You understand? Mine Cot-mine Cot!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               WURTEM CARLIS SEEMS TO BE AT THE SUMMIT OF HIS HAPPINESS. 
               WURTEM CARLIS, after enjoying an hour of bliss with his lovely Wilhemina, took his leave and ran with all speed to the church of St. Nicholas, to let the old sacristan know the hour and the moment that he might expect a bridal party. 
               Having settled this matter satisfactorily, he called upon the most fashionable tailor in all Amsterdam, and in quite a flurried manner cried out- 
               "Can you make a suit by ten o'clock to-morrow?" 
               "Mynheer, everything is possible, and it shall be done." 
               "Very well; then let it be of the faintest pale blue velvet, trimmed with silver lace." 
               "Ah! Mynheer is going to be married?" guessed the tailor. 
               "Well-I-yes, I am." 
               "Ah, Mynheer knows it; and with his figure and noble expression he ought to wed the fairest lady in all Amsterdam." 
               "You need not be particular as to the cost," said Carlis, upon whom the tailor's flatteries had their effect. "A few guilders, more or less, provided the suit is perfect and beautiful, are of no consequence." 
               "Ah, this it is," remarked the tailor, turning round to his son with the measure in his hand, "this it is to deal with men of noble disposition. They do not grudge the poor tailor his hire; and yet, how many there are who have plenty of gold, but who will be particular, and exact every cutting of their cloth, to the detriment of the poor tailor." 
               "No doubt," said Carlis, "but be quick." 
               Upon this the tailor completed his measure of Carlis, and as it was customary to advance money for the material, he called for pen, ink, and paper, and gave the tailor a draft upon Von Rotter for the amount. 
               "An order upon the great banker," said the tailor, as he bowed with additional respect to his customer. "And where shall we send the suit?" 
               "To Mynheer Von Straken's." 
               "Ah, the highly respectable Von Straken. It is a great boldness for me to venture upon, but it is to the lovely, the accomplished, the beautiful, the good, the witty, the-" 
               "What in the name of goodness do you mean?" interrupted Carlis. 
               "I mean, is it to Wilhemina, Von Straken's only daughter, that you are to be married, worthy and illustrious sir?" 
               "Yes." 
               "I give you joy, and offer you the congratulations of a tailor. The secret, sir, is safe with me." 
               "Secret? It is no secret. Why should it be a secret? I care not if all the world is aware of the fact." 
               "Accomplished and worthy sir, people generally make a mystery of these little matters, that is all." 
                
               "Oh, stuff! I do not." 
               With this, Carlis rushed from the shop, not very clear in his own mind whether he had been made a fool of by the flatteries that had been lavished upon him or not. 
               "Plague take the shop!" he said. "I won't go into it again. I hate the fellow's smooth, hypocritical way. I am sorry I did not employ some poor man, to whom the job would have done some good; but it can't be helped now. It is done, and it don't much matter, after all." 
               It did matter, though. 
               No sooner had Carlis got fairly out of sight of the tailor's shop, than he turned to his son, saying- 
               "Hans, look well to the shop. I will go at at once to our great patron, Von Rotter, and tell him of this." 
               With this charitable intent, off went the tailor to Von Rotter's; but before asking to see the banker himself, he tried the effect of Carlis's draft at the counter. It was paid at once. The tailor pocketed the gold, and then expressed his wish to see Von Rotter upon business of moment. 
               Now, this tailor was a cousin of Madame Von Rotter, the mother of Truchden; and had not only served the banker, but was his confidential spy upon the proceedings and the prospects of men of business in Amsterdam. Hence it was that the tailor was heartily welcomed. 
               "Ah, Mynheer Gredoblotz, glad to see you; take a seat," said Von Rotter. "You have doubtless something to tell me, my good cousin and friend?" 
               "Well, do you know one Wurtem Carlis?" 
               "I do." 
               "You will pardon me, I'm sure, for taking up your valuable time about such a personage as he is." 
               "Don't mention that, for it so happens that he is the very man of all others that I am most anxious to know something about." 
               "Ah, how happy I am, then, to be able to inform you that he is going to be married to-morrow to Wilhemina Straken." 
               "Ah! are you sure of that?" 
               "I had it from the young man himself, who has ordered of me a rich suit of sky-blue velvet to be ready by ten o'clock to-morrow morning at the latest, and paid me something in advance by a draft upon your house." 
               "Good!" 
               "Good, Mynheer! Of course it is good. Whoever yet had the audacity to doubt a draft upon the house of the great Von Rotter?" 
               "I didn't mean that. That will do. Good morning." 
               "But-but-" 
               "Good morning, Mynheer." 
               "Shall I make the wedding suit, or shall I-" 
               "Mine Cot, Mynheer, what care I whether you make the wedding suit or not. I am busy now." 
               "I humbly beg your gracious pardon, and as humbly take my leave." 
               The tailor was backing out from the presence of the great Von Rotter, when the elegant and sylph-like Truchden waddled to the door with as much speed as she could make, and the consequence was that she ran against the tailor as he was bowling, and nearly rolled over his back. 
               "You wretch! who are you?" said the fair Truchden, as she gave the tailor a severe prick with the darning-needle that made him jump again. 
               "Good gracious!" cried Von Rotter. "If you want to dance go home to do it." 
               "Dance! It's enough to make anybody dance." 
               "Out of the way, then," said the amiable Truchden. 
               "Oh, dear! yes, Miss Truchden; but don't do that again, I beg of your goodness." 
               "What has Truchden done?" asked Von Rotter. 
               "I rather think," said the tailor, as he rubbed the afflicted part of his anatomy, "I rather think it must have been a darning-needle." 
                
               "Ah," said Von Rotter. "she is as playful as one kitten." 
               "Yes," said the tailor, faintly, "she is very like a kitten." 
               Still making grotesque faces, and rubbing his wounded honor, the tailor descended the stairs; and as he went, he uttered curses loud and deep against the whole race of Von Rotters. 
               "Ah," he muttered, "only wait till I have made enough to be independent of you, that is all, and then I will play you some trick that shall shake your guilders a bit, you crafty old curmudgeon, that I will. Ah, curse you both." 
               Von Rotter beckoned his daughter to him, and she sat upon a little stool at his feet, and for the next half hour they remained in consultation, the result of which will hereafter be known to the reader. 
               Carlis soon forgot about the tailor, and went merrily about Amsterdam, purchasing a few trinkets to present to the fair Wilhemina on the proposed wedding-day; and probably that day may be considered to have been the happiest of his life, because all was gratified expectation, and because the reality of any joy, be it what it may, is sure to fall considerably short of the anticipation which borrows a thousand glorious hues from the imagination. 
               After some hours he took his way back to Von Straken's. Without the usual ceremony he entered the house, when he was surprised to hear a shout of laughter. 
               "What on earth can be the meaning of all this?" thought he. 
               The laughter proceeded from a large room upon that floor, and so, after a little thought, Carlis crept very cautiously to the door of it and listened. It was very wrong of him so to do; but he fancied he heard his own name pronounced, and that had awakened his curiosity. 
               Placing his ear quite flat against the panel of the old door, he found he could hear pretty well what was being said within, especially as those who were speaking were not at all particular about speaking in a low voice. Some one, with a feminine voice, was tattling away at a great rate, and he heard her say- 
               "Now, mind, Wilhemina, you must never give in, but go on, worry, worry, until you have your own way, or you will not only never be happy yourself, but you will be doing a serious injury to every other girl, married or single, in Holland." 
               "To be sure," said another voice; "and you must keep a little private purse of your own, Wilhemina." 
               "Yes," squeaked out a third; "and see a good deal of company, and invite all the single young men, so that we may have a good chance for a husband; for it is only at the houses of the married ladies that we can have any chance at all." 
               "To be sure," cried some half dozen all in a breath. 
               "Yes, that's all very well," said Wilhemina, "but I must do as my husband wishes in all things." 
               A shrill scream of laughter welcomed this opinion, and one cried out- 
               "Hoity-toity, indeed! Do as he wishes? No, my dear, you must do no such thing. You must manage him." 
               "Manage him? what do you mean?" 
               "Oh, you must plague his life out, for the sake not only of peace but for the sake of a home. He will be glad to give in and let you have your own way. You must, if he is at all disagreeable, be always having the house cleaned, so as to keep him in a perpetual slop." 
               "To be sure-quite right," chimed in the others. 
               "And we will visit you every afternoon, and see how you get on. And if he brings home any of his friends, you must go to bed at once, and be dreadfully ill; or if he goes out anywhere and you are not invited, you must be taken alarmingly ill, and have him sent for in all possible haste." 
               "No," said Wilhemina, "no." 
               "No, do you say?" 
               "Yes. I love Wurtem, and my only study shall be to make his home agreeable to him, and to secure his happiness." 
               "Oh, only hear her! Was there ever such rubbish?" 
                
               "That," added Wilhemina, "is my determination. I sent for you merely to advise me about my dress, and you want to make me unhappy, I see." 
               "Oh, you wretch-you silly fool, Wilhemina," said one of the girls. "Mark what I say: your husband will soon get tired of you, and then he will go off to the lustenrust and drink schnapps; then, when he comes home, you will quarrel." 
               "No," said Wilhemina. "The only thing he would do when he came home and found you all here, would be to say-Ladies, mind your own affairs; there is the door." 
               "To be sure I would!" cried Carlis, bursting into the room. "Now, ladies, I'm quite sure that Wilhemina wants no more of your very kind advice, and I am equally sure that I do not." 
               The scene that followed is indescribable. In a few moments the bride's advisers had evacuated the premises. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               RETURNS TO THE MARY-JANE, AND THE PERILS OF THE SEA. 
               IT wants some little time to that hour which will see the young, gallant and enthusiastic Wurtem Carlis at the church of St. Nicholas, with the hand of his much-loved Wilhemina clasped in his own. It wants yet a night and some hours of daylight, before the altar will be decked, and the priest ready to perform the service which shall knit those two young souls together in those bonds, which it seems hard that death itself should sunder, when the love itself is true and beautiful. 
               It wants yet a little time, too, before Truchden-that dreadful little Truchden-and her father, the great Von Rotter, can bring to bear their plan-for they have a plan, be it known, against Wurtem. 
               And so, in that passing time, while Wilhemina is trying on new dresses, and is deep in the mysteries of the toilette, and while Wurtem Carlis is wondering how he should get rid of the long weary hours of the night, for he knows he will not sleep; during that time, then, we will once more carry the reader to the main deck of the Mary-Jane; no longer the good ship Mary-Jane, but the sheer hulk, doing battle faintly with the elements, which seemed leagued together for its destruction. 
               It will be recollected that the Flying Dutchman-the spectre ship of Vanderdecken-whose wild and fearful cruises had been hitherto confined to the south sea immediately below the Cape of Good Hope, had appeared to the eyes of the bewildered crew and passengers of the Mary-Jane in the northern latitude to which that ill-fated ship had drifted. 
               Vanderdecken clasped his hands over his face, and uttered one shriek. 
               No doubt, to him the appearance of his vessel in such a latitude, was the knell of all his hopes. 
               And yet, he should have known that he had been absent too long from the ship, and that if he were upon the surface of the deep, it would be sure to follow him. 
               There it was, but only now and then revealed to the agonized sight of the crew and passengers, as long, vivid streaks of lightning lit up the sky and the water. There it was, as at intervals a greenish phosphorescent halo seemed to spread around it, and then to be licked by the waves as they lashed over its bulwarks. There it was, with all its sails set, and its flag flying at the gaff, and its streamer at the mast-head. 
               Horror and dismay were upon every countenance as the spectre ship became each moment more and more apparent, and it cast a kind of reflection upon the faces of those who still clung to the wreck. 
               That reflection, in its ghastly hue, was not unlike the color that had so appalled them all from the strange light that for a time had kept them company at mast-head. 
                
               On, on, came the spectre-ship, and now the crew of the Mary-Jane seemed to feel that the vessel approaching them in such a guise might have solidity enough to run them down. 
               With one accord they raised a cry. 
               "She will be upon us-she will be upon us!" 
               "No," said Vanderdecken; "no, that is not the danger!" 
               On, on, came the strange sail, and then the carpenter, who was the boldest man on board since the captain had been swept over the side, sprang upon a bulk-head with a speaking-trumpet in his hand, and placing it to his lips, he shouted- 
               "Ship ahoy! Ship ahoy!" 
               "Vanderdecken!" was the cry from the deck of the spectre vessel. 
               "Do you want to run us down?" 
               "She is close upon us!" shouted the crew, and they immediately clung to every object within their reach, to save themselves from the shock of the encounter of the two vessels. The fright almost sobered them. 
               She was very round and deep in the stern, with two tiers of cabin windows, and a gallery, after the most old fashioned build of Dutch merchantmen. Her masts were rather short for the size of her hulk, and the practiced eye of the crew of the Mary-Jane could perceive that in all the appointments of the vessel, the oldest customs prevailed. 
               There were not many minutes in which to make these observations, and then they all uttered one shout of terror as the huge, old-fashioned ship went right over the Mary-Jane. 
               Where was the crash? Where was the hideous crash of shivered timbers and broken cordage? Where was the wild shriek of death and despair, which the running of a ship of such small tonnage as the Mary-Jane by a stupendous craft of the size of that which had come keel on end down upon her quarter, must cause? 
               All was still. The spectre ship, at the moment of touching the Mary-Jane, had vanished into air. 
               "It is gone!" said Vanderdecken, in a low voice. "Oh, God, why was it here?" 
               He spoke these words to himself, yet such was the silence upon the deck, and such the strange and awful lull of the winds, as if the very elements had paused to allow that spectre vessel to take its course, that every one heard what was said. 
               Those few words appeared to break the spell which the astounding circumstance had cast upon the faculties of the crew, and with one accord they uttered a cry of rage and despair. 
               "Messmates," cried the carpenter, "it is clear now why the Mary-Jane is doomed." 
               "Ay, ay!" responded the crew. "We know it now." 
               "What think you that ship was which came over us like a puff of wind?" 
               "The Flying Dutchman!" answered a voice, and then every one took up the cry, and the words echoed from one end of the deck to the other. 
               "Yes," added the carpenter, "and she don't cruise in these latitudes for nothing. It strikes me, messmates, that we have one of her complement of men aboard of us! Look at that man," he added, pointing to the tall, spectral-looking figure of Vanderdecken; "is he a human being like the rest of us?" 
               "No-no!" 
               "Then I tell you he is the Jonah who has doomed the Mary-Jane, and to the best of my belief, he is-" 
               "Hold! rash man, hold!" cried Vanderdecken. 
               "No! I'll say what I think, let come of it what may. I believe, shipmates, that Vanderdecken, the captain of the spectre ship, is before you!" 
               A yell of rage burst from the crew, and some seized handspikes, and some pieces of floating timber, and others such rough weapons as they could lay their hands upon on the spur of the moment, while a few opened their long clasp knives, and advanced upon the round house. 
               Vanderdecken folded his arms, and looked calmly upon them, and in the strange fire of his eyes, even the boldest seemed to see that which appalled him. 
                
               "So," said Vanderdecken, "you would take the life of a passenger because the storm has racked the timbers of your ship? You would murder the man, who, during the last few hours has kept your vessel afloat upon the wild waters?" 
               "Down with him! Throw him into the sea! Who has any fire-arms? Shoot him! Fling a handspike at his head!" 
               They made a rush forward; but at the moment Flora Holford dashed open the door of the round house, and flung herself before them. They paused on the instant, and seemed paralyzed by her sudden appearance. 
               "Hold!" she cried. "What would you do?" 
               "Throw him overboard!" answered one. "He is Vanderdecken, the Flying Dutchman. Had it not been for him we should have been safely in port by this time." 
               "Who are you, that dare predict that which can only be known to God?" 
               The man shrunk back, and dropped the knife he held in his hand. 
               "What superstition is this among you," added Flora, "that, because you have met with storm and shipwreck, would incline you at this dread moment, on the very brink of eternity, to murder!" 
               "You don't know him and we do," said the carpenter. "That is Vanderdecken, the master of the spectre ship. He is always trying to get aboard of some craft or another, and so sure as he succeeds down she goes." 
               "This is madness," replied Flora. "You know not what you say." 
               "You don't, miss, I take it," added the carpenter. "Here, messmates, we have been a long time blown about at the mercy of the winds and the waves, and now you all see and feel that there isn't wind enough to stir a hair upon your heads. Ay, he will give us fair weather now that the ship is fast going down. Now that he knows there isn't half an hour's life in the old craft, the wind ceases to blow, and he will see us all go to the bottom without a thought." 
               "Your arguments," said Mr. Holford, stepping forward, "confute themselves, my men. If we go down, that gentleman, be he whom he may, goes down with us." 
               "What's that to him? water won't drown him," said the carpenter. 
               Vanderdecken sighed at this. 
               "If that be the case, then, why are you so anxious to throw him overboard?" queried Mr. Holford, who was, like his daughter, quite skeptical concerning the real powers of Vanderdecken. 
               "That's all very well," said one of the crew, "but I don't see that it's any reason to hinder us from getting rid of him. Who knows but the old ship, waterlogged as she is, may right, if we have him not upon her deck?" 
               That Vanderdecken, the much dreaded Flying Dutchman, was on board the Mary-Jane, was now an opinion that no one on board would be induced to quarrel with; and what might have occurred in the next five minutes in consequence of the wild exasperation of the crew, if they had had the power to act, there is no such thing as saying. 
               The Mary-Jane, after settling for some few minutes longer, heeled over to larboard, and then righting again, she plunged bow foremost beneath the wave. 
               There was a shriek-a rush of water-and then nothing of that once good ship remained upon the surface, but a few floating spars, that came up from the whirlpool that had been created by the sinking of such a large mass as the hull into the deep water. 
               From the moment that the Mary-Jane sunk, there was an evident change in the weather, for the sea became smoother, and the wind swept not so close to the surface, but moaned in the upper air. 
               In the eastern sky a long line of golden light was now plainly visible. 
               And now, after having been sucked to the bottom with the vessel, there rose up two rafts, upon one of which were Tom Simpson and Mrs. Bell, while the other bore up the insensible forms of Mr. Holford and his daughter. 
               Vanderdecken floated like a cork upon the surface of the sea. 
               Dashing the spray from before his eyes, and fastening back the long hair that tended to obscure his vision, Vanderdecken now, with a few strokes of his arm, reached the raft which held Flora and her father, and, pushing it before him, he swam in an easterly direction at a great rate. 
               There then arose a shout along the surface of the water, and a loud, shrieking voice cried- 
               "A boat!-a boat! A wherry-a punt-a anything! Oh, dear-oh dear!" 
               It was Tom Simpson who raised that cry; but Vanderdecken heeded him not. He had done what he could for him and Mrs. Bell, and he could do no more. Some passing vessel might pick them up, and that was their only chance, now, of life. It was not a bad one, though, for they were just in the track of many trading vessels, and the morning light was each moment growing stronger over the face of the deep. 
               The distance from land that the Mary-Jane had gone down was about four miles only. It would have been quite out of the question for any man with ordinary powers only to swim that distance, and propel a raft before him, after such a long night of fatigue and privation as that which had just passed; but the reader knows that Vanderdecken had a charmed life, and that to him to sport with the billows was nothing. 
               "They will be saved!" he said. "They are not dead." 
               By pressing his weight upon the end of the raft away from the shore, he managed to raise the other end, where the heads of those he wished to save were situated, somewhat out of the water, so that the waves which washed on the little raft did not often come over their faces, and they were able to breathe enough, after recovering from the first frightful shock of the descent in the vortex of the doomed ship. 
               In fact, both Flora and her father were before they had got half way to the shore, tolerably conscious of the state of affairs; with the exception that they thought they were drifting with the waves at their mercy; for in the position that Vanderdecken occupied, they could not see him. 
               It was Flora who, just as the raft made its way, steered by Vanderdecken, into a little bay, that was so much land-locked that the water was completely smooth, first spoke, after the going down of the vessel. 
               "Father, father," she said faintly, "oh speak to me-oh, let me know that you live!" 
               "My child! my child!" was all her parent could say, but they were words of delight to her, as they gave assurance that her father yet lived. 
               "Alas, father," she said, "I fear for him who has saved us." 
               "Heaven help him!" said Mr. Holford. 
               "I am here," said Vanderdecken-"I have not deserted you. It is I who propel the raft to the shore now. I am swimming, and I feel conscious that I shall be able to perform my promise and save you both." 
               "But have you strength to continue this great exertion?" 
               "Oh, yes, quite so." 
               "We shall be saved, even from the surf," said Flora, "for there are boats putting off to our rescue." 
               From the position Vanderdecken occupied at the back of the raft, he had not been able to see what was going on upon the shore; but upon this announcement from Flora, he raised himself in the water, and then he descried a couple of fishing boats coming towards the raft, rowed by six stout men each, and cutting through the water with great speed. 
               "We are saved!" cried Mr. Holford. "Oh, my child is not this a joyous moment?" 
               Flora could only weep now, and when the boat came alongside the raft, she intimated by signs that she would have their preserver first cared for; but there was no occasion for any such, preference, for, without showing the least symptoms of fatigue, he began to assist the fishermen. 
               Flora fainted as soon as she was fairly in the boat, and Mr. Holford was too weak and too ill to attend to her, so Vanderdecken borrowed a couple of rough jackets from the fishermen and wrapped her up in them, and then held her in his arms, so that the pitching of the boat through the serf should not disturb her. 
                
               As they reached the beach, a venerable man greeted them. His dress and manner at once bespoke his sacred vocation. 
               "Thank Heaven, my children that you are saved from death," said he; "come with me; I perceive that you have suffered from shipwreck in the dreadful storm that raged last night." 
               Mr. Holford, by the aid of the good pastor's arm, reeled across the sandy beach, and Vanderdecken carried Flora in his arms as easily as if she had been an infant. The house of the priest was humble, but it was full of substantial comfort. Flora was given into the care of the old female domestic, and Mr. Holford was accommodated with a bed by the pastor; but when the latter came back to the apartment where he had left Vanderdecken, that mysterious personage was gone. 
                
               It is now evening-the evening of the day on which Flora and her father and Vanderdecken reached the house of the good pastor on the coast of Denmark. 
               The sun has just sunk in the west, below a sea that lies calm and silent as a summer's lake. 
               On the summit of a cliff, near by, stands the figure of a tall man, attired in rich garments, which now and then could be caught sight of through the folds of a large cloak that he wore. 
               The other figure was that of a young and beautiful female. Need we say these two persons were Vanderdecken and Flora Holford? 
               Completely recovered from the exhaustion which the terrors aboard ship had caused her, Flora had consented to meet Vanderdecken on the cliff, as he had told her he had something of moment to impart to her. How could she refuse so apparently simple a request from one to whom both she and her parent owed their lives? 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               FLORA BELIEVES NOTHING, AND TAKES THE CURSE FROM VANDERDECKEN. 
               "I AM here," said Flora, in a low, soft voice, "according to your wish and my promise." 
               "I owe you much for this kindness," replied Vanderdecken. "They who would meet me here are not many; but I have that to say to you which may cause you to fly from me with loathing." 
               "Oh, no, I cannot think that." 
               "We shall see. I hope that all the gentle feelings of your nature will array themselves in my favor; and now I ought not to keep you in suspense, but to tell you why it is I sought an interview with you here, apart from all obtrusive eyes and ears that might drink in the stupendous secret of my discourse." 
               Flora trembled at these words. 
               "Oh, tell me at once," said she. 
               "I will. Have you heard the wild story of Vanderdecken? He whom they call the Flying Dutchman?" 
               "I have; but until last night had no belief in it." 
               "You saw the phantom ship, and that was a confirmation you could not doubt." 
               "True; but they said, too, that you were the supernatural being named Vanderdecken, but that surely cannot be true." 
               "It is true! I am Vanderdecken!" 
               Flora shrunk back a pace or two, and at the moment a long line of reflectant light that had illumined the horizon, disappeared, and darkness fell upon the scene. 
               "Ah! now you shrink aghast from companionship with such a wretch as I am," said Vanderdecken. "You despise as well as loath me." 
               "Oh, no-no. Say not that. It is not so. I have but one sentiment for you, and that is pity." 
               "Do you, indeed, pity me?" 
                
               "As Heaven is my judge, I do! Surely the penalty of that rash oath has been paid ere now." 
               "Heaven and its ministers think otherwise. Oh, would there were mercy sufficient for me! Grievous I know was my sin, and grievous must be my punishment. 
               The tone of voice in which he spoke was one of mingled contrition and dread: contrition for the past, and dread lest by repining he should arouse the punishment that in his heart he really thought far exceeded the offence. 
               "Do not despair," said Flora. "There must be some great purpose in all that has resulted from your sin. believe, unhappy spirit, that you are in the hands of a Providence that does nothing in vain. It is a belief that will cheer, and enable you to bear with a good spirit all that may befal you. Come, be hopeful." 
               "It seems to me while you speak as if some bright angel whispered to me to have hope. It is for those unhappy men who suffered with me, and who suffer now, that I feel most." 
               "Are they all, then, immortal like yourself?" 
               "Even so, and the old ship, too, holds together at the bottom of the sea-that sea so inexorable to others, but which will not drown us. It is a sight to sear the eyeballs to look at them; it is a sound to rend the heart to hear them call upon me to save them from the fate which has so long been theirs. They call to me to take them into port, not that they may live and look upon their ancient homes, but that they may die." 
               "Alas, that is a poor boon. Have you no means of release? Does no limit to your sufferings present itself to you?" 
               "Yes, Flora; it is of that I would speak to you." 
               "Tell me all, I beseech you." 
               "I dread to do so." 
               "Oh, do not dread it. Who knows but it may be in my power to aid you?" 
               "Oh, God! it is! is!" 
               "Say you so, poor soul?" 
               "It is so." 
               "Then, indeed, you were right to ask this meeting." 
               "And do you not shrink from me with horror?" 
               "Oh, no-no." 
               "Do you not dread to breathe the same air with me? Does not your young blood freeze in its accustomed channels to feel that you are in the company of one who still lingers upon the world, and yet who can hardly be called an inhabitant of it? Does it not distract your imagination to know who and what I am?" 
               "No, Vanderdecken, I cannot forget that you saved my life, and one dearer to me than existence. You are one of God's creatures, and there is no reason why I should shrink from you." 
               "And yet you are young, and beautiful, and virtuous." 
               "But you said that you will tell me in what lay your hope. I am all attention, and as you tell me, I will pray for you." 
               "Do so, sweet saint. It may be that your prayers may avail me much. Now listen to me calmly." 
               Flora observed an attitude of fixed attention, and it was then that Vanderdecken explained to her the possibility of her saving him and the phantom crew from a continuance of the curse that clung to them. 
               "I have been told by the ministers of that dread power, who, hearing my impious boast while my ship was storm-tossed off the cape, that if in this world I could find a maiden, pure of soul and purpose, who would ask of Heaven my pardon, for her sake, I might be free of the fate which has so long been mine. But she must be able to say it sincerely, and to be willing to wed me." 
               Flora was silent. 
               "Did you hearken to me?" asked Vanderdecken, in a tone of anguish. 
               "Oh, yes-have you told me all?" 
               "All that I dare." 
               "And-and-the result?-what would happen? Would you live on, or would you die?" 
                
               "I may say no more. The night wind is coming now over the face of the deep. Do you not hear it?" 
               "I do: but mingled with it I hear a wailing cry. The name of Vanderdecken comes upon the night air. Is it so, or does my imagination only deceive me?" 
               "It is so." 
               "Alas, poor spirit." 
               "Ay, I am a poor spirit; but it is much that you have not scorned me as others have. It is much that you have not rushed from me with horror." 
               "Ah no," she replied, "I could not scorn you. You have saved me, and you have saved my father; and although others have perished, yet do we owe you much." 
               "Farewell." 
               "Nay, stay. Whither would you go? Even now you stand upon the verge of the dreadful abyss." 
               "I go to the deep again. Hark! they call me." 
               "Vanderdecken-Vanderdecken! oh, save us." 
               With a shudder Flora heard that wailing cry; and then, nerved with resolution, she dropped upon her knees, and closing her hands, she cried out in a voice of sweetness and emotion- 
               "Heaven, hear me! It is known to Thee that I am pure of heart and purpose." 
               Vanderdecken uttered a shriek of joy, and then with clasped hands he stood upon the very verge of the cliff. 
               "Go on! Oh, go on!" he cried. 
               "For my sake," continued Flora, "I beseech Thee to spare this man, and to take from off his soul the curse that has so long clung to it. For my sake I ask this, and I will join my hand to his, and he shall call me his." 
               "No, no," exclaimed Vanderdecken. "Let me suffer on. Do not, Heaven, heed her devoted prayers. Do not let this young and fair being thus be sacrificed for me. I am content still to suffer, so that she be spared." 
               There was a radiant light in the air for a few moments, as though a special dawn were breaking over that spot of wild earth; and then a voice, in such sweet and gentle accents, that it melted the heart like the most divine melody, came whispering through the mellow light. 
               "Saved! saved!" said the voice. "The crew is no more. Vanderdecken, you are saved. The soul that could for the sake of another yet consent to live in torment, is for that act of goodness saved." 
               Vanderdecken uttered one cry of joy; and then clasping his hands over his face, he fell headlong backwards over the cliff. 
                
               "Help!-oh help!" shrieked Flora. "Mercy! Heaven!" 
               There was a rush of footsteps, a blaze of light from torches, and in the next moment Flora was in her father's arms. 
               "My child! my child! what has happened?" 
               "He is saved! he is saved!" 
               "What mean you, my child?" 
               She burst into tears, and clinging to her father, she sobbed- 
               "Oh, let me go home, and pray now-pray for one who has seen much sorrow." 
               "Of whom speak you?" 
               She did not answer, but casting her eyes in the direction of the man, who had accompanied her father with a torch, she saw that he was looking over the cliff. 
               "What see you?" she eagerly inquired. 
               "Nothing now," he replied. "I thought it was something floating past, and perhaps it was, and so has been carried on by the tide." 
               "Perhaps so. I am satisfied. Father, we will go home now and pray." 
               "Yes, my child, and then you will relate to me what has so unnerved you." 
               "Yes, father. There was no injunction to secrecy, and I will tell you all. Oh, father, I never felt so happy as now." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
               RETURNS TO AMSTERDAM, AND TO WHAT HAPPENED AT WURTEM CARLIS'S WEDDING. 
               TO Amsterdam, where reside those in whose fortunes we are so deeply interested, we would once more turn the reader's attention. 
               Disdaining all minor concerns, let us at once repair to the old church of St. Nicholas, that church to which Wilhemina has already been once before as a bride, but to return a disappointed maiden; but then her hand was not in that of the faithful and gallant Carlis. 
               At half-past eleven (the ceremony was to be performed at twelve) the bridal party set forth; and on they all went, the pride of each other and the admiration of Amsterdam, towards the old church, whither, in advance of them, such a crowd of people rushed, that when the bridal train reached it, it was nearly full. 
               Had it not been for the sacred character of the place, the crowd, when they saw what a nice, plump, little, round, rosy creature the bride was-would have raised a great shout in honor of her. 
               When Carlis, too, in his magnificent wedding-dress, made his appearance, they were all ready to shout out, that of all the young beaux in Amsterdam, he was just the one who in every way was worthy of the blooming bride. 
               Surely there was never such a gay and sprightly wedding as that in the old city. The merry bells of the old church shook the ancient turret with their joyous jingle, and the people outside the church raved and shouted; while within the scene was beautiful to behold: the bright eyes of the bridesmaids-the gay dresses of the guests-the smiles of the young bachelors-the flowers, all combined, made it a heart-stirring spectacle. 
               Twelve o'clock strikes from the old church clock, and there is quite a flutter of expectation. The bride and bridegroom take their places-the company are all prepared to see the ceremony, and the old priest put on his spectacles, and according to the established form, and merely as a matter of form, raised his voice, saying- 
               "This man and this maiden have come to this altar to be wedded. Has any one here present any thing to urge by way of bar or hindrance to the solemnization of the nuptials?" 
               "Yes!" cried a loud voice from the body of the old church. 
               It would be quite impossible to describe the effect this one word "Yes!" produced upon the bride, bridegroom, and all in attendance. 
               Wurtem, laying his hand upon the hilt of his sword, cried out in loud tones of defiance- 
               "Who dare allege aught that can interrupt a youth and a maiden from marrying? Let the liar and slanderer come forward." 
               "Oh, Wurtem!" sobbed Wilhemina. 
               "Mine Cot!" exclaimed Von Straken; "I shall go off in von swoon!" 
               "Hold, my children!" commanded the priest. "This is an affair of mine. I have my duty to perform, and, be assured, I will perform it fearlessly. Let the objectors to the nuptial ceremony stand forth." 
               There was movement among the crowd, and who should come forward towards the altar but Von Rotter, the banker, accompanied by two legal gentlemen, and by a veiled figure that clung to his arm. 
               "I object," said Von Rotter. 
               "Who are you?" asked the priest. 
               "Von Rotter, financier and syndic of Amsterdam." 
               "And your objection?" 
               "Is embodied, holy sir, in this document." 
                
               One of the legal gentlemen here stepped forward and unfolded a skin of parchment, with a huge seal appended to it, and read as follows: 
               "We, William, by the Grace of God, King of Holland, listening unto the plaint of our subject, Mynheer Von Rotter, to wit, that a marriage is about, to the best of his belief, to be solemnized between Wurtem Carlis and Wilhemina Von Straken, and that the said Wurtem Carlis has previously promised to marry Truchden Rotter, do hereby prohibit all priests and churchmen from marrying the said parties, until they shall show cause that the plaint of said-" 
               "Stuff!" exclaimed Wurtem, as he snatched the parchment from the lawyer's hand. "Trash, sir! Do you think that by such a lame invention that I am going to be prevented from giving my hand where my heart is already given." 
               "I appeal to the clergyman," said Von Rotter. 
               "I must obey the prohibition," replied the priest. 
               "What!" cried Carlis, "you will not perform the ceremony?" 
               "My young friend, I dare not." 
               Von Rotter nodded. 
               "But you are all mad! I never promised to marry Truchden. I hate the sight of her. It is false and she knows it, and I scarcely think that even she could face me and hold to such a falsehood." 
               The veiled figure lifted the covering from its face, and disclosed little Truchden. Fixing her eyes with a languishing look upon Carlis, she said- 
               "Oh, my Wurtem, can you deny me now?" 
               "Deny you? What do you mean?" 
               "Mean, my Wurtem? Am I not yours?" 
               "No! Heaven forbid that you should ever be!" 
               "Oh-oh! Is it thus that you redeem all your oaths-your kisses--" 
               "You are mad," interrupted Wurtem. "I never made any promises to you-I never gave you any kisses; and as for oaths, the only ones I ever shall or ever did breathe, that has anything to do with you, you will force me to utter now in my anger towards you." 
               "This is dreadful, ladies," said Truchden, approaching the bridesmaids. 
               "You horrid little wretch!" exclaimed Wilhemina. 
               "You little bundle of rubbish," said Truchden. 
               "Ladies-ladies!" cried the priest, "I desire that you all retire from the church at once." 
               "My daughter and myself, reverend sir," said Von Rotter, "will set the example of obedience to your orders. Come, my child, there'll be no wedding in St. Nicholas's Church to-day." 
               "He, he, he!" giggled Truchden. 
               "Unless," added Von Rotter, "Wurtem Carlis consents to pay me damages in the sum of ten thousand guilders." 
               "Ten thousand devils!" said Wurtem. 
               "Come now-come at once," urged Von Rotter. "It's all settled; you will have the husband, or the money, you know." 
               The banker and his daughter would have left the church precipitately, as the popular feeling appeared to run rather against them, but a most unexpected obstacle presented itself. 
               The steps of the church were crowded by the king's guards and officers of state, and the state-carriage, with its outriders and eight horses, containing the king himself, rattled up to the portico of the sacred edifice. 
               "Mine Cot! the king!" cried Von Rotter. 
               "The king!" repeated Truchden; "he will make Wurtem marry me. Oh, how nice! I'd rather have him than the ten thousand guilders." 
               "Way for his majesty, the king!" said the major-domo. 
               The crowd fell back, and richly attired, with a star of diamonds sparkling upon his breast, the king, with a calm and stately air, walked into the church, and up the aisle to the altar. 
               "Where is the priest?" he asked. 
               "I am here sire," was the response. 
                
               "We have learned," resumed the king, "that there is trouble here within these sacred walls." 
               "Yes, sire; there is a prohibition of a wedding." 
               "Your Majesty," chimed in Von Rotter, "was pleased to sign the prohibition at my instance." 
               "Ah! we recollect. Is the fair Truchden, your lovely daughter here?" 
               "She is here, your majesty," said the banker, presenting his daughter. 
               "And so you are the much injured maiden?" 
               "Alas, sire! I am." 
               "You shall have justice. When your father appealed for this prohibition, we were so shocked at Wurtem Carlis's duplicity, that we determined to inquire into the circumstances." 
               "Oh, sire, you are too good." 
               "Nay, it is you who are too complimentary. We sent for one named Schnirpeneck." 
               "Schnirpeneck!" gasped Von Rotter. "Carl Schnirpeneck?" 
               "The same," said the king. "Advance, Mynheer Schnirpeneck." 
               A shambling-looking man shuffled forward and stood trembling in every limb before the king. 
               "What did I promise thee?" asked his majesty. 
               "My pardon for the forgeries upon the Royal Treasury, along with the great Von Rotter, if I spoke the truth." 
               "What else?" 
               "Death, if I did not." 
               Von Rotter fell in a swoon to the pavement of the church. Truchden uttered one piercing scream, and then stood as still as a statue, looking at Schnirpeneck, who slowly raised his finger, and pointed full in her face, as he said- 
               "That-that-is-my wife!" 
               Truchden shrieked again. 
               "Hold!" said the king to her. "Is it true?" 
               She seemed choking for a minute or two; and then, as if unable under the stern glance of the king to frame a falsehood, she said- 
               "It-is-true!" 
               "Well," said the king, "for that one grace o' telling the truth at the last we pardon you, your father, and Schnirpeneck; but if either of you are found in Holland in eight-and-forty hours from now, by my crown and by my religion you die!" 
               Von Rotter rose, and, leaning upon the arm of Truchden, and followed by Schnirpeneck, tottered from the church. 
               "Where is the bridegroom whose nuptials have been interrupted?" inquired the king. 
               "Here, sire," said Wurtem, as he knelt on one knee at the king's feet. 
               "And the bride?" 
               Wilhemina kept by his side. The king smiled as he stooped down to Wurtem and said- 
               "You know us not!" 
               "I do feel that I have the honor of knowing my prince." 
               "Ah, indeed? You have said nothing-uttered no exclamation-called no attention from us?" 
               "Sire, while the King of Holland chose to forget that, as Van Jan, he was kindly familiar with his faithful servant, Wurtem Carlis, it was not for him to remember it." 
               "Now, on my faith, we like that," said the king. "Rise, Count Hansenberg. Henceforth you shall grace our court and your countess will add a lustre to our receptions. Holy sir, let the marriage proceed. The king will give away the bride." 
               It would be vain to attempt to describe the burst of enthusiasm that followed this announcement. 
               The king held up his hand and all was silent. 
                
               "Oh, sire," said Carlis, "this is, indeed, a very happy moment." 
               "Mine Cot!" exclaimed Von Straken, as he rolled to the feet of the king. "Mine Cot! I am von merchant of Amsterdam, and here ish jewels vot I am afraid to keep, pecause dey pelonged to von conjuror, your majesty." 
               "What conjuror, my good friend?" 
               "Vanderdecken, the Flying Dutchman." 
               As the old merchant spoke he handed the jewels to the king, who said as he looked at them attentively- 
               "Why, these are princely gems, indeed. How say you, will you give them to your king?" 
               "Mine Cot, yaw!" 
               "Well, we wanted an appropriate gift for a young friend of ours, and these will be appropriate." 
               With these words, the king approached Wilhemina, and smilingly said- 
               "Allow your king to wish you all the happiness which he feels sure you deserve to have with the gallant husband you have chosen, and take these jewels as an earnest of our great regard." 
               As he spoke, the king flung the string of rare and exquisite gems around the neck of the beauteous bride. 
               "Oh, sire," she replied, "it is such joy for me to hear you praise my Wurtem. I know that he is good, and kind, and brave." 
               "He is. But Wurtem knows that I have cause to praise him; although the particular circumstances he will see that he had much! better keep locked in his own heart." 
               Wurtem bowed. 
               "Mine Cot!" said old Von Straken, "den te jewels are in te family, after all." 
               "They are, old friend," said the king. "But what are they worth?" 
               "Mine Cot! twenty tousand guilders!" 
               "We are glad that they are so valuable," remarked the king. "But now let us have this happy marriage consummated." 
               The priest performed the ceremony, and Wilhemina became the wife of Wurtem Carlis, and was actually given away by the king himself. 
               "Now," said his majesty, as he gallantly kissed the bride, "I bid you all good day, and much joy. Farewell." 
               That evening at sunset a ship under full sail entered the harbor of Amsterdam. She hove-to, and a figure appeared on the tafferel. Stretching forth its long, thin arms to the shore, it cried- 
               "Pardoned! pardoned! Death is vouchsafed at last to the afflicted-death, and an immortality that can know no sorrow!" 
               There came a whistling wind, a clap of thunder, and the ship went down, hull foremost, and was never seen again. Some skeletons and a few decayed planks, as rotten as though they had been in the water for two hundred years were the only remnants of Vanderdecken, his crew, and his strange ship, that were found at the bottom of the harbor. 
               Wurtem Carlis and his fair Wilhemina lived long and happily, and he rose to the highest office in the state, through his own talents and rectitude, and the favor of the king, who was warmly attached to him. 
               Old Von Straken passed the remainder of his days smoking, sleeping, eating, and imbibing schnapps: but it was believed that the events at the church of St. Nicholas were never very clear to his comprehension, for about six months after-wards he took his pipe from his mouth, and looking at Wurtem, said- 
               "Mine son-in-law, how vas it, eh?" 
               "How was what?" 
               "Mine Cot! noding. I vill durn it over in mine mind vonce again, and ask you von oder dime." 
               Mr. Holford and his daughter reached England in health and safety after their perilous shipwreck, and Flora married an officer in the army, who proved a kind and loving husband. 
                
               The last that was heard of Tom Simpson was, that he married an old woman in London, believing that she had a large fortune; but he found out afterwards that she only had a small annuity, which died with her, so Tom Simpson ran away to Australia, where he writes home word that he hunts the kangaroo; but it is shrewdly suspected that the kangaroo hunts him now and then. 
               But what a happy thing it is, after all, to think that that poor benighted soul. Vanderdecken, is at rest. Let the proud and the vain of life and all its joys, think how many ages he prayed only for death: and so, even from the wild legend of "THE FLYING DUTCHMAN" may we not extract a moral? 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
       
          
             
            THE MYSTERIES OF THE COURT OF LONDON. 
            BY G. W. M. REYNOLDS, ESQ. 
            The Greatest Romance of Modern Days! 
            Beautifully Illustrated. 
            MYSTERIES OF THE COURT OF LONDON-This splendid Romance of Reynolds is having a most unprecedented run only to be compared perhaps, with the early popularity of Eugene Sue's "Mysteries of Paris" which it excels in deep and thrilling interest. Indeed, of its talented author's numerous and well-sustained productions it is decidedly the master-piece.-London Times.
             
            For deep, intense and thrilling interest, this brilliant work is unsurpassed by any production of the day. The most exciting elements of Romance are blended with a skill and power possessed perhaps by no other writer of our times in the same degree.-Bell's London Messenger.
             
            It is surprising what life, energy and talent Mr. Reynolds throws into his works, how like the canvas which glows instinct with life and beauty beneath the touch of a master painter, the commonest scenes of life are invested with surpassing interest by his pen. The "Mysteries of the Court of London" is undoubtedly his greatest work and as such evidently appreciated by the public, by whom the volumes are caught with an avidity we have seldom seen evinced for a work of fiction.-London Court Journal.
             
            Published in two volumes, containing 112 pages, at 50 cents a volume 
            H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN STREET, N. Y 
            Copies mailed, on receipt of $1, post paid addressed as above. Just Published-"The Mysteries of the Court of London." and "Rose Foster," beautifully bound in two volumes. cloth, and illustrated with THIRTY THREE ENGRAVINGS, from casts of the original English plates. 
               Page $3. complete. 
          
          
             
            THE THREE GOLDEN BALLS; 
            OR THE DIARY OF A PAWNBROKER. 
            Illustrated with Nine Engravings. Price 25 Cents. 
            This work presents a glowing picture of that epitome of human suffering and misery-the pawnbroker's office! What a view of life it unfolds! Crime, dissipation, folly, and too often unmerited destitution, meet at the pawnbroker's counter. The high and the low, the virtuous and the depraved, are alike the subjects of the cold, heartless, cent-per-cent usurer; who weighs with equal indifference the cherished token of affection which want wrings from the reluctant hand of suffering virtue, and the ill-got prize which successful villany presents, and doles out his ducats with miserly hesitancy. Such are the scenes which, with the hand of a master, are portrayed here; and we venture the assertion, that it will be found a work of deep and intense interest.-Pathfinder.
             
            Copies mailed, on receipt of 25 cts., post paid, addressed as below. 
          
          
            JACK ARIEL; 
            OR, LIFE ON BOARD AN EAST INDIAMAN. 
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "THE POST CAPTAIN," "THE PIRATE," ETC. 
            This volume contains a clever, spirited, and interesting tale of the sea, by the author of "The Post Captain." We know not who the real author of the work just named may be; but we are aware that there are numerous claimants to the honor, and some of them would find it difficult to spell even the name without the help of a dictionary. We ourselves have met with at least half a dozen "literary gents" who mysteriously and confidently assured us that they were the real Simon Pures; and the same was the case in respect to the novel of "Godolphin," until Sir E. Bulwer Lytton stepped forward, at length, to acknowledge the paternity. The volume under notice was written to delineate life on board an East Indiaman. The object is executed in a manner that will prove satisfactory to the readers of nautical tales. Some of the characters are well sketched-the Nabob, for instance, and the gallant Captain, who eventually marries the sprightly Cicely.-London Weekly Dispatch. Price 25 cents. 
            Copies mailed, on receipt of 25 cents, post paid, addressed 
            H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-street, N. Y. 
          
          
             
            H. LONG & BROTHER, 
            would respectfully inform their Friends in the Trade and the Public, that their ESTABLISHMENT, 43 ANN ST., N. Y. will in future present greatly increased facilities for Publishing, selling at wholesale and retail, and especially for the most important department of their business, supplying the orders of Booksellers. Dealers in Cheap Literature, Agents, Postmasters, &c., with promptitude, and dispatch, and upon more liberal terms than any other house in the United States. 
            H. L. & B. wish to call the particular attention of every branch of the Trade to their own publications, consisting of many of the most popular works of History, Biography, Fiction, &c., ever published in the United States. These works, now selling rapidly and in large editions, we will furnish on the most favorable terms, together with all other works, at Publishers' prices, a portion of which will be found in our Catalogue. The business of filling the orders of correspondents in the trade, and supplying Agents, Pedlars, &c., will claim, as heretofore, our chief attention, and no pains will be spared to give continued satisfaction. 
             
               LIST OF BOOKS LATELY ISSUED. 
                
                  REYNOLDS' GREAT ROMANCES. 
                  Mysteries of the Court of London. 2 vols., paper. Price 50 cts. per vol. 
                  Rose Foster, OR, THE SECOND SERIES OF THE COURT OF LONDON. In 3 vols., $1 37 . 
                  Caroline of Brunswick. 2 vols., paper, price 50 cts. per vol. 
                  Venitia Trelawney. 2 vols., paper, price 50 cts. per vol., containing 416 pages. 
                  Mysteries of the Court of Naples, Illustrated. 1 vol., paper, price 50 cents. 
                  Mary Price, OR THE ADVENTURES OF A SERVANT MAID. 2 vols., paper, price 50 cts. per vol., containing 416 pages. 
                  Kenneth: A ROMANCE OF THE HIGHLANDS. Illustrated. Complete in 1 vol., 75 cts. 
                  Lord Saxondale: OR, LIFE AMONG THE LONDON ARISTOCRACY. In 2 vols. Price 50 cts. per vol. 
                
                
                  COCKTON'S BEST WORKS. 
                  The Steward: A ROMANCE OF REAL, LIFE. Beautifully illustrated from the English ed. 1 vol., 50 cts. 
                  The Sisters: OR, THE FATAL MARRIAGES. Illustrated. 1 vol. paper, price 50 cts. 
                
                
                  DUMAS' GREAT WORKS. 
                  Three Guardsmen. 50 cts. 
                  Twenty Years Atter. 75 cts. 
                  Bragelonne. 75 cts. 
                  Forty-five Guardsmen. 50 cts. 
                  Iron Hand. 50 cts. 
                  Memoirs of a Marquis. 2 vols., illustrated, price $1. 
                
                
                  BEST NOVELS OF THE AGE. 
                  Frank Fairlegh: OR, SCENES IN THE LIFE OF A PRIVATE PUPIL. With numerous illustrations. 50 cts. 
                  Lewis Arundell: OR, THE RAILROAD OF LIFE. By the author of "Frank Fairlegh." Illustrated. 1 vol, paper, price 50 cts. 
                  The Marrying Man. A Tale founded on fact. By the author "Frank Fairlegh," &c. Price 12  cts. 
                  The Colville Family. By the author of "Lewis Arundel," &c., price, 50 cts. 
                  Harry Coverdale's Courtship. AND WHAT CAME OF IT. By the author of "Frank Fairlegh," &c., price 50 cents. 
                  Fortunes and Misfortunes of Harry Racket Scap grace. 1 vol., illustrated, price 50 cts. 
                  Ben Brace: A NAUTICAL ROMANCE. Equal to Capt. Marryatt's best. 1 vol., illustrated, 50 cts. 
                  Guerilla Chief: A ROMANCE OF WAR. Illustrated. 1 vol., price 50 cts. 
                  Mervyn Glitheroe. By W. Harrison Ainsworth. Price 50 cts. 
                  Windsor Castle. By W. H. Ainsworth. With eight splendid Engravings. From the London edition. 50 cts. 
                  Adventures of Paul Periwinkle. Illustrated. 1 vol., 50 cts. 
                  Martin the Foundling. By Eugene Sue. Beautifully Illustrated. 2 vols., paper, price $1. 
                  Mrs. Hale's Great National Work. 
                  Northwood: OR, LIFE NORTH AND SOUTH. By Mrs. Sarah J. Hale. 23 Editions of this popular work have been sold, and the demand still continues. Beautifully Illustrated, in 1 vol., paper covers, 50 cts.; bound in cloth. $1. 
                  The Greatest Plague of Life; OR, THE ADVENTURES OF A LADY IN SEARCH OF A SERVANT. Illustrated. 1 vol., paper, price 50 cts. 
                  Tom Racquet and his Three Maiden Aunts. Beautifully Illustrated. 1 vol., paper, price 50 cts. 
                  The Diary of a Pawnbroker. With nine Illustrations. 25 cts. 
                  The American Joe Miller. With over 100 Illustrations. 25 cts. 
                  Porttolios of the Young 'Un. A humorous book. Illustrated. Price 25 cts., containing 150 pages. 
                  Wau-nan-gee, OR, THE MASSACRE AT CHICAGO. A Romance of the War of 1812. By the Author of "Tecumseh," &c. Price 25 cts. 
                  The Seven Brothers of Wyoming, OR, THE BRIGANDS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION. By a Member of the New York Press. Price 25 cts. 
                  Jack Ariel, OR, LIFE ON BOARD AN EAST INDIA-MAN. A thrilling Sea Story. 25 cts. 
                  Gallant Tom: OR, THE PERILS OF THE OCEAN. 25 cts. 
                  Yankee Jack: OR THE PERILS OF A PRIVATEERSMAN. Price 25 cents. 
                  The Three Pirates: OR, THE CRUISE OF THE TORNADO. Price 25 cents. 
                  The Brigand: OR, THE MOUNTAIN CHIEF. Price 25 cents. 
                  The Flying Artillerist: A TALE OF MEXICAN TREACHERY. Price 25 cts. 
                  The Flying Dutchman. A sea Tale. Price 25 cts. 
                  Life of John A. Murrell, the great Western Land Pirate. With Illustration. 25 cts. 
                  Life of Joseph T. Hare. Illustrated. 25 cts. 
                  Life of Col. Monroe Edwards. With numerous Illustrations. 25 cts. 
                  Life of Ellen Jewett. Illustrated. 25 cts. 
                  Life of Jack Rann. Illustrated. Price 25 cts., containing 144 pages. 
                  Lives of the Felons. Illustrated Price 25 cts. 
                  Life of Alexander Tardy, the Pirate, a Tale of St. Domingo. Illustrated. Price 25 cts. 
                  Ryan's Mysteries of Marriage. 1 vol., Illustrated. 25 cts. 
                  Mrs Hale's New Cook Book; a practical system for private families in town and country, with directions for carving, arranging the table for parties, and conducting the affairs of the household with comfort and economy; also preparations of food for invalids and for children By Mrs. S. J. HALE, with numerous Engravings, price $1, bound in cloth. 
                
                
                  Best Collection of Negro Melodies published. 
                  White's Melodeon Song Book. 12 cts. 
                  White's Plantation Melodies. 12 cts. 
                  White's Ethiopian Song Book. 15 cts. 
                  White's Serenaders' Song Book. 12 cts. 
                
               Agents, Pedlars, Booksellers, Canvassers, &c., throughout the country, who wish an assortment of Cheap Books, would do well to address H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-st., N.Y. 
               COPIES MAILED.-Any works advertised in this Circular will be sent by Mail on receipt of price. Address, (post paid.) 
               H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN STREET, N.Y. 
             
          
          
             
            WAU-NAN-GEE; 
            OR THE MASSACRE OF CHICAGO. 
            
                
             
            BY MAJOR RICHARDSON. 
            A THRILLING INDIAN TALE OF THE WAR OF 1812! 
             
               NOTICES OF THE PRESS. 
               This is a deeply interesting of one of the most thrilling incidents of the war of 1812. The peculiarly romantic nature of Indian warfare is depicted by our author with the truthfulness and life-like touch of a great artist.-The Review.
                
               The Author of Wan-Nan-Gee, since the demise of Cooper, stands unrivalled as a writer of the romance of Indian Warfare. The book now put forth is perhaps the most interesting story of the kind which has ever issued from the American Press.-Literary Journal.
                
               This is a work of intense interest connected with one of the most thrilling scenes that ever occurred in the Indian warfare of this continent. The author has sustained and even exceeded his previous high reputation-investing the terrible scenes of real history with a romantic history with a romantic interest that renders them fascinating to the last degree.-Western Journal.
                
               A powerfully drawn picture of Indian warfare-its cruelties, its atrocities, and also its strange wild romance Literary Gazette.
                
               NEW-YORK: H. LONG AND BROTHER, 43, ANN-STREET. 
               -THE FORTUNES AND MISFORTUNES OF HARRY RACKET SCAPEGRACE, beautifully Illustrated from the English edition. Price, 50 cts. 
             
          
          
             
            THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF COL. MONROE EDWARDS, 
            The Accomplished Forger and Swindler: 
            WITH TWENTY GRAPHIC DESCRIPTIVE ENGRAVINGS. 
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN A. MURRELL," "JOSEPH T. HARE," AND "HELEN JEWETT." 
            
                
                  Edwards experimenting with Acids on Ink. 
               
             
            The history of the above-named extraordinary man contains a full and graphic account of all his private adventures, his intrigues, his projects, his trials, and his crimes. It not only traces the career of Edwards himself, but embraces in its details the entire system of the Slave-trade, with the biography of Holcroft, one of the most daring free traders of 1834, and perhaps at this moment an independent rover of the ocean. It likewise gives an admirable history of the early settlement and wars of Texas, with incidental illustrations of the policy of Houston and other prominent military leaders; and it relates also to the wonderful Dart forgery in Texas, to the amount of $200,000-never before published. Finally, it details the forger's vast projects with the English Government for the conquest of Texas; his schemes in France; and the celebrated forgery on Brown, Brothers & Co., of New York. In connection with this trial, particulars are given of the most peculiar and extraordinary character, deeply affecting parties who have never been exposed.-Price 25 cents. 
          
          
            THE LIFE OF HELEN JEWETT: 
            WITH ELEGANT AND SPIRITED ENGRAVINGS. 
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "COL. MONROE EDWARDS," "JOSEPH T. HARE," AND "JOHN A. MURRELL." 
            
                
             
            The author of Murrell has exceeded, in the Life of Helen Jewett, the merit which he displayed in the History of the Massaroni of the West. This may be attributed, in a certain degree, to the peculiar qualities of his last subject, but perhaps is more properly to be accredited to the stronger efforts of a talent, made, bold by the favor of the Public. "Helen Jewett" is one of the phenomena of modern literature. Without pretension in its style, it comprises all the qualities of pathos, humor, terror, and descriptive tact that belong to an accomplished thought, and its philosophical deductions are reasoned out with a force and point but seldom met with in mere narrative or vain romance. The story possesses, as a novel, deeper interest than the Mysteries of Paris, and we cannot read it without wondering how its strange knowledge was collected by the author, or how he was enabled to methodize it so accurately in the hasty manner in which he must have prepared its weekly chapters for the Press.-Pathfinder-Price 25 Cents. 
            Copies of the above mailed, on the receipt of twenty-five cents, post paid, addressed, 
            H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 Ann-street, N. Y. 
          
          
             
            THE GUERILLA CHIEF, 
            OR THE ROMANCE OF WAR
             
            
                
             
            BY CAPT. GRANT. 
            A SUPERIOR TO CHARLES O'MALLEY. 
            ILLUSTRATED PRICE 50 CTS. 
             
               NOTICES OF THE ENGLISH PRESS. 
               All the vivid descriptions of the scenes of the war and the graphic picturing of the soldier's life, that lent such a charm to Lever's "Charles O'Malley," are equalled and in a great many instances surpassed by the "Guerilla Chief or the Romance of War". There is more of the "wildness" of war, if we may so express it, in which the romantic during the fierce cruelty and the reckless bravery of the bandit chief, are mingled in a thrilling manner with the achievements of the courageous and honorable soldier. It is the most intensely interesting episode of war that we have ever read.-Critic.
                
               We know not when we have taken up a book that has enchained our attention to so great  a degree as has the "Guerilla Chief or the Romance of War." The incidents throughout are of the most exciting nature, extending in their range from the field of battle, and adventures among Guerilla bandits, to the boudoir where the notes of war are hushed by those of love. Monks, robbers, and brave soldiers, all pass in a panorama before as, drawn by the hand of a master-Examiner.
                
               NEW YORK: H. LONG & BROTHER, 43 ANN-STREET 
               JUST PUBLISHED-"BEN BRACE: A Nautical Romance. By CAPTAIN CHAMIER." Beautifully Illustrated. Price 50 cents. 
             
          
       
   
