
    ----CITATION----
        Falkner, William C., (1826-1889). The Spanish Heroine .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6416
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1851, by W. C. FALKNER, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the District of Ohio. 
             
             
               THE SPANISH HEROINE; 
               A Tale of War and Love. 
             
            BY W. C. FALKNER.
             
            SCENES LAID IN MEXICO. 
            
               CINCINNATI: 
               PUBLISHED BY I. HART & CO., 41 COLUMBIA STREET.
             
            1851. 
          
       
      
         
            The Spanish heroine 
             
             
            THE SPANISH HEROINE. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE MEETING OF HENRY AND THE SPANISH HEROINE. 
               IT was on a bright Sabbath morning, early in the spring of 1840, when the proud king of day was casting his golden rays over the wild plains, green meadows, fantastic cliffs, and flowery fields of the State of Kentucky, and every thing was clothed in life, beauty, and loveliness, the village church bell's soft notes called the people to assemble at the altar of Divine worship; the green fields were filled with young crops, of the most beautiful and rich quality; animation, life, energy, and industry pervaded the whole country around the little village of B., when Henry H-- entered the room of his mother, who was seated on a sofa, near a window, looking with emotions of tender love, on the little village girls, as they passed on to the church, and took his seat beside her, whom he loved dearly, and said: "Mother, you know my love for you is unbounded." 
               "I do, Henry, why should I have cause to doubt it? why do you tell me that which I have always known?" 
               "My dear mother," said he, "I have come to bid you a long, and perhaps, a last farewell. This is the reason I asked you not to doubt my love for you. 'Tis you who watched over my childhood, and taught my young lips to praise heaven for the rich blessings which are daily bestowed on me. It is to thee, dear mother, that I owe my existence; it seems like snapping my very heart-chords asunder, to bid farewell to you, perhaps forever. I have determined to set out in the wide world in search of fortune and fame; I cannot consent to remain here and spend the remainder of my days, without benefiting, either myself or any other person; so I am determined to do something for myself. Now, my dearest mother, you have heard my resolution; I have my clothes tied up in my handkerchief, two dollars in my purse, and provisions sufficient to do me five days; when that is gone, I am able to work for more. I cannot bear the idea of living a life of poverty. If fortune smiles on me, I will share my prosperity with you." 
               A large tear glistened In Henry's eyes-emotions of love filled his young breast, and he knelt by his mother's side, and took her hand and pressed it to his heart, and requested a mother's blessing on his young head before he tore himself away. 
               "Oh! Henry, I cannot bear to see my dear son leave me, with only two dollars in his pocket; I have a small sum of money, which you must take. And may the Great God of heaven pour out a blessing on your young soul." 
               A flood of sorrow filled the old lady's breast, which now burst to overflowing. 
               "Go, my son, you have come to a good resolution. I am poor, and unable to set you off in life as I would wish; but, recollect, my dear son, that a mother's prayers will be offered at the mercy seat for your welfare." 
               Poor Henry could bear it no longer, he was overwhelmed with intense grief and sorrow-tears of tender love trickled clown his fair young cheek-tender emotions of ardent love for his mother, filled his young heart. 
               Henry was in his sixteenth year, when he made up his mind to seek his fortune on his own hook. He was brave, generous, and kind to all; and was generally beloved by all who knew him; of a fair, feminine complexion, with dark curly hair, and a figure of the most voluptuous beauty-such as is very seldom seen in a lad of sixteen. His mother had married the second time, when he was ten years of age, which displeased him very much; but he loved his mother too dearly to say aught against anything which seemed to make her happy; he was her first and only son. When his mother was married he was absent at school, but when he learned she was married, he came to the full determination of leaving for a foreign land as soon as he completed his education. The time had now arrived, and he must go to seek for fortune and fame, in a strange land. He had no particular place in view when he left the roof his mother, but he intended to keep traveling until an opportunity presented itself for him to make a rise. And thus it was that young Henry entered his mother's room to bid her adieu, and crave from her a farewell blessing. He threw his arms around her neck, and pressed her to his young breast, and held her there several minutes, unable to speak. A flood of tears gushed forth from his mother's eves, and fell in torrents on young Henry's bosom. At length he summoned courage enough to speak, and said: 
               "Adieu, adieu, dear mother, I am going to leave you now, but if fortune smiles upon me, I will see you again." 
               And thus he tore himself away, and set out on foot, with his little bundle of clothes hanging on a small, stick, which rested on his shoulder, and a small bundle of provisions in his haversack. Thus equipped, the young lad set out on the wide and unfriendly world, to seek fame and fortune. A terrific tide of grief now filled the youth's bosom, and shook his young frame-his bosom was damp with a mother's tears. 
               'Oh! who will love and weep for me, when she is gone," mused Henry, as he walked slowly up the hill, in front of the home of his childhood. "I never appreciated a mother's love until now." 
               When he reached the summit of the tall hill in front of his mother's residence, he stopped, and turned to steal a long, last, lingering view of the home of his youth. He stood and gazed long, but did not see his mother; he climed up a small sapling, so he could see through the window, so as to catch another glimpse of his mother-the first object which met his eyes, was his mother on her knees, by the side of the window, with her eyes raised toward heaven. Henry was at length overcome with sorrow and grief, and letting his hold of the sapling go, he fell to the ground with such tremendous force, as to bruise his body very seriously; he lay on the ground some time, at length he recovered from the shock, arose and set out on his journey. 
               He intended to go to the Ohio river, just above Louisville, and take a boat for New Orleans, and there would wait, until an opportunity presented itself for him to make a raise. He traveled on, over the beautiful wide plain, spread out like a map before him, while the wild spring birds seemed to sing a farewell requium to poor Henry, as he slowly walked from the home of his boyhood-the lovely young wild flowers, seemed to droop their tender head, as if mourning his departure-the large flocks of sheep and goats that were grazing on the beautiful meadows, which covered the lovely valley on each side of Henry's path, seemed to make a more solemn sound than he had ever heard before-he heard the dying notes of the village church bell; as its peals sounded in his ears, he inaudibly asked himself, if he should ever be permitted to hear its notes again. He poured out his soul in secret prayer to the throne of mercy, for divine aid and protection, through his lonely expedition. 
                
               He traveled on until his young spirit began to fail, and he could go no further that night; he took his seat on the ground, and began to kindle a fire, by which to broil his meat, and make some coffee, he had a small coffee pot hung to his side and some pulverized coffee, which his mother had prepared for him. He soon had his Sumptuous supper prepared, when he took a seat at Ms lonely table, and partook heartily of the first of his own cooking. The proud aristocrat may sneer, and the, haughty may smile at poor Henry's simple fare, but they never enjoyed the sumptuous banquet more, than did young Henry this Supper, prepared by his own hands. Supper over, he collected some forest leaves, and heaped them by the side of a log, which served him for a bed. Darkness spread her sable mantle on all around-the sky was as clear and calm as the blue ocean at rest-and the gentle zephyr fanned his locks as he soundly slept by the side of the old log-not a sound disturbed his gentle repose-his conscience was clear of guilt-a gently smile played on his young cheek-his lips were half parted, as if to speak-his hands were crossed on his breast, and his delicate frame stretched at full length on his leafy bed; and on his brow rested the cold dew drops. Silence pervaded the wild forest, save the occasional howls of the hungry wolf, and piteous screams of the ferocious panther, who, ever and anon, would cause the woods to ring with their wild, frantic screams, and the gentle ripling of the little brook, as it coursed its gentle way along the valley. At length Henry was aroused from his refreshing slumbers by the loud scream of a panther, which burst forth within a few yards of his bed, he sprang to his feet, and grasped his sword, ready to defend himself as long as possible-but proud Aurora now began to gild the eastern Horizon with his golden light, and shed his bright rays on vegetation far and near-the panther retired and left the youth without further molestation. He now commenced preparing his simple repast; after which he set out to renew his journey. 
               Thoughts of home, still filled the bosom of our young hero, for such we will prove him to be. Home has a magic sound, which is sweet to the ears of the weary traveler-it has a soothing sound, which is more easily felt than described. Poor Henry now felt as if he was left all alone-he had no friend with whom he could converse-none to pray for him, except his dear mother, who loved him dearly; but he had left the only friend he had on earth-he would frequently begin to wish himself back at his humble country home-but still he kept on his journey, until late in the evening, when he arrived on the bank of the Ohio river; there he built a small fire, to await the arrival of a boat to convey him to the city of New Orleans; he remained there until the following morning, when the magnificent steamer, John H. Nicholson, rounded to for the purpose of procuring wood. Henry took deck passage for New Orleans, for his, money was too scarce to admit of his taking passage in the cabin-the sum total of his fortune did not exceed twenty dollars, and when that was gone, he did not know where the next was to come from. 
               When the mighty wheels began to revolve slowly round, and the beautiful craft began to waft young Henry from his native shore, he took his stand on the deck, and while his eyes were filled with tears, and his heart with love for his mother, he bid adieu to his native State. 
               Among the passengers was a young Spaniard, from the city of Mexico, who had been to the city of Philadelphia after his sister, who had been going to school in that city. Her father, Gen. Aakenza, who resided in the city of Mexico, was among the most wealthy citizens of that country. He had been raised in Spain; and Alveza and Ellen were his only children; Ellen had been going to school in Philadelphia four years, and was then on her way to the city of Mexico, in company with her brother, Alveza. 
               There was some twenty-five or thirty young ladies on the boat, bound for New Orleans; every evening, as soon as supper was over, they commenced dancing, which was kept up until very late; but poor Henry was not permitted to partake of the amusement, though he was as fond of dancing as any of the passengers; yet his fortune was too slim to be spent in any kind of amusement-and, notwithstanding he was poorly clad, a more graceful figure than his never graced a ball-room. But the wealth of this world is so divided, that many a worthy young man is compelled to lead a life of, poverty, while scamps, who are heirs to great wealth and easc-who consider themselves disgraced if they should condescend to speak to a worthy young man, if he should happen to have on a homespun suit, who is as far their superior, so far as moral worth is concerned, as St. Paul is to Satan. Poor Henry felt the pangs of poverty-his proud young heart was filled with emotions of the deepest anguish and mortification, when he saw young men gliding through the dance, who were far his inferiors. The spacious cabin was lighted up with large chandeliers, which slied a brilliant light on the fair features of the young ladies. Henry was leaning against a column, near the place where the dancing was carried on-his mind was on things far away-a tear stood in his large eyes as his thoughts carried him back to his boyish home, for now he saw he had no friend-he was among strangers, none of whom appeared to pay any attention to him, or seem to know that there was such a lad on the boat; but there was a pair of dark eyes resting on the fair features of young Henry, as he leaned against the column; yes, a pair, that rested on him, as if there was something there on which they could always rest without tiring. At length the youth raised his eyes; they met those of Ellen, who was looking at him as if she wished to speak to him; gentle tears glistened on the cheek of the young girl, trickled down her fair face, and fell on her white bosom, which appeared to be filled with sorrow, when all else was merriment and sport. 
               "Oh, cursed fate!" cried Henry, "that has thrown me into society, where I see young people enjoying themselves in all kinds of merriment, while I am not permitted to share it with them; it will not always be so; I will make a rise, or lose my life in the attempt" 
               Henry walked to the other end of the cabin, and stood and gazed at the dance; he was not even permitted to take a seat in the cabin-he again saw those, dark eyes resting on him. It was Ellen, who had been urging her brother to go and invite Henry to participate with them in the dance. 
               "Go, brother," said she, "and ask that young man to come and join us in the dance; don't you see what a noble young man he is? I know, brother, from his very appearance, that he has a noble heart; such a countenance as his I have never before seen in all my life. Something is disturbing the tranquility of his mind-I see the tears gently stealing down his noble young cheek-he seems to be ashamed of his dress, perhaps he is poor and unable to buy any better. Promise me, dear brother, that you will go, and sympathize with him, and learn, if you can, what causes him to shed those tears, and, if within your power, relieve him; you will do so, brother, I know you will; you cannot be so hard hearted as to see such a noble looking young man as he is suffer, if it is within your power to relieve him." 
               Thus the fair young maiden had been talking and begging her brother to go to Henry, and invite him to take a part in the dance. Poor Henry had found a heart that could sympathize with him-one who had noticed him all the while, since he got on the boat. Ellen kept begging her brother to go and invite the young man to enter into the amusements of the evening. Alveza now walked up to Henry, and asked him to take part with them in the dance; but Henry excused himself by saying that he was unwell. Poor youth, he told the truth, when he said he was unwell; his delicate frame had been seriously bruised, when he fell from the sapling, where he had stolen a farewell view of his mother. 
               "Are you going all the way to New Orleans?" inquired the young Spaniard, to which Henry replied in the affirmative; he then entered into a general conversation with him, by which he soon learned Henry's whole history, for he was an openhearted, kind, and confiding youth; who, being honest himself, believed every one else to be so. The young Spaniard now returned to his sister-who had been watching him and Henry all the time-and related to her Henry's history as he had heard it from his own lips. 
               "And does he refuse to participate in the dance?" inquired the young girl. 
               "Yes, my dear sister, he complains of being unwell." 
               "I knew there must be something the matter with him; but there is something which rests on the mind of the young man; I have closely watched his countenance ever since he got aboard the boat, and have noticed a tear, ever and anon, start down his fair cheek, and fall to the floor; he seems to try to hide his grief, but the tears will start forth in spite of his efforts to suppress them. Oh, brother, do go to him again, and try to persuade him to forget his sorrows, and come and participate with us, in the amusements of the evening. I shall not let you dance or rest, until you go to him again. I cannot be contented myself, while I see such a noble looking boy in distress. Now promise me that you will endeavor to obtain from him the cause of his inward sorrow. I see something in that lovely countenance which I have never before seen in that of any person. It seems as if I could gaze on that beautiful face forever, and never tire;-will you go to him? brother, say, you cannot refuse; answer me, my dear brother." 
               Thus the little girl tormented her brother, until she extracted from him a promise to go to Henry again, and try to learn the cause of his mental sufferings. 
               Alveza again entered into a conversation with Henry, and soon succeeded in learning the cause of his sorrows, and when he communicated it to Ellen, she sighed aloud, and said: 
               "Oh, what a noble hearted young man! I told you that something was disturbing his mind, and it is pure and undefiled love for his poor mother, that caused grief. Oh, that I could go and sympathize with him; how I would love to sit and converse with such a boy. I never before felt so deep an interest for any person as I do for him. What's his name? brother; and where is he going?" 
               "Henry H-- is his name, and he is going to New Orleans to seek employment. I learned that he is very poor, and has only twenty dollars in the world; he has set out to seek some honest employment, by which to make a decent support." 
               "Brother, won't you persuade him to go home with us? You can employ him in your store, and I am sure he will make you an excellent clerk; do go, brother, and try to get him to go home with us." 
               "O sister go away with your preaching and pleading; I do believe you would have made the best criminal lawyer in the world; I never heard your match, so far as pleading is concerned. What business is it of ours? we have no right to care for an American boy, who would us in a minute, if he had a chance." 
               "Stop, brother, you shall not talk so; you have no right to make such a charge against him; his very countenance-his noble countenance-contradicts every word you have said." 
               The young girl's cheek was reddened with anger at her brother for being so wicked; she left him and went to her room, and burst into a flood of tears. 
               Her young and tender heart felt an emotion which it bad never felt before. She unlocked her trunk, and took out one hundred dollars in gold, and told her servant to give it to Henry, and that it was a present from his mistress, "but be certain," said she to the servant,"that you don't tell him who your mistress is; tell him that it is from girl, who is his friend, and wishes him success in his new enterprise." 
               The servant now sought Henry, and handed him the money. The hot blood rushed to his cheek-he gasped for breath-the blood in his veins rushed in torrents to his face-his proud young heart was now filled with burning shame and rage, ready to burst forth, like Etna's fiery flood; but he endeavored to compose himself, and curb his raging passions. 
               "Tell her," said he to the servant, "that she has mistaken me for a beggar; tell your mistress that I ask alms from the charitable hand of no person. How does it happen that a young lady should mistake me for a beggar? I never asked any man for a dime, and how should I be taken for a beggar? It is my homespun clothes that has caused me to be taken for an object of charity. God forbid that it should ever be said that Henry H-- acceptable alms at the hand of any mortal man." 
                
               Henry's youthful pride was now aroused; he felt chagrined, disappointed, and mortified; he left the cabin, and went down to his humble bunk, on the lower deck, when the flood of grief, which was raging in his brave young burst forth; he wept bitterly. He wrapt himself up in his blanket, and laid himself down on the floor; in a short time his eyelids softly closed, and Morphus wrapped his delicate from in her sweet embrace. He sleeps soundly, while he sweetly dreams of his dear mother; he sees her kneeling by the window, pouring out her soul to heaven in prayer. Oh, how happy! how sweet it is to possess a clear conscience, unstained with guilt, and uncontaminated by vice! What an object was here to feast the eye on! to see this noble youth wrapped in his coarse blanket, stretched on the floor of the boat, with his eyelids softly closed. 
               Poor little Ellen was very mortified at Henry's refusal to accept the money; she threw herself on her bed, and buried her face in the pillow, and wept bitterly-she tried to sleep, but could not-young Henry's manly form seemed to be floating before her excited imagination-she could not sleep. All the passengers, except Ellen, slept soundly; and all was still as the grave, except the puffing of the boat, and the solemn notes of the deck hands as they cried the depth of the water. The night had passed, and the cheerful rays of the sun began to peep into Ellen's room; she had at length wept herself to sleep. The cold perspiration was on her lovely brow; her bosom, as white as driven snow, was half uncovered, while a tear stood on her cheek. Ever and anon, she would lisp the name of Henry in her sleep. 
               "Henry H-- is his name," she would whisper, "but he hates me now, he abhors me for offering him gold. I did not mistake him for a beggar. But I have mortified the feelings of the noble young man; I must seek him and ask his forgiveness with my own lips. I will kneel to him and beg his pardon; I ought not to have been so hasty in offering my charity to him; he is right and I am guilty. Oh, Henry, forgive me," she cried at length so loud, as to be heard by her brother, who was seated near her room; he rushed into the room, and saw his young sister sleeping soundly but she was weeping; he stood by her bedside until he heard her call the name of Henry H--. 
               "Hell and thunder!" cried the enraged young Spaniard, "what do I hear? am I in hell? on earth? or in the sky? am I dead or living? am I asleep or awake? Do I hear my lovely sister in her sleep, lisp the name of this young American? She certainly loves him-she weeps-she calls his name-she asks his pardon-what has she done to him, for which she ought to ask his forgiveness? There is some awful mystery connected with this matter, which my mind is wholly unable to solve." 
               Thus the young Spaniard raved, foamed, fretted, and wrung his hands, and tore his hair. He cursed the hour when the young American and his sister met. 
               "This shall not be permitted to continue; I must part them forever; I see my youthful sister has fallen in love with that stripling of an American. I would much rather follow her to her grave than she should ever love the name Of an American." 
               Alveza abhorred the very name of American, and to see his sister fall in love with an American boy, was too much; so he determined to take another boat at Cairo, so as to separate his young sister from Henry. Poor Henry, he was entirely ignorant of the feelings of tender love which he had inspired in the breast of the sweet and gentle Ellen. He had no idea that any person on earth, except his dear mother, had any particular love for him. The soft rays of the sun were streaming down on his rosy cheeks, but still he slept; Ellen also slept; but Alveza watched every motion of her lips, to see if he could possibly be mistaken; but the dreadful reality now rushed home to his mind, like an electric shock; for Ellen now said, aloud: 
               "Oh, Henry, I did not intend to insult you; do promise me that you will not hate, that you will not abhor me; I am guilty; I was too hasty; do promise me that you will forget it." 
               Alveza's anger was at the highest pitch, his eyes flashed fire, he stamped his feet on the floor, he wrung his hands, and cursed the hour that gave him birth. At this instant the alarm of fire was shouted from the forecastle. The crackling flames and black curling smoke, now burst forth from the hole, and the awful reality of the fact now stared the whole crew and passengers in the face. The whole bow of the boat was now wrapped in one solid sheet of flame and smoke. The dreadful sight was terrific beyond the power of man to conceive. All the passengers now rushed back to the stern of the boat, and began to crowd each other overboard. The shrieks of the parents whose Children were burning in the flames, were heartrending beyond anything ever witnessed by mortal man. The flames now began to approach so close to the stern, that it was impossible to remain on board any longer; the whole crowd plunged into the river; some never again to rise; thus exchanging a fiery bed for a watery grave. Those who could swim paid no attention to those that were drowning. 
               As soon as Henry heard the alarm of fire, he rushed to the stern of the boat, and leaped into the river; he was an excellent swimmer, and as brave as Csar. When he struck the water he sunk many feet below the surface, but soon rose, and made for the shore. His eyes now rested on the form of a little girl, whose lifeless body had risen to the surface, and was in the act of sinking the third time, when he seized her fair form, and raised her head above the water, when he saw that it was the same little girl who had watched him during the dance; but those beautiful dark eyes were half closed in death. Henry set out with his lifeless load for the shore; he rested her head on his shoulders, so as to keep it above the water, and put her snowy arms around his waist, and swam with all his strength toward the shore. The strong current of the river carried him down stream several miles-he began to grow faint, he now began to sink-he made a desperate effort to reach the shore. His breath was now exhausted-his strength was gone-he began to strangle-all seemed to be lost, but he recovered a little, and made another desperate effort, and another, and at last he reached the shore, and fell lifeless, with his female charge by his side; the heavens vanished from his sight-he saw the trees whirling over his head-he gasps for breath-a struggle and a groan, and all is passed, and the youth fell back on the sand, while all signs of life was extinct. The beautiful damsel was also prostrated on the sand; her ruby lips slightly parted, as if to speak: her snowy bosom now began to exhibit signs of returning life; her dark eyes softly opened, they fell on the lifeless form of Henry; she shrieked and fell back the blood rushed from her rosy cheeks-again she was uncouscious. No signs of life whatever, could be seen on Henry's pale marble brow. But Ellen now recovered, and again her eyes rested on the pale, beautiful form of Henry; she raised his head from the sand, and laid it on her heaving bosom; she shrieked and screamed for help, but her voice was only answered by an echo from the opposite shore of the river; she called Henry by name, but no answer. 
               "Oh, that he had let me drown, and saved himself; he has lost his life to save my worthless life; oh how freely would I make my bed on the bottom of the river, if by so doing I could restore him to life. But alas! all is gone-all is passed!-my life has been purchased at a dear price-ten thousand times more than it is worth. Speak, Henry, speak to me." 
                
               She pressed his pale cheek against her bosom, and kissed the cold drops from his marble brow. She prayed, she wept groaned, screamed, and wrung her little hands in despair. Poor Ellen never before, had such feelings. 
               Ellen was very young; she was then in her fourteenth year, of the most voluptuous beauty, large dark eyes, and rosy cheeks, high forehead, and countenance in which shone an expression of kindness. Her long dark hair always hung in large curls over her snow white neck; her figure was of the most exquisite mould. Her dress was purple satin, beautifully trimmed with golden fringe, and a golden scarf hung gracefully around her slender waist. She still held Henry's head on her breast; while her little white hand rests opposite his heart, she feels a slight motion, then all is still; again she feels another throb, another, and another, and at length his lips open as if to speak; his lips moved slightly, but he could not speak; they close again, his heart is still. 
               "All is gone at last!" she cried, "oh, he is dead; O, God, have mercy; he is dead!" 
               But again Henry's eyes and lips open. 
               "Do I dream," said he, "or do I see that same pair of dark eyes resting upon me, that I saw on the boat?" 
               The blood rushed to Ellen's cheek, and then rushed back to her heart; she could not speak; she still held Henry's head on her bosom, but spoke not; she hung her head, blushed, and attempted to rise, but she was unable to stand alone. Oh, what divine beauty and loveliness now beamed forth from her large dark eyes!' her dark lashes were dampened with tears; her luxuriant raven black curls hung loose over her naked bosom and snowy neck. The rich and soothing tones of her soft and gentle voice, fell on Henry's ear with such a rich musical sound as he had never listened to before. The intelligent expression of her countenance, caused Henry's heart to flutter with delight. Her amiable disposition, and sympathizing feelings showed themselves plain in her benevolent bosom. 
               A slight blush mantled her rosy cheeks when their eyes met. Oh, what a feeling of love now took possession of her young and tender heart!-she gazed long on his face, as though she could rest her eyes there forever-their feelings were mutual. Henry nestled his fair young face on her heaving bosom. She could not deny his head such a downy pillow-she could but let his head rest where it was-modesty would have forbidden it, but did she not owe her life to him? had he had not periled his life for her? and how could she be so unfeeling as to leave his head to rest on the burning sand? 
                
               "Dear Henry," she exclaimed, at which he started as if something had stung him to the heart, and inquired of the young girl, how she knew his name was Henry. 
               "My brother told me your name; I know your history; it was me who sent you the money by a servant. Now, Henry, promise me, that you will not hate me, that you will forgive me; I did not mean to insult your pride; I thought that you were in need of money; and that I was doing you a friendly service; now Henry, please promise me, that you will not detest, that you will not abhor my name. Oh speak, for the sake of heaven, say that I am forgiven." 
               Henry threw his arms around her slender waist, and drew her close to his heart, while her angelic face now dropped on his bosom. She shed tears of joy, they fell thick and fast on Henry's bosom; he was perfectly frantic with love, 
               "Hate, abhor, detest" exclaimed he, with emphasis, "who that has human, shape, or a spark of humanity left within his breast, could dare to hate, abhor or detest, such a guardian angel? even if I were to try, with all the mental power that I possess, to hate you, my hate would turn to love-pure and unsophisticated love for thee. Raise your head, and speak to me; I love, nay, adore thee, while you are begging me not to hate you; are you trifling with my feelings, or are you in earnest, when you ask me not to hate you? I might as well attempt to change the mighty current of the Mississippi river, as try to hate you; it is impossible, preposterous, and absurd. I love you with such pure and undefiled love, as I have never felt before. I have a mother, whom I love dearly, but you have inspired a different feeling in my heart from any that I ever felt before. Hatred, abhorrence, and detestation, are stuff and prunella. Speak, Ellen, and say that you will not hate, abhor, and detest me." 
               Ellen now raises her head, her eyes meet his, the game is up, the struggle is past, their vows are sealed with a kiss. Oh, Henry, thou art a happy youth. 
               What do we see! Is this our hero, who left the home of his childhood in search of wealth and fame? Is this the wealth and fame for which you left the roof of your happy home? But Henry has found a gem far more valuable than all the shining mettle of California, of the diamonds of Golconda. Yes, a gem which will make him happier than all the wealth in the world. He hath found a young, tender, warm, and affectionate heart, which will bleed when his bleeds, and rejoice when his rejoices; one who will share his fortune or degradation. But stop, we are digressing from our storv. Ellen does not belong to Henry yet; her father never will consent for her to wed an American; no! he had rather follow her to the tomb, than to see her the wife of Henry. But their thoughts were engaged in other topics; they were not thinking of the many difficulties that rolled between them. No! they were enjoying the present moments, without regard to the future. The thought never seemed to enter the minds of the love-sick couple, that they were to be separated, perhaps never again to meet. But at length the awful reality rushed home to Henry's heart, who now felt the pangs of poverty more than ever. What was to be done? how was he to take care of the gentle Ellen, who had sworn to be his forever? who had sworn everlasting fidelity to him? Different emotions now took possession of Henry's breast; the future was dark as night; no prospects for a support were before him. 
               "It must not be," he exclaimed, rising to his feet, "what have I done? Is this me, or am I in a dream? Am I the lad who almost broke my mother's heart, and left her to seek fame and fortune? Yes, it is me, and I am captured by beauty's charms in less than a week after leaving home." 
               Poor Henry now halted between two opinions; whether he should take the lovely maid and marry her, or whether he should take her to New Orleans, and write to her father to come after her. His young heart bled, his soul was filled with the deepest agony. He saw no chance to take care of Ellen; to marry her and cause her to drag out a miserable life of poverty and suffering, was too much for him. 
               "No," he said, with enthusiasm, "I never will be the guilty instrument of bringing this lovely young girl to poverty. She has been born and raised in high society, and for me to drag her down from her father's happy home, where she may spend her days in peace and ease, is more than I can bear." 
               Henry's judgment prevailed at last, and without informing Ellen of his intentions, he began to make preparations to get to a woodyard, where they could procure a boat for New Orleans. Henry looked around, and to his utter astonishment, he found that he was on an Island; he then built a raft of logs and plank, which he found on the Island; he then seated Ellen on it, and took his seat by her side, and shoved his bark from shore. He soon landed with his valuable cargo at the mouth of the Ohio river. He there procured a passage to New Orleans; which took all his money except five dollars; he put Ellen in the cabin, and took deck passage himself. 
               "Why don't you take passage in the cabin?" asked the lovely girl. 
                
               Oh! had she only known what bitter anguish was caused by that simple question, she would not have asked it for all the world. The hot blood rushed to his pale cheek, and then retired to his heart; he did not speak, but Ellen suspecting the cause, changed the conversation. Ellen's ardent love for Henry, prevented her from grieving for her brother as much as she would have otherwise done; she had every reason to believe her brother had been drowned, but still entertained a hope that he had escaped, and would meet her in New Orleans. She loved her brother devotedly, and she knew he would separate her from Henry if he could, which caused her young heart to swell with fear and affection. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               RENCOUNTER BETWEEN HENRY AND ELLEN'S BROTHER-ELLEN SAILS FOR VERA CRUZ. 
               ON the evening of the fourth day they arrived at New Orleans, when Henry immediately despatched a letter to Ellen's father, requesting him to come after his daughter. He engaged apartments for her at the St. Charles, and left her under the protection of the hostess, who promised to take special care of her; he then went to seek employment. He soon found employment as a clerk, in a wholesale establishment, at very low wages, but he was out of money, and compelled to take low wages. He labored hard all day, then he would pay a visit at the St. Charles, and spend a few, happy hours in Ellen's company. Oh! how he dreaded the time when he was to part with her forever; his very existence and happiness seemed interwoven with that of Ellen's. He would often say to himself: "Where shall I spend the evening, when my dear little Ellen is gone from me forever? I cannot, I will not part from her; I cannot exist without her; but she is young yet-too young to marry. I will make a fortune, and then claim her for my bride. What monarch on his throne, would be so proud as I, if I had wealth sufficient to maintain Ellen in high life? I will labor day and night until I make a fortune." 
               Ellen's countenance was always lighted up with love and delight when Henry would enter her room; she knew his footsteps on the stairs from any other; she always met him with a smile on her rosy cheek, and with open arms. Poor little girl, she knew no happiness only in Henry's company. She was too young and thoughtless to be disturbed by the dull cares of this unfriendly world; but her time was occupied in pleasing anticipations of the time when she should become Henry's wife. 
               Henry had never told the little girl that he had written to her father to come after her; he dreaded to make the awful disclosure to her, when she seemed so happy, but he must do so. He entered her room one evening after he had finished his daily labor; sweet little Ellen met him at the door, with open arms and a tender smile, which almost caused Henry to shrink from his resolution. He took a seat on the sofa by her side, threw his arms around her slender waist, and pressed her to his heart, while his eyes were filled with tears; he was unable to speak for some time, his bosom heaved with bitter anguish, his lips softly met those of Ellen, and he sipped the ambrosial food from those sweet lips. 
               "Oh, Henry," said she, "tell me, for the sake of heaven, what has taken possession of your mind? why do you look so sad? What has caused this bitter flood of anguish to burst forth from your once peaceful breast? Speak quick, Henry-speak, keep me not in suspense. Great heaven, are you ill, Henry? Why do you keep me in distress?" 
               Henry was all the while gasping for breath, and at length he said: 
               "We must soon part forever, Ellen. I have written a letter to your father, requesting him to come after you, and I learn he will be here after you to-morrow." 
               "Enough, it is enough, I am satisfied," cried the fainting maid, as she fell into his arms; she struggled and gasped for breath, and all was gone; her pulse was still; her blood refused to perform its office; death rested on her marble brow. Henry rang for a servant; he called for help; a physician was soon in attendance, and used some restoratives which brought Ellen to consciousness again; she was placed on the bed, with directions to let her sleep if she could. All had gone and left the room except Henry; he stood by the bed-side, holding her pulse; she turned her dark eyes towards him, and stared him in the face for several minutes, but spoke not; the Spanish blood rushed to her lovely cheek, and her dark eyes lighted up with emotions of love. 
               "Why did you snatch me from a watery grave to kill me by slow degrees? Why did you not let me drown? I see it all; you still hate me, because I offered you gold; I cannot blame you, Henry, it was enough to mortify your pride. Leave me now, Henry; but before you go, please promise me that you will forget my first fault, and when you think of my name, that it will not be with abhorrence. Now, farewell, Henry." 
               As she spoke, she reached out her little hand for him to take. Poor Henry attempted to take the offered hand, but his nerves refused to perform their functions; he could not utter a word; he sunk to his knees at the side of the bed to pray for forgiveness, when the door flew open, and Ellen's brother entered; he rushed to his sister and threw his arms around her neck, and wept for joy; he then turned to Henry, and inquired what he was doing kneeling by his sister's bed? 
               "Speak quick, or die, you d-d villian," cried the enraged brother, drawing a dagger from his bosom. 
               Henry rose to his feet, and cast a look of scorn and contempt on the Spaniard, without giving him an answer. Alveza now made a plunge at Henry with his dagger, which was received by the bosom of the lovely Ellen, who sprang between Henry and her brother. A crimsoned tide now gushed forth from the gaping wound; she screamed, and fell covered with her own precious blood. Henry's blood ran cold in his veins when he witnessed this awful tragedy; he could not speak, he sprang on the young Spaniard like a Bengal tiger, and a deadly struggle now commenced between Henry and Alveza. Henry was untirely unarmed, and it looked like madness to attempt to compete with the stout, robust Spaniard, but he saw the delicate form of his beloved Ellen prostrated on the floor, while the warm life blood slowly oozing from her snowy bosom; he saw the object on which all his hopes of future happiness were centered, gasp for breath; he saw her parched lips try to utter his name, but they were Covered with gore; her tongue cleaved to her mouth; she was unable to speak; she raised her dying eyes towards heaven-a groan, a struggle, a slight quivering of her pale lips, and her pure spirit was gone! gone! 
               "Vengeance! vengeance!" cried Henry, as he sprang upon the young Spaniard, with the velocity of lightning, and, seizing him by the throat, hurled him against the floor, with such tremendous force as to almost knock the breath from him; but the Spaniard's strength being much greater than Henry's, he turned him, and raised his dagger high over his head, and cried: "I have the d-d villain now," at the same time coming down towards Henry's breast with all his giant strength, but Henry knocked his hand aside, the dagger plunged into the floor, and broke to pieces. Henry now summoned all his strength, and made a desperate flounce, and, hurling the Spaniard clear across the room, seized the point of the dagger which stuck in the floor, and plunged it into the breast of Alveza; he then knelt and kissed the gory lips of his beloved little Ellen, as she lay on her gory bed; he spoke to her, but her lips were still. He raised her lifeless form from the floor and laid it on the bed, and again kissed the blood from her beautiful lips, then seized her little white hand which was stained with her own blood, and pressed it to his lips, and said with trembling voice and tearful eyes: "Farewell my little guardian angel, I never shall again see that dark eye which used to watch me with such a tender glance; no, it is closed in death." 
               All the above transactions occurred in a few seconds. Henry stole a farewell kiss from her pale lips, then made for the aoor. He knew he must save his life by flight, for the murder of both brother and sister, would be laid to him; so he lost no time in getting away. In his haste to get down stairs, he ran, over a little flat-nosed specimen of the African race, who was carrying a basket of coal on his head, and knocked him headlong to the foot of the stairs; and sent the coal flying in every direction, and mashed the little fellow's nose flatter, if possible, than over; ran over the bar keeper, and knocked him topsy turvy into the centre of the floor; he then rushed to the door and leaped from the portico towards the ground, but instead of lighting on the ground he alighted astraddle of a little Frenchman, who happened to be walking under the portico, who, concluding the game was up with him, and that he was attacked by a band of thieves or cut-throats, began to cry out-"Murder, monsieur, murder, help, run, monsieur, by gar, murder, vot de hell you mean, monsieur?" 
               Poor Henry concluded the game was up with him; he thought he was caught by one of the policemen, who was calling for help. As soon as Henry recovered from the shock, he sprang to: his feet. The little Frenchman went down St. Charles street at the rate of sixty knots an hour, and hollowing thieves every jump, while poor. Henry, almost frightened to death, took the other end of the street, not stoping to cast a look behind for fear of being caught by the little Frenchman, whom he thought close at his heels; while the little Frenchman thought the same of Henry. After turning several corners, and dodging the policemen, Henry at length reached the wharf, where he found a hiding place under the wharf, where he went to roost for the night. He thus soliloquized to himself as he sat perched up in his place of secretion: 
               "Is this the fame and fortune for which I left the happy home of my boyhood, and almost broke my mother's heart? What would she say, if she knew that her only son was perched up under the wharf at New Orleans, afraid to show his head, with his hands stained with human blood?" 
               Thus he mused to himself, and cursed the hour that gave him birth. 
               The little Frenchman after running until he could go no farther, bursted open a door and tumbled into the house, and fell fainting on the floor, and feebly uttered the word "thieves," and then closed his eyes. He soon was able to speak, when he began to relate how he had been attacked by thieves. 
               "By gar, monsieur, vat you shall suppose, ven me be visiting by de St. Charles, some d-n bull-frog shump down from de cloud, right en my pack; and den vat you shall tink; me does bellow like von d-n buffalo cow; I does at last be too stout vor de d-n scamp, vor me whip him shos like damnation." 
                
               Thus the little Frenchman related how he bad been attacked by a cut-throat. 
               Henry remained under the wharf until morning, when he ventured out, and went down to the custom-house, where he learned there was a small schooner going to sail immediately for Galveston, Texas; he engaged a bunk, and bid adieu to the wondrous crescent city. Henry's heart bled with bitter anguish, his breast was now filled with intense grief. Thus he fled from justice, or rather, fled because he knew he could not obtain justice. What had he done more than any other person would, under similar circumstances, have done? But he was unable to prove his innocence, so he was compelled to save himself by flight. In a few hours after leaving the city, the schooner was towed to the mouth of the Mississippi river, and the jolly sailors began to skip among the masts, and, in a few minutes, the proud little craft was under full head-way. 
               Henry took his stand on deck, and gazed, with tearful eyes, on his native shore, as it gradually vanished from his sight. The lovely image of the beautiful little Ellen floated before his excited imagination; he saw the gaping wound in her snowy breast, from which streamed a' tide of crimson gore;-he saw her raven, dark hair hanging in confused mazes over her cold marble brow;-he saw those pale ruby lips which he had kissed, when warm with passions of the purest love, but now they were cold in death;-he saw those dark orbs from which streamed forth expressions of love, sympathy and kindness, but were half hidden from sight, by those dark lashes, which were stained with her own precious blood. Henry's grief was such as his delicate constitution was unable to bear; he sunk to the floor, and poured out his soul in secret prayer to heaven for divine aid, to enable him to bear, with fortitude, his bitter misfortunes. He now arose, and strained his tearful eyes to catch another glimpse of his native shore, but all was gone, and nothing could be seen but the blue sky overhead and the dark gulf beneath. A gentle breeze sprang up from the east, which wafted Henry from his native land, at the rate of ten knots an hour. Like Childe Harold, he took his harp and touched a soft farewell song to his native Isle, while an overwhelming tide of anguish raged within his young breast, and shook his young frame like an aspen leaf. 
               His cup of sorrow was now filled to the brim. The land that contained his dear mother, his last and only friend, had vanished from his sight; and he now floated on the broad expanse of the fathomless gulf, without a friend to share his anguish-no pair of dark eyes to rest on him-no sweet Ellen to cheer his wounded spirit, and with ner soft musical voice pour consolation into his ear, and kiss the cold perspiration from his marble brow; but he was all alone, amid entire strangers; afraid to tell his name for fear of being taken back to New Orleans, and tried for the murder of Ellen and her brother. He had determined, upon his arrival in Texas, to join a band of adventurers, who were preparing to start to Santa Fe, on a trading expedition. 
               On the third day after leaving New Orleans, the captain of the little vessel entered the cabin, where Henry was, and informed him that a tremendous storm was brewing, such as he had never seen before. Dark clouds began to collect overhead; the atmosphere now became as dark as night; livid streaks of lightning ever and anon would flash across the water, and dispel the darkness for a moment, then was again wrapped in darkness. The captain took his stand on deck, and gave his commands in a loud clear tone; he was obeyed instantly by his little crew. The captain was a man of unshrinking firmness, who never became alarmed unless some awful danger stared him in the face; he had been on the sea for-twenty years, and knew when there was danger. Henry stood near him, and closely watched every motion of his features, to see if he could discover anything like fear depicted in his countenance; it was evident he was alarmed. The white surging billows now dashed over the little vessel, and buried her beneath for a few moments, when she would again rise, like a cork, to the summit of a mountainous wave, and stand on a balance for a short time, then plunge beneath the surging billows. The howling wind still continued to increase, until the waves rolled mountain high, and kept the little craft under water half the time. A tremendous wave struck her, and knocked her on her beam's end, and carried away her main mast and part of her rigging; she trembled like a leaf from stem to stern, and then began to go down. The little vessel was no longer able to brave the storm, and the dreadful reality that all was lost, now stared them in the face. The awful messenger, Death, had come at last; despair and anguish was depicted in every sailor's face; there was no hope of safety left. A yawning watery grave was ready to receive them. 
               Henry thought of his mother-of the last time he saw her, when he climbed the tree to gaze on her, kneeling at the altar of divine mercy, praying for her young son. He was not afraid to die; and now he had nothing to bind him to earth but his dear mother. He took his stand on the forecastle, and calmly awaited the coming danger, with a firm heart and calm mind. At length the vessel went down, and he seized a large plank, to which he clung, hoping that he might outride the storm, and be taken up by some other vessel. Sometimes he would be buried beneath the rolling surf, and then carried to the top of a surging billow; the atmosphere still remained dark-the wind increased in violence and blew the foaming spray over him, until he was so far exhausted as to be unable to keep his balance on the plank; his strength at length failed; his breath grew faint; he saw the reeling sky above, and the raging surf beneath; the dashing spray swallowed him up-he was gone-he knew nothing more. 
               It is not known how long he remained in this situation; he was picked up by the crew of another vessel, when all signs of life were extinct. He remained unconscious for some hours, when slight signs of returning life could be discovered. At length he began to breathe, his eyes softly opened, and gazing around, they rested on an object by his bedside; and he stared as if he recognized a familiar face;-he attempted to speak, but could not;-his eyes closed-his breath stopped, and all was still again. He remained as still as death for several minutes, while his alabaster brow was as cold as marble; no sign of breath could be discovered for some time; but now a slight quivering of his pale lips, a convulsive struggle, and again his eyes opened, and gazed around with an idiotic stare, as if they were in search of an object on which to rest; at length they rested on the object they did before. His lips parted; he attempted speak, but was unable; he stretched forth his hand toward the object on which his large dark eyes rested; it was pressed by a delicate little white hand; kissed by a pair of pale, but angelic lips; and moistened with tears from a pair of large dark eyes, which were watching every motion of his features, as if they wished to catch a glance of recognition. 
               At length he lisped the name of Ellen, struggled for breath, and fell back, and closed his eyes, while a flood of tears was gushing in torrents down his pale cheeks. At length he was able to speak, and, without opening his eyes, he began, in a low, trembling voice, and with quivering lips, to speak, in broken accents, as follows: 
               "What have I seen? What did my eyes behold? Do I dream, or am I awake? Am I dead, and in eternity? Am I in hell? Oh! great God! vouchsafe to unravel this awful mystery! I certainly am not in hell, for I am sure I saw the spirit of my little guardian angel, Ellen, and I am well satisfied that her pure and angelic spirit never could enter the gates of eternal misery! No, I have no fears of that. Oh, Ellen, come to me again; do come to my side; if thy soul is in heaven, condescend to leave thy throne of endless bliss, and spend one moment by my side. I would be willing to suffer a thousand years of pain, for one sweet kiss from thy ruby lips. I cannot be mistaken; I know I saw her-I know I saw Ellen. Oh, why did she act so cruel as to leave me thus?" 
               "I have not left you, dear Henry; I am here close by your side, where I intend to spend my days at all hazards. I never will suffer myself to be torn from you again." 
               Henry now opened his eyes, uttered a loud scream of joy, and Ellen fell into his arms, and buried her pale little face on his bosom. 
               Oh, what an elysium of bliss was now open to Henry and Ellen; he pressed her to his bosom again and again. Ellen now uttered a loud scream and fell fainting to the floor; Henry sprang to her side in an instant; the blood was gushing from the gaping wound in her breast, which had been inflicted by her cruel brother. Henry, in his frantic fit of love and happiness, had pressed her against his breast with such strength as to set the wound to bleeding afresh. The crimson gore streamed in torrents from her lovely breast. 
               "Oh, God have mercy! she is dead! help, help! bring water; a physician; run, quick!" stammered the love-sick boy, "cursed be he who inflicted this bleeding wound in the breast of so lovely a creature!" 
               "Cursed be the d--d villian who caused it!" cried Alveza, at the same instant giving Henry such a blow on the temple, with his fist, as to send him hurling to the other end of the cabin, and sprang upon him with the velocity of an enraged tiger, and plunged his dagger into his shoulder, and would have repeated the blow, had he not been prevented by the interference of the officers and passengers. Ellen had been raised from the floor and placed on a bed; she had, by this time, returned to consciousness, when the blood was stopped. Henry sprang to his feet, his eyes flashing fire, and burning with rage and indignation, and with clenched teeth-his proud Kentucky blood was now aroused-he had been insulted, outraged, and abused-he now demanded satisfaction, and satisfaction he was determined to have. He called for pen, ink and paper, which were brought; he quickly wrote a challenge, and inquired if there was any person on the ship who would be his friend, when a lad about his own age agreed to act as his second. 
               He handed the young man the challenge, who soon returned with an answer that it would be accepted, and they would fight immediately with pistols, ten paces. Alveza's father was to act as his second. The old man had received Henry's letter and had been to New Orleans, where he found his children both seriously wounded. He had been informed that some unfeeling wretch had made an attempt to assassinate Ellen and Alveza. He was then on his way to Vera Cruz with his son and daughter. 
               When Henry fled, leaving them dead, as he thought, for he did not take time to examine very particularly, they were both found in the room apparently dead, but with the aid of a skilful physician they were saved. The old man arrived the next day, and found his son and daughter as above related. 
               The deck of the large and magnificent steam ship was now cleared, and every preparation made for Henry and Alveza to fight. The bright rays of the sun gleamed down with dazzling brightness on the blue ocean, which was as calm as the unruffled lake. The stars and stripes floated proudly from the top of the tall mast, the tired sea gull had lit among the rigging to steal a short respite. The sailors all stood around with cheeks as pale as death, and viewed the two combatants with awe and wonder. Henry's noble young cheek was slightly flushed with anger; he had been basely treated, and he was determined to have revenge, or die in the attempt. He walked slowly to the bed-side, where lay the sweet little Ellen, all besmeared with her own crimson gore, and kissed those pale lips, as he thought, for the last time, for poor Henry had never used pistols in his life; he had made up his mind to die, and thus went to take a farewell kiss of Ellen. But Ellen suspected that something was wrong; she had seen Henry write a note and hand it to his second, and her keen perception told her at once what was going to take place. Henry pressed her to his heart, and then walked deliberately out of the cabin, and told Alveza that he was then ready. The ground, or rather the floor, was measured, the combatants took their stand, and the seconds handed them their pistols. The old Spaniard had won the word; he now cried aloud, "all ready;" both parties answered "ready," when a wild scream burst like a thunderbolt on the ears of the whole crowd, and in an instant Ellen sprung into Henry's arms, and threw her little white arms around his neck and screamed in despair, and begged Henry to desist, and return to the cabin. But he was as firm as the rock of ages; she might as well have attempted to pluck the Alps from the earth as to change Henry's resolution. 
               "Oh, Henry! for my sake, or for the sake of heaven, on my knees, I pray, I entreat you, my dear Henry, not to fight my unfeeling brother with pistols, you are unable to compete with him in the use of fire-arms; he has practised all his life; he has treated you meanly and contemptibly; but let that pass, and yield to me this one time; promise me that you will not fight him. You will, won't you, my dear Henry?'' 
               "Hell and damnation!" cried the old man, almost bursting with rage, and seizing his daughter by the arm and almost dragging her to the cabin door, opened it and shoved her in and fastened it. Ellen's shrieks and groans and convulsive sobs fell on Henry's ears like a death knell, which pierced his young heart like a dagger. 
               "Take your stands again," cried the old man; "let us get through with this business and be done with it." 
               The foes now took their stand, the word was given, at the report of the pistols Alveza's lifeless trunk dropped heavily upon the deck. The cabin door was now burst open, and Ellen sprung out. She had heard the report of the pistols, and with all her strength she leaped against the cabin door and burst it down, and leaped out on deck, where she expected to find Henry weltering in his own blood. She knew that her brother was well skilled in the use of pistols, and she had no hopes, of finding Henry unhurt. But when she saw young Henry standing erect and untouched, she bounded through the crowd, and leaped into his arms. 
               The old man approached the side of his dying son, and knelt over him, and gave vent to a violent flood of tears. He now saw his only son writhing in the agonies of death, a death, too, which he had brought upon himself. A crimson tissure was spouting from the mortal wound in Alveza's breast. He raised his dying eyes and looked wistfully around, as if he wished to speak to some person. At length he inquired for his sweet young sister, who had, by this time, recovered from her swoon. Ellen approached her dying brother's side, and knelt, and inquired what he would have. 
               "My dear sister Ellen," said he, "I am dying. I have, deeply wronged you. My soul will soon be at the Judgment Seat of God, there to receive my doom of everlasting misery or happiness. But I have hopes of pardon yet. Can you forgive me? Can you pardon your dying brother, who has so deeply wronged you? Why was I so blind to my duty? But it is too late, what is passed cannot be recalled. Can you, I ask, dear sister, forgive the injury which I have inflicted upon you?" 
               "Oh, my dearest brother! why do you ask me to forgive you? You know that I could not bear enmity towards my brother. No, dear Alveza, I freely forgive you; I have already done so before you asked it, and may the Almighty God of mercy do the same." 
               "'Thank you, my dear, sweet little sister. Now bring Henry to me, I wish to crave his pardon, too." 
               Ellen motioned Henry to approach; he did so. 
               "Henry, kneel down here by my side," said Alveza, "so you can distinctly hear what I have to say." 
               Henry knelt by his side, and wiped the blood and perspiration from his pale brow. 
               "You see, Henry, that I am dying, my life-blood is fast ebbing from my breast; my immortal soul is almost ready to take wings and fly through the regions of unlimited space. And now, Henry, I want to ask your pardon for the everlasting injury which I have inflicted upon you. My sweet little sister here, whom I have deeply injured, has forgiven me; now, Henry, won't you do the same? You have taken my life, but do not let that trouble your mind; I fully merit this death; but all I ask is, pardon for the base treatment which you have received at my hands." 
               "You are freely forgiven," exclaimed Henry, bursting into tears, "I freely forgive you'." 
               "I am now ready to die," said Alveza; "I still hope for pardon at the throne of Divine grace." 
               He now took the little white hand of Ellen and placed it in that of Henry, and said, "Now, Henry, take this little white hand, you already possess the heart; take her, may the Great Ruler of the universe guide and protect you through life is the prayer of your dying brother. She owes her life to you, Henry, she loved you at first sight, when she saw you leaning against a column aboard the steamer, on the Ohio river: she loved you then, she loves you dearly now. I ought not to have tried to separate you, but you have forgiven me, and I die in peace. I know that my dear father will not gainsay the dying request of his only son." 
               The old man was unable to utter a single word, but still knelt by the side of his beloved son. Ellen took her seat on the floor, and laid Alveza's head on her lap; he raised his dying eyes towards Ellen's lovely face, and said, "Give me a farewell kiss." 
               Ellen kissed his pale lips, his head fell back, a slight struggling of the limbs, a convulsive groan, and Alveza was dead. His spirit had winged its flight to worlds unknown, from whence no traveler has ever returned. 
               The old man stood like a marble statue, unable to move. His only son, in whom his hopes were all centered, was sleeping in Death's cold embrace; Death's relentless dart had struck him down in the bloom of youth and prime of life. The awful tide of sorrow which had been, for some time, brewing in the old man's breast, now swelled and shook his old frame like a tremendous earthquake; his large fiery eyes were filled with tears of the bitterest anguish. He raised the body of his son and laid it on the bed, and then gave vent to his excessive grief in a violent flood of tears. His eyes met those of Henry with a cold, scornful look of contempt. Henry saw that the dying request of Alveza would be disregarded by his father; he now became fully satisfied, from the old man's conduct, that if he ever married Ellen it would be without the consent of her father. 
               The body of Alveza was now wrapped in a winding sheet, and every preparation made to cast it overboard. Ellen and her father, and Henry, and all the crew, witnessed this awful scene with hearts overflowing with grief. Poor Henry had never been called upon to witness such a tragedy as this. His grief was insupportable; although Alveza had been killed in an honorable contest, and had deserved the death which he met, yet Henry could not bear to see Alveza plunged into the briny deep; so he turned from the heart-rending scene, with a sick heart. Ellen's piteous screams and groans fell like a dagger on Henry's heart; he attempted to get to the cabin, but his strength failed him, and he fell unconscious to the floor. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               HENRY STEALS ELLEN FROM HER FATHER AT VERA CRUZ. 
               Alveza's corpse was thrown into the Gulf. Poor Ellen watched him until he was gone forever -from her sight; then raising her eyes to heaven, she groaned heavily and sank to the floor, by the side of Henry. Ellen and Henry were conveyed to the cabin, and placed on a bed, where they remained unconscious for several hours. When Henry opened his eyes, and beheld the pale and delicate form of his lovely Ellen prostrate on the couch, by his side, with her dark eye-lashes closed death-like, and her pale cheek stained with blood, which still continued to ooze from the gaping wound in her lovely breast, he placed his trembling hand opposite her heart, to see if he could discover any signs of life, but her pulse was as still as death. Those lovely curls were hanging in confused ringlets around her beautiful features, while a lovely smile played on her marble cheek. Her once rosy, but now pale lips, were slightly parted, while her white neck and bosom were steeped in a flood of crimson gore. 
               Henry had seen little Ellen faint frequently, but had never seen her lovely cheeks so pale as they were then-he had never seen her remain unconscious so long before. The dreadful thought now rushed home to his soul that his lovely Ellen was dead; that her young and gentle spirit had been frightened from its earthly tenement, and taken its flight to the regions of eternal bliss.' Everything in the way of stimulants were brought and applied, but all seemed to be useless, for she still exhibited not the first sign of life. The old man looked wildly around the room; his breast was filled with a mixture of anger, grief and sorrow; his eyes met those of Henry; a sarcastic grin, on the old man's countenance, told Henry plainly that his suit was at an end, unless he managed to steal Ellen, who, after a long interval, began slowly to recover. When her gentle eyes were opened, she gazed wistfully around until they rested on Henry, who stood close by her side. And she, whilst gazing on his noble young brow, at length exclaimed: 
               "They have not murdered my dear Henry yet; they have suffered you to escape now, but you are not out of danger yet; I see a storm gathering in the bosom of my dear father, which may not burst forth for sometime, yet he will never consent for me to be your bride. I see a storm brewing, which will finally rend our castle of earthly happiness asunder. I see all this as sure as fate. We must manage to escape when we land at Vera Cruz. You will take me, when we land, and carry me back to the United States, where we will live in peace and contentment. Won't you, my dearest Henry? Answer me, now, Henry! I cannot live separated from you. My hopes of earthly bliss and future happiness depend on your decision. Leave me, Henry, and you will kill me; stay always by my side, and I shall always be happy. Now, Henry, what is your answer?" 
               "My answer is ready; I never intend to be separated from you voluntarily; they may overpower me, and separate us by force, but while blood continues to flow in these veins, and my life lasts, I will be trying to get to you. How-could I exist without you, dearest Ellen? 'Tis preposterous to think of a separation, but I see that in your father's countenance which shows that he will never consent to our marriage; no, he would ten thousand times rather follow you to the grave than see you my wife. He would tear my eyes out with rage, now, if it was not for the dying request of his only son. But he will soon forget that, and then the awful storm which is now brewing in his breast will burst forth, and dash our imaginary castle of earthly happiness into atoms. But my intention is to escape with you when we get to Vera Cruz, and take you bask to the United States, where we can live in peace. But, Ellen, you take me without wealth or fame; I have not funds sufficient to purchase a suit of decent clothes; I have no prospects of making a support for myself-much less to maintain you as your birth and fortune deserve. But I am able to work, and will labor both day and night before I will let you suffer. Now, sweet little Ellen, you know my history; if you are willing to take me for better or for worse, I am at your disposal. Ponder well, fair Ellen, before you make up your mind-'tis a leap in the dark, and one which I fear will cause you many an hour of bitter anguish. I never should have written to your father to come after you, but I had no prospect before me by which to obtain a decent support. Perhaps, my sweet little Ellen, you had better not decide what you will do until we get to Vera Cruz, by which time you can ponder well the matter; and if you are then in the same notion, I will manage to steal you from your father, and take you to New Orleans." 
               "No, Henry, my mind is already made up to go where you go, and work where you work; to weep when you weep, and to rejoice when you rejoice. I knew you were poor when I first saw you. It is your noble character which I adore, and not wealth; I shall be happy on any part of the globe with you by my side; I ask no time to give my answer; I am ready to meet all kinds of danger, and undergo every hardship for your sake, my dearest Henry." 
               "Oh, Ellen, my dear little Ellen! how could I exist without you? how could I bear to part from you forever? No, my sweet little nymph, if all the Satanic host were arrayed against me, I would brave them all for thee! Nothing, but the interference of Divine Providence shall ever be able to tear me away from thee. Thou art the polar star of my life, and the fountain head of my existence. "Tis in thee all my hopes of earthly bliss are centered; and to talk of parting from you, the idea is preposterous, and sublimely pusillanimous. Let poverty and disgrace come, I can be happy with you anywhere on earth; the only thing which rests heavily on my mind is, that I am poor; your father is wealthy and will maintain you in high life, where everything you wish, and everything which could render you happy are at your command. And for me to be the guilty instrument of robbing you of all these comforts and blessings, and of bringing you to poverty and disgrace, seems too hard; yet, as I said before, I will make the best of the matter that I am able." 
               Thus the two lovers passed the happy hours until they hove in sight of Vera Cruz. 
               "Now Ellen," said Henry, "I shall be at your, room at eight o'clock to-night, when you must be prepared to accompany me to a ship, and we will be off for New Orleans. We will soon be on shore, when I believe your father intends to part us forever. I can see, from his very countenance, that he hates me as he hates Satan himself; he will endeavor to conceal you from me, but I will watch where he puts up at, and come to your room precisely at eight o'clock." 
               "Oh! Henry, I will do as you advise, but can't you remain with me until dark? then we will slip off together. I dread to let you get out of my sight. My spirits seem to sink, and I grow sad, when you are not with me. Oh! Henry, please do not leave me; remain with me until an opportunity presents itself, and we will fly together. Now, Henry, promise me that you will try to remain with me all the time; I cannot live without you; I cannot breathe freely, unless you are by my side." 
               Having thus spoken, she threw her arms around Henry's neck, and gave vent to a violent flood of tears, while her head rested on his throbbing breast. At this instant the old man entered the cabin, and saw his daughter in Henry's arms; his face reddened with anger, and his eyes sparkled with rage. He walked up deliberately, and snatched her from Henry's arms, and almost threw her to the other side of the cabin; he then, turning to Henry, said; 
               "Sir, how dare you take such liberties with my daughter! She is young and in bad health, and it appears that you have taken advantage of her condition, to ingratiate yourself into her favor. No gentleman would thus take advantage of a young maiden, only fourteen years of age, and in bad health; I say, sir, that no man of honor would be guilty of such contemptable conduct. And, sir, suffer me now to tell, you, in plain English, not to be misunderstood, that all further communication whatever, between you and my daughter, must and shall be stopped. 'Tis true, sir, she owes, her life to you, and perhaps she feels grateful to you for rescuing; her from a watery grave; but that does not justify you in the course you have been pursuing toward her; and, as I have said already, no man of honor would be guilty of such base conduct. It is ray duty to protect my young daughter from the insidious advances of all such black-hearted wretches as I judge you to be. Now, sir, you have heard my injunction-disobey it, and peril your life." 
               Henry bore the conduct of the old man toward himself, until forbearance ceased to be a virtue; enraged, he drew his sabre and made at him with all his might, but Ellen sprang to Henry, and caught his arm-when she exclaimed; 
               "Stop, my dear Henry, for heaven's sake, stop! recollect that he is "my father, and, for my sake, draw not his blood; put up your deadly weapon; my father knows not what he is doing." 
               Henry, overpowered by the entreaties of Ellen, sheathed his sabre, and stood staring the old man in the face, with a smile of scorn and contempt. The ship now anchored off Vera Cruz, and the old man took Ellen in a little barge and conveyed her to the shore. Henry could not procure a boat in time to watch where the old, man carried Ellen, but being determined never to loose sight of her, he waited until the old man was a short distance from the vessel-when he let himself gently down into the water, and swam along behind the barge that contained Ellen; The barge struck the shore, when Ellen and her father got out, and walked up toward the city. Henry followed them until he saw them enter a hotel, near which he lingered until darkness overtook him; he then entered the bar-room, where he found a dense crowd of Spaniards and Englishmen, sitting about the room in small groups. Henry took his stand behind the crowd, and anxiously scanned the room, from side to side, to see if he could catch a glimpse of Ellen's father; at length the old man was seen to walk up to the bar, and call for a glass of Champaigne, after which he went out of the door. Henry then went to the register to examine whether or not the old man had registered his and Ellen's name, where he soon found the name of Gen. Aakenza and daughter, at the end of which was marked, "room No. 20." Henry now knew the number of Ellen's room, and, while the old man was absent, he resolved to give her a call. The old man, not thinking that Henry was at any other place than on the ship, had no fears in leaving his daughter alone, so he walked out into the city to see some of his old acquaintances, and left Ellen alone in her room. Henry made no inquiries, but searched dilligently for "room No. 20;" after searching for some time, he found the door, which he shoved open and entered, and no sooner had he entered than Ellen was in his arms. 
               "Oh! my dear Henry, how glad I am to see yon once more. I was fearful that you had not been able to get on shore. Now, Henry, is the time to make our escape; my father will be here soon, and unless we fly now, all is lost-he will part us forever. Oh! Henry, I am dying with love and fear; take me with you-let us leave for New Orleans immediately." 
               "Yes, my dearest Ellen, we will be off this instant; prepare your clothes, make, haste, and let us fly-we will make the attempt, no matter what may be the consequences." 
               What do we see? A lad only sixteen years old, about to attempt to steal a damsel only fourteen, and the daughter, too, of one of the most distinguished citizens in Mexico! Is this the young hero who almost broke his mother's heart when he set out on the wide world in search of fame and fortune? Yes, this is the identical Henry, who is now about to attempt to steal that which he values higher than all the gold of Sacramento, or the diamonds of Golconda. Yes, Henry, I glory in your spunk! Steal her if you can, for she will prove to be a treasure far above all wealth or fame. She is a gem of incalculab le value; in her are centered all that is Lovely and pure; yes, Henry, she is worth stealing; and never do you give up the chase, until she is yours. 
               "I am now ready to be off, my dear Henry," said Ellen. "My clothes are all tied up in this bundle, and I have taken one thousand dollars of my father's money, that he left in his trunk, which will give us a start in the world until we can make more." 
               "Stop, my dear Ellen, you must not take a cent of your father's money; we would be taken up as thieves. No, Ellen, leave every cent of his money; I cannot consent to make use of his money." 
               "Well, I will do as you desire," said Ellen, smiling as she replaced the money in the old man's trunk. 
               At this instant, and while Ellen was standing with her little bundle ready to accompany Henry to a ship, heavy footsteps were heard coming up the stairway. 
               "Good heavens!" exclaimed Ellen, "it is my father; what shall be done?" 
               "I will leap out of the window," cried Henry, at the same time advancing toward it. 
               "No, no! Henry, the fall would kill you, were you to leap from that window." 
               "But, it is better to commit suicide than to be murdered without the opportunity of defending one's self. It is but death any way, so I shall meet it firmly." 
               "Here, Henry, conceal yourself under the bed until he shall have gone out, and then we may escape yet; be quick, he is at the door." 
               Henry, taking Ellen's advice, tumbled under the bed in an instant. The door now flew open, and the old man and a young Spaniard entered. The young Spaniard sprang forward and threw his arms around Ellen's slender waist, and pressed her to his bosom. Ellen vainly tried to disengage herself from his iron grasp-he still held her close to his heart. 
               "Let me go this instant, sir!" cried the young maiden-her large eyes flashing fire as she spoke. "How dare you to treat me so abruptly!" 
               "Oh! Ellen, I am so glad to see you," cried the young Spaniard, disregarding Ellen's injunction to let her go. "You know, Ellen, that I love you better than all the world beside, and I have come all the way from the city of Mexico to meet you here. Now, Ellen, suffer me to kiss those ruby lips," and, without waiting for an answer, suiting the action to the word-he forced a kiss from Ellen. 
               Ellen screamed as if she had been stung by a viper, and struggled the harder to disengage herself from the arms of the young Spaniard. He now let her loose, and she seated herself on a sofa, and looked upon the young Spaniard with so much scorn and contempt as to cause the blood to run coldly through his veins. Never had the young Spaniard seen such scorn and contempt coming from Ellen's dark eyes before. 
               "Walk into the next room, my daughter," said the old man, "and remain there until I call you; I wish to speak a few words with Gabbez on private business." 
               Ellen obeyed. The old man then turned to Gabbez, and said: 
               "Gabbez, you have work before you, which you will have to perform, before you can possess the the hand of my daughter. She has partially fallen in love with a young, stripling boy, from the United States, who saved her life on the Ohio river; and through gratitude to this young scamp-for saving her life-she has partially fallen in love with him. The villain is now on board a ship, which lies in the harbor, near the castle. One thousand dollars reward is offered for him at the city of New Orleans, for making an attempt to assassinate my son and daughter. Now, if you can manage to convey him back to New Orleans, you can send him to the penitentiary anyway, and thereby secure a reward for your trouble. And you will, at the same time, get rid of him who stands between you and Ellen's heart. She will love you when that d-d villain is gone; she will soon forget him." 
               Poor Henry could hardly contain himself; but he knew that his best plan was to keep silent. 
               "Dear father," said the young Spaniard enthusiastically, "if I may be permitted to call you father, which I shall soon do, for I expect to be your son-I am now ready to undertake anything which you may command, that will bring about a happy and speedy union between myself and your daughter." 
               "Well, Gabbez, my son, do this: Take this handbill which contains a description of Henry's person; take a guard with you, and go aboard the ship and secure the youngster; have him ironed, put him on the first vessel, and carry him to New Orleans, there hand him over to the proper authorities, and secure the reward. Then come back to Mexico, and my daughter's hand shall be yours, and all my wealth in the bargain. And in the meantime, I will proceed on my journey to-morrow. Now, Gabbez, I have done, you have heard my plan, and now for your decision." 
               "I will do as you advise, dear father," said Gabbez. 
               "You had better wait a short time before you call him father," thought Henry to himself, as he lay concealed under the bed. "His Satanic honor of hell is more likely to be your father, than is Gen. Aakenza. For I intend to force him to be mine, whether he is willing or not. And you, my good sir, will hardly find the lad on board the ship." Thus soliloquized Henry. 
               This interesting conference now ended, and Gabbez went to procure a guard, and to take the necessary steps to capture Henry, and convey him to New Orleans. And as soon as Gabbez was gone, the old man told Ellen to return. She entered the room, and asked her father what was wanting, when the old man said: 
               "My dear daughter, your happiness and comfort have always been the desire of my life. I have ever watched over you with that tender solicitude, which none but a parent can feel. I have taken all pains in my power with your education. I have always looked forward with pleasing anticipation to the time when you should arrive at the years of maturity, and when I should see you united to one of high birth-in rank equal to yourself. And it is my desire to see you wedded to young Gabbez, who is your equal in wealth and nobility, who is handsome, brave, generous, and kind, and who will make you happy. I had rather see you dead than to see you the wife of an American; but, for you to think of marrying a stripling American boy, who is poor, and for whose body a thousand dollars reward is offered-such a thing is too ridiculous to think about. Gabbez has gone to take Henry back to New Orleans, there to answer the demands of justice, and where I hope he will receive it. And, if he does, he is bound to spend the balance of his days in the state penitentiary. So, now, my sweet Ellen, you must strive to forget this youth, who has so deeply injured you. Promise me now, my dear child, that you will not think of him any more." 
               Poor Ellen could not make an answer; her large dark eyes gazed wistfully about the room, and the cold dew drops stood on her alabaster brow; the rosy tint fled from her beautiful cheeks; the blood rushed to her young head; her ruby lips slightly opened-she tried to speak, but failed. A deep groan passed from her lips and she fell back on the sofa, and closed her eyes. The old man now hastened down stairs to procure a physician. And as soon as he had passed out at the door, Henry sprang out from his hiding place under the bed, raised her up, and, pressing her to his heart, with the aid of a vial of aqua vitar, succeeded in restoring Ellen to consciousness. When she opened her eyes, and saw that she was in the arms of her beloved Henry, she threw her arms around his neck, and gave vent to a violent flood of tears, which fell like rain on Henry's young bosom. 
               "Oh, Henry, my dearest Henry, all is lost, all my hopes of happiness are blasted! They are determined to kill me by slow degrees; they are determined to separate us forever, and to force me to marry Gabbez, whom I detest as I do the most venomous viper. Oh, Henry, what shall we do? we have no time to lose; they are now hunting for you, and I expect my father here every minute. What shall we do?" 
               "Despair not, dear Ellen, all will be well yet. The storm which is gathering around us will pass away, and all will be as calm as a summer's morning. Yes, sweet Ellen, let us repose our trust in a kind and all-wise Providence, and all will be well yet. I will out-manuvre the whole of them, with all their dexterity; I overheard all that passed between Gabbez and your father. Gabbez is to put irons on me and carry me to New Orleans, and there deliver me over to the city authorities, and then return to the city of Mexico and marry you. And they even went so far as to call each other father and son." 
               "Well, well," exclaimed Ellen, with a smile of levity mixed with contempt, "if that don't surpass anything that I ever heard before. I will agree to sign a libel--" 
               Ellen was here interrupted by the heavy footsteps of the old man on the stairs. Henry now pressed her to his bosom, stole a sweet kiss, and said: 
               "Now, Ellen, you must be ready as soon as the old man falls asleep to-night, I will come to you, and we will make our escape." 
               Another kiss, and Henry tumbled into his old hiding place, under the bed. The old man now entered with a physician, and behold his surprise upon finding Ellen entirely restored and calmly seated on the sofa. The physician was dismissed, and Ellen and her father were left alone in the room, when the old man resumed the broken thread of his conversation anew. 
               "My daughter," said he, "try to calm your spirits; this is an important matter; a matter in which your future happiness is deeply concerned; and it is highly necessary that you should make a judicious selection. And, to do this, you must forget this young lad; he is unworthy of you; he has disgraced himself, and will be compelled to spend the remainder of his days in the penitentiary." 
               "Stop, father, stop; I will no longer hear such epithets against the preserver of my life. It is to him I owe my life; he came very near losing his own life in rescuing me from a watery grave. And had it not been for the indomitable courage of this lad, as you are pleased to call him, I would now be sleeping in the bottom of the Ohio river. Now, father, how can you be so cruel as to endeavor to ruin this youth, who periled his life for me, and whose life is ten thousand times more valuable than that of the young Spaniard whose hand you offer to me, and wish me to accept. And knowing, at the same time, as you do, that he is innocent of the charges preferred against him at New Orleans, yet you wish to send him back in irons! Now, father, hear me once for all; I dislike an undutiful child-I detest the very name; the holy Scriptures command us to honor and obey our parents; but you have suffered you passion to get control of your better judgment, in your determination to persecute an innocent young man-one whom you know to be innocent, and one to whom I am under the deepest gratitude for saving my life. Now, father, I must disobey you this one time; I never will consent to become the bride of Gabbez, nor will I ever forget my benefactor. I love the very ground upon which Henry stands, and the atmosphere which he breathes; I owe my life to him; he already possesses my heart, and he shall possess my hand at all hazards." 
               As Ellen spoke these words her cheeks flushed with crimson, whilst her delicate figure was standing erect in the centre of the floor, like Napoleon commanding his army. 
               "Now, dear father, what have you to say?" 
               The old man's breast now swelled with rage and indignation. 
               "I will murder the d-d villain! he has stolen my daughter's reason-she is insane. Oh, h-I and blazes!" thundered he. "I will tear him into mince-meat! Oh, that I only had hold of the young devil now, how I would tear his eyes from their very sockets." 
               He thus continued to rage, fume, and fret, until Gabbez returned, who informed him that Henry had left the ship, and was then somewhere in the city. 
               "He must be found," cried the old man, "he will be the ruin of us all, if he be not secured and sent back to New Orleans. Go, Gabbez, get help, and ransack the whole city-he must be found." 
               Gabbez again set out in search of Henry, who was still lying couched under the bed, listening to all that was said. The old man now retired to rest for the night, and in a short time was sleeping soundly. There were two beds in the room; he occupied the one nearer the window, and Ellen the other on the opposite side of the room; Henry occupied the floor under Ellen's bed. After waiting until the old man began to snore loudly, Henry crept softly to Ellen's bed-side-she was awakened-and, in a low voice, he told her to arise and prepare to fly with him. 
                
               "Be as still as the grave," said he, "for if we are discovered now-all is lost." 
               Ellen sprang from the bed, and was at once busily engaged in preparing herself to go with Henry. 
               "I am now ready, Henry, to go with you to any place where you may wish to go. 
               "Stop, Ellen, let's see; there is no chance for us to pass out of this room, into the street, unless we get out at that window, which is fifteen feet from the ground; and if we get out at it we will be compelled to cross the bed of your father! He is sleeping soundly, but if he awake our whole plan is knocked in the head, and we shall be separated forever; but it is our only alternative, to get out at the window." 
               "Make the attempt, Henry; I feel as if I could encounter any danger for your sake; lead the way and I will follow." 
               Henry now took a sheet from Ellen's couch, and placing one foot on the front railing of the old man's bed, stepped across to the window, to which he fastened one end of the sheet-the other he threw outside; he then stepped back, caught the slender form of Ellen in his arms, placed her on the window-sill, and directed her how to let herself down. The little heroine did as Henry told her, and soon found herself on the ground in the street. Henry quickly followed suit, and in an instant was on the ground by her side. The night was pitchy dark, and it was raining in torrents; loud peals of thunder would ever and anon burst upon the ears of Ellen and Henry; vivid flashes of lightning played across the heavens-now making all things visible as day-now wrapping all in darkness. They wound their way along the splashy streets for some time-Ellen leaning on Henry's arm-when a bright flash of lightning flitted across their path, which showed the surging billows rolling close to where they stood. It was dangerous to attempt to go any further. Henry found a shelving rock under which he and Ellen took shelter to pretect themselves from the dangers of the night. A short time after Henry and Ellen made their escape, Gabbez returned to the old man's room, struck up a light and began to relate to him his unsuccessful tour in search of the youth. 
               "Where is Ellen," inquired Gabbez. 
               "She is sleeping there in that bed," said the old man, pointing to the bed which Ellen had left. 
               "You are mistaken, father, there is no person in that bed." 
               The old man leaped out of bed, and to his utter attonishment, found the words of Gabbez to be true. His blood boiled, and after giving vent to his feelings by some of the most bitter oaths and imprecations, said: 
               "Hell is too good for the wretch; how in the d--l did he get her out of the room without waking me? There was no place for them to escape except through that window." 
               He now saw the sheet, by which they had let themselves down, still hanging in the window, which made the fact plain, beyond the possibility of a doubt, that she was stolen by Henry. 
               "Well, I'll be d-d if that don't rather take the shine off of anything that I have met with in many a day," exclaimed the young Spaniard. "I must admit that the youth has out-generaled us both; and I think we had as well let them alone. If you slept while the boy was crawling across your bed, in the act of stealing your daughter, and when He was within two inches of your nose, he is entitled to her." 
               "He is a d-d wizzard, or he could not have trodden on my very face without waking me. I ought to have smelled the infernal ape, although I did not see him. As you said, Gabbez, it rather surpasses anything in the pilfering line that I have met with. But we must not give up the game yet; he will sail on the first ship which leaves here for New Orleans, and if we will cut our cards right we will secure the young devil yet; he must not escape, Gabbez. Think you that I am thus going to give up my daughter to a d-d wizzard? If you do, you are very much mistaken." 
               The old man continued to rage and curse the youth until daylight, when the landlord and every other person near were aroused by his loud vociferations and oaths. 
               Henry and Ellen remained concealed under the shelving rock until day, by which time Ellen's delicate frame was shivering from the effects of the cold night winds, so that she was scarcely able to walk. Henry procured a barge, and took Ellen aboard a schooner, which was to set sail for New Orleans that morning. He then took her in his arms, carried her into the cabin, laid her on a couch near the fire, and ordered the cook to give her some warm tea, which was soon brought. This revived Ellen; her fair cheek was now brightened with a smile of joy and gladness; and she began to prattle with her sweet musical voice, which made young Henry's heart flutter with emotions of joy and happiness. 
               "Come, Henry, kiss me; oh, I am so happy now, dear Henry. We are now safe; I hear the jolly sailors jumping and skipping among the rigging; so we shall soon be under headway," 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               AAKENZA RESOUES HIS DAUGHTER-SENDS HENRY IN IRONS TO NEW ORLEANS-ELLEN DRESSES IN MALE GARB AND FOLLOWS HIM. 
               HENRY'S eyes sparkled with delight, as he kissed the sweet lips of Ellen. The golden rays of the sun now began to chase the cold mist away, and to shed his cheering light on the calm blue ocean. A gentle breeze was blowing from the land. Henry and Ellen walked out on the forecastle and seated themselves side by side. The tall white dome on the castle of San Juan du Ulloa, towered its head far above the tall masts of the many ships, that were anchored in the harbor. The large bell at the old Cathedral began to ring for the assembling of the Catholics to morning mass, when the little schooner weighed anchor, and began to plough the mighty deep, and to leave the city. Henry and Ellen still kept their seats on deck; the shore began to grow smaller and smaller, until it appeared as though it were a speck in the distant horizon; at length it vanished from sight, and there remained nothing to be seen, save the clear blue sky over head, and the fathomless gulf beneath. A tear of joy coursed down Ellen's lovely cheek when the land disappeared from view; she threw her tiny arm round Henry's neck and wept for joy. 
               "We are safe now, Henry; my cup of happiness is full to the brim; the cloud of sorrow which has so long obscured my hopes of happiness is dispelled, and I find myself in the arms of my lover, my preserver, and benefactor, never again to be separated. Oh, Henry, are you not happy? speak and tell me if you are not!" 
               "Yes, Ellen, I am happier now than I have been before. But, we are not yet out of danger, Ellen; I now see a large steamship bearing toward us, and I have a kind of presentiment that it is your father, who has hired that vessel to follow us. I learned this morning that no steamship would sail for New Orleans in several days. That steamer yonder is coming toward us, and if your father is on board, the game is up with us-we shall be separated, and that forever. I shall be taken to New Orleans, and tried for an attempt to assassinate you, and your brother; and as I shall be unable to prove my innocence, I will be compelled to go to the state penitentiary." 
                
               Poor Ellen's rosy cheeks now turned deadly pale; the blood now froze in her heart; she struggled and gasped for breath, she groaned heavily, and motioned Henry to take her to the cabin. Henry took her in his arms, and carried her down to the cabin. The cold perspiration stood on her pale marble brow. She motioned Henry not to leave her. At length she exclaimed in broken accents and trembling voice: 
               "Oh, my father, my cruel father, will he never cease persecuting us! Oh, Henry, what is to be done? Where is our harbor of safety? Where shall we flee from my unfeeling parent? He will murder you, and compel me to marry Gabbez-but I will die first. Oh, Henry, let us jump into the gulf, and die in each others arms; come, Henry, I am not afraid to die. It would be sweet for me to die in your arms. I will not survive a separation." 
               "Wait a few moments, Ellen, until we ascertain whether it is your father or not, and if it is him, the gulf shall be our bridal bed. I will now go out on deck and see if I can make any discoveries." 
               When he arrived on deck, the large steamer was within a few yards of the little schooner, and Ellen's father was plainly to be seen standing on the forecastle. Henry hastened back to the cabin, and said: 
               "Come, sweet Ellen, it is as I expected; we have only one alternative left us, and that is to make our bed in the gulf. But, my dear Ellen, perhaps you had better remain here, and go back with your father, and you may yet be happy." 
               "No, Henry, my mind is made up never to be separated from you; I am ready to die with you!" 
               "Well, be it so," said Henry, as he took her in his arms, and approached the side of the ship. 
               All the sailers were too closely engaged in watching the steamer to notice Henry and Ellen, as they locked themselves together in each others arms and leaped into the gulf. The old man saw this, and screamed for a boat; he fainted because of the drowning couple, who now sunk far beneath the surface of the water; they have now risen to the top again, still wrapped in each other's embrace. A boat was lowered as soon as possible, by which means their bodies were rescued from the water. The apparently lifeless bodies of Henry and Ellen were conveyed back to the cabin and placed on a couch; after a short interval they began to exhibit signs of returning life. Ellen opened her eyes; they met those of Henry, when she exclaimed: 
               "Henry my dear Henry, the time has now arrived when we must part forever? Oh, Henry, I cannot, I will not survive a separation; I cannot exist without you." 
               Gen. Aakenza now tore his daughter violently away from Henry's arms, when Gabbez brought a pair of hand cuffs, and set about putting them on the tender wrist of the noble young boy; he seized Henry's hand, the poor boy struggled, and would have overcome Gabbez, had not the old man come to his assistance; they together soon had him handcuffed and a heavy chain fastened to his leg. Poor little Ellen was on her knees, praying to her heartless parent for the release of her lover; she wrung her litle snowy hands; her large dark eyes flashed like livid lightning; her fair bosom swelled with a perfect tirade of anger and grief; her beautiful glossy curls hung in dishevalled ringlets around her snowy neck; and she cast at the young Spaniard such a look of scorn and hatred as to make his stout heart quail under her fiery glance. The overwhelming flood of rage which had been for some time gathering in the breast of the young maiden, now begen to issue forth like Etna's fiery flood. She seized a billet of wood and struck Gabbez a blow on the back of the head, which hurled him headlong to the other side of the cabin. Her Spanish blood was now heated, her reason was gone, her rosy cheeks burned with rage; she again made at Gabbez, and would have repeated the blow as he lay stretched on the floor, had she not been prevented by the timely interference of her father, who now seized her by the arm, pulled her out of the cabin, had her placed on board the steam vessel, and started back to Vera Cruz. Poor young Henry was chained close to the floor of the cabin unable to move. He lay as submissive as a lamb, while a tear of the deepest anguish would ever and anon steal down his fair young cheek. He endeavored to conceal his emotions of sorrow from Ellen, but, despite all his efforts, he burst forth into a violent flood of tears, as he saw his beloved little Ellen torn away from him by her unfeeling parent, when, too, not one single ray of hope was left him of ever meeting her again on earth. The piteous shrieks and groans of the love-sick maiden pierced young Henry's heart like a poisoned arrow. 
               "Oh, father, my dear father, please do not murder me thus-by slow degrees; if you are determined to have my life, take it at once, that I may die and be at peace. Oh, Henry, my sweet Henry, fare thee well forever; I never shall see thy noble brow, nor shall I be cheered by thy sweet soothing voice again." 
               Henry was chained close to a window, where he could see Ellen standing on the deck of the steamship, as it began to sail swiftly, and to waft his young love toward the shore-far away from his sight. He gazed on her fair form until she began to disappear from view behind the rolling billows; ever and anon the proud steamer would rise on the top of a surging billow, when he could distinctly see Ellen reaching out her little white arms in the direction of the schooner, which contained her lover. Her piteous screams could still be heard; they fell like a death knell on young Henry's ears. A strong breeze was still blowing from the land; the golden rays of the sun shone on the foam-capped waves with dazzling beauty. The jolly young sailors hopped and skipped amongst the rigging like canary birds. Every inch of canvass on the proud little craft on which Henry was chained, was spread out, and filled with the powerful breeze, which carried the little vessel over the blue waves at the rate of twelve knots an hour. The dashing spray ever and anon would roll across the deck of the schooner, and bury her beneath the raging surf; again she would pop up to the top of a tall rolling billow, and ride like a cork. The white spray, as it dashed against the side of the little craft, burst into fragments, and shone high in the air with transparent beauty; and the howling of the strong breeze, as it whistled among the canvass, making a mournful sound, combined to render the scene most mournfully sublime. Poor Henry now seized a telescope, as he sat by the window, to catch a farewell glimpse of his sweet little Ellen. The magnificent steamship how mounted the summit of a stupendous wave, while the little schooner stood far down between two surging mountains of spray. The two vessels were now several miles apart, but Henry saw Ellen still standing on the deck of the steamer reaching out her little hands towards the schooner. She would fall on her knees, then raise her tearful eyes imploringly to her father, and then point toward the little craft which was swiftly wafting her lover far away. She would then spring to her feet, embrace him around the neck, and then try to leap overboard, but was only prevented by her father. By the aid of the telescope, Henry could distinctly see every movement of little Ellen's sweet lips; the blood was gushing from her mouth and nostrils; her beautiful curls were streaming around her white neck, in confused ringlets; she would clasp her little hands across her breast, and pray and beg her unrelenting parent to bring back her lover. But poor little Ellen's prayers were unavailing; she might as well have prayed to his Satanic majesty as to her iron-hearted parent, who had lost the last spark of humanity he possessed. Ellen was dressed in a beautiful dress of purple satin, trimmed with red and white ribband, and a Galder scarf hung loosely around her slender little waist. Her garments were stained with the crimson tide which gushed from her sweet little mouth, from which Henry had stole many a kiss. Her dress was also torn in several places, which hung in flowing tassels streaming in the air. She strained her eyes to catch a glimpse of Henry, but he was beyond the reach of the naked eye. She grasped a telescope, and scanned the schooner until her eye fell on Henry kneling down by a little window with his telescope pointed at her. A tremendous billow now rolled between them, and they were hid forever from each other's gaze. 
               "Oh, my dear Henry is gone forever! Oh, father, you have sapped, you have broken up the fountain head of my existence-you have separated me from the only object on earth which could make me happy; without him my heart's blood will dry up in my veins. Oh, my dear father, bring my Henry back to me." 
               The little girl thus continued to beg and entreat her hardhearted father not to separate her from Henry. But whenever she called the name of Henry, his anger seemed to increase-he would curse, rage, and stamp his feet upon the floor, and would command Pedro (his servant) to convey her into the cabin, and keep her closely confined. 
               "Let her escape or injure herself, and you peril your life, sir," said the old Spaniard to his servant. 
               Pedro was a lad about fifteen years of age, who had been raised with Ellen; they had sported together among the wild flowers and orange groves, when they were little children. He was very much attached to Ellen, who had so often interfered in his behalf, when he was about to be corrected. And when he saw his master treat Ellen so unkindly, a tear of sympathy would ever and anon steal down his cheek. He obeyed his master, and took Ellen down into the cabin, placed her on a couch; seated himself, and, with tender care and deep anxiety, watched every movement. In a short time the ship anchored off Vera Cruz, when Ellen was taken in the same room, and placed on the same bed, from which Henry had stolen her on the night previous. As the little hero, now lay on the bed, a violent flood of tears trickled down her pale cheek. Pedro was commanded to remain with her, and keep a close watch to prevent her escape or injury. 
               "Pedro," said Ellen, "take this money, go to a clothier, and purchase a suit of clothes-a size less than than those you wear yourself, procure a brown sack coat, black cloth trowsers, black satin vest, blue cravat, a pair of fine calf boots, linen shirt, and a velvet cap, and bring them to me. Be quick, and be sure that you do not let my father see them." 
               "What on earth does my dear young Miss want with such a complication as this! She is certainly going to turn sailor. Tell me, Miss Ellen, what use you have for all these clothes when you have bought them." 
               "Never mind, Pedro, do as I bid you, but be sure to keep all a secret from my father." 
               Young Pedro left the room sorely perplexed at not being able to ascertain what his young mistress wanted with such a wardrobe as the one he was ordered to procure. 
               "Oh, yes," soliloquized Pedro to himself, "I have guessed it how; I know what she is up to; she is going to dress in boy's clothes and follow that young Yankee. Poor thing, she loves him dearly, and I don't blame her for loving such a noble young man. I love him myself, and I don't know what I should do if I was her, but I think I should love him as well as she does. I can't tell what objections old General have 'gainst young Yankee. I know I can find none." 
               At length Pedro arrived at a clothing establishment, where he made the selection as directed, and soon returned with them to Ellen's room. 
               "You may now retire for a short time and leave me alone said Ellen, "I will let you know when to return." 
               Pedro went out leaving her alone in the room. In the course of half an hour, she commanded him to come in. 
               "Bless God! Miss Ellen, or Master Ellen, or what shall I call you? Tell me what I shall call you front this time out; what a nice young gentleman you do make! All the girls in the whole country will go crazy about you. This will never do in the world, Miss Ellen, Master Ellen, or Master Aakenza, or whatever name you intend to assume. Take some paint and smear your face to make it look a little ugly, or else every maid in Vera Cruz will be dying in love with you. 
               Thus gabbered the astonished Pedro when he entered the room, and found Ellen dressed in her new suit of boy's clothes; her delicate little figure, thus rigged off, made one of the most handsome young lads in appearance that is often seen. 
               "Pedro, get a pair of sheers, and trim my hair; you shall be my barber now, since I have put on the breeches." 
               "Oh, Miss Ellen, I hope you are joking about cutting off those beautiful curls." 
               "No! I am in earnest, be quick and do as I bade you." 
                
               "Well, be it as you desire Miss Ellen, Master--or please God what shall I call you now?" 
               "Call me Lavacco," said Ellen, "as long as I remain a man; I think perhaps my fortune will change, since I have changed my garb." 
               "Well, master Lavacco let it be." 
               Pedro soon finished trimming Ellen's hair, when she took some Spanish brown and painted her face the color of the darkest Mexican; she then took five hundred dollars from her father's trunk, and made Pedro follow her as she wound her way down through the bar-room into the street, from whence she hastened to the custom-house, and made inquiry as to the time of the sailing of the next steamship for the city of New Orleans. She learned that one would sail early on the next morning. She then went to a hotel and put up for the night; early next morning she got on a jolly-boat, and was soon alongside the magnificent steamer, which was then ready to set sail for the United States. The sailors now began to weigh anchor, the sun began to peep over the eastern horizon, the old ship began to plow the main, and to steer her course from shore. Ellen and Pedro gazed long on their native shore as it gradually vanished from sight. Ellen learned that Gen. Aakenza had been on board of the ship on the evening previous, and had inquired for his daughter and servant, and left, satisfied that they were not on board. Said one of the sailors, pointing to Pedro: 
               "That lad answers the description that Gen. Aakenza gave of his servant, but it certainly cannot be him, for the old man said that he had ran off with his daughter; but I am sure there is no daughter with him. 
               "What young gentleman was that, who came with him?" said another sailor. "He is seated yonder on the forecastle; I have been noticing him ever since he came aboard; his thoughts seem to be fixed on other topics. I see a tear, ever and anon, gush unconsciously from his beautiful, dark eye, and fall on his young bosom. His young soul seems to be overwhelmed with bitter sorrow. Oh, he is such a beautiful little boy; there is something interesting in his soft young face, which I have seldom seen in the countenance of any young lad. Look at his tender little white hand and wrist; do you see that beautiful braid of dark hair, which he has on his left wrist? I presume the boy has fallen in love with some young maid; and his parents are sending him to the United States to prevent his marrying so young, for I am sure he could marry any girl he pleased; his countenance is sufficient to set the heart of any maid on fire. Look what a set, of limbs he has got; I have never seen such a neat little foot and ankle before. Upon the whole, I think he is the most perfect figure I have ever seen." 
               Thus it was the sailors kept up a continual conversation among themselves; concerning the beautiful young passenger. On the evening of the fifth day, just as the sun began to decline beneath the western horizon, and darkness began to spread her sable mantle on the bread expanse of the blue ocean, the mighty steamer hove in sight of the towering light-house, at the mouth of the Mississippi river. A whole fleet of ships, brigs, and schooners, were lying anchored at the Balize, waiting for a boat to tow them up to the city of New Orleans. When Ellen beheld the tall white summit of the beacon, which told her that she would soon enter the limits of the United States, her young heart swelled with emotions of joy. Everything was perfectly still now, with the exception of a gentle zephyr, which fanned the star-spangled banner, as it proudly floated from the masts of the ship. The proud steamer now entered the harbor, threw out her anchor and stood still. The first thing which met Ellen's eyes was the schooner on which she had last seen Henry, and which was anchored within a few hundred yards of her. She looked at the little window where she had last seen Henry, but he was not there! A dreadful foreboding now took possession of her mind; she thought that some awful catastrophe had befallen her beloved Henry. She knew that he had been fastened near the window, and, not seeing him, she concluded that he had either committed suicide, or expired with a broken heart. She procured a small skiff, and bought a few oysters, which, to prevent suspicion, she pretended to be trying to sell. She went to several ships, at length she run alongside the schooner on which Henry had been confined. She filled a small basket with oysters, entered the schooner and tried to sell them; she tarried but a short time on deck, when she rushed into the cabin to meet Henry. She saw the part of the chain, with which he had been manacled, lying close to the little window, but Henry was not there; emotions of a dreadful character now took possession of her mind; she hastily inquired of a lad what that chain had been used for, which was fastened to the floor by a long steeple of iron. Poor little Ellen knew full well what it had been used for, but being afraid to ask what had become of Henry, she asked the question to learn, if possible, what had become of him. 
               "Oh, sir, there is a dreadful, a most heart-rending story connected with that chain; even the very thought of which almost causes my blood to freeze in my heart. He was such a noble young man, so kind, so brave, and generous, that my heart grows sick when I think how unmercifully he was treated by that young Spaniard who was taking him to New Orleans. The young Spaniard said that he had made an attempt to assassinate a young girl and her brother at the St. Charles Hotel. But if a thousand witnesses were to swear they saw him commit the crime, I still would not believe it. His very countenance is enough to give the lie to such a charge. The poor young man lost his reason, and kept calling Ellen, a girl, I suppose, with whom he had fallen in love somewhere; he loved her dearly whoever she was, and happy would have been the wife of such a youth as he. But the sharks, no doubt, ere this, have feasted on his beautiful body, for he managed to file the chain apart, which bound him, and leaped into the gulf, when we were a hundred miles from shore. Poor boy, the last words he uttered, as he leaped overboard, were: 
               "I am going to Ellen now!" 
               He used to lisp the name of Ellen in such sweet musical strains of voice; he called her in his sleep; he would talk as if conversing with her face to face. From what I could understand, from his fits of insanity, he was in love with a beautiful little Spanish girl, whose name was Ellen, and her father was opposed to their marriage because he was poor. But he has gone now where their persecutions cannot reach him. He was entirely insane when he leaped overboard; he frequently called his mother, whom he appeared to love dearly. But his troubles are now ended-his soul is at rest. 
               Thus did the young lad relate this sad narrative; he then leaned over the little window, with his face in an opposite direction from where Ellen stood, so he did not see her as she sunk lifeless to the floor. When she heard him utter the dreadful truth that Henry had leaped overboard, she sank to the floor; and he, unconscious of what had happened, continued to relate this sad story, thinking that the young oyster boy was listening attentively all the while; but when he had finished, and turned round, his eyes fell on the lifeless form of Ellen, prostrate on the floor! The lad now raised a shout for help; the whole crew rushed into the cabin to ascertain what had occasioned the alarm. They lifted the oyster boy, as they called him, from the floor, and laid him on a bed. 
               "What is the meaning of this?" cried the captain, addressing himself to the lad, "what have you done to cause his death?" 
                
               "I have done nothing to him, sir! I was only relating to him the unfortunate circumstances connected with the young lad who leaped into the gulf, and when I finished my sad story, the boy was lying dead on the floor." 
               "That is strange, indeed, that a youth like him is so weak at heart as to faint at hearing that sad story. If the history of that youth makes men faint thus, you would do well to keep it a profound secret." 
               Pedro stood by, and his lips quivered with emotions of fear and love for his young mistress. He strove to conceal his emotions, but, in spite of his endeavors, his youthful form trembled like an aspen. Poor Pedro concluded that his mistress was dead, and that he was left alone; he knelt down by the side of the bed, and felt Ellen's pulse, but all was still. 
               "Tell us what you know about this youth," said the captain to Pedro. "Where is he from, and how does it happen that he seems so much interested in that youth, who was drowned?" 
               "His name, sir, is Lavacco; he became acquainted with Henry at Vera Cruz; they became very much attached to each other; they have traveled together; and Henry saved Lavacco when a boat was burned on the Ohio river." 
               The captain was perfectly satisfied with Pedro's story, which, to his mind, unraveled the cause of Lavacco's fainting away. Ellen's eyes, after an interval of half an hour, softly opened; she gazed wistfully around the room, but alas! she beheld not the object she so much longed to see. Poor little Ellen appeared perfectly calm, and cast down; she buried her face in the pillow, and gave vent to a violent flood of tears, which coursed down her cheeks in torrents. 
               "My beloved Henry, on my account, has lost his valuable life! yes, a life far more valuable than a million such worthless lives as mine. Oh, that I had never seen him, he then might be living in happiness and peace. He saved me from a watery grave, and hath made his bed in the briny deep! His beautiful cheeks, always brightened with a smile of love and pleasantness, are now torn and lacerated by the fishes of the sea. Those ruby lips, which hath so often kissed these lips of mine, are now being kissed by the unfeeling sharks of the gulf. That beautiful figure, that noble and more than manly form is to become food for hungry whales. Oh, precious food, precious junket! Make much of this feast, ye hungry animals of the mighty, deep, for a richer feast ye shall never taste! Roll on, ye surging billows, make sweet music while the savage sea animals are lacerating and feasting on the body of my dear Henry! Roll on, ye mighty waves, and lull his bones to rest, while they sweetly repose beneath the fathomless gulf! Never again shall I feel the soft pressure of his lips, nor meet that cheering smile of tender love. Never shall I lean on his youthful arm for support; no he is gone forever!" 
               Thus the half frantic young girl bewailed her sad misfortune. Her piteous sobs and groans fell heavily on the ears of the rough sailors, who stood by, with their eyes filled with tears. 
               "Such passionate love I have never seen one man have for another," said one of the sailors. "There must be a mystery connected with this matter, that has not been solved. Never did one youth love another as this appears to have loved the one who was drowned. 
               "Ellen began to feel that she was detected, and her sex discovered. So she seized her little basket of oysters, and motioning Pedro to follow her, she left the schooner, and returned to her little boat. What an object of devoted affection is presented in the person of this beautiful maid! A daughter of one of the wealthiest and most distinguished characters of Mexico, we see her at the mouth of the Mississippi river, dressed in boy's clothes, peddling on oysters, instead of basking in sunshine and luxury at her father's magnificent castle at the great city of the Montezumas, where everything that could render her happy was at her command. 
               But she had spurned them all, forsaken her native home, and sailed to a strange land among strangers, with her servant Pedro only, who was but one year older than herself, she being fourteen and he fifteen. No mortal man ever heard of such pure love, and such daring courage in a girl only fourteen years old, who had been raised among the upper-tendom, and who had never known what it was to want for anything. 
               What do we see? We first behold her sailing on the rolling billows of the stormy gulf, we then see her dressed in the garb of a boy, peddling oysters; again we behold her prostrate at the disclosure of the sad fate of her lover. Such an object of love was perhaps never seen or heard of before-it was pure and unsophisticated love for Henry; it was this which had inspired her with such daring courage and heroic devotion. She had provided herself with implements, before leaving Vera Cruz, with which she intended to break loose the heavy manacles which confined the tender limbs of her lover; but, alas, what a sad disappointment had she met! What a flood of anguish must have filled her soul when she entered the cabin, on tiptoe of expectation at meeting her dear Henry, and found him not there! Ellen and Pedro took passage on the first vessel bound for Vera Cruz, and she left the shore of the United States with far different feelings from those she had on entering it on the day previous. When the distant shore of the United States disappeared from her tearful eyes, she burst into a paroxysm of despair; her reason was now dethroned, and for several days she was entirely insane. The name of Henry was lisped by her sweet lips all the while, and it required all of Pedro's strength to prevent her from leaping overboard. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               THE AWFUL DISCLOSURE MADE TO ELLEN THAT HER LOVER IS DROWNED. 
               "LET me go to him. Why do they wish to separate us? Why did they wish to murder my dear Henry? They persecuted him until he lost his reason, and drowned himself. Such murderous knaves! how could they be so utterly lost to every feeling of humanity, as to persecute such a noble and unspotted character as Henry possessed. He was as far superior to that unmerciful Gabbez, as the purest angel of light is to the most malignant spirit of the infernal regions. What a shame, what an outrage on humanity! that such a noble youth should be destroyed by the persecutions of the black-hearted Gabbez." 
               Thus the frantic maiden continued to rave and fret, endeavoring all the while to throw herself into the gulf, as she said, to meet her dear Henry. After a short voyage of four days, the ship anchored off Vera Cruz, and all the passengers commenced getting on shore. Pedro soon procured a little barge, into which he placed his insane mistress. And when he had proceeded within a few hundred yards of the shore, Ellen leaped into the water, and would, have drowned herself had she not been quickly snatched from the waves by Pedro, who leaped into the gulf after her, and pulled her back into the boat. Poor Pedro loved his young mistress dearly; he dreaded no danger when she suffered. She had been the playmate of his childhood. They had sported and rambled together on the wild plains of Mexico, in their young days. Pedro now reached the shore with Ellen. 
               "Oh, Pedro," exclaimed Ellen, "there is the very rock under which Henry and I sat on that dark and dreadful night when we were overtaken in a storm; it sheltered us from the torrents of falling rain. I was so happy with him then. But, where is he now! Alas! he has become food for the ferocious animals of the bottomless gulf. Take me to that rock, Pedro, and suffer me to remain there for a short time. What an arbor of bliss this was then, when Henry, and I were the only occupants." 
               Pedro took her to the same rock where she and Henry had remained on the night after making their escape from the hotel. She threw herself on her knees, by the seat which had been occupied but a few days previous by Henry, and gave vent to a bitter flood of tears, and poured out her young soul in prayer at the alter of Divine mercy. 
               "Oh, eternal, ever merciful God, vouchsafe to bless me this one time, and soften the hard heart of my unfeeling father. He knows not what he hath done. He is not aware that he is the murderer of my young Henry, and the destroyer of my earthly happiness." 
               Thus prayed the young girl for him who had robbed her of all her earthly bliss; who had murdered her lover, broken her heart, and dethroned her reason. This prayer came from the very bottom of her heart. She now arose from her kneeling posture, and seemed to be more calm than usual. 
               "Farewell ye sacred cavern, and consecrated ground!" 
               This said she told Pedro to lead the way, that she was ready to go. The proud sun was now glimmering in the western horizon, while his golden rays danced on the broad expanse of the sparkling gulf. The gentle lakes were slightly fanned by gentle zephyrs, while a whole fleet of ships were tossed by the roaring surf. A thousand little jolly boats were dancing on the blue waters, filled with young men and girls, whose merry laugh and gentle glee met the ears of little Ellen as she slowly wended her way along the sandy beach. She cast a tearful glance far over the stormy sea, as her mind was wandering. 
               "Oh, death! thou art terrible indeed; each pulsation of Henry's fond heart, which used to beat in unison with mine, now sleeps in thy cold embrace. Death's relentless dart hath pierced that manly breast which used to heave with emotions of tender love against mine. Oh, that I could have died with thee! how happy should be if I were sleeping beneath the surging waves with my beloved Henry." 
               The solemn tones of the large church bell tolled a farewell note to the departing day, as its loud notes echoed far across the shining waters. A silver mass of curling smoke hangs over the golden city like a heavy summer's cloud. The proud eagle looks down with complacent eye, as if searching for some subterraneous grotto, to afford him shelter in case of a storm. The beautiful jackdaw sat perched among the orange trees, where he warbled his farewell anthem to the declining sun. The blood-stained banner was streaming from the tall dome of the mighty castle of San Juan, while the solemn strains of martial music, as it called the war worn soldier to take his stand as watch for the night, could be heard many miles distant. Pedro and Ellen stopped at a hotel, where they procured lodging for the night. Next morning they took their seats in the mail coach, and set out for the far-famed city of the Montezumas. The coach left Vera Cruz at 4 o'clock in the morning, and, it being dark, consequently Ellen and Pedro could not distinguish who occupied the coach beside themselves; but the coach was crowded with passengers of some kind. 
               Ellen's reason had now partially resumed its throne, at intervals she was conscious of everything that was passing around her. The poor little girl had now began to be reconciled to her hard fate; her sweet little cheeks would brighten with a lovely smile of joy and expectation when thoughts of meeting her mother rushed across her mind. She had been absent from her mother four years; and now that her lover was dead she began to think of her beloved mother Immediately after the clumsy coach left the hotel, the following words fell like a dagger on little Ellen's heart, for she was more perfectly sane: 
               "You are sure, my son, that Henry is dead?" 
               "I am, sir; I saw him when he leaped into the gulf, with a large piece of chain fastened to his leg, when we were one hundred miles from land. We might have saved the lad, but thought that he might as well drown as be hung. Poor boy! he had some generous traits of character after all. He loved your daughter dearly; the last words that he was heard to utter were: 'I am going to Ellen now.' I am sorry, sometimes, that I had anything to do with that youth. He was entirely insane when he drowned himself; it appeared, too, that he had a mother whom he loved dearly. He kept calling the name of Ellen and his mother. Poor, unfortunate boy! freely would I call him from the briny deep if I had it in my power; his image is continually before my mind; I see him in my sleep with his hands stretched imploringly, calling on me to help him. Ah, General Aakenza, I fear that I have brought deep and lasting misery upon myself by persecuting this young man. I would give all the world, if I but possessed it, to restore Henry as I found him." 
               "Nonsense, Gabbez! you have no cause to reproach yourself; you did your duty toward your country in attempting to deliver that young knave to"-- 
               The old man was here interrupted by a loud scream, which fell on his ears like a death-knell, and which was followed by another piteous scream that pierced his hearts, and put a stop to the conversation. 
               "What on earth can this mean?" cried General Aakenza, calling to the driver to stop and get a light. The coach halted, and the driver soon came with a light, when General Aakenza recognized his servant, Pedro, who was seated on the front seat-while not a single sign of blood could be seen on his cheek. 
               "What does this mean, Pedro? What youth is this lying on the bottom of the coach? Speak quick, or die, you d-d rebel!" 
               Poor Pedro gasped and struggled for breath; he tried to speak, but couldn't. By signs he made the old man understand that it was his daughter. He seized the lifeless body from the bottom of the coach, and pressed it to his heart. 
               "Oh, God of heaven! she is dead, her pulse is still as the grave. Oh, my daughter, my lovely daughter, look at me, speak to me! I have murdered my daughter! Oh, cursed be the hour that gave me birth, and doubly so be the hour when my youthful daughter and this boy met!" 
               The old man raved, stamped his feet, wrung his hands, cursed and gnashed his teeth in a paroxysm of despair. It is too late to repent now, you hard-hearted old sinner, you have broken the tender heart of your daughter, disregarded the dying request of your only son, and basely murdered as noblehearted a youth as ever lived. It is too late to recall what you have done now-the youth sleeps beneath the sea, his soul is at rest, you cannot recall it. Poor little Ellen had listened to the story of Gabbez, but when her father spoke of the dishonorable knave, she could bear it no longer; the unfounded epithet uttered by her father pierced her sting of the viper; so that she screamed aloud and fell to the floor of the coach. When Ellen recovered from her swoon, and found herself in the arms of her father, she shuddered and shrank from his embrace, as though she was entangled in the coils of the most poisonous serpent. She disengaged herself from his iron grasp, and calmly took her seat on the opposite side of her father, while her large dark eyes rested on him with such burning scorn, as caused his stout heart to quail. He at tempted to draw he close to his side. 
               "Touch me not, my unfeeling father. Your hands are stained with the precious blood of one of the most noble-hearted youths that ever lived, him who periled his life to rescue me from a watery grave; you persecuted him, when you knew him to be innocent. You disregarded the dying request of my dear brother; you have employed that unprincipled demon there, to aid you in your murderous designs. I suppose he is coming now to claim me as his bride; but I had rather wed his honor from the infernal regions, than him." 
               Kind reader, reproach not this girl for using such language to her parent; recollect that she is partially insane, and that her father had murdered her lover-(him who had saved her from an untimely grave)-and that too for the purpose of bringing about a marriage between her and Gabbaz, whom she detested. Ellen had always loved her parents, and never had a daughter been more obedient to her parents than had Ellen been to hers; but the demon's conduct had entirely weaned her affection from him. Reflect on all these things, reader, and you are bound to acquit Ellen. The old mail coach now resumed its way over the boundless plains, walled in on either side by the tall peaks of the snow-capped mountains, whose white heads towered far above the dark clouds of fog and mist, that hung like a pall along their sides. The silver queen of night began now to sink slowly behind the majestic mountains, while her departing rays shed a transparent light on the broad expanse of the boundless plains like a solid sheet of burnished silver. Streaks of gray morning now began to peep over the eastern horizon and to drive the cold mist away. Thousands of cattle, sheep and goats grazed on the verdant plain on each side of the road. All at once the gilded rays of the sun peeped over the tall peaks of the snow-clad monntains, and cast a cheerful light on the verdant plains. Each side of the road was lined with young Indian girls, dressed in loose gowns, with baskets on their arms, going to market. The rumbling wheels of the heavy old coach swiftly conveyed Ellen toward her mother's home. The bright rays of the sun now shone in the coach, which, showed Gabbez seated in an opposite corner of the coach from Ellen, her dark eyes met his; he bowed his head, and reached out his hand to take Ellen's; she faintly drew it back with a shudder. 
               Gabbez then dropped on his knees, and said: 
               "Dear Ellen, on my knees I acknowledge my contemptible conduct, and beg thee to forget the past." 
               A smile of scorn and contempt was her only reply. 
               "Perhaps, Miss Ellen, if you take a back seat you will feel better." 
               She still looked him in the face with such bitter scorn and contempt, that he drew his cloak over his face, and leaned back against the coach, where he remained silent for some time. Gen. Aakenza learned from Pedro the whole history of his daughter's adventures in the garb of an oyster-boy, etc. His conscience now stung him severely. Gen. Aakenza was a man who had some generous traits of character; but, for once, it appears, he let his passions get control of his better judgment. He loved his daughter passionately; he had taken all the pains possible to educate and bring her up in the proper way. And he had always calculated on seeing her wedded to Gabbez, who was a son of one of the most eminent characters in the republic of Mexico, and an intimate friend of his. It was generally, understood among his friends that Ellen and Gabbez were to be married when she returned from Philadelphia, where she was gone to complete her education. In view of which, Gabbez had gone to Vera Cruz to meet his intended bride, on her return home. But when he learned that Ellen had fallen in love with the American youth, his anger was insupportable; and the old man, therefore, found him a willing instrument in carrying out his murderous designs against Henry. 
               Gen. Aakenza abhorred the very name of an American, and the idea of seeing his lovely daughter the bride of an American youth, without wealth or fame, was to him preposterous; it set his brain on fire, and even partially, dethroned his reason. But he now saw the sad effects of his madness; he would have given worlds, had they been in his power, to recall his horrible deeds; he saw with the bitterest anguish, when too late, that his lovely daughter had lost all love, nay, even all respect for him, that she had shrunk from his embrace as she would from the fangs of a poisonous serpent. He saw now, that the once gentle little Ellen, who used to embrace him with such tender regard-who used to sit on his knee, and to kiss the cold perspiration from his marble forehead, spurned him in a manner he was unable to bear. His stout constitution now groaned beneath a perfect tide of sorrow; he gave vent to his bitter anguish by a violent flood of tears. His conscience bled inwardly; he now saw to what a fearful extent he had suffered his revery to carry him. His lovely little daughter sat carelessly against the front part of the coach, and seemed to be unconscious of anything that was passing around her. Gabbez sat on the back seat with his cloak drawn over his face, afraid to peep out, dreading to meet the gaze of the gentle girl, whom he had so deeply wronged. Ellen leaned back in the corner of the coach and closed her eyes, when a glittering tear stole down her little cheek. She paid no attention to the groans and sobs of her father, who wept bitterly. The coach at length arrived at the breakfast stand, where it halted. Gabbez sprang out and attempted to assist Ellen to get out, but she refused to let him touch her; his heart now bled in despair, for he plainly saw that all hopes of a reconciliation were gone. Breakfast over, the passengers all resumed their places in the coach, the driver mounted the box, and giving his whip a keen crack, the horses dashed off into a full trot. They now began to ascend the steep side of the snowclad mountains, which towered many thousand feet above the level of the sea. The balmy mountain breeze fanned the wild spring flowers, which covered the wide-spread landscape to the left of the road; the lovely and picturesque view of the distant ocean was indeed beautiful. The road-side was lined with an endless variety of luscious fruit-pine apples, bananas, oranges, figs, lemons, pomegranites, and, in fact, all the fruits of the tropics are to be found in abundance between the cities of Vera Cruz and Jalappa. The tall mountain sides were dotted with large herds of sheep and goats, which fed on the green verdure. The raven sat perched on the majestic cliffs, looking with fear on the approaching cloud, ready to seek shelter in some subterraneous grotto in case of a storm. The beautiful wild birds, as they leaped among the branches of the orange trees, and filled the atmosphere with their musical songs, and the gentle ripling of the mountain brook, as it dashed its course along the side of the mountains, all contributed to make the scene lovely beyond description. Late in the evening the old coach hove in sight of the city of Jalappa; the distant notes of bells, calling the people to assemble to evening's mass, was plainly to be heard. The golden rays of the departing sun streamed down on the tall domes of the cathedrals and public buildings with transparent beauty. The continued rattle of a thousand carriages, as they dashed through the streets, made a solemn sound, resembling the roar of distant thunder. 
               The coach now entered the walls of this renowned city, and after dashing through several narrow streets, lined on either side by large flat-roofed store houses, arrived at an entrance to the principal hotel of the city. Ellen stepped out without the assistance of Gabbez or her father, and walked up to the bar-keeper, and demanded of him a room as though she had no person with her whatever. The bar-keeper ordered a servant to conduct her into room No. 15, which was in the third story. Ellen took Pedro with her, ascended the stairs, entered her room, and locked the door after ordering a servant to bring her supper to her room. 
               "Master Lavacco," said Pedro, "I think old master's heart is a little softer than it was a short time ago. But Miss Ellen, or Master Lavacco, are you going to dress in your former paraphernalia, and lay aside your male garb? Your father knows you now, and your lover is dead, so you had as well put on your new satin gown." 
               "No, Pedro, I will wear this suit until I get home, and then, if I think proper, I will change my dress." 
                
               A heavy knock was now heard at the door; she unlocked it thinking it was a servant with tier supper. But she was mistaken, it was Gabbez, and she screamed and drew back when her eyes fell upon him as he stood in the door." 
               "I have sought your room to have a conversation with you on an important matter; I have been seeking an opportunity of throwing myself at your feet to ask you for a return of affection. I have loved you, sweet Ellen, from your infancy; without you I cannot exist. Oh, Ellen, say that you will try to love me! Oh, Ellen, I cannot live without you, I am dying with love for you." 
               "And I am dying with hatred for you," cried Ellen, "and it is a pleasing death too. It does my very soul good to hate such a base and contemptible murderer as you. Your unhallowed hands are stained with the blood of my lover, who is as far superior to you as the brightest angel of heaven is to Satan himself. I had rather wed the blackest fiend of the lower regions than you. Restore my Henry to me, you black-hearted murderer; you took his life without a cause, and now how can you have the audacity to ask me to love you! Leave my room, villain, or I shall die with disgust. There seems to be a poisonous atmosphere around you, which sickens my heart. I can't bear your presence. Leave this instant, thou slimy serpent! Put him out, Pedro, quick; I cannot endure him." 
               Pedro knew that he was bound to obey; he seized Gabbez by the collar and hurled him out of the door and locked it. 
               "I'll have revenge," muttered the enraged Gabbez, as he sneaked down to his own room. 
               Poor little Ellen's heart shrank within her, when she heard his low husky voice mutter vengeance. She knew that some awful catastrophe awaited her, that such an unfeeling wretch as Gabbez would never rest satisfied until he obtained revenge. 
               Gabbez was twenty-two years of age, tall, commanding figure, dark brown hair, deep blue eyes, and fair skin; upon the whole, he was extremely handsome. He had always looked to Ellen as his future bride; he was unaccustomed to disappointment; he thought that all he had to do was to make a charge on beauty's shrine, and the castle would surrender without a struggle; but, alas, he was sorely disappointed and mortified; the fortress was impregnable. He had been repulsed with scorn and indignation, and hurled down stairs, and that, too, by the hands of a servant boy! This was too much. 
               "What!" soliloquized he to himself, "shall I submit to such treatment without a murmur? Me, the son of one of the most distinguished characters in Mexico, submit to such treatment! No, revenge I must and will have! It shall not be said that Gabbez was hurled out of a young lady's room by her servant without offering to resent the base insult. No, I'll make that little fool wish she had never seen me, though I suppose one would think she wishes that already; but I will conquer her rage, and bring her to her senses." 
               Supper over, Ellen retired to rest for the night. She tried to sleep, but she could'nt. Thoughts of Henry filled her gentle breast; his manly figure floated before her excited imagination, and he appeared more beautiful then, if possible, than he ever did before. Overcome with grief, and bitter anxiety, she buried her face in her pillow, which she dampened with her tears. The howling nightwind now whistled through the lattice, making a solemn moanful sound. The night was dark and dreary; dusky clouds hung like a pall over the city, and torrents of rain began to fall, which rattled against Ellen's window like the cold flinty hail. The mournful sound of the night watch, as he screamed forth his watchword, added to the solemnity of the night. Livid streaks of lightning would ever and anon flash through the atmosphere, dispelling the darkness and bursting with a crash like a platoon of artillery. 
               Poor little Ellen was much agitated; she imagined that she could hear the sweet voice of her lover calling her to him. She arose from her sleepless couch, went to the window and peeped out, but all was as dark as pitch except now and then a vivid flash of lightning. The solemn notes of the distant thunder fell heavily on the ears of the young maiden; she stood by the window until her tender limbs were shivering and numbed with cold, when she again lay down and gave vent to her anguish by a copious flood of tears. The whole city was now wrapped in silence and repose. Pedro was sleeping soundly on his pallet on the floor. The solemn notes of the old town clock struck one, two, and three, still Ellen slept not. But by four, she had at last wept herself to rest. While she slept her young breast swelled with emotions of delight, for she was dreaming of Henry. In her vision she sees her lover mounted on a noble white war-horse, with a star of honor shining on his manly breast; two golden epaulets rest on his shoulders; a golden plume streams from his military hat, and a golden sword swings by his side. His proud white steed, most gorgeously caparisoned, paws the earth as if proud of the burden which he bears. She now sees him surrounded by fire and smoke, and hears the loud roaring of artillery; she sees two mighty armies drawn up in battle array, while her lover, mounted on his white charger, leads on his regiment to the charge amidst shouts of victory, which follow him through the reaking ranks of the enemy. The blood stained banner floats majestically over the head of her lover as he cheers his men on to victory. Her lover seems much changed in appearance; he appears older than when torn from her on the schooner; his manly figure looks taller than when she saw him last; but his complexion, his beauty, and gentleness are the same. His noble brow flashes with anger as he wields his bloody sabre as if he were reaping his revenge on the enemies of his country. He fights with desperation, and victory follows him wherever he goes. She sees a ball pierce his noble breast; she screams, is awakened, and finds that she had only been dreaming. 
               She was now started by the abrupt entrance of a servant, who informed her that the coach would soon be in readiness to set out for Perote. She aroused Pedro, who was sleeping soundly, prepared her toilet, and was soon ready to enter the stage. All the passengers soon took their seats in the coach; Gen. Aakenza and Gabbez took the seats which they had occupied on the day previous; Ellen took her seat as usual, leaned against the corner of the coach, and closed her eyes. All now being in readiness, the driver mounted the box, and gave his whip a crack, when the horses dashed over the pavement at a rapid rate. 
               The bright rays of the sun now began to gild the eastern sky, and the dusky clouds, that hung along the side of the white-capped mountains, began gradually to disperse; the merry song of the thousand Jackdaws, which filled the beautiful orange groves on either side of the road, filled the air with their sweet music. The balmy morning breeze gently fanned the fragrant wild flowers, which decked the mountain-sides, filling the atmosphere with their sweet odor. Ellen opened her eyes, they met those of Gabbez, who was staring her in the face; she shuddered and shrank back from his piercing gaze; vengeance was depicted in his countenance as he gave his head a menacing nod and turned away. Poor little Ellen saw that some awful punishment awaited her. Late in the evening they arrived in sight of the world-renowned city of Perote, noted for its mighty castle, in which the Mier prisoners were confined, and treated with so much cruelty. The farewell rays of the sun shone down on the white towers of the city with exquisite beauty, while the shrill notes of martial music fell gently on the ear, as the national guards marched out to the evening tatoo. Everything was clothed with animation and loveliness. Thousands of beautiful birds sat perched in the beautiful fruit trees, where they warbled their sweet anthems to the close of day; and the busy hum of a thousand pleasure carriages, filled the air as they went dashing in every direction through the streets. 
               Ellen soon found herself safely lodged in a room on the basement story of the "Hotel do-lo Malco," where, as usual, she gave orders for her supper to be brought to her room. The poor little girl felt too much agitated to take tea at the table with the balance of the guests. Dreadful forebodings of some coming evil now took possession of her young breast; she saw that in the eyes of young Gabbez which plainly told her that she had in him a stubborn foe to deal with, and she saw, too, that he had complete control of her father. Ellen threw herself on a sofa close by a little window, and burst into a violent flood of tears. She was very much alarmed; she heard the heavy footsteps of two men enter the adjoining room, separated from hers only by a thin plank partition. They seated themselves within six inches of the sofa upon which Ellen lay, and commenced the following conversation: 
               "Gabbez," said the well known voice of General Aakenza, "there must be something done to save my daughter from ruining herself. We must manage to wean her affections from the memory of that American youth. It is killing her by slow degrees; can't you manage to initiate yourself into her love, Gabbez? She certainly will love you, if you manage discreetly. She is bound to love you after a short time; she will soon forget Henry, and then she will readily accept your hand. Nothing on earth would afford me more pleasure than the honor of calling you my son. All my wealth is at your command, when you succeed in weaning Ellen's affections from that youth. I will aid you all I can and I am sure you can succeed by using the proper means. Will you make the attempt, Gabbez?" 
               "I will, provided you leave the whole matter to me, and promise to let me have my own way. I may be compelled to use very rough means in bringing this little heroine to her senses, and I will not undertake it unless you promise to leave the whole matter with me." 
               "I promise most solemnly, my son Gabbez, not to interfere with you in any way whatever, if it does not meet your approbation. You will have to learn from the bar-keeper what room she occupies, for she has taken a room to herself with Pedro." 
               "D--n Pedro," muttered Gabbez, "he is the infernal scamp that hurled me down the stairs at Jalappa. But I will teach him how to insult a gentleman; I will make him curse the day that gave him an existence! You must take this young devil under your control, for Ellen can make him undertake anything she wishes; she told him to hurl me down stairs, which was no sooner said than done, but I will bring him to his senses! I will now go and learn what room the little demon occupies, and then go to work." 
               "Oh, great God have mercy!" whispered Ellen, as she heard the heavy footsteps of Gabbez, as he arose and left the room. Her poor little heart grew sick, her face turned deadly pale, the cold perspiration stood in drops on her marble brow, and her delicate little frame trembled with fear. 
               "Oh, my unfeeling, inhuman parent! why hast thou consented for thy daughter to be insulted and outraged by the murderer of her lover? Thou hast basely consented for me to become the helpless prey to that more than demon's insatiable revenge! Oh God, protect and defend me from the poisonous fangs of that loathsome dragon, who, after murdering my dear Henry, now dares ask me to love him! Oh, that the spirit of my beloved Henry would come and stand by me in this trying hour, that I might be protected from the murderous grasp of this unfeeling monster, who is wholly destitute of the first spark of humanity. But, alas! poor Henry sleeps beneath the stormy gulf. If he was alive, wo be to him who should injure his love; but that stout arm, which was ever raised in defence of the innocent, now lies still in death. Those large, dark eyes, from, which streamed kindness and love, are closed forever. That noble young heart, which used to throb in sweet unison with mine, is stilled in death. Oh, Death, thou art cruel to strike down so young a flower-so, noble a youth, in the very prime of life. Oh, that thy relentless dart had spared him for this momentous occasion! Oh, that I could now be with my dear Henry!" 
               Ah, indeed! Gen. Aakenza is sadly, mistaken when he thinks that his daughter will soon forget Henry. His image is stamped on her young heart, and nothing but death will ever be able to deface it; his figure floats in her imagination, both day and night-when she is asleep and when she is awake. 
               Gabbez now entered Ellen's room, where he found the sweet little girl meekly kneeling on her knees by the side of the sofa, with her little white hands clasped, while her dark eyes were raised towards the throne of Divine mercy. She was pouring out her young soul to God in prayer. She turned not her head when Gabbez entered, but remained on her knees, as though she was unconscious of his presence. Gabbez now felt a pang of shame and self-reproach as he gazed on the innocent object of his revenge on her knees. The blood rushed to his face-his knees trembled-his lips quivered-and the blood ran cold in his veins, for he felt like he was standing on holy ground. There was something in the atmosphere, that now surrounded his lovely creature, which made him feel like he was approaching something celestial. His resolution of revenge now fled; love, instead of revenge, prevailed. The most generous faculties of his nature were now aroused. He stood motionless for sometime, gazing on the kneeling form of the young maiden, when at last his feelings became uncontrollable. He sprang forward and fell on the carpet by her side, unable to utter a single word. Thus do we find the young Spaniard, who had entered Ellen's room with rage and a determination to have revenge. We see him conquered by Ellen's beauty and innocence, and stretched at length on the floor at her feet, unable to utter a single word, much less to take that revenge which he threatened when he entered her room. He, at length, having recovered a little, with a piteous groan cried out: 
               "Oh, Ellen! forgive, if you cannot love me; promise me, sweet Ellen, that you will forgive me! Oh, that I could recall your lover from the watery grave in which I have been the guilty instrument in placing him. I would freely yield up the ghost, could I only receive one single smile of pity from you. Oh, Ellen, do! for the sake of heaven, say that you forgive me! I have deeply wronged you, Ellen, but I have sorely repented. The image of Henry haunts me when I sleep-I see him before me now! He calls me to save him from the raging surf! Can you-I ask on my knees-I pray you to forgive me?" 
               A crystal tear of sympathy now mounted Ellen's cheek: 
               "You are freely given, so far as I am concerned, and may God forgive you likewise," exclaimed the tender-hearted young maiden. "But, I hope, Gabbez, as you have slain my lover, and are forgiven, that you will never again ask me to love you." 
               "No, Ellen, all I ask is that you will forgive me for the deep injury I have inflicted upon you." 
               "Yes, Gabbez, you have grossly wronged me; you have persecuted my innocent lover, who was as clear of the charges you alleged against him as the angels of heaven; and you knew, too, that he was innocent. But you saw proper, from some cause, to accuse him of an attempt to assassinate the very one whom he done all he could to save-whom he periled his own life to save from a watery grave. For, had it not been for his noble and indomitable courage, I should now have been sleeping at the bottom of the Ohio river. It was his pure and devoted love for me, that hath won him a grave beneath the stormy sea. Those delicate little hands of his which snatched me from the rolling billows, are torn and lacerated by the unfeeling fishes of the mighty deep. But as I look for mercy at the day of final reckoning-as I anticipate a re-union with Henry in the golden fields of bliss, I must be merciful; so I freely pardon you, Gabbez, and my prayers shall ascend the throne of Divine mercy in behalf of your forgiveness." 
               What an object of admiration do we here behold! We see the young girl not only forgiving Gabbez for killing her lover, but she prays to the throne of Divine mercy for his pardon. Gabbez remained on his knees for sometime, with his eyes filled with a flood of tears; he groaned heavily, seized Ellen's little hand and pressed it to his burning lips; then hastily leaving the room, he went to the room of Gen. Aakenza, whom he found seated on a sofa, with his face buried in his hands, wrapped in deep thoughtfulness. The old general hastily sprang forward to meet his intended son-in-law, and began inquiring what progress he had made in his marriage enterprize. 
               "Stop, Gen. Aakenza," said the frantic young man; "call me not son any longer; for all hope of winning the hand of your daughter is at an end. It is easier to pluck the Cordilleras from their roots, than to win the hand of Ellen; her heart is buried beneath the surging waves of the tempestuous gulf. She has forgiven me for the part I took in persecuting young Henry, and now Gen. Aakenza, a word to you: You have suffered yourself to be carried away by a strange infatuation, which I feared hath ruined our eternal welfare, for you are as guilty as I. You urged me to persecute this youth, and I feel that my hands are stained with his blood. We both knew him to be innocent, yet you still urged me to destroy him. I followed your directions until I hurried him to an untimely grave, and now your daughter, instead of loving me as you said she would, scoffs at and spurns me from her presence. She hates me as she does the most loathsome serpent. And this is the reward that I receive for aiding you in murdering this young American, instead of a loving wife. The finger of scorn is thrust in my face, and I am shunned by every honorable man who has learned how I treated this young man. But I deserve nothing better for suffering myself to be made a willing instrument in murdering an innocent youth." 
               "Such language as this, young man," said Gen. Aakenza, "does not become you; you must be patient, you must persevere. I am satisfied that she will forget Henry before many months, and then she will answer your suit with an affirmative. Wait until we arrive at the city of Mexico; she shall accompany pany you to all places of public amusement, where she shall have no other companion but you; and, no doubt, when she is thrown into the gay circles of the young people of the great city, but that the memory of the young American will soon be defaced. And she will soon be willing, and will think herself highly honored, to become the bride of so distinguished a young gentleman as yourself. Mark what I tell you, and see if it don't come to pass." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               ELLEN CONSENTS TO MARRY GABBEZ TO SAVE THE LIFE OF HER FATHER. 
               "YOUR daughter is just as likely to fall in love with his honor, the king of hell, as me. I do not believe, General, that you know your own daughter. But, talking of 'distinguished young gentlemen:' a hell's full of just such distinction as I have obtained; a fine post of honor indeed! With the mark of care on my brow, and my hands stained with human gore. Noble distinction this! Just step into your daughter's room, and hear her talk of marriage a few minutes, and if she don't convince you that you never saw just such a creature before, then I will own that I have lied. The more she hates me the more I love her; but she is lost to me forever. I am perfectly frantic with love for her, but she says that she is frantic with hate for me! Oh, h-l," cried the how enraged Gabbez. "Old man," continued he, "if you don't make your daughter love me I'll murder you, by the holy powers above. You said she should love me, and I now hold you to your word. You shall make her love me; you shall compel her to marry me. I told her not ten minutes since, that if she would pardon me for what I had done, I would never ask her to love me again. But I cannot live without her, and will not live without her, nor shall you live unless you make her marry me. You promised me that she should love me, and if you don't fulfil your promise, as long as you have taught me to be a murderer, I may try my hand, by way of keeping it in, on you." 
               "Hush, young man, you know not what you are saying. If Ellen is not your wife by this time next spring, then you may take my life and welcome, for I fear death as little as any one. But it is nonsense to be running on with such foolish language. Show me a girl who can love a dead man longer than a month, and then I will admit that I have no knowledge of the sex. They may cry and mourn as if they would never get over it, but it is soon over with them, and they will soon become as lively and gay as ever. So it will be with Ellen; she will be half dead for you in less than a month." 
               "Half dead after the d-l!" cried Gabbez, his eyes flashing like balls of fire. "I fancy that I see her now dying with love for me! As I have already said, she is more likely to fall in love with the devil himself than me." 
               Thus continued the youth and Aakenza to dispute until a late hour, when they retired-but not to rest, for Gabbez did not close his eyes during the whole night. The beautiful form of Ellen floated like a fairy in his imagination; and the piteous cries of Henry ringing in his ears, produced not a pleasant sound. Ellen threw herself on the bed and soon wept herself to sleep, when she dreams of Henry. She again sees him mounted on a large white charger gorgeously caparisoned in trappings of glittering gold, with a star of honor sparkling on his breast. He leads on his men to battle amid blood and smoke. Two mighty armies are drawn up in battle array with their rich uniforms, whilst their bayonets are shining in the bright rays of the sun. The blood-stained banner streams amid the hottest of the contest. She sees Henry on his fine white charger at the head of his columns waving his sword in the air, and cheering his men on to victory. She hears the thundering of the hostile cannon, and the sharp rattling of musketry. She hears the groans and shrieks of the slain, and sees the blood gashing from the gapping wounds of the dead and dying, whilst the shouts of the victorious throng fill the air as they tread on the dead and dying. She still sees Henry all covered with blood and smoke, and the hot perspiration streams from his noble brow, and falls like dew drops to the ground. Wherever he points his sword, the contest grows hottest. The stars and stripes float on the side on which she sees Henry, while on the other side float the colors of Mexico. A ball now pierces Henry's young breast, the red blood spouts from the wound, and he falls back to the earth. Ellen screams, and springing on her feet, finds it was but a dream. This was the second time that she had dreamed the same dream; twice had she seen Henry mounted on his white charger, and as often had she seen him fall wounded and bleeding to the earth. 
               The proud sun now mounted the eastern hills, and began to peep through little Ellen's window, and to shed his cheerful light on all surrounding objects. She sprang from her bed, and was soon seated in the old mail coach, which went dashing over the hills toward Puebla, at a rapid rate. She took her usual seat, and leaned against the corner of the coach, but paid no attention to the other passengers, who stared her in the face as if there was something in her countenance that they had never seen before. Gabbez was seated on the back seat, with his cloak drawn over his face like a snail, afraid to peep out from his hiding place. Gen. Aakenza was seated by his side, with eyes as red as coals of fire from the effects of weeping-he repented sorely for his conduct toward his gentle daughter, and was now fully satisfied that her reason was partially dethroned, and that he was the guilty instrument in destroying his daughter's mind. His old breast was filled with emotions of the bitterest anguish. He kept his seat all day without saying a word. On the evening of the second day after leaving Perote, the coach ascended the tall peaks of the majestic mountains, from whose tops were plainly to be seen, many leagues distant, the world-renowned city of the ancient Montezumas. The tall peaks of the cloud-capped mountains towered many thousand feet above the level of the sea, on whose tops stood tall pine trees, gilded over with the departing rays of the sun, which presented a scene beautiful and sublime. The golden metropolis now burst in view of the passengers as they began to descend the sloping mountain, at whose base stood the mighty city. 
               To the left of the road lay the lake of Akapulco, on which floated a thousand little Gondoliers, filled with young Simareters from the city, some were engaged in bathing, some in fishing, and others in sporting with the young Umbras. The busy rattling of wagons, carts, and pleasure carriages, as they dashed through the stony streets made a rumbling sound like the roaring of distant thunder. Several hundred bells might be heard ringing at the same time, calling the Mexicans to evening's mass. Ellen's heart was filled with emotions of delight as she neared her home. She had not seen the great city for four years, and when the thought of soon being in the arms of her dear mother, rushed across her mind, her young soul swelled with joy. There is something sweet in the name of mother, it falls sweetly on the ears of the child of sorrow and misfortune. Ellen's little heart fluttered with joy when she hove in sight of the home of her childhood. 
               Her father's dwelling stood near the grand Almeda, a park used by the upper-crust of the metropolis as a pleasure ground. The building was a large store building, four stories high, flatroofed, banistered on top; it was surrounded by a beautiful grove of orange, fig, and lemon trees, which were loaded with luscious fruit. Everything seemed to be lighted up with life and animation; the beautiful spring flowers, which waved their gentle heads in every garden, filled the still atmosphere with their sweet odor. The coach now rolled up to the yard gate and halted; Gen. Aakenza had no sooner touched the ground than his wife was in his arms. She was looking for the General and her daughter. Ellen now sprang out. The old lady now turned deadly pale, gasped for breath, and tried to speak, but could'nt. She pointed to the coach; she tried by signs to inquire for Ellen, for not seeing her she became much alarmed. The reader will bear in mind that little Ellen was still dressed in her male garb. Ellen sprang into the arms of her mother, who shrank from her embrace, thinking it was some insane youth. But when she recognized Ellen, she pressed her to her breast, and gave vent to her joy in a violent flood of tears. 
               "What on earth is my sweet little Ellen doing dressed in men's clothes?" inquired the old lady. 
               "Wait mother, and I will tell you all; I have a great deal to tell you." 
               Gabbez did not get out of the coach, but continued on his way home. Ellen was soon dressed in her former garb. She put on a full dress of deep mourning, and on her left wrist she wore a braid of dark hair, which she might, have been seen to press with a kiss. It was a braid of Henry's hair, which he had given her at the city of New Orleans; she braided it herself and was keeping it as a memento of her love for the donor. He who thinks Ellen's affections will ever be weaned from Henry, is very much mistaken. She keeps her room all the time, and refuses to go to any public place of amusements. The young ladies of the city flock in great crowds to visit the beauteous maid, whom they think is soon to be the bride of Gabbez, for it was generally understood that Ellen and Gabbez were to be married when she returned from the United States. Ellen's room was crowded with young ladies every day, who annoyed her very much with their inquiries concerning her marriage with Gabbez. Several months had passed away, but Ellen still remains confined in her room, and refuses to mingle in the gay circles of the city. It began to be whispered through the city that Gen. Aakenza's daughter had discarded Gabbez. 
               The following conversation took place between two young ladies, who were returning home from a visit to Ellen's room. The younger of whom was sixteen years old, and the daughter of one of the first citizens of Mexico, to whom Gabbez had been paying his addresses. 
               "I believe," said the younger, "that Ellen has discarded Gabbez; she appears to shun his presence. I think she ought to be proud of such a beau as he; I am sure I would be proud to have the attentions of so fine a gentleman. She seems very much changed since her return from the United States; she goes moping about, dressed in deep mourning, and looks as if she was forty years old. I am sure if I were Gabbez that I would not care if she did discard me; I shouldn't want a wife that looks old enough for my mother. Gabbez is good enough for Ellen Aakenza, or anybody else." 
               "I am not at all surprised at your thinking so, Juana," said the other,"for I believe that you want him yourself; and if Ellen is the only rival that you have, you need not have any fears, for I learn that she has fallen in love with an American youth, that saved her life on the Ohio river, who went crazy about her and drowned himself because her father objected to his marrying hen. And she expresses herself as determined to live single the balance of her life." 
               "I think," said Juana, "from what I have heard of Ellen that she is crazy, too, or partially so, for she never speaks to any person unless she is spoken to; she remains in her room all the time, and appears to disdain company of every kind, and never goes to any place of public amusement. But the very fact of her having discarded Gabbez is proof sufficient to convince me that she is insane. Why any young lady in the city would have him at a word. But she hates his very presence. And I am surprised at Gabbez for loving such a girl at first, for she is not his equal in any respect." 
               Juana was the daughter of Gen. Valanche who was killed at the battle of Contreras, in 1847. Gabbez had visited her several times, but without any intention whatever of making love to her, for he still hoped to win Ellen's affections; at least he could never give up the struggle so long as there was a single ray of hope. He was a daily visitor at the residence of Gen. Aakenza, but Ellen always shunned his company. Twelve months had now passed away, still Ellen refused to mingle in society. The rosy tints on her lovely cheeks had faded away, and her beautiful dark orbs had sunk deep into their sockets; but that divine Beauty, that intelligent expression of countenance, still beamed forth as freshly as ever. Her father tried to prevail on her to attend public amusements; he took her with him to the city of Havana, where she remained six months, still the memory of Henry was not defaced. She sought solitude, and was never seen to join in conversation with any person unless forced to. It was the general gossip of the day that the beautiful daughter of Gen. Aakenza had lost her reason, and had attempted to commit suicide, but was prevented by the diligence of her parents, who had kept her closely watched. 
               Her father now returned to the city of Mexico, fully confident that his daughter would willingly accept the hand of Gabbez. He entered her room one morning in the Spring of 1841, and broached the subject to her in the following manner. Ellen was dressed in a flowery dress of black satin, and reclined on the sofa with her large eyes filled with tears-she was often seen to weep when alone. The old man's heart was filled with anguish and bitter remorse; he saw what a dreadful wreck he had made of his beautiful daughter. Those beautiful dark eyes which used to greet him with a tender smile of gladness whenever he came into her presence, now met him with a faint, unmeaning expression. That little white hand which was always extended to him now hung pale and withered by the side of the skeleton-like little girl. Her brow was wrinkled, and her once rosy cheeks were sunken and pale as a corpse from grief and sorrow; her beautiful raven curls, which used to dangle about her snowy neck with so much grace and beauty, now hung in long masses down her shoulders. Upon the whole she was the very picture of despair. 
               "Ellen," said the old man, "you must now obey me this one time; I have borne with you as long as I can, and you must now consent to marry Gabbez, for I have determined that you shall have him. He will murder me unless you consent to marry him; it was I who taught him to commit murder. I told him if he would make way with Henry that you should be his. He has obeyed, and now calls on me to fulfil my promise. My life hangs on your decision, Ellen, but I deserve no better fate; I taught the youth how to commit murder, and now I am to be a victim of my own schooling. My dear little daughter, it is in your power to save my life, but I shall not beg you to save it; I am as little afraid to die as any man that lives. It is true life is sweet, but at most I have but a short period to remain on this earthly stage-he cannot deprive me of many years. He met me in the street last evening, and told me to my face that if you did not marry him he would take my life. And I am satisfied he would do so; he is a man of unchangable resolution, and will accomplish whatever he attempts. I have taught him the game of murder, and have also taught him to love you; he loves you dearly, and he will no doubt make you a good husband. There are a thousand young ladies in the city that would be glad to get him. I ask you, my daughter, to make no sacrifice; I ask nothing but that which will contribute to your honor and happiness." 
               While the old man was thus speaking he was seated by Ellen's side, and her pale cheek was resting on his troubled bosom. She felt the heavy motion of her parent's breast as it throbbed against her cheek. She raised her eyes to his, they were swimming in tears. His gray locks plead his cause. His lips were closed in silence to hear Ellen's answer. The reader has, no doubt, already guessed what her answer would be. Ellen's tender heart began to melt with pity for her aged parent, for grief had brought him almost to the very verge of the grave. Poor little Ellen's bosom heaved with emotions of anguish and pity, and her pale lips quivered as she exclaimed: 
               "Father, you are saved; tell him I will marry him. You shall not be murdered on my account; I will save my dear parent." 
               The old man knew how to touch her sympathy; he knew that his daughter would make any sacrifice to save his life. But this was a fabrication of his own making, which he had invented by way of working upon the sympathies of his gentle daughter, in order to extract from her a promise to marry Gabbez. He knew well that if he could make her believe that his life was in danger, he could gain his point without a struggle. Cruel parent thus to trifle with the present and future happiness of thy lovely daughter. How destitute of the feelings of humanity must the heart of that man be, who can thus wilfully and knowingly barter away the happiness of his only daughter: her, too, whom he had so deeply injured. But she had freely forgiven him, and consented to marry the murderer of her lover to save his life. 
               The old man now left the room with a smile of triumph playing on his wrinkled cheek, at the thought of the signal victory which he had just achieved. The old hero looked upon it as one of the greatest victories on record. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               ELLEN TAKEN BY THE POLICE WHILE DRESSED IN MALE GARMENTS. 
               "MY plan has succeeded well," soliloquized he to himself, as he left the room, "I have told a falsehood, but it was to promote the happiness of my daughter. She will soon be the wife of one of the most influential young men in all Mexico; she will then forget the memory of that cursed youth who has initiated himself into her good graces. I have told my daughter a lie, 'tis true, but it was to promote her welfare, and there can be no harm in that." See the old hero trying to justify himself, by the testimony of h-I's blackest intrigue: committing one crime to justify another. Forcing his lovely little daughter to marry a man whose very presence was hateful to her sight, and upon whom it made her young heart sick to gaze. I say, we see the father justifying himself in telling one of the blackest falsehoods that could possibly be invented by living man. He hastened to inform Gabbez that Ellen had at last promised to marry him. 
               "Didn't I tell you, Gabbez," said he, on entering his room, "that Ellen would be glad to accept your hand before twelve months. She is yours whenever you see proper to name the day. I have just left her room, and she requested me to inform you that she was ready to marry you at any time. I told you she would soon forget that youth and consent to marry you. Now you will acknowledge that I know a little more of human nature than you do. You must hasten to her room as soon as possible and appoint a day for the wedding, for she loves you ten-fold harder than she did Henry; she will make you a noble wife. I don't believe she ever loved Henry; she only felt grateful to him for saving her life; but she loves you to distraction. It was of her own free will. She loves you dearly; she is anxious to marry you, and all you have to do is to appoint a day on which the hymeneal knot shall be tied." 
               "Well, I'll be d-d if she ain't the strangest girl I have met with yet; but I'll go and see her, anyhow, and convince myself of the truth of what you say." 
               So this interesting confab now ended, and Gabbez set out to visit Ellen. Proud Cynthia was peeping over the eastern hills, with a pale and silvery light, casting a transparent hue on the tall spires of that mighty city, as Gabbez wended his way through the streets, and steered his course toward the dwelling of Gen. Aakenza, while a thousand thoughts rushed across his mind in an instant. 
               "What!" said he to himself, "am I up to? I am going to see a young lady who compelled her servant to hurl me from her room like a d-d spaniel; one who has told me a thousand times that she loathed my very presence; that the very atmosphere in which I moved was slimy and poisonous to her stomach. She has told me to my face that she was dying with pure and undefiled hate for me, and now here I am on the way to her room to appoint a day for our wedding! Is it possible that she is going to take me to her bosom, for life! me whose presence made her very heart sick! She was either crazy then or she is crazy now, for I never heard such words of contempt come from the lips of a girl before or since. But I will soon hear what she has to say for herself." 
               Thus soliloquized Gabbez, until he arrived in front of the large dwelling of Gen. Aakenza. His knees trembled and his heart fluttered as he entered Ellen's room, for he felt as though he was approaching something divine. 
               She was reclining on the sofa, where her father had left her. Her pale cheek rested on one end of the sofa, which was damp with a flow of tears, which streamed from her eyes. Her lips were as pale as the withered rose; her little white hands rested on her black dress, which made them appear paler, if possible, than they actually were. Her ivory bosom swelled with a violent tide of anguish, shame and fear. She did not raise her eyes, or seem to take any notice whatever of Gabbez when he entered the room. 
               He shoved the door open, and stood for several minutes as if riveted to the floor; his heart was filled with awe and reverence as he gazed on the angelic features of the beauteous maid. After standing in the door for some time, he sprang forward, and threw himself on his knees at her feet, and seized her little hand and pressed it to his lips. Gabbez generally felt very brave, until he was in her presence, when his courage failed. 
               "Dear Ellen," quoth he, "your father has informed me that you have consented to become my bride, and if that be true, and you have consented of your own free will, let us appoint the day which shall seal my earthly happiness forever." 
               The young damsel bowed her head in silence, whilst a briny flood poured in torrents down her beauteous cheeks. 
               Without waiting to hear her answer, Gabbez left the room, and hastened to Gen. Aakenza, and charged him to his face of an attempt to force his lovely daughter to become his wife. "That infernal servant, Pedro," said Gabbez, "is the leading cause of all this trouble; if you would do your duty, as a parent, you would sell him to some person who would convey him to some distant land; you would soon find your daughter much changed in her feeling toward you and I both." 
               "I am of the same opinion, Gabbez, and have already bargained him to a brother of mine, who resides in Cuba, and carries on a large cotton farm. I regret very much to be compelled to sell him, he has been a faithful servant, but his conduct of late is such that I have resolved to endure it no longer." 
               Poor little Ellen's heart beat with bitter woe when ehe saw Pedro set out for his new home on a distant shore. She viewed him as her last and only friend on earth. Even her mother was prepossessed in favor of Gabbez, and urged her daughter continually to become his bride. 
               Ellen took her stand on the balastrade of her father's dwelling. Pedro came and fell prostrate at her feet. "Oh! Miss Ellen, for the sake of high heaven, and everything sacred on earth, do try to prevail on Gen. Aakenza to suffer me to remain with you; otherwise, to a foreign shore I must go, and be compelled to toil under the lash from early dawn till the close of day." 
               Ellen's only answer was a loud scream, and, fainting, she fell to the floor. Gen. Aakenza rushed out on the balastrade, accompanied by his brother, and placed a pair of handcuffs on. 
               Pedro's hands, and hurried him off on the road to Vera Cruz. Ellen strained her streaming eyes toward Pedro, and, with her handkerchief, waved to him a long, and, as she thought, an everlasting farewell. 
               A long fit of insanity was the result of this cruel treatment to the already broken-hearted damsel. For six long weeks Ellen was confined to her bed, with a painful spell of brain fever. Her sweet lips lisped the name of Henry and Pedro nearly at every breath. At length her reason again resumed its throne. Six long months she remained closely confined to her room, and refused to receive company of any kind. Her beauteous cheeks were as pale as alabaster, her languishing eyes were sunk deep in their sockets, and she gazed on every object around with an idiotic stare. 
               Two years had now rolled away since Henry and Ellen parted on the rolling deep, and the above transactions were forgotten by all save Ellen. But still the beauteous image of Henry clung around her broken heart. He was the last object which floated before her eyes before she slept, and the first which rushed across her mind when she awoke. 
                
               Early one morning the whole city was startled by the ringing of a thousand bells, and the displaying of a thousand bloodstained banners, which floated proudly in the morning. Ellen took her stand on the flat roof of her father's magnificent dwelling to ascertain what had occasioned the noise, when a large company of Americans met her view, marching slowly through the streets, all chained around the neck with heavy iron manacles. They marched in double file, a large chain passing through the centre of the company, to which was fastened a smaller chain, the other end being fastened to each prisoner's neck. Each prisoner was bare-headed, bare-footed, and the blood streaming from their feet. Of all the objects of pity that ever met the hnman eye, this gang of Santa Fe prisoners could not be surpassed by any. They were driven through the streets by a band of unfeeling Mexicans, who held long whips in their hands, and seemed to amuse themselves by whipping the prisoners as they passed along. Gabbez was commander of the guard, who seemed to amuse himself by giving a blow on the naked back of an American youth who seemed to be the youngest of the prisoners. They came to a halt in front of Aakenza's dwelling. Ellen walked to the front of the house, and for a moment gazed on the suffering crowd, while tears of pity streamed like falling rain from her eyes. She commenced at the head of the company and examined the features of every prisoner, one by one, until her eyes fell on the beauteous countenance of the above mentioned youth. And a piercing scream she loudly uttered and fell prostrate to the floor. Lady Aakenza rushed up to the roof and found her daughter stretched on the floor, whilst all signs of life were extinct. Straightway she was conveyed to her room and placed on a couch, where she remained unconscious for several hours. Meantime the prisoners were driven like a drove of sheep along the streets to gratify the curiosity of the citizens, and then set out on the road towards Perote. Gen. Aakenza and his wife were seated near the couch on which lay the heart-broken daughter, on whom they gazed with anxious eyes. At length the maiden opened her languishing eyes, and gazed wistfully around the room. 
               "Where is he? Oh, where is he, mother? What hath he done that ye chain him round the tender neck?" She leaped from the bed, and fell on her knees at her father's feet. "Oh, dear father, what have you done with him? What caused you to put such heavy iron bands around his noble neck? What hath he done to Gabbez, that he should take such pleasure in whipping him on the naked back?" 
                
               Then the damsel fell into another paroxysm of despair. She tore her hair-wrung her hands-smote her swelling breast-and, with her nails, tore the flesh from her beauteous cheek. The precious blood trickled down her lovely chin, and fell in large drops on her heaving bosom. Loud shouts and screams of dispair came in thick succession from her lips. Gen. Aakenza, believing his daughter wholly insane, paid but little or no attention to her words: in fact, he could not divine the purport of what the damsel said. 
               The proud king of day now drives his car behind the western hills, and closes the shining portals of day-the proud wolf stalks his course over the mountains in search of prey-the nightingale mounts the branches of the tall trees, and sings his doleful song-silvery Cynthia mounts the eastern sky, and drives her shining chariot across the vaulted blue, whilst her struggling beams show a pale glimmering light over the broad earth. The demonic yell of the panther-the loud scream of the hungry wolf, and the solemn tones of the nightbird's song-all combine to add a solemnity to the scene. The large city clock strikes twelve, when Ellen might be seen on the flat roof of Aakenza's house, kneeling near the parapet wall, giving utterance to the following prayer, whilst all the family were wrapt in sweet repose: 
               "Oh, thou Supreme Ruler of the realms of earth, sky, hell, and heaven-thou at whose command whole empires rise and fall-thou who guides the destiny of every heart, and controls the fortune of every breast-thou, in whose awful hand is held the destiny of worlds, and at whose command whole nations sink to dust, and whole empires rise to glory-vouchsafe to leave thy shining realms of unending glory, and on the gilded wings of love sail through fields of unlimited space, and draw near unto me this one time. O! God, open the kind windows of Paradise, and let a kind blessing pour on my devoted head. One blessing now, O! God, I am about asking of thee-and the prayer comes from the bottommost precincts of my troubled soul-that is, O! God, to restore to these arms my noble-hearted lover; or stop my breath, and suffer us to be re-united in shining realms of glory." 
               Long the beauteous damsel remained on her knees, pouring out her soul in prayer to the great ruler of heaven. Her long and luxuriant tresses hung in mazy coils around her snowy neck-a flowing robe of purple satin, wholly unbound, hung in long flowing waves around her angelic form. Broad fringes of shining gold lace, hung around the skirts of her flowing gown. Her black apron was made stiff with diamonds. Now she arose from her knees, with spirits more calm than usual, and leaned oven the parapet walls, and gazed long on the silvery moon which coursed its way across the southern sky. Then the town clock tolled three; she then retired to her downy couch, and prayed another short prayer, and soon closed her innocent eyes in the arms of sweet repose-whilst Henry's image again floats before her mind. 
               Six months had now passed since Ellen saw the Santa Fe prisoners march through the city, but still the image of the youth, on whom Gabbez seemed to glut his revenge, clung like an archangel around her heart. She saw him, in her imagination, when sleeping-his memory floated around her soul, when awake. She saw his tender and naked back marked with the painful lash-she saw his beauteous face, which seemed familiar to her eye-she beheld his tender feet bleeding, gashed with sharp stones-she saw his tender limbs wrapt in rags far too filthy for the vilest slave to wear. The very thought made her young heart bleed with bitter woe, and her generous young breast swell with anguish and pain. She imagined that she beheld in the features of that youth something which, in former days, had made her happy. Sometimes she thought she could discern the same pair of beauteous eyes which rested on her, when on the Ohio river, over two years previous to that tune. Thus the damsel soliloquized to herself one evening, as she stood on the balastrade! Why do I suffer myself to hope, when I know he is dead?-when I know he sleeps beneath the briny waves of the roaring gulf? Perhaps that beauteous youth may be his cousin, for he told me he had no Living brother; but something did I discern in his countenance, which recalled to my mind the happiest moment of my life. 
               Time rolled on, the Santa Fe prisoners were set at liberty, after undergoing many long months of intense suffering and pain. Ellen's heart leaped in her breast for joy, when she heard they were released; for the sufferings of the beautiful young man caused her gentle heart many hours of anxiety and pain. When she heard they were released, she resolved, if possible, to get another view of the youth who so much resembled the one she loved; for which purpose she dressed herself in the same male garb which she had worn, when in search of Henry-took her seat in the mail coach and set out for Perote. She took from Aakenza's trunk fifteen hundred dollars in gold; soon Gen. Aakenza missed his wealth and daughter, but had no idea where they were gone. 
               Ellen arrived at Perote, where she learned that the prisoners were gone. She was informed that, by hastening to Vera Cruz, they might be seen; that they were under charge of the United States Minister, Wady Thompson, and on their way to the United States. Without delay she hastened to Vera Cruz, where, with bitter disappointment, she learned that the prisoners had set sail for New Orleans, with the exception of a few, who expected to make their homes in Vera Cruz. She was overwhelmed with bitter disappointment at hearing this sad intelligence. She arrived at the city just as the golden sun begun to sink behind the western horizon. In briny torrents the tears of woe gushed from her eyes, when she recalled the happy night when Henry stole her from the hotel. Two long years had passed since that eventful night; but every transaction was as fresh in her mind as if they had taken place on the night previous. She went to the same hotel, and demanded the same room from which Henry and she had escaped. She entered the room, and beheld the same bed from which Henry had lifted her to the window-the same sofa on which they had sat, side by side-the same window through which she had escaped from her unrelenting father. She knelt and kissed the window seat, where she knew that Henry's foot had once rested. Darkness had now spread her mantle on all around-the silvery queen ever and anon burst forth from a golden cloud, and dash her pale rays across the sparkling gulf. Ellen now concluded to visit her favorite rock, where she and Henry had sat side by side, on that memorable night. She hastened down stairs coursed her way through the streets, till she came to the out-skirts of the city. Now, the moon burst from a cloud, and displayed the well-known rock. She hastened to the spot, and dropped on her knees; and, as usual, poured out her soul in anxious prayer. Big drops of bitter woe coursed slowly down her beautiful cheeks, and fell in thick succession on the rock where she was kneeling. Her hands were crossed on her swelling bosom, and her eyes raised towards the shining portals of heaven. She had been kneeling some ten minutes, when she heard the sound of heavy footsteps approaching the entrance of the cavern, arose and cast her eyes towards the place; and, by the dim light of the moon, she beheld the tall figure of a man entering the cave. Her tender heart shrunk within her breast with fear; she saw no possible chance to escape, without dashing right by the place where the figure stood. She stepped a few paces farther back in the cave, and concealed herself behind a large craggy rock, to await till the individual should leave the place. He stood for an instant at the entrance, then approached the rock and threw himself on his knees, at the same spot from whence Ellen had just arose. 
                
               For several minutes he remained silent. With his eyes raised toward heaven, then commenced a prayer in a low whisper. Ellen could not distinctly understand the purport of his prayer. His prayer was ever and anon interrupted by heavy groans and sobs. Ellen listened attentively, anxious to ascertain the meaning of his petition. By the struggling light of the moon, which cast her pale rays in the cave, she discovered that he was a young man-that he was dressed in garments ragged and filthy; and when the moon would cast her brightest rays within, Ellen imagined that she beheld a familiar countenance. At times she thought to come out and make herself known to him. But then her tender form shook with fear and excitement, her tongue refused to perform its functions, and she sat perfectly unable to move or speak. At length she heard the kneeling individual lisp her name, which seemed to come from the very bottommost depths of his soul. A heavy groan, and Ellen sank prostrate on the sand. 
               The youth sprang from his kneeling posture, and scanned around the cave, as he stood transfixed to the spot, as if anxious to hear a repetition of the sound which greeted his ear, but not hearing it any more, he concluded that it was all imagination, and hastily left the cavern. 
               For some time Ellen remained on the sand wholly unconscious, but at length she opened her eyes, and looked wistfully around, as if expecting to behold some one; all seemed as a dream, her brain seemed on fire, her delicate limbs trembled, her heart swelled with emotions of fear and dread. Then she hastened to the spot where the youth had been kneeling, but he was gone. She screamed at the top of her voice, but was only answered by an echo from the opposite side of the cave. Now she discovered that she had lost her miniature, which was fastened with a large golden chain around her neck; it was placed in a large locket of the finest gold. She hastened back to the spot where she had been concealed, and searched anxiously for it, but without success. Conscious she was that she had the locket when she entered the cave. After searching the cave thoroughly and not finding her miniature, she began slowly to wend her way back to the city. 
               The silvery queen of night was slowly declining behind the western hills, whilst her struggling beams cast a dismal glare far across the sea-beaten coast, large billows of snowy spray rolled slowly against the craggy shores, making a mournful sound, like the distant roar of thunder. The whole city was sunk in the arms of sweet repose, save the policemen, who ever and anon, with a mournful sound, tolled the hour of night. The loud scream of the hungry wolf, as he proudly strutted around the city, met the ears of Ellen, as she slowly wended her way along the dreary coast. 
               An almost insupportable tide of woe and anguish filled the breast of the beauteous damsel, whilst big streams of bitter sorrow dashed in swelling torrents down her lovely cheeks. Sunk deep in the gulf of despair, and almost unconscious of where she was going, she carelessly walked along the streets of Vera Cruz, until she was interrupted by a coarse Spanish voice, who demanded, in a peremptory tone, "Who comes there?" She screamed aloud, and drew back, and attempted to run, when she felt the rough hand of the watchman fell heavily upon her shoulder. The color fled from her cheek, the blood rushed swiftly through her veins and stood still at her heart; and she sunk to the pavement again unconscious. Oh! misfortune, when wilt thou cease to persecute this beautiful young maiden? What hath this lovely creature done to deserve thy unending revenge? What hath she done to deserve the Divine vengeance of holy heaven? 
               Sometimes, reader, I have a notion to throw down my pen with disgust, when I am detailing the continual misfortunes of this innocent and beautiful little girl. But Providence sees proper sometimes to punish his creatures, for causes which are unknown to the, human race. But the vengeance of heaven, hell and earth seem to follow Ellen wherever she goes. Unrelenting misfortune seems to follow her track, no matter to what part of the globe she steers her course. 
               When Ellen returned to consciousness, she found herself the only occupant of a small, filthy and dismal room, with a small grated window on the west side, which afforded all the light the cell possessed. She screamed in deep despair. She tore her flesh with her nails, and smote her breast with a perfect paroxysm of insanity. She threw herself on a filthy matrass pallet, on the floor of the room, and burried her burning cheeks in the pillow, and bathed them in tears from her eyes, and blood from the wounds in 'her tender flesh which she had made with her nails. At length, overcome with sorrow, weeping and fatigue, she closed her, beauteous lashes in sweet repose, and dreamed as usual about her dead lover. 
               Aurora now mounts the eastern horizen, and drives his golden car across the firmament, opening the shining portals of another day. Still little Ellen slept, whilst a smile of joy crept across her lovely features. On her back the damsel slept, whilst her lily hands lay carelessly across her lovely breast. Her glossy curls hung in mazy folds about her snowy bosom, whilst her sweet lips were slightly parted; ever and anon, they moved as if she was conversing with some one in her sleep. She was conversing with Henry in her dream, whose manly form floated plainly before her eyes. She saw him as before mounted on his white, steed, a reeking sword in his hand, dealing death and destruction into the bleeding ranks of his country's foes. But in the midst of her pleasant dream she was aroused from sleep by the heavy shake of a hand on her shoulder, and informed by the watchman that she must go before the Alcalde, and stand a trial for being caught on the streets so late at night. She hastily leaped from the matrass and told him to lead the way, she was ready to follow. With a heavy screak, the door flew open the watchman threw up his hands with astonishment, when he beheld the lovely countenance of the young damsel, which was stained with small spots of blood, and her beauteous eyes red with weeping. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               ELLEN IMPRISONED IN THE HOUSE OF CORRECTION, THEN WRECKED ON THE COAST OF CUBA. 
               SOON the damsel stood trembling like an innocent lamb before the Alcalde's court, and heard the charge read against her. None of them knew that the beauteous daughter of Gen. Aakenza stood like a condemned criminal before them. Had they have known it, their hearts would have shrunk with pity and shame. It was from Gen. Aakenza's own hands, the Alcalde had received his appointment as Mayor of the city of Vera Cruz, whilst the General was invested with the appointing prerogative. And now before him stood the General's only daughter, with her beauteous eyes sank deep in their sockets, her: beauteous countenance all stained with her own precious blood, trembling, too, like a condemned thief ready to hear her sentence of the municipal court. 
               Often had Ellen sat on the Alcalde's knee, when at her father's dwelling, who was an intimate friend of Aakenza. But now she stands before him as a prisoner. The Alcalde stared her in the face, as if he thought he saw something familiar in her countenance. Then she was asked to give him her reasons for traversing the streets at so late an hour, but a heavy sigh was her only answer. The watchman was then called in to be sworn, who stated the facts as related. She was then sentenced to one month's imprisonment in the penitentiary, and fined one hundred dollars. 
               With composure Ellen heard her sentence passed, for it affected not her already broken heart. She cared not to what part of the world she was conveyed. She paid the fine out of the fifteen hundred dollars which she had of her father's wealth. Then she was conveyed to the prison, where she remained the allotted time of punishment. 
               She performed the daily labors with the other prisoners, and was never heard to murmur. She was often seen weeping bitterly, but none inquired the cause; at length her term of punishment expired. She was liberated, when she took lodgings at the same room which she had left, when taken by the watchman. Ellen now came to the conclusion to leave the shores of Mexico forever. She detested the very name of Mexico, and resolved to leave it as soon as possible. She intended to sail to Cuba, and purchase Pedro from her uncle, whom she looked upon as her only living friend. She learned that the magnificent steamer, Banquo, would sail in a few days for Havana. So she took her little valice of clothes, and started down to the bar-room to settle her tavern fees. In going to the bar-room she passed by the parlor door, which stood wide open. She espied a miniature hanging on the wall, the features of which she thought she had seen before. She entered the parlor and walked to the center of the floor. An involuntary scream of joy she uttered as she snatched the miniature from the wall, and placed it to her ruby lips. 
               "Oh, Henry! 'tis he; those beloved features are the very same. Those same lips have often pressed a burning kiss on mine. But oh! where is the original?" 
               I shall leave the reader here to imagine the tide of joy which filled the soul of the young damsel, at finding Henry's miniature. For to attempt to describe it would be the height of presumption. 
               The hostess hearing a scream in the parlor, soon made her appearance, and inquired the cause. When, with great astonishment, she discovered the young lad (as she thought) kneeling on the carpet, with the miniature pressed to his lips, whilst streams of briny tears trickled fast down his cheeks. The hostess inquired the cause of so much excitement over the miniature. 
               Ellen told her that "it was the miniature of a particular friend of hers, who had saved her life on the Ohio river, and who afterward was drowned himself." 
               "Take the miniature then," quoth the old lady. "You are welcome to it so far as I am concerned. It was found over two years ago, in the same room which you have been occupying. It was left here by a young American, who stole Gen. Aakenza's daughter from the room whilst he was asleep. He took the young lady aboard of a ship, and set sail for New Orleans. Gen. Aakenza pursued them and took his daughter back, and sent his intended son-in-law with the young man on to New Orleans. But I learned that the youth lost his reason and drowned himself, and that Gen. Aakenza's daughter has become insane." 
               Ellen heard but little of the above conversation, for she was pressing the miniature to her lips, and gazing on it all the while. She then placed the miniature in her bosom, and soon found herself aboard the magnificent ship. She engaged a berth for Havana. 
               Day's golden King was shining brightly from the eastern sky; a gentle gale was blowing from the shore; the proud "ship weighed anchor; the jolly sailors spread the snowy canvass to the balmy breeze. Wind and steam now began to waft Ellen swiftly from the precincts of her native shore. As the proud ship began to plough the snow-capped surf, and the sandy shores of Mexico began slowly to recede, the beauteous young damsel took her station on deck and while she holds Henry's miniature in her hand, she bids an eternal adieu to her native shores. "Farewell forever, ye golden sands, ye flowery lawns ye myrtle groves, a long adieu to thee, my native shores. And oh! a long and sweet good bye to thee, my favorite rock, under which I and my Henry sat on that dark and eventful night. Farewell to thee, Mexico; I leave my native 'shores, never again to return. Farewell, ye snow-clad mountains, fruitful fields, flowery valleys, and golden orange groves-all, all, a Long and everlasting adieu!" Swiftly the mighty ship wings her flight like an eagle across the liquid waters, and soon the towering domes of the huge Du Ulla vanished from young Ellen's anxious view. All is vanished save the rolling deep, the proud ship, and the vaulted blue. A dark cloud of sorrow hung like a pall over the gentle damsel's brow, whilst huge waves of woe rolled across her swelling breast. The sunny sky which used to shine on her peaceful mind, was now overspread with dusky clouds of deep despair. Dark forebodings as to her future destiny rushed in thick succession across her troubled thoughts. Now she gazes long toward her native shores, then with steaming eye gazes on Henry's miniature, which she still holds in her lily hand, ever and anon pressing it to her lips, 
               On the evening of the tenth day after leaving Vera Cruz, and just as the sun was sinking behind the western hills, shedding his departing rays far across the broad expanse of the briny waves, and whilst Ellen was standing on deck, viewing the beautiful scene around her, the great and famous city of Havana hove in view. Emotions of extatic joy took possession of the young maiden's heart, when she thought in the course of a few hours she should see Pedro, her only living friend. But the breeze began to shift its course, and commenced blowing from the land, dark clouds began to fly swift through the atmosphere. The shining skies were soon hid from view by a large collection of clouds of the blackest cast. The whole atmosphere soon grew pitchy dark, and the briny waves began to roll mountain-high and dash the vessel first one side then the other. Soon all the sails were reefed, and, like a cork, the vessel rode at the mercy of the waves. Now the north-ward wind blows, then the south, and fierce over the deck rolled huge waves of snowy spray. Now the main-mast fell with a thundering sound, tearing away sails, ropes, rigging and all, and dashing them in fragments along the watery flood. Now down came the mizzen-mast, bringing the last sheet of canvass, and dashing it likewise into the raging billows. Livid streaks of lightning ever and anon burst like a plattoon of artillery across the troubled sea. Anguish and despair were depicted on the features of the captain and all his crew, whilst Ellen sat like a guardian goddess in the cabin, as unconcerned as if all were as calm as a summer day. Little did she care if the vessel went to the bottom, of the gulf. Willing was she to meet the same fate which had befallen her lover. Now the vessel struck a rock, and knocked every piece of timber from its place, and the awful fact was soon made plain that' the vessel was going down. The captain, and his crew all collected on deck, and with a ghastly color on their faces, awaited their unavoidable doom. Likewise Ellen took her station on the forecastle, whilst composure stood on her brow, and a smile of joy on her cheek, she took the miniature of Henry from her bosom and kissed it fervently, then placed it back near her heart and said: "I come, I come to thee, Henry," As thus she spoke a mountain billow dashed across the deck, and hurled her and all the crew far beneath the spray. But soon her beauteous trunk rose on top of another wave, whilst her beauteous lips were kissed by the briny flood. Her snowy breast was embraced by the stormy waters, her long black tresses hung in disheveled masses around her pale cheeks, for the water had stopped her breath. Her hands were carelessly crossed on her breast. Now another wave takes her down, and she is gone forever. Next morning the bodies of the captain and two of his crew were found dead on the beach, near Havana. The coast was thoroughly searched, but no other bodies could be found, 
               Gen. Aakenza had traced his daughter to Vera Cruz, where he learned that a lad answering her description had sailed on the above named ship for Havana. He set sail on the first vessel, for Havana. When he arrived he heard of the awful wreck of the ship on which his daughter had sailed. The old hero's despair was now complete. He fell into a short paroxism of insanity. He cursed his enemies and friends alike, and refused to be comforted by any. He tore his flesh and wrung his hands, and tried to pull his eyes from their sockets. After several weeks had passed he recovered his reason, but his cheek was pale, his eyes sunk deep in his head, and his locks turned as gray as if ten winters had rolled by his head. He walked up and down the sea-beaten coast, and cast an anxious glance across the blue waters, hoping to catch a glimpse of Ellen's lifeless form. One evening, whilst he was straying along the coast, he beheld the end of a golden chain sticking in the sand; he stooped and caught the end, pulled it, when he ascertained that it was fastened to some object under the sand, when his eye fell on a large golden locket. Quick as thought he pulled it open, when lo! his eye fell on the well-known miniature of Henry. As quick as thought he dashed it down in the sand, and stood transfixed to the spot, wrapt in astonishment and wonder. Now the, thought crossed his mind that the locket had been worn by his daughter; that the breakers had dashed it on shore. He picked it up and slowly bent his way back to the city. Long he remained at the city of Havana, hoping that the body of his daughter might be found. Nearly every day the body of a drowned sailor would be thrown on shore. But no tidings Aakenza receives of his daughter. 
               After remaining until the last spark of hope was gone, Gen. Aakenza set sail for his native city, where he arrived in due time. When he informed Ellen's mother of her sad fate, an unconscious fit of despair was the consequence, and for many long months she lingered on the very verge of the grave. The sad intelligence spread throughout the great city like wild-fire, and every church-bell tolled a long and doleful adieu to the departed spirit of Gen. Aakenza's beauteous daughter. A perfect tide of despair and remorse filled the heart of Gabbez when he received intelligence of Ellen's sad fate. Well did he know that he was the guilty cause of all her misfortunes. Sleepless nights rolled by his pillow, whilst the lovely image of the damsel he had so deeply injured, floated like a heavenly goddess before his excited imagination. Plainly could he hear her screams of despair ringing in his ear day and night. He saw her beauteous form tossed by the raging surf, and her ruby lips kissed by the briny flood. He saw her lily arms stretched from the rolling billow, imploring his aid to save her from a watery grave. He was often heard to scream aloud at a late hour of night, and pace up and down his room from dark till day. His glossy lock turned suddenly gray; his rosy cheeks lost their crimson hue; his large eyes became of an idiotic and glassy cast, and he gazed on all around with an idle stare. He quit visiting all scenes of public amusement, and would often sit in his own room with his cheeks burried in his hands, and gaze for hours at a time, on a single object with an idiotic stare. Oh! what a jewel 'tis to possess a conscience clear of guilt, and uncontaminated with crime. How sweet 'tis to rest one's head on a downy pillow, and without any feelings of remorse, close our eyes in the soft arms of quiet repose. A "hearty laugh never comes from the villain's throat; no sweet repose ever closes the murderer's eye." 
               Reader, dash not this story down with disgust and contempt, because I have not the power to resurrect Ellen and Henry from the precincts of a watery grave. I am detailing facts, and it is my duty to write them as they are. Then you may ask why I chose to write the history of two such unfortunate, lovers? Why I led you on with such pleasing anticipations, and constrained you to believe that Henry and Ellen would finally be united in the holy bands of wedlock? Why I got you interested in their welfare, then leave them both sleeping in a watery grave? Reader, here is my answer-I wrote it because it was my undisputed privilege to do so, and you are not much loser no way. 
               The question, then, presents itself-how shall I go on with my story, since I have traced my hero and heroine to the bottom of the gulf? Well, read on, my friend, or enemy-just as you choose to be-and you shall hear how I will close the narrative. I cannot promise you anything interesting from this on, but this much I can promise you, that if what you have read has interested you, you will find something interesting still ahead. 
               So, reader, as I have promised you something interesting, before I close this story, I hope you will erase the memory of Henry and Ellen from your mind, as the probability is the sharks have feasted sumptuously on their beauteous bodies. And, if so, I hope their young and sinless souls are reunited in the shining abode of eternal bliss. As long as you suffer the images of those two lovely creatures to float around your mind you cannot be interested in the balance of this narrative. 
               I will now skip over the long space of four years, which will bring us up to September, 1846. You know, reader, it takes but a second for our imagination to fly across the long space of four years. Yet, four years, in this degenerate age, is at least one-tenth part of a man's life. I take this flight across the Long space of four years for the purpose of trying to deface the memory of Henry and Ellen, which I am constrained to believe is engraven on your heart. 
               It was in the month of September, A. D. 1846, that the immortal Taylor and his band of heroes made their appearance before the giant walls of famous Monterey. He pitched his tents at the Walnut Springs, some six miles from the city; and, whilst the soldiers were bathing their wearied limbs in the limpid spring, and preparing their food after a long day's march, Gen. Taylor might have been seen in close conference with a young officer, whose well-proportioned figure and manly heart could not be surpassed by any. This young officer I propose to make my hero, to complete my story with. 
               The countenance of this young officer denoted him to be the bravest of the brave. His stature was tall and well-proportioned. His luxuriant hair hung in glossy mazes around his cheeks. At a distant glance, one would take him to be twenty-eight or thirty years of age, but on a closer examination not more than twenty-five or six. His handsome features wore a melancholy cast, and he was seldom heard to speak unless spoken to first, and then he 'replied with such a polite and musical tone as to cause all to love who knew him. He wore a a blue uniform coat with two rows of gold buttons down each side. Two golden epaulets shone on his brawny shoulders; a three-cornered hat crowned his noble brow from the top of which streamed a snowy plume, which floated in beautiful waves in the balmy breeze. Around his waist was tied a broad crimson scarf, which hung in wavy folds down his side; down each thigh shone a yellow stripe of golden lace, and by his side a ponderous sabre carelessly hung fastened by a white leather belt and on his left breast glistened a golden star of honor, worn only by those who have distinguished themselves in some bloody battle. A particular favorite was this young officer with Gen. Taylor. They were seated on a log, beneath a dense thicket of chapparel, when the following words passed between them: 
               "Colonel," said Gen. Taylor, addressing himself to the young officer, "a very important duty must be performed by some one of my officers to-night, and I wish you to advise me who to choose, as a reliable person to accomplish the enterprise. The undertaking is one of vast importance, and Will require a man of unshrinking courage and never-falling resolution. I design attacking the city of Monterey to morrow, and I must have some officer who will explore the enemy's works-his posts-batteries-forces, and how his army is arranged, etc., etc. Tis a dangerous undertaking, and will require a man who fears no danger. Now, Colonel, who shall this person be?" 
               The young Colonel sprang to his feet, folded his arms across his breast, as if wrapped in deep thought. For some five minutes he gazed on the ground, then replied: 
               "I am at a loss to know who to recommend for so important a duty. I know one who will freely undertake the important enterprise, and one who fears hot to die; but as to his skill and ability to make a judicial survey of the enemy's works, I think they are somewhat inferior." 
               "Name the person," quoth Gen. Taylor, rising quick from his seat. 
               "Tis I," replied the young Colonel. 
               "Enough said, Colonel, prepare to start as soon as darkness speads her mantle around the city." 
               Aurora was just sinking his shining car behind the snow-clad peaks of towering Cordilleras; the distant roar of the fife and drum, as the Mexicans paraded the streets of Monterey, could be plainly heard, mixed with the occasional report of, artillery, as the Mexicans were trying their guns, and making preparations for the expected fight on the morrow. The dark curtains of night began to appear in the east, and slowly followed the departing rays of the setting sun. 
               The young officer retired to his tent, took a smack of dried beef and, bread, ten threw off his gorgeous uniform, dressed himself in the garb of a Mexican, pointed his face the color of a Mexican, bought a basket full of sweet cakes from a Spaniard, slipped through the guard lines, mounted a small mustang, which he purchased for the occasion, and set out alone for the city of Monterey. Soon he arrived at the outskirts of the city, fastened his mustang to a chapparel bush, and walked boldly up to one of the sentinels, who demanded the countersign, which, of course he knew not. But the young officer spoke the Mexican language very fluently, consequently without trouble he gained admittance to the city, the sentinel believing him to be a Mexican cake peddler. He traversed every street, and every fort-went to Bishop's Pallace, took a list of the men and officers-went to the old cathedral, and; likewise took a list of them-marked a map of the streets, houses, plazas, forts, barricades, etc. He entered Gen. Arista's spacious dwelling, where the Mexicans were engaged in a great feast; some dancing, others placing cards, others drinking wine. The young Colonel stood and gazed on the dense crowd, taking notes all the while. His eyes now fell on a young Spanish officer, seated on a sofa at the farther end of the room, who appeared to take no part in the amusements of the evening. His eyes were riveted on the floor, and whilst all around were engaged in dancing, drinking, etc., large drops of tears would mount the beauteous cheek of the young officer, and roll slowly down to his chin and fall on the floor. His hair was long glossy and black rather longer, than was usually worn by the Spaniards. His eyes were large, and very black, and his skin was as white as polished alabaster; and his beauteous face wholly void of beard-one would judge him to be twenty-two years of age. His dress was the uniform of a Mexican captain. A blue velvet cap graced his head, and an ostrich feather of spotless red streamed from the crown. Stripes of red graced each thigh, his pants were of a deep blue, his feet exceedingly small, on which he wore a neat pair of military boots, and a pair of golden spurs, buckled around his ankle, his pants strapped neatly under his boots. His statue was rather diminutive; very slender waist, full chest, large hips, and shoulders perfectly square. Upon the whole, he was just sust such a figure as would please the eye, and strike one with admiration at first sight. When the young Colonel's eyes fell on the above described youth. He made a tremendous leap forward, upseting a table loaded with decanters of wine, and sent them flying across the room in every direction. 
               "Oh! heaven, it is," then recollecting himself; he stood transfixed to the floor, whilst every eye in the house was turned upon him, except the young Spanish officer, who kept his seat as though nothing had taken place. 
               "Turn this infernal wretch out," cried Ampudia, pointing to the spy, who still stood in the center of the floor with his eyes fixed on the young Spanish officer. 
               Two Mexicans seized the young Colonel and led him out at the door, and advised him not to return to the room again. Now the young American officer hastened to his mustang, mounted it and bent his way back to camp. As he rode slowly along the road, a thousand pleasing recollections and thoughts of former days, rushed in thick succession across his mind. 
               "'Twas the same beauteous features," soliloquized he to himself as he traveled slowly along. "'Twas certainly the very same long black hair, snowy skin, large black eyes, small feet, small mouth, ruby lips, slender waist, little white hands, full breast, square shoulders, large hips, and well shaped limbs. And then that secret sorrow, those large drops of woe which stole down those melancholy cheeks, all go to confirm my suspicions. Certainly it is; oh! heaven, grant that I may not be mistaken." 
               Thus the young hero thought to himself as he rode slowly toward Gen. Taylor's camp. 'Twas after midnight when he arrived at camp, where he made known to Gen, Taylor his successful reconnoiter, and gave him a plan of the streets, forts, barricades, etc. With delightful wonder Taylor gazed on the young officer in his disguise, and expressed, in warmest terms, his lasting thanks to the young warrior for his unparalleled success. The young hero then politely bowed, and returned to his own tent, threw off his disguise, and soon was lost in morpheus's sweet embrace. His young and noble heart leaped with joy as he slept, for he was sweetly dreaming of the happy days which long since had fled. Before his sleeping eyes floated the image of an object which he had loved in days long since passed and gone. Then came before his eyes the image of the young officer, whom he had seen, at Arista's house. In musical tones he heard the young Spanish officer speak to him, and converse of happy days which had long since passed. He dreams of a beauteous damsel whom he used to love, who had won the affections of his young heart, but who now he thought was no more. He saw her in all the bloom of rosy youth, and saw the sympathetic tear stealing down her lovely cheek. He felt her swelling bosom throbbing with pure love against his breast. He heard her musical voice 'peak his name. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               BATTLE OF MONTEREY-STRANGE ADVENTURES. 
                
                  
                      
                        Now o'er the eastern hills appears the daughter of the dawn, 
                        Sheding her golden rays across the dewy lawn. 
                        Quick from his tent the immortal Taylor sprung, 
                        And across his shoulders the heavy buckler flung. 
                        He seized his bugle and blew a thundering sound, 
                        Which echoed through the camp, and rang along the ground. 
                        Then he mounts his old snowy steed, 
                        And commands his heroes to conquer or to bleed. 
                        Quick from his slumber the young Colonel rose, 
                        Around his shoulders the shifting armor throws. 
                        Then he mounts his war-horse white, 
                        And bids the band be ready for the fight; 
                        Who around him like a crowd of locusts pour, 
                        Ready to deluge the earth in human gore. 
                        Shouts on shouts of victory in succession rise, 
                        Whilst flames on flames float along the skies. 
                        In the golden sun appears shield on shield, 
                        Whilst swift the Anglo-saxons march along the field. 
                        On his snowy steed the young Colonel rode, 
                        And proud was the course of his heroic load. 
                        High towered his head, his nostrils stretch wide, 
                        As the Spanish ranks the proud courser hied. 
                        Quick from fort to fort each warrior flies, 
                        Whilst the black hosts darken all the skies. 
                     
                   
                
               THE young officer above alluded to, was dressed in his usual gaudy costume, mounted on his white war-horse, and, like Napoleon, rode proudly before his band of heroes, and cheered them on to victory. He was directed to take his band of warriors and aid Gen. Quitman in storming the southern extremity of the city. Undaunted courage blamed from his youthful face, as he formed his men into a solid square, and marched them slowly toward the city of Monterey. The new-born sun was just tinging, with his golden rays, the towering peaks of Mount Cordilleras, when the heavy roar of the hostile drum was heard, calling the Mexican soldiers to arise and defend their well-beloved city. 
               "To horse, to horse!" was heard to ring, through the streets, whilst the Mexicans arose to begin the bloody fight. The shrill notes of the fife, as it echoed against the hills around, could be distinctly heard. From fort to fort each officer flies to receive his orders for the day. Now with awful fury the bloody contest begins; the awful roar of the first hostile cannon, echoed and re-echoed like Jove's mighty thunder, and filled the smoky air with its dreadful sound. The broad earth groaned beneath the heavy train of the iron-hoofed coursers, as they dashed with furious speed into the reeling ranks of the Mexicans. 
               The young Colonel's voice was heard above all the rest, calling his men to victory. A perfect storm of fire, lead and smoke rained thick around the gallant young warrior's head. In his right hand he held a ponderous saber, the point of which streamed with human gore, and dying Mexicans marked the way the young officer went. His powerful arm hewed them down like falling wheat before the reaper. 
               "Vengeance, vengeance!" the young hero cries, whilst at every blow of his sabre, a brawny Spaniard would kiss the dust. Swelling torrents of human gore dashed like a tremendous flood along the pavements, whilst the polished walls were smeared with brains and blood, and dying heroes still increased the flood. In each other's embrace sank friends and foes to earth, and with their hands encircled in each other's throats, they expired. And after their souls had fled to the precincts of eternal misery, or to everlasting rest, they lay in the streets side by side, and gazed in each other's face with a deadly stare. 
               First the Mexicans and then the Americans claimed the victory; the bloody tide of battle first wavered one way, and then the other. Now here then yonder flies the golden eagle of victory, first hovering over the Spanish rank, then flying proudly over the American army. Then inch by inch, the Mexican phalanx began to give way, and the Americans were slowly fighting their way along the streets, wading up to their ankles in a tide of streaming gore. With battle axes they were bursting the heavy doors asunder, and dealing death and destruction to the frightened tenants of the well fortified houses. Filled were the streets with beauteous young maidens, who, heedless of all danger, were carrying water to the wounded soldiers. 
               Now the whole earth began to tremble beneath the heavy tramp of large companies of cavalry, which came dashing down the street. Twas Ampudia's reserve under the command of the gallant young Spanish officer, whom I have above, described, and the same one whom the young Colonel thought he had seen in former days. He was mounted on a large war-horse, whose hide was as black as jet; and he held a small polished sabre in his right hand, and the bridle thong in the left-stood straight in his stirrups, and rode at the head of his company. 
                
               As I have said before, his stature was rather diminutive, his voice weak and tremulous-upon the whole, his constitution seemed extremely delicate. Each and every soldier tried to get near his side, and appeared willing to follow him right into the very jaws of death. 
               The whole Spanish army was slowly giving way, whilst the American was slowly marching up toward the main plaza, driving the reeling ranks before them, when the above-described officer, at the head of his band, came charging down the streets, and soon checked the progress of the Americans. His weak and musical voice could not be heard amid the thundering roar of the hostile guns; but right and left he hacked down the dying soldiers as he went. And now, inch by inch, the Anglo-Saxons began to give back, and the Mexicans, raising a demonic shout of victory, and with tenfold fury, renewed the charge. My young heroic Colonel, seeing his men begin to yield, put spurs to his horse, and plunged, like a direful God of War, right into the midst of the Mexican cavalry-dying Mexicans fell thick and fast on every side, and swelling rills of blood marked his bloody way. Now he strikes, before, behind, then to the left, and then to the right, and heaps of dying Spaniards rise in ponderous heaps towards the skies. Now a ball struck the young Colonel's horse, in a vital place, and down to the earth he goes; and dashed the young officer to the earth with such force as to deprive him of breath, and back he fell in a flood of gore, whilst all signs of life were gone. A giant soldier seeing the young Colonel fall, leaped quick from his horse, raised his lancet high in the air to strike the young Colonel through the heart, But the young Spanish officer screamed at the top of his voice, and commanded him not to strike; but he heeded not the command of his Captain. He made a tremendous thrust at the young officer's heart; but, as he made the thrust, his foot slipped, for he stood in a field of gore, and stove the lance into the ground, just beyond the object of his blow. He snatched the lance from the ground, and raised it high above his head to make another thrust; but ere the lance reached the mark, the young Spanish officer hacked his right arm from his shoulder, which dropped to the earth, still holding the lance in the hand. 
               "Oh! 'tis him, 'tis him kill him not!" the young Captain cried, as he leaped from his horse, and threw himself on the lifeless body of the young Colonel. Every Mexican stood aghast, wrapt in wonder and astonishment, to see the Captain hack off the arm of one of his own men; and that, too, to save the life of an American Colonel; and throw himself on his apparently lifeless body, to shield him from the whizzing balls. They at once concluded that he had lost his reason; but now he sprang to his feet, and commanded his men to bear the body of the young Colonel into a private house which stood near. Without venturing a reply, they seized the body and conveyed it to the room designated. 
               Darkness now spread her sable mantle across the world, and put a stop to the bloody battle. The tried soldier sunk on his arms to rest for the night-whilst the hungry wolf strode proudly across the bloody plain, lacerating the gallant bodies of those who had died in freedom's cause, and glutting his maw with gallant gore-the hungry dogs likewise claimed a share of the luscious feast. 
               The young Colonel soon recovered from his fall, and was able to sit alone on his couch. The room in which he was placed, was about twenty feet square, on the third story of Gen. Arista's dwelling, which is known to be the finest building in Monterey. The polished floor was covered with carpets of the finest quality-gilded portraits hung on every side of the wall. When the young Colonel recovered from his swoon, and opened his eyes, he found himself lying on a large downy bed, all hung round with crimson curtains, and trimmed with golden hangings. A large chandelier hung near the center of the room, suspended by a large golden chain, which made the room as light as day. He opened his eyes and gazed around the room, he knew not where he was, nor how he came there. But the thought rushed across his mind, in an instant, that he was a prisoner of war, and in the possession of the Mexicans. He recollected the fall of his horse, which was the last thing he could remember. He was seated on the side of the bed, wrapt in deep thought, when the door to an adjoining room flew open, and a beautiful maiden stood in the door. She was dressed in a flowing robe of blue satin-the skirts of which were perfectly stiff with diamonds, and fringed around the sleeves, and hemmed with gilded lace. Around each wrist she wore a golden clasp, thickly studded with diamonds. Her beauteous brow was crowned with laurel wreaths, whilst her angelic features were hid by a blue veil. Her luxuriant hair carelessly hung in glossy mazes around her shoulders. A scarf of golden hue twined her slender waist. Her snowy bosom swelled in excitement. The young Colonel could see that the maiden was very much agitated-the cause of which he was at a loss to know-thinking, perhaps, the young lady had entered the room by mistake, and feeling himself somewhat embarrassed, he sprang from the bed to the center of the floor to offer an apology. 
                
               "Excuse me, Miss," he cried, making a low bow; "I am a prisoner of war, and was conveyed into this room without my knowledge or consent." For an instant, they both stood face to face, whilst the young damsel's whole frame trembled like an aspen. Then she caught her veil, and threw it from her face. 
               "Oh! Ellen-Oh! Henry!" and into each others arms they go. Instinctively both drop to their knees on the carpet. For at least twenty minutes not a single word was spoken. But Henry's and Ellen's tears again mingle together, and fall on each other's bosoms. Reader, I shall not attempt to describe the happy scene which here ensued, for my pen is inadequate to the task. My brain even refuses to furnish ideas sufficient to describe the happy meeting, between Henry and Ellen, after six long years of separation, and both believing each other in eternity. But, in due time, I will explain how each one was rescued from the gulf, and their travels and misfortunes during the six years' separation. 
               Whilst on their knees, and entwined in each other's arms, they jointly poured out their young souls, too, in thanks to the Divine Ruler of heaven. Oh! what a scene of exquisite bliss and unparalleled happiness was this. Their lips made one continual kiss, whilst their tears of joy flowed in copious streams down their cheeks. Each breast swelled with unexpected joy. Henry strained Ellen to his heart. 
               "Oh my sweet Ellen! my long-lost Ellen! my arch-angel! is this a dream, or is it real bliss? Is it thee, my own dear Ellen whom I hold in my arms? or is it some goddess who has assumed thy beautious form and sailed down from the fields of endless bliss to add new sorrow to my already broken heart? Speak, Ellen, and let me hear that musical voice once more; hold up thy head and let me see if I can be mistaken." 
               Whilst panting like a young and innocent lamb, she lay in his arms. She opened her eyes and gazed full in his face. 
               "No, Henry! my long-lost Henry, this is no delusion, but it is real bliss. This is thine own Ellen whose heart-soul-mind, and every thought is thine. I now rest in the same arms that snatched me from a watery grave six long years ago. This is the same Ellen whom you held in your arms, and, at the imminent risk of your own Life, swam with me to the shore." 
               As thus the young maiden spoke, she was lying in Henry's arms, her cheeks resting on his bosom-her lilly arms tied around his neck-streams of joy pouring in torrents from her eyes, which were steadfastly fixed on Henry's countenance. Henry then stopped her crimson lips with another kiss, and for several minutes, profound silence again ensued, whilst in secret prayer their souls were again poured out to the King of the skies. 
               "Tell me, my dear Henry, how it is that I again find myself in thy arms, when myself and all who knew you, thought you had found a briny grave? tell me how you escaped an untimely death when you leaped into the gulf, with a heavy chain fastened to your ankle?" 
               "No, my sweet Ellen, let me hear your history first, as I suppose yours is much shorter than mine; I know yours, Ellen, up to where you was wrecked on the coast of Cuba, for I was, following you all the time, and never should have ceased as long as a single spark of hope remained that you were living. I arrived the next day after the awful wreck, from which you were supposed to be lost, and remained at Cuba six weeks, when I returned to the United States. So, Ellen, you must tell me your story first, as my history will occupy a long space of time." 
               "Well, Henry, be it as you desire," and thus she began: 
               "I left Vera Cruz with the intention of sailing to Cuba, for the purpose of purchasing my servant, Pedro, from my uncle, to whom my father had sold him. Soon after my arrival at the city of Vera Cruz, and whilst the moon was sailing along the southern skies, and all the city was wrapt in sleep, I left my room at the hotel and hastened to that old rock, under which we sat on the night we escaped from my father at the hotel. Soon I arrived at the spot, knelt near the place where we sat and poured out my soul in prayer to God. Oh, what a moment of bliss did I then feel! I plainly saw you floating before my eyes. I imagined that I could hear you speak. Whilst I was kneeling by the rock I heard the sound of foot-steps approaching the cave. My whole frame shook with fear, I concluded that it was Gabbez, who had been watching me, and had pitched on this as a fit moment to glut his revenge. In an instant I rose from my kneeling posture and concealed myself behind a craggy rock; I saw a young man enter the cave, dressed in garments which appeared filthy and ragged, but, by the light of the moon, I could behold something in the features of the young man which seemed familiar to me. Had I not been convinced that you was drowned, I should have instantly made myself known to you, for, notwithstanding I had believed you dead, I really thought it was you; but I remained silent; he stood for an instant at the entrance of the cave, then knelt at the very spot from which I had just arose. He prayed in silence for some time; at length I heard him lisp my name in such a musical tone as none but you could speak. Henry, I am not usually superstitious, but I actually thought it was your ghost; I attempted to speak, but failed, and suppose I must have fainted, for I knew nothing more for some time. When I recovered, my whole brain was confused, my hands cold, and I felt as if I had just awoke from a pleasant dream; I was certain that I had seen you. I sprang to my feet-hastened to the spot where I saw the youth kneel-I screamed at the top of my voice, but no answer. Whilst kneeling I lost my locket which contained my miniature; I searched for it thoroughly but found it not. I suppose it must have been found by the individual who knelt where I did." 
               Again Henry stopped her lips with a kiss, and strained her closer to his heart, whilst a fresh flood of joy gushed from his streaming eyes, at the same time pulling a golden locket from his bosom. 
               "Here, Ellen, is your miniature, which has been near my heart day and night, and worlds on worlds could not buy it from me. 'Twas I who knelt with you in the cave that night, and the same cause led me there for which you went. It recalled to my mind sweet memories of that eventful night when I sat and held you in my arms. I knelt to pray; I prayed in silence for some time, but when I lisped your name,' it came from the very bottommost precincts of my soul. Then it was I heard, or imagined I heard, a heavy groan emanate from the back part of the cave. As quick as thought I arose and listened for a repetition of the sound, but all was as still as the grave. I searched all through the cave (as I thought), I got down on my hands and knees, and searched thoroughly; my hand rested on the locket; I placed it in my pocket, and after searching for some time I concluded I must have been mistaken, so I left the cave and returned to my hotel. I soon struck a light, and opened the locket to see what it contained. Now, Ellen, imagine my astonishment and delight when I beheld thy miniature. Of all things on earth, except the original, this was the very object I most desired. I was now convinced that it was you that I had heard at the cave. I procured a lantern and hastened back; I searched every nook and corner, both within the cave and on the outside, but found no person. With a sorrowful heart I then bent my way back to the hotel." 
               Again all is wrapt in silence for an instant, whilst their lips meet, and fresh streams of joy mingle together on their bosoms. Then Ellen resumed the thread of her story as follows: 
               "When I arrived in sight of Havana, as you already know, the vessel was wrecked, and myself supposed to be lost. The last thing which I can distinctly recollect, was being dashed from the vessel's deck by a tremendous wave; I suppose I must have been shortly hurled on shore by the breaker. 
               "For, when I recovered my senses, and opened my eyes, I found myself stretched on the sand, not very far from Havana. Instantly, on opening my eyes, I beheld the countenance of a familiar face, and my head resting in the lap of some person, but yet all seemed as a dream; and again I closed my eyes, and remained unconscious for some time. But when I opened my eyes again, I recollected everything that had happened to me concerning the wreck, etc. And lo! my eyes met those of Pedro, which were filled with tears; he had been working on a cotton plantation near the shore, and when I was hurled on the beech, he found me apparently dead. My heart was filled with joy, and my soul with delight, when I found Pedro, who was the object of my visit to Havana. I found him toiling day and night, on a cotton plantation, placed upon an equality with negroes, and treated as such, and drove from morning till night, under the painful lash, by a cruel overseer. My very heart bled with inward pain when I found him who had been the playmate of my childhood, and him who had protected me from the insolence of Gabbez. I commanded him to hurl Gabbez out of my room one night, it was no sooner said than done; he hurled him out at the door, and dashed him headlong down stairs. My father sold him because he was in the way of Gabbez. I found that he had passed through several different hands since my father sold him. I re-purchased him from Gavalvo, who owned him at that time. We then took the steam cars and went to Matanzas, where I purchased some decent clothes for Pedro, and procured him a clerkship in a large mercantile establishment; where he remained two years, when he was taken in as a full partner of the house. In the meantime, I rented a private room in a hotel, and furnished it to suit my own taste, where I have remained in seclusion all the while. By the time my funds gave out Pedro was established in business, and was able to furnish me plenty, which he did in great profusion. Whilst there he courted Miss Julia, the only daughter of Count De Lorenzo, who is one of the wealthiest and most distinguished citizens of Cuba. His beauteous daughter was courted by a young English nobleman, named Bernardo, who was traveling through Cuba on a tour of pleasure. He and Pedro often met at Lorenzo's magnificent dwelling, they both made proposals the same day, and Pedro was the accepted lover. When Lorenzo learned that his daughter had fallen in love with Pedro his rage was uncontrollable; he told Pedro that if he ever put his foot in his door again his life should pay the forfeit. The idea of his daughter falling in love with a servant, was too much." 
               But, reader, you must not suppose Pedro to be like the servants we have in the United States. There are a certain class of people in Mexico called Peons, who are compelled to serve as slaves on account of debt, whose owners always manage to keep them in debt, being allowed by law to charge them for their clothes and board; consequently, instead of growing smaller, the debt always grows larger; and the offspring is always bound for their ancestor's debts, consequently, they are made slaves from one generation to another. 
               Pedro was tall, well built, and extremely handsome; his glossy hair was as black as the raven's wing, his skin a little dark, broad shoulders, and full chest; his eyes were a deep blue, and he was as brave as Julius Csar. Again Ellen goes on with her story. 
               "Pedro managed to steal Julia from the third story of Lorenzo's dwelling, where he had confined her to prevent Pedro from seeing her. I aided him in his enterprize, which I thought was my duty, as he had aided me when searching for you. I went on a pretended visit to Lorenzo's house, and informed Julia that Pedro would be there for her that night, and that if she felt willing to unite her destiny with his, that she must prepare to go with him. 
               "'I love Pedro as I do my life,' quoth she, whilst her beautiful eyes were filled with tears. 'And I am determined to marry him at all hazards.' 'Go,' quoth she, 'and tell Pedro that I am ready to go with him to any part of the globe he may desire.' 
               "I hastened to Pedro, and informed him of her decision. He made a rope ladder, and under a cover of darkness, drew near the wall of Lorenzo's dwelling. He threw the end of the rope to Julia's window, which was some forty feet above the earth. She caught the rope and fastened it to the window seat; Pedro scaled the wall, and soon found himself in Julia's arms. He pressed her to his bosom, kissed her lips, then lifted her through the window, and descended the ladder with Julia in his arms. He took her to the depot, where the cars were ready to start to Cardenas. We all took our seats in the cars, and in a few hours found ourselves at Cardenas. I and Julia took a room at a hotel, whilst Pedro went for a priest to unite him and Julia forever. Soon he arrives with a priest, and Pedro and Julia took their stands on the floor to be married. The priest men arose, and thus began: 
               "'Wilt thou, Pedro, take this woman, whom you hold by the right hand, to be thy lawful and wedded wife,' etc. 
               "To which Pedro answered, in a tremulous tone, 'I will.' At this instant the door was burst open, and Lorenzo leaped like a lion into the center of the floor-gave Pedro a blow on the pate, which made him involuntarily kiss the carpet. And before Pedro could recover from the shock, Lorenzo seized his daughter, and left the room. When Pedro recovered he rung his hands, tore his hair, and gave vent to a perfect paroxysm of despair. He arose and leaped out at the door, and followed Lorenzo, who placed his daughter on board of a ship bound for London. 
               "The golden sun was just making his appearance in the rosy east, spreading his cheerful light far across the blue ocean, when the vessel began to weigh anchor, and spread her sails to the morning breeze. Pedro took his stand on the wharf, and waved a long adieu to Julia, who was standing on the deck of the magnificent ship, whilst swelling torrents of woe gushed from her eyes. 
               "'Adieu, my dear Pedro,' she cried, 'nothing save death shall be able to keep me from thee.' 
               "As thus she spoke, her father took her down to the cabin, and Pedro saw her no more. Immediately after she disappeared, young Bernardo made his appearance on deck, and gave a scornful smile of triumph at Pedro, who stood on the wharf with swimming eyes-as much as to say, Julia is mine notwithstanding you and she were half married. Pedro gazed long toward the vessel which wafted his love to a foreign shore, there to become his rival's bride, not by her own free will, but by parental compulsion. The next day I and Pedro took passage on a steam ship bound for London, for the purpose of making another attempt to rescue Julia from her father. In fifteen days the tall domes of London hove in sight, and our ship anchored in the Thames. We procured a skiff, and soon found ourselves in that world-renowned city." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE RESCUE FROM THE CASTLE AT SALTILLO. 
               "AFTER wending our way through several narrow and filthy streets, we came to the principal hotel of the city, where I took a room, whilst Pedro set out to search for his beloved Julia. We went to the custom-house, where he learned that the ship on which she had sailed arrived the day previous. His countenance brightened up with a smile, and his heart leaped with joy, when he became convinced that Julia was in the city. He went to every hotel, and private boarding-house, making such inquiries as he deemed necessary to obtain his object. At length he came to a private boarding-house, kept by a widow lady, who informed him that a young lady suiting his description, and of the same name, in company of her father and a young English nobleman, by the name of Bernardo, had staid with her on the night previous-that they had set out early in the morning to the mayor's office, to have the ceremony said, which would make Julia the lawful bride of young Bernardo. 
               "'The young lady,' said the hostess, 'seemed very loth to marry the young Englishman, she was very much distressed in mind. The young girl told me that she loved a young Spanish gentleman, named Pedro, and that nothing but death ever could ever prevent her from being his. But, alas! I very much fear they have compelled her to marry that young nobleman.' 
               "Poor Pedro waited to hear no more, but dashed along the streets at a rapid pace, not caring where he went. His young breast overflowed with bitter woe, his last spark of glittering hope was forever gone. With his nails he tore his flesh from his cheeks, and jerked the hair from his head, blood and tears streamed fast down his cheeks, and mingling together, fell on his swelling bosom. 
               "We remained in London one month, when we learned that young Bernardo and Julia had married, and set out for Lord Bernardo's country seat, some fifty miles from London. Poor Pedro's sorrow was now complete. I soon discovered, with feelings of bitter anguish, that his mind was affected. I have seen him sit with his eyes fixed on Vacancy, and speak not a single word for ten hours at a time. We then took passage on a steam packet, and in due time arrived at Cuba. Pedro returned to his business, but not with the same energy which he used to do. He was always seen dressed in deep mourning. 
               "The above transactions took place in the spring of 1843, and he wore his suit of mourning till the present war broke out. I remained at Cuba nearly four years, my parents believing me dead all the while. But when the war broke out I determined to visit my native shores in disguise. 
               "Pedro sold out his mercantile establishment for fifty thousand dollars, and accompanied me back to Vera Cruz, where we took the stage, arrived at Mexico, saw my parents, but did not make myself known to them. I was dressed all the while in male garb. I assumed the name of Lavalco, and passed myself off as a young Spanish nobleman, just from Spain. I was offered a captain's commission in a regiment of cavalry, which I accepted. I managed to get a lieutenant's commission for Pedro. He is as brave as Napoleon; he has fought and bled by my side to-day, and has saved my life three different times during the day. No matter where I went he was always by my side. He lopped off the head of a soldier who would have killed me instantly with his sabre. My horse was killed whilst charging down the streets, and dashed me against the earth with such force as to knock the breath from me, where I should have certainly perished, but he leaped from his horse, and stood over me until I recoved; then placed me on his horse, and procured another for himself, and soon was at my side again. My company then retired from the field, and rested three or four hours, when I received an order from Gen. Ampudia to charge with my company down the street, and drive the Americans back, who were slowly making their way toward the main plaza. His orders were quickly obeyed, and with Pedro at my side, and my company behind, I charged down the streets at a rapid rate. When lo! I found myself face to face with you, on the very same white horse, dressed in the very same uniform, which I had seen in a dream over five years ago. In an instant I recognized you. I saw you hewing down my men by whole platoons, whilst torrents of blood dashed beneath your horse's feet. But I also saw that your strength was fast failing and that without help you were bound to be overpowered. It was an awful moment of suspense with me. What was I to do? there was only one alternative left, and that was to turn traitor to my bleeding country, or to stand idly by and see you cut to pieces. You who had risked all to save my life. Still thicker and thicker my men continued to swarm around you, like hungry wolves pouncing on their prey; as fast as you cut the dying heroes down, living warriors firmly took their places. I cried aloud to my men to spare your life, but my voice was drowned amidst the roar of cannon and rattling of musketry, and groans of dying warriors. I put spurs to my horse and dashed toward you, determined to save you at all hazards. But before I reached you, a ball struck your horse in the forehead, killing him instantly, and hurling you against the ground with such violence, as to deprive you of breath. You rolled off into a pool of blood, and whilst on your back, Gabbez rode up and recognized you, and plunged his lance at your breast with all his might. I had by this time arrived within a few yards of where you were lying. I screamed at the top of my voice, and commanded him to desist, but he heeded not my cries. But fortunately, his feet were in a pool of blood, and as he made the lunge at your heart, his feet slipped, and he plunged the lance into the earth, about two inches beyond your breast. I had now arrived, dismounted from my steed, and stood by your side. Gabbez wrenched his lance from the ground, and brandished it high in the air to strike the second blow. Again I commanded him to desist, but he heeded me not, and was coming down on you the second time with all his might. I saw that this blow would take effect in your heart, but before the lance reached your breast, I hacked off his arm, which dropped to the earth with the lance still clenched in the severed hand. Then I commanded Pedro to have you conveyed to my room, and placed on my bed. I remained on the field till night put a stop to the contest; when I threw off my uniform and, dressed as you see me, and entered the room, anxious again to hold thee in my arms." 
               "Oh! Ellen, my sweet little Ellen; my goddess of war, my arch-angel; thou polar star of my earthly happiness! What name shall I call thee? I cannot think of a name suitable to thy character. 'Twas to thee, then, again l owe my life." 
               Thus saying, Henry again pressed the young maiden to his anxious heart, whilst fresh tears of happiness gushed anew from their eyes. Long did their lips remain together, making one continual kiss. 
               "Now, Ellen, where is Pedro? Let me see him, quick. Anxious am I to express my thanks to him for his kindness to you." 
               In an instant she sprang from Henry's arms, went to the door, and told Pedro to come in. He had been in the adjoining room anxiously awaiting a summons to enter. Soon he made his appearance at the door. 
               "Henry," quoth Ellen, "let me introduce you to Lieutenant Pedro, the preserver of my life." 
                
               And instead of giving him his hand, Henry leaped forward, and drew Pedro to his heart. 
               "Oh! Pedro, how shall I ever be able to pay the debt of gratitude which I owe to you. 'Tis to thee I owe my unlooked for happiness. 'Tis to thy undaunted courage, and unshrinking soul that my intended I bride owes her life. Thou hast again restored her to these arms-she whom I believed dead! Oh! Pedro, would to God I could make you as happy as you have made me, by restoring Julia to your arms. Ellen has just been telling me your whole history-your unfortunate love affair with Julia. But despair not, Pedro, perhaps a better day will come. Put your trust in the care of the Divine Ruler of the skies, and I'll warrant all shall be as clear as the morning sun. 
               Poor Pedro's power of utterance was totally gone; he bowed his head on Henry's shoulder, and gave vent to a violent flood of tears. He saw how happy Henry and Ellen were, which brought the memory of his lost Julia fresh to his troubled mind. 
               "Oh! Henry," quoth he, "mention not poor Julia; she is lost forever to me-forced by her relentless parent against her will to become the wife of an English noble. Farewell, a long farewell, oh, ye fleeting hours of bliss, never again shall. I feast my streaming eyes on the angelic face of my dear Julia, for she is lost; oh! yes, she is lost to me forever. A long adieu to thee, I bid to all hopes of earthly happiness." 
               Pedro now sobbed aloud, whilst torrents of woe gushed like swelling rills down his cheeks. Tears of sympathy likewise streamed in copious floods from Henry and Ellen's eyes, for, notwithstanding their young hearts were full of joy, their happiness was mixed with the bitter cup of woe. 
               Whilst Henry stood in the centre of the room with Ellen on his arm, and Pedro stood near the door wrapped in the dusky arms of dark despair, they were all startled by the abrupt entrance of six soldiers, armed with muskets and sabres; they stepped fiercely forward, and seized Ellen by the arm. 
               "Thou art our prisoner, young Miss," quoth the commander of the company. Thou art Captain Lavalco, who is charged with the unpardonable crime of high-treason, for lopping off the right arm of one of our bravest young officers, to wit: Col. Gabbez, and that, too, to save the life of one of our most dangerous enemies." 
               As quick as thought Henry seized his sabre, which lay under the bed, and whilst hellish vengeance blazed from his eyes, made a lunge at the office, who grasped Ellen by the arm, and would have dashed it through his heart, but he leaped to one side, and Henry's sabre pierced through the door, and broke into many fragments. 
               "Henry, oh! Henry, for my sake desist; if you draw the blood of that villain, those other scoundrels will take your life. Let me go and stand my trial, and perhaps I can make my innocence appear. When I make the fact appear, before the court-marshal, that I owe my life to you, perhaps it will justify me in saving yours." 
               Reader, my pen refuses to record the dreadful scene of woe which took place, when the beauteous young damsel was dragged away from her lover, to stand a trial for high-treason, the punishment of which, you know, is death. 
               Henry's sorrow may be more easily imagined than described. He stood transfixed to the spot; the blood began to congeal in his veins; his knees grew weak; his brain began to whirl round and round; his lips trembled, and as he saw his intended bride dragged from his arms by a band of ruffians, his rage was uncontrolable. 
               At length, overcome with rage, anger and despair, he sank speechless and insensible to the floor. For many days he remained unconscious of things passing near him. But at length his reason returned, and Henry found himself under the attendance of an American surgeon, and in a small room in the outskirts of the city. 
               He was informed that the Americans had captured the city, and that he had been a prisoner of war; but had been received back in exchange for Mexican prisoners. He was also informed that the Mexican army had taken up its head quarters at Saltillo, where a young lady had been tried for high treason, found guilty, and was to suffer death in a few days. 
               At the receipt of this news Henry sprang from his couch, and paced the room for some time without speaking a single word. 
               "No, Ellen," quoth he, "thou shalt not die, as long as blood flows in my veins. No, sweet Ellen, I would dash head-long into the bottomless precincts of unending woe, to rescue thee from a shameful death. Thou art condemned to die for the enormous crime of hacking off a black-hearted villain's arm, to save the life of thy lover, who was completely disarmed and exhausted out of breath. What an idea! what an enormous crime-a crime for which thy precious blood should flow. No, Ellen, I will save thee, I could whip a whole regiment of such men-men who could willingly draw the innocent blood of a beauteous damsel-a damsel, too, whose blood hath freely flown in freedom's cause." 
                
               As thus Henry soliloquized to himself, he was interrupted by the entrance of a young Spaniard, who handed him a letter. He eagerly seized the letter and examined the seal, which bore the following motto: "Rescue me quick or I die!" 
               Well did Henry know who the letter was from. As quick as thought he broke the seal and read as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Oh, Henry, if this sheet is stained with tears, know thou for whom they are shed. My broken heart is overwhelmed with a tide of unsupportable sorrow. Henry, thy own Ellen is lingering on the very verge of eternity. Condemned am I to die a death the most ignominious that could be inflicted on a poor mortal. I die day after to-morrow, unless rescued by thee. I fear not death, Henry. No desire have I to remain on this dull earth; without 'tis to enjoy thy dear company. Could we both die in each other's arms, oh! how sweet death would be. Oh! Henry, save me from a disgraceful death, or come and die with me. Let us go through the dark vale of death together. I send this by Pedro in disguise, as his life would pay the forfeit if he is dicovered. Adieu, deary Henry. 
                           
                              "ELLEN AAKENZA."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Henry had not discovered as yet that it was Pedro who handed him the letter; but when he read the letter through he raised his eyes and recognized him in his disguise, standing against the door, with his cheek resting on his hand. 
               "Come in, dear Pedro," quoth Henry, "and inform me how they keep Ellen confined, for I intend to rescue her at all hazards. Were Satan and all his hellish host arrayed against me, they should be unable to prevent me from rescuing my love from the merciless jaws of death," 
               Pedro entered, took his seat beside Henry, and began as follows: 
               "Miss Ellen is to be shot day after to-morrow for high treason. Her father was killed in the second day's seige of Monterey, and no living friend did she have to plead her cause. Gabbez appeared as a witness against her: he being a man of distinction, and having a great deal of influence with the court-martial, and his woful appearance, with his right arm hacked off near his shoulder, filled the hearts of the soldiers with sympathy for him, and a determination to punish the offender with death. Notwithstanding his total want of regard for all feelings of humanity, Gabbez was a brave young officer, and fought well till he lost his arm. He is the only brave man I ever knew whose heart was wholly void of honor. It was also proven before the court-martial that if Captain Lavalco, alias Ellen Aakenza, had not have called off her men at the very moment that she did, that Ampudia would certainly have won the day, and the Americans have been compelled to retreat or be cut to pieces. The consequence was that the whole court became prepossessed in Gabbez' favor and prejudiced against Ellen. And the innocent young maiden now lies confined in the third story of an old castle, at the outskirts of Saltillo, there to await her awful doom. That beautiful and tender ankle of hers is entwined with a heavy chain, and her lily wrists with a pair of hand-cuffs. She bears her afflcitions like a heavenly angel, and never is heard to murmur at the injustice of her hard fate." 
               "Say no more, Pedro, I have heard enough, and have resolved to set Ellen free before twelve hours, or spill my blood in the attempt." 
               The untiring king of day now drove his shining chariot behind the blue canopy of the west, and called in his golden rays of shiny light. The dark curtains of night began to climb the eastern blue, and spread their sable wings on the broad expanse of the earth. The silvery goddess of the night mounted her shining car, and drove it swift across the southern skies, and partially dispersed the pitchy vapors of night. All the citizens and soldiers of Monterey were wrapt in the quiet embrace of sweet repose, whilst the unmolested wolf strutted across the recent battle field, searching for prey. All the horrors of war were forgotten for the time being. 
               Reader, if you had been seated near the road leading from Monterey to Saltillo, on the night above described, you might have seen two men, mounted each on a large black steed, whilst one was leading a third horse, with a ladies' saddle on his back. It was Henry and Pedro, who were both dressed in disguise-such as are generally worn by the lower class of Mexicans. Yes, reader, it was Henry on his way to Saltillo, to rescue his love from the jaws of death. 
               After riding at a swift pace, until three o'clock in the morning, Henry and Pedro arrived at the City of Saltillo; they passed through the guard line without molestation, and soon found themselves near the large stone wall which surrounded the castle in which Ellen was confined. It was built of large unpolished stone, four stories high, flat roof-crowned on top with a large dome, sixty feet high. The dreary appearance of the old castle looked very much like a habitation for ghosts, instead of living creatures. From a small grated window in the third story issued forth the glimmering rays of a candle. 
               "There," quoth Pedro, "is the room where Ellen is confined. Let us conceal our horses behind those chapparel bushes, and you, Henry, must remain here till I go and inform Ellen that you are here, and intend to rescue her-lest she might be frightened, and upset all our plans. I can soon obtain admittance to her chamber, for I am well acquainted with the officer who keeps the keys, and he only knows me as her servant. I thought, perhaps, my services might be needed, so I made him believe that I cared no more for Ellen than other persons." 
               Henry bowed an assent. Pedro left him and approached the sentinel, who walked up and down in front of the prison, and soon obtained the key; he unlocked the door, and soon stood in the presence of the young maiden. He informed her that Henry was waiting without, with a horse ready for her to ride, and requested her to prepare to set out for Monterey. Before leaving Monterey, Henry had procured tools to sever the chains from her ankles, and a rope ladder to scale the wall with. 
               Pedro hastened back to where Henry was concealed, and informed him that Ellen was ready. The old castle was surrounded by a stone wall twenty feet in height, thickly studded on top with sharp iron spikes. Henry tied a small rope to his ladder, threw it around one of the iron spikes; by means of which he drew himself to the top of the wall, which brought him within ten feet of the little window in Ellen's chamber. Pedro had instructed her how to manage to assist Henry in rescuing her. Her hands being very small, she could easily slip off her handcuffs. He told her to listen attentively, and when she heard Henry on the wall, to extend her hand between the iron bars of the window-in which Henry would throw a rope, which he told her to fasten to the bars. Ellen obeyed the instructions; so when Henry gained the summit of the wall he drew up his ladder, made one end fast to the wall, then threw the other end of the rope to Ellen, who tied it as directed. Then he ascended the rope ladder, and found nothing between him and Ellen, save a half dozen iron bars. He caught the little white hand of Ellen, which was extended through the grates, and pressed it to his breast, and stamped a sweet kiss on her lips, between the iron bars. With but little trouble, he succeeded in breaking the bars asunder, then leaped through the window and snatched Ellen again to his heart, Ellen threw her lily arms around Henry's neck, and gave vent to a feeling of joy by a violent flow of crystal tears. She nestled her beauteous cheek in his bosom, and bathed it in her tears-whilst her young breast swelled with passionate bliss. Henry spoke not, but he pressed her close to his heart, and, with his handkerchief, wiped the flowing tears from her cheeks, and stamped many kisses on her ruby lips. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               DISCLOSURE THAT PEDRO IS A COUNT-THE WEDDINGS. 
               AGAIN my pen refuses to describe the scene of happiness which here took place. Henry went to work, and in less than ten minutes, had the heavy chains severed from Ellen's ankle; then seized her in his arms-placed her on the window seat-pressed a sweet kiss on her lips-then directed her how to climb down the ladder Within a few minutes, Henry, Ellen, and Pedro, found themselves on the earth, on the outside of the wall. They hastened to their horses-Henry lifted Ellen into the saddle, then mounted himself, whilst Pedro followed suit. They rode slowly round the city, until they struck the road leading back to Monterey. When they entered the road, they dashed off at a rapid pace. After riding some ten miles, grey dawn begun to make its appearance in the east, which admonished Henry to seek some cave of safety for the day. But he was now startled by the heavy sound of horses' feet coming thundering down the road behind. It was a party of Mexicans who were sent in pursuit of Henry, so soon as they learned that Ellen was gone. As quick as thought, Henry, Ellen, and Pedro, dashed into a dense thicket of chapparel to the left of the road, where they concealed themselves till the pursuers passed. They then went some two hundred yards further from the road, where they found a cooling spring which gushed from a small cave in the mountains. Here they concluded to halt, and remain through the day; then, under cover of night, make their way to Monterey-it being very dangerous to travel the road during the day. Henry dismounted, and Ellen fell into his arms; and, spreading his blanket on the green grass, near the sparkling brook, seated Ellen on it. He and Pedro then took their horses and fastened them to an orange tree, and gave them some corn which Pedro had in his saddle bags. 
               Henry then returned, and took his seat on the blanket, by Ellen's side-and threw his arms around her beauteous waist, and pressed his lips to hers. 
               The golden rays of the morning sun now begun to peep over the eastern hills, and gladdened all the earth with his warming rays. A thick cluster of small orange trees protected Henry and Ellen from the burning rays of the sun. A thousand beauteous teous little birds mounted the branches of the trees, and filled the balmy air with their sweet music; the murmuring of the little limpid broke, as it dashed swift among the craggy rocks, made a musical sound. Henry and Ellen were very much fatigued-he having rode sixty miles during the night, and Ellen ten-she had not closed her beautiful eyes in sleep for many long days and nights. Henry made a pillow of his saddle, by placing it under his blanket; and in each other's arms, and with their lips together, Henry and Ellen fell to rest in Morpheus' sweet embrace. Oh! reader, what a sight is here presented to our view. Just, for an instant, let your imaginations follow Henry and Ellen through all their scenes of trouble, shipwreck, trials, dangers, and separations, meeting, etc. And then trace them to a deep ravine at the base of the Cordillera Mountains, to the left of the road leading from Monterey to Saltillo, fifty miles from the former and ten from the latter; and then behold them, with their lips together, their heads resting on a saddle for a pillow, their arms around each other's necks, Ellen's long glossy black hair hanging in confused tresses about her beauteous cheek; look at the scar on her beauteous ankle, made by a heavy chain; look, also, at the scar on her little wrist, that same little hand, too, which raised the sabre in her bleeding country's cause. 
               I say, reader, gaze on this beauteous damsel as she sleeps in the arms of her lover, and think of all her troubles. Answer, if you ever saw or read of such an object of admiration? They slept sound until the sun got high in the southern skies, and his scorching rays pierced through the trees, and rested on their faces. They were now awakened by Pedro, who had built a fire-made some coffee-broiled some dried venison, and had a clean cloth spread on the grass. 
               "Arise," quoth he to Henry, "and bring Miss Ellen to breakfast." 
               "Soon they were all seated around the sumptuous banquet, of which every one partook. Breakfast over, Henry and Ellen again took their seats on the grass. Soon Pedro had cleared up his table, and took his seat by Henry's side. 
               "Now, my dear Henry," said Ellen, as her beautious cheek brightened up with a smile, "let us hear your history from the time you leaped into the gulf, from the little schooner, up to this time." 
               "Well, Ellen," quoth he, "I am ready now to relate it, if you are ready to listen." 
               Ellen kissed Henry, bowed assent, then leaned her cheek on his shoulder, and threw her left arm around his neck, and prepared pared to hear his story, which he began to relate as follows: 
               "As far as leaping from the schooner is concerned I know nothing; when I recovered my senses I found myself in the cabin of a small vessel bound to Galveston, Texas. I was informed by the crew that I had been taken from the gulf perfectly lifeless; that I was found lying across a plank with a large fragment of a chain fastened to my leg; that I was brought into the cabin, and in the course of an hour exhibited signs of life. I was then drenched with an emetic, which threw up a goodly flood of brine, after which I soon recovered, when I related my misfortune to the captain. I soon arrived at Galveston, where I found a company of young men preparing to start on a trading expedition to Santa Fe. I joined the crew, and soon found myself on the road to Santa Fe. After undergoing many hardships and privations, the relation of which would seem almost incredible, we arrived at San Miguel, where we were betrayed, by one of our men, into the hands of the Mexicans. We were all chained together, and driven from forty to fifty miles, over a rugged road, every day. Soon the clothes were worn off our backs, and the shoes off our feet, which were cut in many gaping wounds by the sharp stones. The road behind us was stained with blood which streamed in torrents from our wounded feet. Gabbez was the officer under whose command we were so cruelly treated. He seemed to take a pleasure in whipping me on the naked back with his horse-whip." 
               Here Henry paused for some time, whilst his eyes flashed and sparkled like balls of living fire; he clenched his hands and gnashed his teeth. 
               "Oh! would to heaven," said he, "that I could meet this villain in single combat. But, Ellen, you have deprived me of that privilege, by hacking off his arm, for it would be dishonorable, you know, to attack a crippled man." 
               "Yes, Henry, I have drawn the villain's blood-I have given him a mark which will follow him to his grave. So, Henry, banish the memory of the unprincipled demon from your mind, and proceed with your story." 
               Thus saying she raised her lips to Henry's, and stamped them with a kiss; then leaned her cheek on his shoulder again, and he renewed his narrative as follows: 
               "As I have said, we were driven forty or fifty miles per day, and whenever one of our men became sick and unable to travel, Gabbez drew his pistol and shot him dead. I recollect five young men whom he killed on the road, who were as far his superiors as the brightest angel is to the blackest devil in hell At night we were crowded into a small pen like a drove of hogs, and whilst we were almost perishing for food Gabbez would amuse himself by throwing ears of corn to us, to see us scuffle over them. I travelled ten days with no other food but a small ear of corn each day. At length we arrived at the city of Mexico, and whilst chained in couples, with a large chain along the centre of the company, we were driven through the streets at a rapid rate to give the citizens an opportunity to feast their eyes on us. After travelling through the streets for some time, we halted in front of a large stone building, near the grand Almeda, to afford the inmates an opportunity to gaze on us. As we approached the building I noticed Gabbez' face brightened with joy, as if he expected some one to meet him with a warm reception. But in drawing nearer to the building I noticed his countenance change, and at length he gave vent to his passion, and began to whip me to glut his revenge. We were all commanded to face the magnificent building, and after standing there about five minutes, I was startled by a loud scream of agony, which emanated from the third story of the building. Even that scream of agony made my heart flutter with joy; confident I was that I had heard that scream before; it had the very same tone of one you gave when I and your brother fought at New Orleans, and a thousand times have I heard the same scream ringing in my ears whilst asleep. I was sure it was you-I cast my eyes in that direction, hoping again to feast my eyes on the object of my heart, but I beheld you not." 
               "Yes, Henry," quoth Ellen, as she strained him closer to her heart, "you guessed right; it was I. As soon as my eyes rested on you, notwithstanding your garments were torn and ragged, your beautiful cheek pale, and your eyes sunk deep in their sockets, I thought I recognized you; I attempted to call your name, but just at that instant Gabbez struck you with his whip; I saw your precious blood gush from your back; I screamed aloud and fell to the floor, and remained unconscious for some time. When I recovered, I learned that the Santa Fe prisoners were gone. I disguised myself in men's garments and set out for Vera Cruz in seach for you; the balance of my adventures you already know." 
               Another embrace and a kiss, and Henry renews his narrative as follows: 
               "We were then driven to Perote, where we were compelled to labor, on the pavements all day, under the lash, then crowded into a small room at night, and compelled to lie on the floor with heavy chains on our legs. After many long months of intense suffering, and when we were all reduced to perfect skeletons, we were released, and, under the care of Waddy Thompson, set out for the United States. But when we arrived at Vera Cruz I unbosomed myself to the noble-hearted Minister, and gave him a full history of my affair of love with you. He gave me five hundred dollars in money, and leave of absence to go back to the city of Mexico to see you. I took lodgings at a hotel, and late at night, whilst the moon was high in the southern skies, and all Vera Cruz was wrapped in sleep, I visited our favorite rock, where I heard you, as has already been stated. The following day I took the stage and set out for the city of Mexico, where I arrived in due time. But, oh! what disappointment awaited me! My whole soul was sunk to the deepest pit of despair, when I learned that you were gone. I disguised myself and rushed into your room, expecting soon to draw you to my heart, but imagine my disappointment and agony when I learned that you were gone, and no person knew where. 
               "I again took the stage and went back to Vera Cruz, and went to every hotel, and made such inquiries as I deemed necessary to find you. I went to the same hotel from which I stole you over five years ago. There the landlady told me of all the circumstances connected with my miniature. She told me that a young lad of rather feminine appearance had taken the miniature. She said that the youth told her that it was the miniature of a young man, who had saved his life on the Ohio river. This circumstance made it plain to my mind that it was you dressed in male garments; for I had learned all about your adventure in the garb of an oyster boy in search of me. I also learned from the hostess that you went by the name of Lavalco. My heart now swelled with delight and pleasing hopes, for I thought in a few days to call thee mine forever. I searched throughout the whole city for you, and Inquired of every person I saw. 
               "About five weeks had now passed since the night I found your miniature at the cave, when I learned from one of the policeman that a lad answering your description had heen sentenced to one month's imprisonment in the house of correction. My heart now swelled with a mixture of delight and pain. Delight at the thought of seeing you soon, and pain at finding you a prisoner in the penitentiary. I hastened to the work-house, but was worse disappointed than before; for instead of fiuding you, I learned that your term of service had expired, and that you had sailed on a steamship for Havana. Determined was I never to give up my search until I found you, consequently I took a birth on the first sailing vessel for Havana, where I arrived after a voyage of nine days. 
               "As soon as I got ashore, I hastened to the custom-house to inquire if the vessel on which you sailed had arrived. The officer gave me a full history of the wreck, and the loss of the passengers and crew; about a miniature being found by the father of a young lady who was drowned, etc. I now felt my brain whirling round; my blood refused to circulate, my heart ceased to beat, I fell unconscious to the floor, and was conveyed to a hotel in Havana, where I was confined with a severe spell of brain fever, which lasted two months. 
               "By slow degrees my health returned; but instead of praying for health I prayed to die. What had I left to require my attention on earth, believing as I did that you was gone forever. Oh! what a tide of sorrow then rushed across my broken heart. I was attacked by long spells of insanity, during which time, they told me, I called your name every breath. I remained at Havana five months, wondering about the streets like a begger, generally looked upon by all as an idiot; but at times my mind was perfectly composed. One day whilst I was walking along the streets, one of these insane fits came on me, and when I recovered, I found myself in a magnificent room, in a downy bed, gorgeously furnished, and hung round with curtains fringed with gold. A beautiful old lady, whom I supposed to be about fifty years of age, stood by my bed, and watched every movement of my features. If I had been her own son she could not have done more for my comfort than she did. She said that she had been once wrecked on Brazos Island, where she had lost her only son, and herself and two other passengers were all who escaped a watery grave. She said that she was not at all inclined to be superstitious, but she was sometimes constrained to believe that her son was yet alive. She said that he was four years old when she was wrecked. The reason she gave for believing him still alive was this: She said that she saw her son in a vision one night whilst asleep, and that he had conversed with her to the following effect:-He said that he had been found on Brazos Island by some distinguished character of Mexico, who had made a slave of him. She said that she was the widow of Count De Gazarro, who had left her a large estate, and that she had no heirs; that ever since she had the dream she had intended to take a trip through Mexico to search for her son. She told me she would know him by a small scar, the effect of a burn, on his left cheek." 
               Pedro now sprang to his feet, as quick as thought. 
               "Oh! 'tis my dear mother. Gen. Aakenza found me on the island of Brazos, when I was four years old, and around my neck he found my mother's miniature, which I have here in my bosom." 
               He drew out the miniature, and handed it to Henry. 
               "'Tis the very same features," said Henry, "though the lady is much older than she was when that was taken, yet I can see that it is the same features; and here is her name engraven on the miniature." 
               "And here," quoth Pedro, "is the scar of which she spoke," at the same time pulling back his glossy locks, and displaying a small scar, precisely the same which lady Gazarro had described to Henry. 
               "Yes, Pedro, that is the same scar. I thought there was noble blood in your veins. Such noble blood flows not in the veins of common stock. Instead of Gen. Aakenza's servant, thou art the son of a weathy Spanish Count." 
               Large drops of grief now coursed swiftly down Pedro's cheek. Little did he care for rank or station whilst Julia was lost to him forever. 
               "Henry," said he, "I must see my mother as soon as possible. Her presence, perhaps, may heal the wounds in my heart. But, oh! Julia, my sweet Julia, thou art, perhaps, now in the arms of my rival, being caressed by a man whom I know you despise. Oh heaven! what have I done to deserve this insufferable misfortune? Of what crime am I guilty, O God! that I should loose my sweet Julia forever? Now that I find I am heir to high rank and station, I want Julia the more to share my wealth. But, alas! those ruby lips of hers never bloomed for me, but have been kissed a thousand times by my rival." 
               Pedro now ceased and sank back on the grass, and gave vent to his uncontrolable anguish. 
               Henry and Ellen could both sympathize with poor Pedro, for well they knew the bitter anguish of his soul, and that, too, by sad experience. 
               Henry, Ellen and Pedro remained silent for some time, whilst tears in copious floods trickled down every cheek. At length Henry resumed the broken thread of his story as follows: 
               "After remaining with the Countess Gazarro three months, I concluded to set sail for the United States and see my mother, from whom I had been absent over three years. When I left, the Countess gave me one thousand dollars. 
               "After a voyage of ten days I arrived at New Orleans, took a steamboat bound for Louisville, where I arrived in due time, and twenty-four hour's travelling brought me to the little vil-where my mother resided when I left her. 
               "For an instant I stood on a little hill near the same sapling from which I fell when I climbed it to catch a farewell glance of my dearest mother. I then hastened toward the house with a heart full of extatic delight, at the idea of soon being in my mother's arms. But, alas! my misfortunes had begun anew. I rushed into the house with extended arms, and instead of clasping my mother to my heart, I was met by a strange lady who seemed very much astonished at my abrupt entrance. I apologized, and gave her my reasons for doing so, and learned from her that my mother and step-father had removed to the northern part of Missouri. 
               "I hastened back to the river, took a boat for Miami, then travelled on horseback to the village where I learned my mother had gone. 
               "As I drew near the little village, my heart again swelled with joy at the thought of seeing my mother. But I was again doomed to meet with more disappointment than ever. Oh! well do I recollect how the dreadful news rushed like a dagger to my heart. Instead of finding my dear mother, whom I expected soon to hold in my arms, I found a couple of graves side by side, which they told me confined the honored remains of my parents. 
               "My despair was now perfectly complete. I knew no more. I knew not where I went; but when my senses returned, I found myself in the lunatic asylum at Nashville, where I had been over a year. 
               "My reason again resumed its throne; I was released from the asylum, and returned to my native State, where I remained until the present war broke out. I then joined the volunteer service, and came to this country. The balance of my story you know." 
               When Henry ended his narrative, Ellen leaped into his arms, and all parties wept for joy. The crimson lips met and lingered long on each other; their arms were tied closely around each others waists, while the tears of joy flowed mingling together down their beauteous cheeks. 
               Reader, all that was wanting to make this one of the happiest groups that ever met on this troublesome earth, was the beauteous young Julia, who, of course, was the only one who could make Pedro happy. Pedro arose to his feet-folded his arms across his swelling heart, and gazed on Henry as he held the angelic maiden in his arms. Two copious streams of bitter tears were gushing thick and fast down his cheeks. 
                
               Oh! Henry," quoth he, "I love to see you and Ellen happy, but to see you pressing the beauteous Ellen to your heart, brings fresh to my memory my long lost, oh! yes, my long, forever lost Julia." 
               A heavy groan of despair, and poor Pedro sunk senseless to the ground. In an instant Ellen raised his head from the ground, laid it on her lap, and placed a vial of hartshorn to his nostrils, and soon Pedro exhibited signs of life. 
               "Despair not, Pedro," said she, "notwithstanding Julia is lost to you forever, you may yet be happy; look what an allwise Providence hath done for I and Henry. Not five days ago we believed each other dead; and now what do you see? You see us restored to each other's arms, and as happy as mortals could wish. Put thy trust in the Supreme Ruler of heaven, and you will yet be happy. Perhaps you may see some young lady who will love you as well as Julia." 
               "Stop, oh! for heaven's sake, stop, Miss Ellen, talk not to me of loving another damsel; since Julia is lost to me forever, think you that I can ever erase the image of Julia from my heart? No, Miss Ellen, nor shall I forget that beauteous damsel as long as life lasts, although I know she is another's bride. If she had voluntarily became his bride I might have forgotten her; but she loved me dearly, and was compelled, by her relentless father, to become Bernardo's unwilling bride." 
               Pedro now burst into another paroxysm of despair, by a violent flow of fresh tears. Ellen and Henry did all they could to comfort him, but all to no purpose. Henry wept bitterly for some time and then thus begun: 
               "Listen, Pedro and Ellen, to my plans of future life; my term of service will expire in a few weeks. Then, Ellen, I wish to make you my bride; but it is my desire to be united by the hymenial laws of the United States. I will put you in a hotel in Monterey till the expiration of my term of service; then I and you, and Pedro will sail to New Orleans. We will go to Cuba and persuade Pedro's mother to sell her estate at Havana, and go with us to the United States and remain with us. And you, Pedro, must remain with us, for your presence is necessary to make me and Ellen happy; and when the present bloody war shall come to a close, we will come back to Mexico, Ellen, and try also to persuade your mother to go to the States and live with us, and oh! if my dear mother was living what more could we wish to make us happy?" 
               Ellen could not restrain her feeling of joy any longer; she leaped into Henry's arms and stopped his lips with a kiss, whilst she bathed his swelling bosom with briny tears of bliss. 
                
               "I'll go with Henry to any part of the globe," said Pedro. "I know my hours of bliss are passed and gone forever, but thy presence will partially dispel the dusky clouds of sorrow which overhangs my brow, and I know that my mother will acceed to anything which will make her long-lost son happy." 
               The golden sun was now declining behind the western mountains, and gray twilight began to spread her sable curtain across the gay earth. The nightingale mounted the towering pines, and began to serenade the night with his doleful song. Pedro soon had another sumptuous meal prepared, and spread on the green grass, around which the whole party took their seats. 
               Reader, let your imagination enter this large ravine and behold Henry, Ellen and Pedro seated on the green grass, partaking of the supper which Pedro had prepared with his own hands; and then let me ask you if you would exchange one moment of such extatic bliss for an hundred years of ordinary living? Methinks I hear the reader answer no. 
               Ellen sat close, to Henry's side, and they sipped their coffee from the same little tin-cup. She would take a sup, then hand it to Henry, and smile with joy as he did the same. Pedro sat on the opposite side, and partook of the feast whilst tears would, ever and anon, gush from his eyes as a thought of his lost Julia would rush across his mind. 
               Poor Pedro! my very heart bleeds for him; he had labored all his life as a slave, and now it turns out that he is a Spanish nobleman; but alas, wealth, fortune and station cannot make the soul happy; there is a wound in his heart that none but Julia could heal; even his mother could not heal the wound which his heart had received by the loss of his lovely Julia. 
               Proud Cynthia now mounted the vaulted blue, and drove his silvery chariot swift across the eastern skies, and gilded the earth with her straggling rays. The hungry cannibals began to strut unmolested through the mountains in search of prey, whilst their yells and hideous cries filled the air with a mournful sound. 
               Henry, Ellen and Pedro soon finished their sumptuous supper, then commenced preparing to start on their nocturnal journey towards Monterey. Henry and Pedro saddled the horses, whilst Ellen arranged her riding dress. She placed a long, flowing skirt, of black cloth, around her slender waist, which was circled with several rows of gold lace, and hung far beneath her feet, as she proudly sat on her beauteous steed; on her brow rested a black velvet cap, from which floated three red ostrich feathers, and her long glossy tresses were platted in two long mazy folds, and hung carelessly around her snowy neck. Henry now lifted Ellen into the saddle, then mounted his noble steed, and Pedro did the same, and soon the party were riding swiftly along the road to Monterey. Ellen rode in the centre, Henry on the right and Pedro on the left, so as to protect the beauteous damsel, in case of an ambuscade by the guerillas, who frequented that part of the country. Each rider had a pair of holsters hanging to the pommel of the saddle, whilst a ponderous sabre hung to each waist, and Pedro and Henry had each a well charged carbine resting across the saddle before. Thus equipped they rode along at a rapid pace, whilst Ellen's musical voice filled the air with a sweet sound. Her beauteous face, as it shone in the bright rays of the moon, was lovely beyond the power of my pen to describe. With her left hand she held the bridle thong, whilst the other arm rested on Henry's shoulder, and ever and anon she bent over and pressed his lips with a tender kiss. Pedro rode close to her left side, ready, in case of an attack by the guerillas, to lay down his life, if necessary, to protect Ellen from harm or danger. Big drops of sorrow were streaming down his beautiful cheeks, and falling, like drops of rain, on his saddle, whilst his thoughts were far, far away. Yes, reader, his thoughts rested on a beloved object which he thought was lost, lost to him forever. Oh, what bitter pangs of agony rushed in quick succession across his troubled soul, whilst, in his imagination, he saw his Julia in all the bloom of early youth and angelic beauty. 
               "But, alas! those cheeks no more bloom for me," said Pedro to himself, "oh! no; no, never, never shall I press that swelling breast to mine, and press those ruby lips with a kiss. Oh! Bernardo, couldst thou but have known the eternal woe, thou hast brought upon me, by dragging my Julia from my arms, thou couldst not be happy with her." 
               Thus poor Pedro soliloquized to himself, as he rode along. After riding some ten miles on the Monterey road, by which time the bright moon had arose high in the southern skies, and made all around nearly as bright as day, they came to a short crook in the road, where it made around a large peak of the mountain. They rode slowly around it, and on rising a small mound, they stood in plain view of six armed Mexicans, evidently the same band who had pursued Henry and Ellen on the day previous morning from Saltillo. Henry did not discover them until he was within thirty yards of them; 'twas vain to attempt a retreat; the only alternative left them was to fight or die. Henry threw himself between Ellen and the foes, who were advancing on them at a rapid pace, and requested her to hide herself behind the hill. 
                
               "No, my dear Henry, resolved am I to die by thy side. I have rode where balls of death fllew thick around me like falling hail, and think you that I would shrink at this dreadful and critical moment? No, Henry, urge me not to leave you, for determined am I to fight, live and die with you." 
               By this time the Mexicans were within fifteen paces of Henry and his little party; as quick as thought, and before Henry expected the firing to begin, Ellen drew a pistol from the holster, presented it at the band of Mexicans, and fired. A loud scream of pain, and the foremost of the band fell lifeless to the earth. 
               Thus the young damsel begun the fight. Simultaneously Henry and Pedro fired, and two more Mexicans fell dead from their horses. The three living Mexicans fired, and instantly killed Henry's horse, which dropped heavily to the earth, and hurled Henry against the ground, and wholly disabled him to rise. Pedro and Ellen fired the second time, but did no harm. All their fire-arms being empty, they could do no more; consequently they were seized by the Mexicans, tied fast, and hurried on toward Saltillo, leaving Henry as they thought, dead in the road. And poor Ellen also believed him killed. 
               Reader, does it not seem that heaven itself is arrayed against these young lovers. Sometimes we behold them in each other's arms, engaging each other's caresses, and filled with buoyant hopes of unending happiness; then in less than two hours we again see them separated, one tied fast on her horse, on her way back to Saltillo, to end her life by a military execution, the other lying lifeless in the public high-way. I say, reader, does it not seem that they have incurred the Divine displeasure of heaven? Are they not pursued by unending misfortunes? 
               Ellen screamed and tried to throw herself from her horse, but her little feet were tied fast beneath the horse's breast-her hands tied fast to the pommel of the saddle. The tall mountains echoed and re-echoed for miles around with her piteous screams of woe. She screamed Henry's name at every breath. Pedro rode silently by her side, and gave vent to a copious flood of tears. 
               Soon Henry regained his breath; he sprang quick to his feet, and gazed with an idle stare, his mind was sorely confused, and all seemed but a dream. He saw three dead Mexicans lying in the road, he also saw his own noble horse lying dead by his side. He screamed for Ellen, but, alas! the dreadful reality now rushed to his mind that she was a prisoner, and on her way back to Saltillo. He set off on the road leading back to Saltillo at a rapid pace, after running on fast several miles, until his breath was almost gone, he found a lame steed standing in the edge of the road, he approached and found it to be one of the horses belonging to the Mexicans who were killed. The steed had got the halter tangled around his feet, which held him fast. 
               Henry mounted the horse quick, put spurs to him, and dashed off at full speed. After dashing over a space of about five miles, he ascended a tall peak of the mountain, and beheld Ellen on a horse, driven on at a rapid pace. Death and hellish vengeance blazed from his eyes as he beheld his tender love, tied fast to her horse, and heard, her piteous screams. For some time he was at a loss how to manage to rescue her from them. He knew that if he rode up behind they would murder her and Pedro before he could get to them. But at length the following plan entered his mind. He put spurs to his horse, and dashed through the chapparel, and entered a little path about a hundred yards from the road, and running parallel with it, he hurried on till he passed the party who had Ellen confined, then made his way back to the road, and concealed himself in a dense thicket close to the edge of the road; he had not been concealed more than five minutes, when he heard the sound of hores's feet coming down the road, and also heard the mournful sound of Ellen, who had so exhausted herself that she could not be heard but a few yards. Henry grasped his sabre in his right hand, whilst he held the bridle in his left, he turned his horse's head toward the road, and waited till the Mexicans came up. Now he dashed the spurs to his steed, which at a single bound stood in the center of the road, and at a single blow a Mexican's head fell to the earth, and rolled along the dust, leaving a bloody trail behind; both the surviving Mexicans fired at Henry, one ball took effect in his left arm, the other missed entirely. Then they both closed on Henry with sabres, one struck a tremendous blow at his head, he arrested it with his blade, then dashed it through the Spaniard's heart. At this instant the other Mexican gave Henry a heavy blow on the head, which cut him to the skull; exhausted from the loss of blood, Henry fell headlong to the earth; the Mexican leaped of his steed, raised his sabre high above his head to plunge it in Henry's heart, as he lay helpless on his back. Ellen saw his danger, her strength grew tenfold stronger, a desperate effort she made and snapped the cords asunder which bound her hands. Henry was lying near her horse's feet. She seized a sabre, and just as the last surviving Mexican aimed his blow at Henry's heart, and whilst her little feet were still tied fast to the horse's breast, she cleaved the Mexican's head asunder, who fell bleeding and lifeless across Henry's body. 
               Thus she had slayed two Mexicans, and saved her lover's life; her feet being tied under the horse's breast, she was unable to release herself. So she and Pedro remained fastened to their horses until Henry was sufficiently recovered to release them. With the sabre he cut the cords which bound her little feet, and she fell from the saddle into Henry's extended arms. He strained her again and again to his anxious heart, and kissed her warm lips, whilst again their tears of joy mingle together. For several minutes they remained in each other's arms without speaking. 
               "Please release me from this horse," said Pedro, "when you get through kissing and hugging." 
               "Excuse me, my dear Pedro, I was so happy I had forgotten you." 
               Henry hastened to Pedro and soon released him from his horse. Henry was so weak from the loss of blood, which gushed in torrents from the gash on his head, and wound in his arm, that he was unable to ride; so they concluded to seek shelter in the chapparel, until he should be able to travel. Pedro and Ellen spread a blanket on the ground, and placed Henry on it; then Pedro took hold of one end, Ellen took the other, and conveyed him about three hundred yards from the road, where they found a deep cave, or ravine, at the bottom of which was a beautiful grove of orange trees, laden with scores of yellow fruit; and the ground beneath was covered with green grass, and fragrant wild flowers of every description. Under this grove of beautiful trees, they placed. Henry, and whilst Pedro kindled up a flaming fire, Ellen hastened to a little brook close by, and brought him some water, his thirst being very great. She seated herself on the grass by his side, raised his head from the ground, placed it near her heart, and held the cooling water to his burning lip. Henry seized the water, and would have emptied the cup; but Ellen cautioned him not to drink much. With her beautiful little white hands, she washed the clotted gore from his hair, and wiped the blood from his fevered cheeks. With her white linen handkerchief, she made a bandage for his arm; and with her costly apron, made a bandage for his head; and whilst his head rested in her lap, as she sat on the grass, she shaved the glossy curls from the wound. She always carried with her some adhesive plaster and salve. After bathing the wound in cold water, she placed the salve and adhesive plaster on it-over which she placed a large strip of cloth, torn from her apron. His wounds being dressed, she combed his glossy hair, and washed the blood from his hands; then pressed her crimson lips to his, and made one long and lingering kiss. 
               Oh! reader, would you not like to be wounded, if you could fall into the hands of such a guardian angel as Henry did, to rest your head on such a swelling breast as Ellen's, and to have your lips kissed by such a beauteous damsel as she? Methinks I hear the reader, with a pleasing smile on his cheek, bow his head and answer, yes. 
               With his hatchet Pedro cut some small poles and forks, and built a neat little tent, which he covered with blankets. He then collected a large quantity of leaves, of which he male a bed for Henry. He and Ellen then removed Henry to the bed and placed him on it; but she took her seat by his side and still held his head on her lap; and, notwithstanding Henry begged her hard not to fatigue herself on his, account, she refused to let his head rest on the leaves; but, during the whole night she held his head, and gazed all the while on his face, and whenever a muscle of his face would move, she would anxiously inquire, if he wanted anything. At length Henry closed his eyes in sweet repose, whilst his head rested in her lap, and his right around her waist; but her beautiful eyes, instead of closing in sleep, were fixed on Henry's countenance, and her left hand placed over his heart. Reader, think not that Ellen was wholly void of modesty-you will recollect that the Spanish ladies are differently brought up from the American. But place yourself in the same situation of Ellen, and you would have done as she did. A dishonest thought had never entered the mind of Ellen or Henry; but their young hearts were wholly filled with pure love and esteem for each other. Each one had often rescued the other from the very jaws of death. And how could Ellen refuse to let his bleeding head-that head, too, which bled for her-I say, how could she refuse to let it rest in her lap, instead of suffering it to rest on the leaves? 
               Pedro spread his blanket on the ground, and soon was wrapt in the quiet arms of Morpheus' sweet embrace, whilst Julia's image, like a fiery nymph, floated before his excited mind. He saw her dressed in, a deep black mourning dress, with a dark veil hanging over her pale face-he saw large drops of woe streaming in torrents down her lovely cheeks, and heard her sweet musical voice lisp his name with tenderness and love. Thus Henry and Pedro were both sleeping sound, and all around was as silent as the tomb-save the occasional howl of a straying wolf, and the gentle murmur of the little brook as it coursed its way gently among the rocks. Whilst Ellen still remained awake, and watched with anxious care, Henry laid on her lap like a sleeping babe. 
               Oh! what a scene was here for a skilful artist to draw?-to see this beauteous and untiring damsel holding her lover's head in her lap-Pedro stretched at full length, his arms folded across his breast, his eyes gently closed, his lips slightly moving, as if conversing with some one. Yes, he was conversing with Julia, whose image still floated before him. And then the romantic scenery all around, the tall and snow-clad mountains-the green foliage of the orange trees-the gentle brook which flowed gently along the valley, and everything else that was calculated to please the eye, or strike the fancy. Now the golden god of day drove his shining chariot over the eastern ills, and darted his cheering rays on Henry and Pedro, who still soundly slept. A smile of joy would ever and anon mount Henry's cheek, as he lay with his arms around Ellen's waist, and his face turned toward Ellen's; but still he slept, and still Ellen sat and anxiously watched his beauteous face. 'Twas nine o'clock in the morning before Henry awoke, so exhausted was he from the loss of blood and sleep. When he opened his eyes, and found himself in fillers arms, and recollected that he had fallen asleep there, he sprung in an instant from his bed of leaves, and with astonishment saw that Ellen's cheeks had grown considerably paler than usual. 
               "Oh, heavens! Ellen, my sweet Ellen, why didst them sit and suffer me to sleep all night, and nearly half the day, and remain awake yourself, when you need rest more than I. Oh! unpardonable wretch that I am, to lie here wrapt in indolent repose, whilst my guardian angel, who should have slept, instead of me, has been watching me with anxious care all night. Ellen, why did you do so-never shall forgive myself." 
               "Stop, Henry-say not a word-I chose to sit up-it is my fault; but no harm is done. Reproach not yourself, Henry. I feel as well now, or better than I have felt for many years. I should always enjoy good health, if I could sit and gaze on your face whilst you sleep." 
               Henry stopped her pleading with a kiss, at the same time throwing his arms around her waist, and drawing her close to his heart, and gave vent to a fresh flood of tears. 
               In the course of five days Henry was able to ride, when he set out for Monterey, where he arrived in due time. He remained sit Monterey until his term of service expired, procured a carriage and driver, took Ellen and Pedro, and started for Brazos, where he arrived after a journey of six days. He found a ship ready to sail for Cuba, in which he, Ellen and Pedro took passage. 
               After a voyage of ten days the towering domes of Havana hove in view, and the vessel anchored in the harbor. Henry obtained a barge, and soon he and Ellen and Pedro were on land. 
               Without delay they hastened to the house where Henry had seen the lady whom he supposed to be Pedro's mother. He hastily inquired if lady Gozarro was there; but to his unlooked for disappointment, he was informed that she had been gone several months, on a tour through Mexico, in search of her son, who was lost at Brazas when an infant. She had been prompted by a dream to Search for him, whom she believed had been reduced to slavery. 
               Poor Pedro sunk to the earth, wholly overcome with despair; he had anticipated within a few moments, to be in the arms of his long-lost mother; but, alas! what disappointment. 
               "Oh! thou Supreme Ruler of the skies, when will my misfortunes have an end? Julia, sweet Julia, is gone; yes, gone, gone forever! and my long-lost mother, too. Oh! my despair and misery is now complete. Let us hasten, Henry, to the United States, and see if my fortune won't change." 
               After a short and delightful voyage, Henry found himself at the St. Charles hotel. He lodged Ellen in the same room where he had placed her six long years before. The landlord knew Henry, and had heard of his gallant deeds in Monterey. Henry made known to him his love affair with Ellen. 
               "Enough," cried the noble host, "suffer me to give you one of the grandest wedding suppers that has over been given in this city. I have heard of your gallant deeds at Monterey, and 'tis my desire to reward you with one of the grandest affairs that has ever come off in the city of New Orleans. When do you wish to marry this young lady, Henry?" 
               "To-morrow evening," 
               "What, so soon as that?" 
               "Yes, so soon as that, for fear some other misfortunes step between me and the object of my happiness." 
               "Well, be it as you wish, Henry. I will have the supper prepared." 
               The hour now arrived which was to make Ellen Henry's forever. The spacious saloon of the St. Charles was lighted with hundreds of chandeliers, which made all around as light as day; whilst many thousand guests, who had heard of Henry's extraordinary character, had assembled to see him take for his bride the Heroine of Monterey. 
                
               "Pedro, you must wait on me," quoth Henry. 
               "I'll do so, Henry, if you desire it, but I am not acquainted with any lady in the room; and you know that I desire not acquaintance of any; as I have lost Julia forever, I have no desire to form new acquaintances." 
               "Nonsense, my dear Pedro, you must strive to forget Julia; perhaps she has forgotten you. She may be at this very moment dancing at a ball in London, and thinking no more about you." 
               "Stop, Henry, say no more on this subject, if you please; I'll wait on you if you desire it." 
               "Yes, Pedro, said Ellen," springing forward, "you are to wait with Miss Lizzeal. She is a charming girl, and you will say so when you see her. She looks as much like your Julia as if she was her sister, at least I thought so, as I only saw her face through her veil; but what puzzles me she is dressed in black, and requested that she may wait on me in that garb." 
               "Well, that'll suit precisely, as I am dressed in black too." 
               This conversation took place in the room just before the wedding was to take place. Pedro stood with his arms folded across his breast, whilst his lips quivered; he tried to conceal his emotions, but in spite of his attempt to conceal them, the tears gushed thick and fast from his eyes. He saw how happy Henry and Ellen were, in a few moments they were to be united forever. But, oh! where was the one 'that was to make him happy? He wiped the 'tears from his eyes, and said: 
               "I am ready now, Miss Ellen, give me an introduction to the lady with whom you wish me to wait." 
               "Well, follow me, she is in the adjoining room here," said Ellen, as she opened the door. 
               Pedro did as she directed, and followed Ellen into Miss Lizzeal's room. 
               "Miss Lizzeal, permit me to introduce you to Count Pedro de Gozarro." 
               "The young lady made an attempt to rise and salute Pedro, but with a loud scream she sprang forward, then sunk lifeless to the floor. The whole audience was startled by the sound, and rushed into the room to see what had caused the alarm. Instantly the young lady was taken from the floor and conveyed to a bed-room. 
               "Well, Miss Ellen, what is the meaning of this fainting? Does my hideous appearance cause ladies to faint? if so, I had better keep myself hid." 
               In the course of fifteen minutes a little servant came dashing up to Pedro, and said: 
                
               "Miss Lizzeal wishes to see the young gentleman, to explain her conduct toward him; she is in that room there now, anxiously waiting to see him." 
               What can the lady mean?" said Pedro to Ellen; "she certainly is mad. Who ever heard of a lady apologizing to a man for fainting in his presence?" 
               "Never mind, Pedro, you go and see what the young lady wants." 
               "Well, I'll go, but there is something very mysterious about this affair, which I can't understand." 
               "Show me to her room," said Pedro to the little servant, who was a little mischievous mulatto. 
               He took Pedro to the door, opened, and followed him in. In a few moments he came dashing back to Ellen, with surprise depicted in his face. 
               "La, Miss, run in here, this young gentleman and lady is a hugging and kissing, screaming, and hollowing; you neber saw de like!" 
               Ellen and Henry hastened to the room, and sure enough, found Pedro in the arms of Miss Lizzeal. 
               "What does this mean, Mr. Pedro?" said Henry. "How is it that not ten minutes ago you manifested no desire to become acquainted with this lady, and now I see you in her arms, with lip to lip, and breast to breast? is that the way you treat your long-lost Julia?" 
               "Yes, Henry, this is precisely the way I treat my long-lost Julia, for she is no one else but my long-lost, my sweet Julia," 
               Ellen now sprang forward, and recognized Julia, and snatched her from Pedro's arms, and drew her to her breast. 
               Stop, Pedro," quoth Henry, "don't get to shouting here; you forget, perhaps, that Julia don't belong to you. Is not she the wife of Lord-somebody, I can't call his name?" 
               "No, no, I'm no man's bride, nor never 'have been," cried Julia, as she sprang from Ellen's arms into Pedro's. "No man hath ever called me wife yet, and none shall do so but Pedro. I made, my escape in a male dress, the very day that I was to become the unwilling bride of Bernardo. I made my escape, and went back to Cuba, where I expected to find Pedro, but he was gone. I became acquainted with an old lady, who said she was going on a trip to Mexico, to hunt for a son of hers, whom she supposed was living somewhere in the republic. I accompanied her to the city of Mexico, from there to Monterey, thence to this city. She is a noble-hearted old lady, and has been to me a mother true. But how is it, Pedro, that you have got to be a Count since I parted with you? I suppose you will be after marrying some distinguished Princess now." 
               No, Julia, my dearest Julia, none but thee shall ever call me husband. You loved me when I was a slave. I loved thee then-I love thee yet, and none but thee can make me happy. Oh! Julia, crown my happiness by consenting to marry me this very hour. Let Henry and Ellen be married, then I and you. Speak, Julia, will you be mine?" 
               "Yes, dear Pedro, gladly do I consent to be thine. But let me consult the Countess, whom I look upon as my mother. Come Pedro, let me introduce you to the Countess. She bears the same name as your's, come let me take you to her; perhaps you may scrape up some relationship with her. Thus saying, she seized Pedro by the hand, and led him to the room of the Countess. 
               The Countess was seated on a sofa, reclining with her cheeks resting on her hand, wrapt in deep meditation. 
               "Mother, let me introduce you to my intended husband, Count Pedro." 
               "Good, heavens! 'tis my long-lost, and darling son," and as quick as thought she held Pedro in her arms." "Yes, God, be praised for restoring to my arms my long-lost boy." 
               pedro threw his arms around his mother's neck, and wept for joy. The Countess held Pedro to her heart several minutes, and wept in silence. Then dropped on her knees on the carpet. 
               "Kneel with me, my darling son, and let us pour out our souls in prayer to God for his goodness. Kneel thou with us, my dearest child," said she to Julia. "You have called me mother long, but now you shall call me so in fact; yes, my daughter, thou shalt be my daughter; and it was my own darling, son, whom you have loved so long, and for whom you have been dressed in mourning. Yes, Pedro, well you may seek the hand of Julia, she is a gem far more valuable than a thousand worlds. She hath loved you long; she wont with me to Mexico to seek her lover, and I to hunt for my son; and little did we think that we were both seeking the same person." 
               Pedro, Julia and the Countess knelt to pray, but they were startled by a scream which came from Ellen's room; they all arose and rushed into the room to see what it meant. 
               "Run here, Pedro," said Henry, "I have found my mother, over whose grave I have shed many a tear." 
               "Well, if you have found your mother, you have nothing to brag of. You have found your mother, but I have found my mother and Julia too; what do you think of that?" 
               "Well, well," said Henry, with a smile of levity on his cheek, "if the dead ain't alive and the lost found now, I think it would be good policy to give up the chase." 
               Right here, reader, my pen refuses to describe the unalloyed happiness of this unlooked-for meeting between lovers, friends and mothers. It seems like nonsense to have attempted as much as I have done. Here is Henry in the arms of his mother, over whose grave he thought he had shed oceans of tears. But it was a mistake. A man and woman of the same name of his step father had died in the little village where Henry thought he had seen the grave of his mother. But his step-father had died eighteen months previous, and Henry's mother had gone to New Orleans to meet her son, on his return from Mexico. She had heard of his death, which had well nigh sent her, with a broken heart, to an untimely grave. But when she heard of the gallant deeds of Henry at Monterey, she thought, perhaps, she might have been misinformed as to his death. And now, reader, imagine her extatic joy, when, within five minutes after arriving at the St. Charles, she was in the arms of her only son-that same youth who fell from the sapling, when he ascended it to catch a farewell glimpse of his mother, as she knelt beside the little window, in the spring of 1840. He who puts his trust in an all-wise God, shall he not be rewarded? 
               "There is a stranger without who wishes to be admitted to the presence of Miss Ellen Aakenza said a servant, as he abruptly entered the room. 
               "Let him enter," said Ellen. 
               The door opened, and displayed a tall figure standing in the door, with a mask over his face, and black mantle hanging over his shoulders. 
               "What would thou with Miss Aakenza?" inquired Henry. 
               The figure made no answer, but sunk on its knees before Ellen. 
               "Behold an humble penitent at thy feet, Miss Aakenza; one who hath deeply wronged you; he begs you to forgive him-and oh! as you expect pardon in the Great Day of Reckoning, forgive the humble individual now before you." 
               "Rise," quoth Ellen, "I know thee not, but I forgive thee, no matter what thy guilt may be." 
               The figure arose, threw off the mask and cloak, and displayed the handsome but pale face of Gabbez. 
               "Now I forgive again," she exclaimed. Yes, Gabbez, though thou hast cost me many hours of pain, I freely forgive thee." 
               "Thanks to thee, Miss Ellen; 'tis true thou hast felt the weight of my wrath, but you have partially paid me back, for my arm hast felt your weight, or rather the weight of your sabre. But I have left a couple of ladies in the other room-one is my intended bride, Irena Vallerio, and the other is one of your old friends and acquaintances suppose you go with me into the other room and see them," 
               Ellen, Henry, Pedro, Julia and the two old ladies followed Gabbez into the other room. 
               "What! another mother come to life," exclaimed Pedro, as he saw Ellen leap into the arms of Lady Aakenza. 
               Yes, reader, it was Ellen's own mother, and nobody else. 
               "Well, I'll be d--d if this don't beat any evening for hugging and kissing, that I have ever met with," said a little dandy who had been looking on all the evening. " "And what hurts me is, that every body else are hugging, kissing, and smacking lips, and no one hugs or kisses me. I come her to see a wedding, too, and d--n the bit of a wedding have I seen yet. I wonder if there are any more mothers coming to life to-night. I have been looking every minute to see my dear old mother pop into the door, who died when I was an infant. I'd like very well to see her, as every person's mother is coming, too-mine had as well come as any." 
               'Twas now nine o'clock at night, by which time the guests began to get restless. But preparations begun anew for the wedding, or for the weddings; for there were to be three weddings, instead of one. The large folding doors which led into the grand saloon, were now thrown wide open, when the bridal, parties made their appearance. Ellen leaned on the arm of Henry-her lovely cheeks were bright with joy. She was dressed in a snowy robe of spotless white, the skirts of which were made stiff with diamonds-her lovely brow was decked with a laurel wreath, and her luxuriant curls hung in two mazy braids down her shoulders-a scarf of yellow gold hung carelessly around her waist-a string of coral beads, fastened in front with a large diamond clasp, hung around her neck. Upon the whole, she looked more like an angel from the skies, than an inhabitant of the earth. 
               Julia had lain aside her mourning dress, and took one of spotless white, also. Her long tresses, which were as dark as the raven's wing, hung unbraided, but in confused ringlets about her snowy neck. 'Tis absurd for me to be wasting time, ink, and paper, describing beauty which may be imagined, but not successfully described. Just imagine two of the most lovely and beauteous young damsels that you ever saw, and you have Ellen and Julia. 
               Henry and Ellen led off first-the ceremony was soon said, which made them one forever. Then Pedro led Julia forward, and whilst tears of joy trickled down swift, he swore to love Julia forever, and Julia swore the same-then they were pronounced one. Then up came Gabbez, with Juana leaning on his left arm (for he had no right arm to give), and they were married likewise. Now, reader, imagine just what you d--n please, for I am going to throw down my pen shortly, and shout for joy; for I can't describe any more happiness without shouting some myself. 
               I shall conclude, by saying that Henry and Pedro live in the same beautiful valley, in the chivalric State of old Kentucky, where they have magnificent buildings, beauteous flower gardens. And Lady Aakenza has sold out her estate at the great city of the Montezumas, and lives with her daughter. Nearly every evening might be seen five females, and two handsome young men, seated in a magnificent summer-house, which stands hi the midst of a lovely flower garden. Each and every fade is full of happiness. And there never was a happier circle seen beneath the sky than they-those two young men were Henry and Pedro. Those five females were Lady Aakenza, Countess Gazarro, Henry's happy mother, Julia and Ellen. Gabbez returned to the city of Mexico with his bride, where he lives in peace, for Ellen had forgiven him; but he carries her mark, which nothing can deface. 
                
                  From goblet to goblet the nectar flew, 
                  Pedro's married and so is Henry too. 
                  And Gabbez is as happy as heart can be, 
                  And to make him so, Ellen forgave him free. 
                  What a noble trait 'tis in a damsel fair, 
                  "To pardon a soul sunk in deep despair; 
                  What a goodly sight, too, to see a damsel sweet, 
                  Forgive the injurer humbled at her feet, 
                  As we hope for pardon when we die, 
                  We forgive the criminals who before us lie. 
                  Now, reader, let me here request of you, 
                  That when you read my pages through, 
                  That you will not lend it to a friend, 
                  If they wish to read, let them money spend. 
                  May heaven rest and abide with you, 
                  For I cannot, so here I bid "ADIEU." 
                
                
               
                   
                
             
         
       
   
