
    ----CITATION----
        Hoffman, Mary J.. The Orphan Sisters; or, The Problem Solved .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6757
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            The orphan sisters; or, The problem solved
             
                THE ORPHAN SISTERS.      THE ORPHAN SISTERS; OR, THE PROBLEM SOLVED. BY MARY J. HOFFMAN, Author of "Agnes Hilton," "Felix Kent," "Alice Murray," Etc.  NEW YORK: D. & J. SADLIER & CO., 3, BARCLAY STREETI. MONTREAL:  No. 275 NoTRE-DAME STREET. 1875.     Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1875, by D. & J. SADLIER & CO., in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C.   CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. PAGE Leaving the Shores of Time and Passsing into the Shadows ... 13 CHAPTER II. The Orphan Asylum .....................................  24 CHAPIER 1II. Emily Gleason's New Iome ..............................   32 CHAPTER IV. The Heiress...................                41 CHAPTER V. Adelaide Winston--Her Skepticism .......................   51 CHAPTER VI. Mr. and Mrs. Harry Winstonl .  ......  ................  65 CHAPTER VII. Sarah Gleason's Leaving Harry Winston's ..................  80 CHAPTER VIII. Miss Irving, the Governess    .............................. 94 CHAPTER IX. Sarah Gleason again at the Asylum ....................... 123 f     xii           C  iontents. CHAPTER X. i PAGB Hedge's "Old Enigma" ................................    I43 CHAPTER XI. Herbert Winston .....................   ................... 159 CHAPTER XII. Pantheism and Fatalism the same in Tendency ............. I75 CHAPTER XIII. Mr. and Mrs. IIacket ...... .......    ........................ 98 CHAPTER   XIV. Sublimity of Christian Resignation........................  26 CHAPTER XV. The Necessity of an Infallible Guide ....................... 233 CHAPTER XVI. Mr. and Mrs. Winston's Visit to their Son......... ....... 251 CI-APTER XVII. T'he Father opens a Chapter of the Past to his Son-The Com- fort of Confession ....................................  269 CHAPTER XVIII. Lilly Irving. ............ ................................ 288 CHAPTER XIX. Haven of Rest................... ...............   .... 308 CHAPTER XX. Conclusion....................   ..................    332   THE ORPHAN SISTERS. CHAPTER I. "EAVING THE SHORES OF TIME AND PASSING INTO THE SHADOWS. IT was a close, sultry day in the latter part of August. Scarcely a breeze, stirred the air or lifted the leaves of the trees shading a lofty building on the outskirts of the city of U. from the highway.  Drugget was spread over the granite steps leading to the front door and over the floors of the hall and passages; the bells were muffled, and servants flitting through the rooms spoke in whispers, and wore anxious, awe- struck faces. In that house, elegant in all its surroundings, a pale, wasted girl of twenty or thereabouts was passing away. Already the death-damps were on her brow, her breathing faint and irregular. f     "     The Orphan Sisters. The windows of the spacious room wherein she lay were raised, and the lace curtains swept back so that the air might have free access to her burdened lungs. Her sunken eyes were closed, and she seemed not to hear the sobbing of the sister and mother that hung over her. Her father stood at the foot of the bed, his gaze not resting on the pale, set features of the dying girl, but riveted with hard questioning look on the face of his son leaning against the low mantel- piece. "And he will go, too; he will be the next one; then Addie; not one will be left me!" was the bitter thought that filled his mind. One after another of his household had been snatched from him. Only six years before, eight had looked up to him and called him father; five were gone, one was going, and the others would go, too. He would be left childless, and the home he had been so proud of, and the wealth he had gathered to- gether would go to strangers. "No-to Harry and his children-to them! And should it go to them? Were there not others he must think of?"With the thought of these others came an overpowering remorse. The agony upon his face deepened, his head sunk upon his chest, his form drooped as if under a mighty weight. Tottering to the nearest chair, he sank into it, weak and helpless as a child. Several friends noiselessly   Leaving the Shores of Time, &c.  I5 came in, stood silently looking on for a few moments, and as silently glided out. Hour after hour winged its slow flight, and yet the chest of the sufferer feebly moved. As the dusk of even- ing threw its shadows around them, the girl suddenly started from her deathke stupor, and opened her eyes with a wild and frightened look. "Addie!" she moaningly cried. "I am here," her sister, bending over her, an- swered. "Here, Olivia! right here." "But you can't go with me into the shadows. All must leave me on the threshold, and alone, all alone, I step into the darkness." "But annihilation does not await you." "No, no!" rang in a still more pitiable tone from her lips; "of this I am sure-but where going, and to whom-all-all is mystery, dark, suffocating mystery." She threw a wild, troubled look round the room, as if searching for familiar faces. "Father! mother! Addie! Herbert!" she exclaimed, imploringly raising her hands, "is our parting to be-to be-will we never-never--- " Her hands fell; a shudder, and the thin form became quiet, the chin dropped-she was gone. No loud note of sorrow proclaimed her departure. The mother with a dry-eyed calmness-a calmness that had in it the anguish of a crushed and broken heart-smoothed the dark locks that had strayed     I6      The Orphan Sisters. over the pillow, and gazed down on the set fea- tures. "Six gone; only two left," were the words that came from her pale lips. The father groaned, and bowing his head, buried his face in his hands. Herbert and Addie strove to speak, to say some- thing soothing and hopeful, to assure them that they would not be utterly bereaved; that they, the last of their household, would be spared to com- fort their declining years; but the words came falteringly, and soon ceased. It is so hard in the presence of a great and overpowering sorrow to speak, with our own hearts breaking, to try to comfort others. At such times the voice of friend- ship fails; its softest echoes fall on insensate ears; the poor stricken one can only look up-look up with the clear-eyed faith which pierces even the blackness of death, or if faith be wanting, still look up, because in the hour of mortal agony the bonds of the flesh are loosened, the soul asserts its power, and turning loathingly from earthly comfort, from the seen it seeks in the uzseen for strength and consolation. Several friends entered the room, and submitting to their entreaties, the mourners suffered themselves to be led away to their respec- tive apartments. The next day was devoted to the receiving of condolences, not effective, but which society neces- sitated on the one hand to give, on the other to   Leaving the Shores of Time, &c.  17 receive, and then came the grand imposing funeral, after which the crape was taken from the doors and window-casings, and the house assumed its old look; but a light had gone out from it, and the hearts of its inmates were weighed down with an unspeakable gloom. As the weeks passed, the son returned to his business in New York; only the daughter remained at home. It was a clear, cold evening in October. Mr. and Mrs. Winston were seated in the library, where the genial fire in the grate and the soft rays of the gas threw a something like cheerful- ness round the silent room. The trees in front of the windows creaked in the Fall wind, and sobbing gusts swept round the corners of the house. Mr. Winston's'eyes were fastened on a book before him; but, instead of reading, he seemed plunged in thought, painful as it was absorbing, to judge from the scowl that darkened his face and the firm compression of his lips. He was a large, portly man, between fifty-five and sixty years of age; his countenance bore the impress of one more given to command than obey; a brooding stern- ness dwelt on his features, which were regular and clear cut. Even before death overshadowed his home, a severe, uncompromising gravity had marked his bearing. He rarely smiled, his words were few, and though, generally courteous, they     xr8   T Yihe O'/phan Sisters. were never warm or genial. He did not shun society; he mixed freely in it; but it was not to share its gayeties, or to become with the frivol- ous, frivolous. The same sombre mein distin- guished him in the brilliant saloons as in the family circle. When others laughed he looked on, not as if wondering what in the folly around them could excite their senseless mirth, but as if he neither heard nor saw it. He seemed to lead two lives-one external, mechanical, and, but for his sternness, extremely stone-like; the other hidden, absorbing, and, to judge from the expressions that dwelt on his face or flashed from his eyes, far from pleasurable. Some considered him simply thoughtful, with the seriousness of one who sinks beneath the surface; others called him cold and marble-like, incapable alike of enjoying or suffer- ing, of liking or hating; but when death entered his home, then they found he could suffer, and suffer most keenly. Everything that the most devoted affection, backed by abundant means, could do, was done. In vain, again and again the dark-plumed angel lighted at his door, and bore another of his treasures away. His rigid calm- ness deepened into a settled gloom. He walked and moved about like one weighed down by an intolerable load. He seldom spoke; but when he did, strange words fell from his lips: they were   Leaving the Shores of Time, &c.  19 not in connected sentences, but broken, wild, and often quite incoherent: "justice," "retribution," "the vengeance of an outraged conscience," "the slow but sure." Slow but sure what? Im- possible to say. It was evident, with all his pros- perity and seeming integrity, there was some- thing in his past that held a menacing power over him; that with his natural grief for the death of his children was added the pangs of a gnawing remorse. He looked upon himself as one to be utterly bereaved. He emphatically declared he would be left childless; not one would be spared to him. His wife shared his fearful misgivings; and in the tenderness she showered upon the last remaining ones was the fitfulness of a despairing love. Mr. Robert Winston had t brother, an only brother, residing in U., and it would be supposed that as his own children were called he would naturally turn to his. They bore his name; they were closely allied by kindred; they sympathized with him in his severe bereavements; they spared no pains to show their attachment. It may be there was a calculating policy in their manifesta- tions of affection; if so, it was carefully kept out of sight. Only Uncle Robert's manifold afflic- tions, and their ardent pity and commiseration, were allowed to appear as the motive prompting     20     The Orphan Sisters. their lively interest in him. But, strange to say, he turned coldly from them; lever evincing any particular regard for them, he now showed a decided aversion. They were not to take his own children's place in his heart, and this he gave them distinctly to understand. His own were not yet all gone, and there was, notwith- standing his oft-repeated assurance to the con- trary, a possibility that the remaining ones might be spared. There was one way, acting upon which he might hope. A duty, solemn and im- perative, rested upon him. What it was he did not state, and no one had the temerity to ask. After sitting for some time with his eyes fixed vacantly on his boolk, he had risen, and with bent head and compressed lips slowly walked up and down the room. The eyes of his wife followed his movements, as if waiting an opportunity to say something that was on her mind. She was a tall, spare woman, with small, delicate features, a deeply-lined brow, faded brown eyes, and hair freely dashed with white. A subdued, sorrowful expression rested on her pale face; she looked like one from whose life all brightness had de- parted, and whose spirit was broken. She suf- fered quietly, not with the resignation of a Chris- tian, but the apathy of one who has wept till they can weep no more. The languor of ex-   Leaving the Shores of Time, &e.  21 haustion, not the calmness of humble submission, marked her bearing. Her riveted gaze at length arrested the attention of her husband. "You wish to speak to me," he remarked, suddenly pausing, and resuming his seat. "Yes." A faint flush mantled her cheek. "Well, what is it you would say?" he impa- tiently asked. "I have the room all ready, so you can go for her when you like." "Does Addie seem  more reconciled to her coming?" "Yes; that is," she added, after a moment's hesitation, "she does not object." "Neither does she consider her as a suc- cessor?" "No. She is puzzled at the interest you take in her, and-the necessity for her being introduced into the family; but since you laid the matter before her she no longer objects." "And do you think she understood me?" "She understood you so far as to know her coming was necessary to your peace of mind; but why or wherefore necessary is still a mystery to her." "'Tis well. I would not have her know more. But how is she? Does it not strike you that she grows each day moreand more shadowy?"     22      The Orphan Sisters. "I can't say. She is naturally thin, and-oh, I can't see it-I can't bear to. She will not go like the rest. Heaven is merciful, and she will be spared us." A wildness gleamed from her eyes, and the last trace of color left her face. "But those books  " "She still pores over them." "I wish they were burnt-burnt to ashes!" he fiercely exclaimed. "They are wearing her life out." "No, Robert; no." "But I tell you it is so, and if you were not blind you would see it. I have half a mind to take them forcibly from her and burn them up, the confounded things!" "Robert! Robert, it would not do. Those books are the only solace she has." "Solace!" he contemptuously repeated. "What good are they doing her? What good does she hope from them?" "You know as well as I. She is searching for light to guide and direct her." "And she hopes to find it in the idle fancies of those dreaming fools? Oh, I am punished, pun- ished! With heart sick and bleeding, I cry aloud for mercy." He bowed his head upon his hands and groaned in agony.   Leaving the Shores of Time, &c.  23 Mrs. Winston hastened to speak words of hope and comfort. "But, Robert, look up," she said, laying her hand tenderly on his arm. "Don't despair. To- morrow you are going for the orphan; she is coming to us, and Addie and Herbert will live." The spasm passed. He raised his head and solemnly repeated: "She is coming, and Addie and Herbert will live." They were strange words; but they exerted a powerful influence over the broken hearts of the mourning father and mother. *     CHAPTER II. THE ORPHAN ASYUM. IT was a large brick structure-the Orphan Asylum-very pleasant in all its appointments, and scrupulously neat, from the dormitories, with their long rows of snowy little beds, to the re- frectory, with its great and ever-set extension tables. In the rear was the yard, or play-ground, with its brick-paved walks, its cleanly-shaven grass-plots, its beds of flowers, and here and there its tall, handsome trees. On the left were the bake-house and out-offices; back, the large brick school-house for day scholars, and on the right the granite walls of the church. It was a dark, sunless day; great clouds hung low in the sky, the Fall winds sighed drearily round the enclo- sure, but the orphan band little heeded the som- berness of earth and sky. It was the hour after tea, and, with the Sister who from her office was most appropriately termed "Angel of the Or- phans," the children were on the play-ground.   The Orphan A sylum.     25 Several were gathered around her, laughing and talking, while she listened patiently, and now and then made an answering remark; some were run- ning up and down the walks, others were busy- ing themselves with the flower-beds, picking off withered leaves, and lifting and tying up the stems dashed down by the Fall rains. All were happy, and determined to enjoy to the utmost their brief hour of play-all, if we except two, who, apart from the merry groups, were standing, arms entwined, under one of the trees. . They were apparently thirteen or fourteen years of age and bore a striking resemblance to each other; both were of the same height, very slight, with dark brown hair, large hazel eyes, clear waxen complexions, fine cut features, and, grave thought- ful countenances. One was draped in the orphan uniform, the other had on a crimson de laine. Tears were on the cheeks of this one. The other soothingly said: "Don't cry, Sarah; I know its hard to leave our Asylum home, but we cannot expect to stay here always." Her own heart was heavy, but she wanted to comfort, not farther depress, and as well as she could she strove to hide her sorrow. "O Emily," she drearily answered, "to come and see the dear Sisters, and to know that I am only an outsider, almost breaks my heart." 2     26     The Orephan Sisters. "But, sister, you must try to be brave and hopeful. By and by- " She was impatiently interrupted: "You need not talk to me in that way. Brave and hopeful? Wait till you go, and then you will know what it is to feel yourself homeless: You will know what it is to feel the whole world strange and yourself a stranger in it, and your bravery and hopefulness will stand you in no stead.'" "But, Sarah, I am going, too." The remark was calmly made; but the thin lips trembled a little as a wintry smile flitted over her face. "Going!"Sarah exclaimed, dashing the tears from her eyes and looking steadily-at her. "Yes, to-morrow." "Where?" "To Mr. Robert Winston's."' "What! brother to the gentleman at whose house I am?" "Yes. He wanted you too, and seemed cha- grined when he heard you were gone from the Asylum. Sister Alphonsus told him the name of the gentleman at wlose house you were, and he said he was glad to hear it." "Glad! WThy should he be glad?" "I don't know. One thing is certain, he looked anything but glad. He has a proud, gloomy way. I don't know how it will be with the rest of the   The Orphan Asylum.      27 family, but I feel I shall not like him. That, how- ever, is of little consequence; but is the Mr. Win- ston you work for haughty and overbearing?" "Something that way, but he is not gloomy. As to me, whatever orders he has to give he gives them in a very lordly and sulerior way; to his errand-boy he is perfectly crushing, but to the visitors at his house he is blandness itself." "But the rest of the family?" "Oh, I can't say that I like or dislike them. They are well enough, but my heart don't turn to them. I keep thinking of the Sisters, particularly dear Sister Edith, all the time, and longing so to be back to them, and hating so to be from them and from you, that I am perfectly wretched. Mrs. Winston says it's only homesickness; if so, I'can tell you homesickness is a gnawing pain, eating away heart and brain." "But, Sarah, think what a blessing it is that we are not to be far apart; both in U., both going to the same church, both able to come and visit our dear home. What if we were to be miles and miles from it, and from the Sisters, and from each other!" Into the sad eyes stole a grateful look, over the pale young face came a more uplifted expression. "God is merciful. He tempers the storm to the shorn lamb," she reverently rejoined.     28      The Oriphan Sisters. Sister Edith now approached. She had pur- posely kept from the sisters, so as to give them the chance of a few words together. There was a grave, earnest sympathy in her voice as, turning to Sarah, she said: "Emily has told you?" "Yes; sister told me she is going too-going to-morrow." She did not say it, but she thought: "Now, indeed, are we orphans; now alone in the world, without claim on any one; without a tie to bind us to a living soul." "But you will come and see us as often as you can. You know we shall always be glad to see you." It seemed in her tender sympathy she read the troubled thoughts of the orphan, and strove in her own way to quiet them. "Yes, Sister, we will come," was answered in a husky tone. Then forcing back the rush- ing tears, she looked into the mild, compas- sionate face of the Sister and said: "What, as Emily just remarked, should we do if we were to be miles and miles from you, and from the dear Asylum?" "Even then I have no fear that you would forget us. But what answer did you make?" "I reminded her that our dear Lord tempers the storm to the shorn lamb."   The Orplhan Asylum.     29 "So He does, my child. Always bear this in mind." Then in her gentle and impressive manner she went on to speak of the new duties devolving on them, the protection our dear Lord would have over them, and the fidelity with which they must love and serve Him. The silence-bell rung as she concluded her remarks; the children gathered into the study-room; the sisters parted. An hour later night prayers had been said, and the orphans were in bed--all but Emily. She sat on the side of her little cot, her hands folded. her eyes fixed on vacancy. The night-lamp shed a pale, feeble light through the dormitory; the quiet breathing around her told the occupants of the beds had sunk into the quick, ready sleep -of childhood. But she could not sleep. Bitter memories were upon her, and she sat and listened to them till the tears rolled swiftly down her pale cheek. How plainly came up the cold, Xet morn- ing six years before, when she and Sarah were taken by the kind lady who had watched over their mother in her last hours tolthe dear Sisters! How gloomy was the leaden sky above, how wet and splashy the streets, and how, as they clung to her skirts and walked beneath the shelter of' her umbrella, their little hearts fluttered with loneliness and fear. It was four weeks since their     30     The Orphan Sisters. mother's death, and since then Mrs. O'Brien had kindly taken charge of them; but now, arrange- ments having been made for their being received into the Asylum, she was taking them to it. And when they were ushered into the reception room, and were waiting for the Lady Superior to make her appearance, how awe-struck they were. They did not dare to stir, to cry, to breathe hardly. But when she came, and they timidly raised their heads and looked into her compassionate face, and listened to the genial tones of her voice, what a sudden revulsion came over them! Their or- phanage seemed to drop from them; they were no longer alone; they had. some one to care for them, to love them, to feel for them. And when she took them to the orphans' room, and the Sister therespoke kindly to them, and introduced them to several of the little ones immediately around her, how the sun once more seemed to shine upon them, and, dark as the day was, what a light filled their hearts! They did not say much; they were shy and awkward, but under the shyness and awkwardness was a comforting feeling that they, poor little homeless ones, had found a home, and in that home, friends. And now she was going out from all that; now the peace and security of the past were swept from them; now she and Sarah were to feel again the   Th/e Orphan Asylum.     31 homeless desolation that was their portion here below. She did not moan or cry; she only sat still and statue-like, her pale lips growing more and more compressed, her eyes taking a deeper and more set expression. They, over whose heads had passed but fourteen years, were to go out into the great noisy and distracting world, with all its hardships and coldness. All that made life pleasant was to be torn from them. They were alone, emphatically alone, without hope or friend or guidance. But stop! She must not say that. Loud as the white-topped waves with their under blackness roared around her, they must not drown the faith in her heart. She did have hope. She believes she hoped, she loved, and the good God who had shielded them in the past would not now withhold His guardian care. How or in what manner they would be protected she did not know; the future was veiled; it looked dark with its sable curtain, but the curtain lifted, it might be fair and bright, and again it might be-   She shuddered, and falling on her knees, clasped the crucifix in her hands, and repeatedly pressed it to her lips, thinking all the time of that divine prayer: " my Father, if it is possible, let this chalice pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as Thou wilt."     CHAPTER III. EMLY GLEASON S NEW HOME. EARLY the next morning Emily Gleason visited the chapel, and at the foot of the altar poured forth her supplication for guidance and protec- tion. The breakfast over, she quietly packed her satchel, intending to walk to her new place; but glancing out of the clothes-room window, she saw a carriage drive up before the Asylum, and a gentleman and lady alight. The gentleman was Mr. Winston, and she concluded the lady in her deep mourning robes was Mrs. Winston. For a moment hope whispered in her ear that it might be they had changed their minds; that they did not want her to wait on their -sick daughter. A bright glow mantled her cheek, a smile parted her lips; but the glow faded, the smile died, as Sister Edith opened the door and said: "My dear, are you ready? Mr. and Mrs. Win- ston have come for you." "For nm!" she mechanically repeated.   Emily Gleasonz's New Home.   33 "Yes, dear; they said the walk would be too much for. you. You see they are thoughtful." "Yes, Sister." There was an attempt to smile as she tied on her bonnet, drew her shawl around her, and took up her satchel. "I am ready," she calmly added, giving a hurried glance round the room, and walking out with a firm step. Sister Edith followed her down the first flight of stairs, and then slipping a Miraculous Medal round her neck, said: "I shall have to leave you now. . cannot go with you into the parlor; but always, dear child, wear this, and do not forget that our Blessed Saviour in His great love for us gave His holy Mother to be our Mother too, and particularly is she the Mother of the orphan." "No, Sister, I will not forget it," was answered with white lips. "I shall always remember it." She turned away without bidding the kind Sister "good-by.' She felt she could -not with any composure go through that painful ceremony. With pressed lips and bowed head she descended to the parlor. Mrs. Winston received her kindly, and her voice took its most liquid tones in ad- dressing her. The wages she was to receive per week were mentioned; but one thing was notice- able. Notwithstanding it was as a servant she was going to their home, Mrs. Winston, with the     34      The Orpihan Sisters. punctiliousness she had always shown in keeping distinct the lines marked out by society, spoke to her as an equal, and referred to her presence in their home as a favor. "Addie," she said, "is very lonely since her sister Olivia's death, and we, her father and I, thought you, dear child, would just suit her, and be such a comfort to her." "You knew Emily before?"Sister Alphonsus remarked. "We knew her mother, and she is very like her," was answered in a tone calculated to check farther questions. Mr. Winston rose and took the satchel, Mrs. Winston politely shook hands with the Sister, and promising that Emily should visit the Asylum at least once a week, followed her husband to the carriage. Emily could not tell how she got over the parting: she only remembered a blindness and faintness came over her, and then she found herself in the carriage seated beside Mrs. Winston on the back seat, and the Asylum, the loved Asylum, left behind. Mrs. Winston endeavored to engage her in conversation. She asked her what studies she had pursued, if she liked books, and if she had had much leisure to read. Emily's answers called forth a warm encomium on the Sisters and their kindness, and enabled her to revert to some of the plans she intended to fol-   Emily Gleason's New Home.    35 low out for her future improvement. In the midst of it all there was one thing Emily wanted to ask. Mrs. Winston told Sister Alphonsus that she was very like her mother, and she wished to learn how long before she died had she known her, if they were very intimate, and if she was aware all these years past of herself and sister being at the Asy- lum. She was too little at the time of her mother's death to know much of her friends; there were several that visited her in her last sickness; some of these she remembered well; of others she had only a very indistinct recollection. She looked timidly at Mrs. Winston, and at length had the courage to say: "You knew my mother?" I have seen her, just seen her," was answered with a sudden assumption of coldness and pride that sent a chill to the orphan's heart. It was not as a friend she knew her mother ; she was sure of that; but what then induced her to show such favor to her child? ,She promised her a desk and book-case full of books, such as she or the Sisters should select, said her education must be attended to, was glad to find her one they would all like so well, and prophesied that she and Addie would be great friends. What awoke the sudden interest, the unlooked-for and most unexpected friendship? These questions surging up were wafted back for     36     The Orphan Sisters. the present by the carriage stopping. They had reached home. A glance sufficed to show her it was a large and stately building, with everything about it proclaiming it the home of wealth and elegance. When Mr. Winston assisted her out, a light broke over his stern face. "This should have been done before; but better late than never," he observed, as if speaking to himself; then, as he awkwardly pulled up the shawl which had partially fallen from her shoul- ders, he added: "Now run in and get acquainted with Addie; I want to see you friends." She was embarrassed, and knew not what to. say in reply. Mrs. Winston took her hand and led her up the graveled path under the shadows of the great trees, and up the broad granite steps. Entering the hall, she touched the bell rope. A servant made her appearance. "You will take Miss Emily to her room," she said. Following the servant, she was conducted to a large, handsomely furnished apartment on the second floor. Here she took off her shawl and bonnet, and laid them on the table. The girl, pointing to a cord and tassel in the corner, and telling her if she wanted anything to ring, left the room. She looked round her in amazement, and wondered was she awake or was she dreaming. i   Emily Gleason's Newz Home.    37 The wages she was to receive per week for wait- ing on their sick daughter had been mentioned to Sister Alphonsus; as a servant she was to go to them, and now she was told she was to be waited on herself-she was to be served. She glanced round, and saw on the walls richly-framed pic- tures; near one of the lace and crimson-draped windows was an elegant desk; before it a crimson velvet-covered arm-chair; on the mantel-piece were ranged a number of curious ornaments ; and round the room were scattered a great many things she hardly knew the use of; but the book- case on the other side, directly opposite the win- dows, she knew right well, and felt a curiosity to peep at the books; but there were others nearer her, on the marble-topped table where lay her bonnet and shawl. She opened several of these, and found them such works as she had been used to at the Sisters-Butler's "Lives of the Saints," in three volumes; Crassets' "Meditations for Every Day in the Year ;"Una's delightful poems, and four or five Catholic tales. "Am I really awake, or is it a dream?" she exclaimed, rubbing her eyes. "It is a reality, child, no dream," said Mrs. Winston. Emily's back was turned to the door, and so absorbed was she with the strangeness of everything around her that she had not perceived     38      The Orphan Sisters. her entrance. "Do you like the books?" she asked. "Yes, ma'am," the orphan answered, lowering her eyes, and feeling under the scrutinizing glance with which she was regarded a warm glow mant- ling her cheek. "I thought you would. I selected such as I was sure would be acceptable to you," was quietly rejoined. "You got them on purpose for me!"Emily, perfectly bewildered, exclaimed. "I did. I knew you were coming, and I wanted you to have something in the way of reading that you would like." "But, Mrs. Winston, what does it mean? I thought I was coming here as a servant." Her eyes were now raised, and although there was a timid look in them, there was an earnest, in- quiring expression on her whole face. Mrs. Winston grew ghastly pale, and leaned for support on the table. A moment or two elapsed before she answered, and then, with the rigidity of her features, and the forced unnatural calmness of her voice, it seemed as if it was a marble statue opening its lips to speak. "Dear child," she said, "Death has been in our family. One after another has been called, till only two are left. Our large house seems empty,   Emily Gleason's New Home.    39 and Mr. Winston and I thought if we could only get some one to fill it up we would not feel so bitterly our bereavement. We selected you and your sister; we knew you were at the Asylum, and Mr. Winston went there for you. Your sister was gone, but you still remained, and gladly we made arrangements to have you with us. We do not adopt you. No, no; we have, and I am sure we will continue to have, children of our own to bear our name. Addie and Herbert will be spared to us. I am sure of it now. I never felt so cer- tain of it before." , Something like a dry sob convulsed her frame. Leaning more heavily with one hand on the table, with the other she wiped away the large drops that had gathered on her brow. Emily looked at her mourning dress with its heavy bands of crape, the crape collar round the neck, the jet brooch fastening it, the dark hair threaded with white, the pale face, the weary eyes, the mouth com- pressed and drawn,and thought the kindness she showed her, a poor orphan, might indeed be owing to the loneliness of her bereaved heart reaching out its tendrils to something to love and protect. But why, above all others, should she choose her and her sister? In their extensive circle of friends there must be orphans of their own faith, whatever that was, and their own grade. Why not take     40     The Orphan Sisters. one of them? And again, why did they engage her as a servant to come to their house, and then make everything appear as if they wished her to consider herself an equal? and as an equal, why assume so much haughtiness when asked if she knew her sainted mother? This last question brought with it a sting. Young as she was at the time of her death, she plainly and distinctly re- membered every lineament of that loved mother's face-the tones of her voice, her gentleness, her patience, her piety; and now to hear her so coldly referred to roused a feeling of antagonism in her heart. There was in the studied kindness of Mr. and Mrs. Winston a something she could not un- derstand. From the time of her orphanage she had been most tenderly cared for. Under the fostering care of the. dear Sisters she knew well what kindness was; but here was something else, something that had a hidden meaning, that was incomprehensible and mysterious. "My child, you look tired," Mrs. Winston, in her most liquid tones, remarked; "and I would bid you sit down and rest, but I want to take you to Addie's room. She is anxious to see you, and, the introduction once over, I know you will feel more at home." Emily bowed her head in acqui- escence, and followed her to a room not far dis- tant, and on the same floor.   CHAPTER IV. THE HEIRESS. IT was a much more sumptuous apartment than the one she had just left; but she turned from the imposing array of marble, silk, and canvas to the large arm-chair before the grate. It was occupied by a slight, delicate-looking young lady of twenty- three or four. The black bombazine morning dress, girded with a heavy cord and tassel, made the exceeding fairness of her complexion the more striking; her purplish black hair, brushed from off a low, broad, and boldly-projecting brow, was con- fined in a net which reached low on her neck; her features were small and regular, with a general expression of firmniess and decision; one wasted hand hung listlessly over the arm of her chair; the other held an open volume, on which her eyes were resting. As Mrs. Winston approached her, leading the orphan, she raised her head and laid the book on the papier-mache/ table beside her. ".Here, Addie, is the child from the Asylum."     42      The Orphan Sisters. She bowed and smilingly extended her hand, "You are Emily Gleason," she said. ( Yes, ma'am." "And you have come to be a companion to me." Her brilliant dark blue eyes were riveted upon her.. Emily did not know whether there was irony in the remark or not. With gentle dignity she answered: "I have come th wait on you." "Not so, my child. You have come to bear me company and be a comfort to mother and father. They want the sunshine of a little girl in the house, and some one they can love and care for." She did not say when I am gone; but it was evident only for her mother's presence she would. Mrs. Winston sighed heavily, and leaned for sup- port on the low mantel-piece. "Sit down, mother," she entreated; " yoy look tired." "No, my dear, I am not. You and Emily, I believe, will get better acquainted alone; there- fore I will leave you." She moved to the door, and Addie, rising, walked to the sofa and ex- tended her slight form upon it. Drawing a white spread over her, and settling herself comfortably, she said to Emily: "Bring up that ottoman (pointing to it), and sit down. I want to have a little talk with you."   The Heiress.       43 Emily silently obeyed her. "There now; rather inore to the right; that's it. Now I can look at you without putting my neck out of joint. How long," she asked, in a kind of interested tone, "have you been at the Sisters?" "Six years." "You like them?" "Yes." "They have been like so many mothers-scolded you, petted you, and done everything for you?" Emily's lips fluttered, as in a low, unsteady voice she answered: "They have been my good earth- angels." "I don't doubt you," was rejoined in a feeling tone. After a moment's pause the questioning was resumed: "How old were you when your mother died?" "Eight years." "You remember her?" "Yes, plainly." "Were there only two of you-yourself and sister?" "There were two brothers more." "Where are they?" "Dead-gone to God." Again there was a pause. The orphan's elbows rested on her knees; her palms supported her chin. Under the examination she was beginning \     "     The Orphan Sisters. to feel more at ease. The countenance before her did not look scornful, the tones of the invalid's voice were not chilling. Pointing to her handker- chief, which had fallen on the carpet, she resumed her questions :  "What were your brothers' names?" Picking up the dainty bit of perfumed cambric, and handing it to her, Emily answered: "Joseph and Bernard." "Did they die before or after your mother?" "Before." "You don't remember them?" "Yes, I do, Joseph died one year, Bernard two years before mother." "Your father?" "I do not remember him." "How old were you when he died?" "Five years." "And yet you have no memory of him?" "No; he did not die at home." "Died away from his family?" "Yes. He went somewhere, I don't know" where, when I was three, and we never saw him again." "But you heard from him?" "Yes; mother used to get letters, which made her very happy. At last they stopped, and then by and by she heard he was dead."   The Heiress.    Q   45 "Were you living here at the time?" "No; but where father left us, in A." "Had you relatives there?" "None that we knew of." "Had you any here?" "No; but a friend got mother employment here. It was to sew for a clothing store." "And was she able to do much with her needle?" "She sewed to within a few weeks of her death. I don't think she was able, but she had to. There were three of us, herself, Sarah and I to clothe, f.:cd, and shelter." "Poor little things," Addie musingly observed; and then asking ho more questions, silence filled. the room. The introduction of the orphan into her home, the deep interest her parents evinced in her wel- fare and the welfare of her sister, were as pro- found a mystery to her as to Emily. When the subject was first broached she felt irritated and annoyed. It appeared in the great fear of her own and her brother's death, her parents were about to take these children as their successors in their affections and the inheritors of their wealth. This view of the affair filled her heart with bitter- ness. She felt they were showing indecent haste; that it would be kinder and more considerate in     "     The Orphan Sisters. her father and mother to wait till they were gone, and the sod resting calmly on them. She said something to this effect, and was startled at the change that came over her mother, the agony that chained her tongue to silence, the shiver that shook her whole frame, the attempt to speak, and the utter failure. Her father bore her remon- strance better, and undertook an explanation. When he closed his remarks all she understood of the matter was that it was necessary to his peace of mind to have the children brought to his home; and as she regarded his wishes, or had respect for his feelings, he begged her not to ob- ject; that they were not coming as the successors of his children or inheritors of his wealth; that she and Herbert would be spared to them; they would not in their old age be left childless. There was such an- unearthly calmness about him in speaking, such a stillness in movement, such a quietness of voice and burning intensity of eye, that she accepted his "reasons," and made no far- ther objection. She wanted to ask, but did not dare, why it was necessary they should come, or how or in what way he became aware of their being in the Asylum; of their existence even. Never before had she heard their names-they were utter strangers; his sudden interest was cer- tainly most singular. He was not impulsive, he   The Heiress.       47 was not enthusiastic, nor was a thoughtful, un-. selfish generosity any peculiarity of his character. He could feel, 'tis true, for the suffering of others; but she had never known his feelings to actuate him to any overwrought deed of charity. Words cost but little: it is the acts that bring with them their living worth; and here was one that was vital enough, but for which she could assign no cause. The more she pondered the matter the more inexplicable it became, and the more con- vinced was she that some deep, hidden, and at the same time poignant reason prompted his sudden interest in the orphans, and urged him to the in- troduction of them into his home. Only one had as yet come, and she was glad to find her so gentle and refined. As she studied her grave countenance and thought of her lonely orphaned state, the works she had for some time past been poring over re- curred to her mind. In presence of that poor. child with the history she had, in answer to her questions, given of her early home and its struggles, sorrows, and bereavements, she asked herself in bitterness what had the philosophers and would- be reformers accomplished. The world was as full of misery as when they first rushed into print with their boasted panacea. Freedom of mind, breaking from old-established beliefs, striking out     48      The Orphan Sisters. into a new path by which man might be exalted, his dignity made known, and his happiness in- sured, formed the key-note of all their writings; and yet had they advanced the cause of humanity in the least? Had they hushed the cry of orphan- age, or made glad the mourner's heart? Had they lifted up the fallen, or crowned with plenty the indigent? Was there less poverty, more pros- perity, less vice, more virtue, less misery, more happiness, since they wrote than before? No; the world moves on the same as ever. Sorrow exists; pain and affliction are not forgotten terms. WXhere was the philosophy that could unravel the mystery of these facts? Revelation tells of man's creation, his pristine innocence and happiness; how he lost the one, and was deprived of the other. R]ejecting revelation, how do the philoso- phers account for the wretchedness that is man's birthright, and the tomb that, after a short and troubled life, awaits him? She tried to arrange before her mental vision what they said thereon, and groaned in spirit when only a confused blur met her gaze. After all her study and the weari- ness attending it, she knew no more than when sh'e first turned to their pages. She closed her eyes to keep back the gathering tears, but they forced their way, and rolled slowly over her wasted cheeks. Emily seeing them, drew nearer, and in   The Heiress.       49 her silent sympathy gently touched her hand. The brilliant eyes opened, and the invalid ab- ruptly said: "You feel for me, dear child." "I am sorry to see you in such grief." She was sure it was not physical pain caused those drops. Looking at her mourning robe, she was certain it was her severe bereavement made her so wretched. She was thinking of her loved dead. "If you could lighten my grief you would," Addie remarked, passing her fingers caressingly over the soft folds of her hair. "Yes, but I can't," was sadly answered. "Why can't you?" "Because I can't bring back your dead." "True, child, they can never come to me; but I will soon go to them; that is, H -"She did not finish the sentence, but sat looking sor- rowfully, vacantly before her. In a low, timid voice the orphan concluded it for her: "That is, you hope to goto them," she said, her eyes filling. "Yes," was answered, while a tremor passed over the proud, firm lips At that moment the door opened, and Mr. Win- ston stood before them. A pleased expression flitted over his face when he saw them so familiarly engaged in conversation. 3     50     The Orphan Sisters. "You like her," he sententiously remarked, turn- ing to his daughter. "Yes, father. Poor little thing, I am sorry she was not here before." Mr. Winston's eye quailed under her earnest gaze. "Yes, yes," he hurriedly exclaimed, "she should have been here; but she was not in bad hands," he added, his agitation visibly increasing. "She was at the Sisters, you know." "But just think, if it had not been for their charity, where would she and her sister have been now! Only eight years old when their mother died, and they without a home or a friend in the world." Her eyes were bent compassionately on the orphan, and she did not see the gray pallor that crept over her father's face. She had risen to a sitting posture on the sofa, and he had sunk down beside her. "Yes," he hurriedly rejoined, " they were with- out friends, but they will be so no more." His hand on his knee trembled violently. Suddenly he asked: "Where is your mother?" "I don't know. Probably in her room. Can't you stay longer?" "No, my child; you look tired, and should rest. Emily, don't let her talk any more. Open a book and go to reading." With this order he left the room.   CHAPTER V. ADELAIDE WINSTON-HER SKEPTICISM. SKEPTICISM, like a black cloud, darkens the land. Olivia and Addie Winston had not escaped its chilling influence. Their father owned a pew in one of the fashionable churches; but early in life they, to use a popular expression, had begun to think for themselves. Their thinking for them- selves consisted in rejecting all creeds and dogmas, and pluming themselves on their wisdom' in so doing. A remark in Hedges' "Reason' in Re- ligion," that "no reform in theology is more needed at present than one which shall teach us how to prize and how'best to possess this, mortal world,"* particularly pleased them, and to the best of their ideas they tried to carry it out. So- ciety possessed charms for them, and they enjoyed it; enjoyed, too, their beautiful home, and allowed no " thought of death and hereafter" to cloud their * Hedges' Reason in Religion, p. 417.     52      The Orphan Sisters. pleasant hours, or " cast their long, dark shadow across their earth-life, obscuring its import or veiling its glories."* In their round of pleasure, death and hereafter were so effectually kept out of sight that, if possible, they would have denied the former, and they made no trouble in doubting the latter. In the midst of their earthly hap- piness and self-satisfaction Death came; their ranks were thinned; first one, then another and another, till five were missed from the family board. Consternation seized upon them: they were appalled. In the seclusion of their elegant but now desolate home serious questions began to intrude themselves upon them. Under their thoughtless skepticism was a depth of tenderness and love; they missed the familiar forms, the well- known tones, and in the agony of their bereave- ment they asked where had their loved ones gone; should they ever meet them again; be- yond the gloomy portals of the grave was there really a fairer, brighter world, and there, clad in robes of white, were their loved ones awaiting them; did they know of their loneliness here; were they aware of the pain and sorrow gnawing at their hearts' core; was there truly a communi- cation going on between the seen and the unseen, or were all the beautiful things said therebn only * Hedges' Reason in Religion, p. 418.   Adelaide Winston-Her Skeptzcism.  53 poetical illusions to please the ear and amuse the childish mind? Was there a hereafter, with its rewards and punishments, or when man died-his part played, his day-dream over-did he sink into the dreamless slumber of never-to-be-awakened nothingness; was that what he came into the world for? These questions constantly haunted them, and from them came others. Why were such glorious powers given him if he were only to last for a few years? What was his vast supe- riority over all the- creatures of earth-his reason, his capability to improve, his wonderful memory embracing the past and present, his intuition reaching to a certain extent into the future-- why, oh why, were all these powers given him, if, after a brief threescore and ten years, he was to lose them all, and sink a lifeless clod into the grave? But no; they were not given him for that; man with all his endowments was not so royal a mockery; annihilation was not his por- tion; upon his brow was stamped the signet of immortality. Released from the body in which the spirit rules and wills, it soars away on ever- lasting pinions. But where? Where does the crowning work of creation wing its flight? What is its after fate, its after mission? And now came an intense desire to know more of God and His laws, the soul and its destiny. But what should     54     The Orphan Sisters. they do, in what direction should they search? The Bible they had learned to doubt; the Church meant sects founded on the teachings of the Bible; and, mistrusting the authority on which they were founded, they could not turn to them. They looked around on the earth, fair and beautiful in the regularity of its seasons, its spring-time and harvest, its white-robed period of rest, its sun- crowned days and curtained nights; they raised their eyes to the heavens studded with innumer- able worlds, and the instinct of worship filled their trembling hearts. But how could they worship, how pay homage? All the old forms were swept away; with the Mosaical, the Christian ritual had floated down the tideless sea of the past. There was nothing left them but to turn to the philoso- phers, those faithful guides who, breaking from the bonds of Bible and Church, stretched forth willing hands to lead the multitude to a holier, juster appreciation of God and the laws that govern man. Before, when they opened their pages, it was to be up to the times, and put them- selves forward in'the rank of free and independent thinkers; but the desolation that had come upon them had humbled their pride, and taught them their own nothingness, and now it was with an intense desire to know the truth and embrace it. They heartily agreed with Theodore Parker, that   Adelaide Winston-Her Skepticism.  55 the religious element belonged to man's nature, was a part of his being. They traced its work- ings from the rudest conceptions of the Deity in the savage heart up to the more polished but strangely fantastic worship of the pagan world. Through Fetichism and Polytheism they followed him, feeling all confidence in his teachings, but when he came to Monotheism they hesitated and could not go on.  All mysteries were to be cleared; they were to know plainly, without doubt or uncertainty, what they believed; the light before them was to be no faint and flickering one; its rays were to illumine every object, so that it might with ease be viewed on all sides, and now right before them loomed up an insolvable mystery. Study it as they would, they could not make it out. That an obscure nation, destitute of all that made the ancient world great, desti- tute of all that makes the modern world the same-small in number, contracted in territory, unnoted for science, art, or commerce.; weak, simple, unstable in many things tending to their advantage, stubborn in, others, in all intractable, rejecting the rudeness of Fetichism and the gross- ness of Polytheism-should, unaided, have found out the great truth of but one God, an overruling Providence, and founded a worship suitable to that belief, filled them with profound amazement.     56     The Orphan Sisters. Here was something that neither Parker nor themselves could understand. Never before had it appeared in all its magnitude before them. How was it that, without some light beyond the times they dwelt in, so-rude and unpolished a nation should have discovered so great a truth, and founded a worship in accordance with it-a worship not to blocks of wood and stone, but to- the One invisible but Omnipotent, Omnipresent God-was a question that kept constantly recur- ring to them.. They paused before it stupefied and bewildered. ' The word revelation, divine revelation, sounded faintly in the depth of their souls, and they started back frightened and dis- mayed. Were they thus to give up the contest? Were they to yield falteringly, and like cowards, to the first difficulty?. No; they had put their hands to the plow, and they must not look back; they must go on. Again they turned to Parker. Like themselves, he could not answer the formid- able question, and thrusting it aside, he satisfied himself with finding fault with their system, and declaring it defective in many respects. He wanted a more perfect one. Christianity came; that too was lacking; they both had done good in their day, he admitted, but their day was passed, and now a better, juster one was to fol- low. His Absolute Religion was to take the   Adelaide Winston--Her Skepticism.  57 place of what had gone before, and was to raise up man to all the majesty of his- state and being. They bent every faculty to finding what this Ab- solute Religion was. After days of weary labor they closed his books with the heart-broken feel- ing of one sailing over chartless seas who thinks the firm land in sight, but who, on nearing the spot, finds it only sea-weed and foam. Again the shadow of Death hovered over their home. Olivia was stricken down, and without finding the treasure they sought, with no sure faith to rest upon, fearing and trembling, she sank into the grave. Addie was left alone to struggle, and more and more intense grew her desire to pierce the darkness that enveloped her. The grave had closed over another of her family, and the questions that had haunted her before struck on her ear more startlingly than ever. Should she, like her poor sister, grope on in dark- ness till her feet slipped from the shores of Time? Would no ray be vouchsafed her? With all her longings, all her wailing cries from the starless night of unbelief, would she pass into the great unknown hereafter? With renewed ardor she turned to her books. The entrance of the orphan in her home hindered not her studies; it only made a slight digression, hardly a digression at all. She drew her into conversation; she listened,     58      The Orphan Sisters. to her calm, grave voice; she watched her move- ments and reflected. What was she? Only a poor little orphan, with no experience of the world, who knew nothing of the great questions agitating the public mind; to whom the names of Spinoza, Cousin, Hegel, Locke, Parker, Emer- son, Thoreau, Hedges, with a host of others, were utterly unknown; who said her prayers, knew her catechism, loved God and His saints, believed in the infallibility of her Church, had a faith, knew what it was, acted upon it, and with all her little- ness was great, with her weakness strong. She put to blush the wisdom of the learned. Without study- ing whether religion was an element of man's being, she quietly felt that it was, that without it she would have been wretched, and with it she was strengthened and upheld. While the philoso- phers were wearing out heart and brain in their analytical investigations as to what this element was, of what it consisted, consciousness, senti- ment, idea, or what it involved, she at once dived to the bottom, and brought up the answer to the vexing problem. It was a Sunday or two after her coming to them ; the greater part of the day she had spent at the Asylum. Returning home, Addie sent for her to her room. She came in calm and collected, but Addie saw she had been weeping.   Adelaide Winston--Her Skepticism. 59 "Does it make you sad to visit the Sisters?" she asked. "No," she answered, drawing up an ottoman and seating herself before her; "it does not make me sad to go there; it is the coming away that strikes like a chill through and through me." "You are deeply attached to them." "Yes, and I ought to be. Think of all they have done for me, and how much I owe them." "Because they have done good to you, you love them, on the same principle if any one harmed you, you would hate them." "God forbid! I would try to forgive them, and not sin my soul by hating any of God's creatures." "But if you followed your feelings you would hate them." "May be I would; but that is not the way. When our feelings lead to sin they are not to be followed, but kept down and restrained." "I believe you know pretty well the meaning of those two words." "I don't understand you," the orphan remarked. "I mean," Addie rejoined, "that your Church lays great stress on this keeping down and re- straining, on authority on one hand and subjection on the other." "The Church is to be obeyed."     60      The Orphan Sisters. "And you are to obey her?" "Yes." "I thought so." Emily looked at her surprised, but the surprise changed to pity as she read the cold, sneering ex- pression of her face. She had told her that she did not believe in her Church, in any Church, that she had no faith, and now she did not doubt her. After an embarrassing silence she quietly, thought- fully remarked: "There must be authority." "Why so?" "Because without it all would be confusion. How could Sister get along with her school if she did not have order? and how could she have order if she did not have authority? She is. there to teach, the girls to learn; she tells them what they must do, and they do it; she commands, and they obey." "That's the whole question in a nut-shell," Addie exclaimed, rising and walking to the win- dow. She drew aside the heavy damask curtain, and looked out on the cold night. A few stars glimmered in the sky; great rolling clouds swept before them and hid them from her sight; the hum of the city came up; through the leafless trees she saw the gleaming lamps and the multi- tude hurrying on; afar rose the roof of the Asy-   Adelaide Winston-Ier Skepticism.  61 lum; she could not see it, but she turned her head in that direction, and thought of the quiet little form sitting before her grate, and of the words she had just uttered: "Without authority Sister could not have order, and without order all would be confusion." This led to conclusions she did not like. A frown contracted her brows. Pressing her cheek against the cold pane, she peered out as if listening to some answer to ques- tions she had silently put to the gloomy night. Presently she let the curtain drop, and walked back to her chair. Emily sat just as she had left her, her hands crossed on her lap, her eyes raised to a picture over the mantel-piece., It represented the scene in the Gospel where the Blessed Saviour is asked: "Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar?" and He answers: ( Render unto Casar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's." Seeing the orphan's fixed attention, she casually remarked: "That picture is a great favorite with my brother. He presented it to me on my last birth- day." "And you like it too?" "I like the central figure; that is most noble and majestic; but the others are revoltingly ugly. What low cunning gleams from their eyes; what     62      The Orphan Sisters. mean sordid faces they have. Sometimes they fairly haunt me. Which way I turn, their eyes seem to follow me. Only that it is a gift from Herbert, and one, too, that he greatly prized, I would not have it in my room. He hung it there himself; he must see it there when he comes home." "But you could cover it, so that it would not be confronting you all the time." "Yes, I know I could; but to hide their ugly faces I would have to veil that holy and divine countenance, and that I could not do. If they annoy, that one soothes and comforts." "I don't wonder, Miss Winston. What wisdom sits enthroned upon His brow, what benignity beams in His eyes, what grandeur in His whole bearing." "Yes, 'tis a singularly beautiful face and form. He was a skillful artist that drew that picture, and gave it its somber shades and soft and delicate tints." "And a Christian one too," Emily added. "Yes," Addie responded; "it is'easy to see on which side his sympathies were." "They were where they should be." A rich glow swept over the orphan's cheek. She could not bear the cool, critical look that rested in   Adelaide Winston-Her Skepticism. 63 Addie's eyes, and the sarcastic tone of her voice. -She knew what it meant, and, with a pained, grieved feeling, was thinking, with all her wealth and the beauties and elegancies surrounding her, how unfortunate was her lot, when Addie, in a thoughtful, musing voice said: "They thought to catch Him in His words, but they failed." It did not seem a remark made to the orphan, but she warmly answered: "Yes, they failed, and they will ever fail. How great their presumption to try to catch Him! How little they understood His greatness or their own nothingness!" "They did not believe in Him or His mission." "No; they did not, they do not, they will not accept Him. They scornfully reject Him; they follow their own conceits, and love their short- lived pleasures better than His holy law, or His beautiful and lasting heaven." Addie made no reply. She did not ask her what the law was, or how she came to change the past to the present tense. It might be from some- thing against sinners in general she had read in her pious books, or from some faint glimmerings of the doubts and questions that, as having no faith and seeking one, troubled her mind. Con-     "     The Orphan Sisters. sciously or unconsciously, she had touched on a deep subject. Sunk back in her chair, her cheek resting against the velvet lining, she tried to look it carefully over. Instead of a peaceful, a hard, severe expression gradually settled on her face. * ace@,'-'   CHAPTER VI. MR. AND MRS. HARRY WINSTON. As the weeks passed, Emily grew more accus- tomed to her new home; but she could not get over the strangeness of Mr. and Mrs. Winston's sudden interest. A governess was employed for her-a Catholic, and educated at the Sisters' schools. Mr. Winston gave as his reason for this that such would have been the choice of her parents, and in doing for their .child he did not want to go contrary to their wishes. Emily felt a warm gratitude for his thoughtfulness; but with her gratitude was a painful consciousness that he looked upon her presence in his home as in some mysterious way connected with the returning health and strength of his daughter. "Addie will now get well," he said. one day, after looking sharply at her pale face. "I have done my duty-the orphan is here." Why her coming should have such an effect, or why bringing her to his home should be a duty to     "     The Orphan Sisters. him, she could not make out. In no way was she taken into confidence. Mr. and Mrs. Winston had seen her mother; but that they had known her * or her father, or that her past, or the past of her parents, was in any way connected to theirs, they never in the niost remote manner intimated. Of the perfect indifference felt for Harry Winston and his family she became aware from the fact of Robert and his wife never mentioning their names, or seeming to know it was with them her sister was. She was not in the Asylum when they went for the Gleason girls; Emily was there, at which they were rejoiced; Sarah was out at service, which they regretted. If she would leave her place and come to them they would be truly glad; but this at present she did not feel free to do. She had agreed to stay for six months, and she must. This was more imperative, as Mrs. I-arry Winston strongly insisted upon her keep- ing to her engagement.  The good lady was thoroughly provoked at Robert's and his wife's infatuation. What could induce them to overlook their brother's children, and take a couple of per- fect strangers to their home and affection, was to her a mystery, and at the same time an instance of blushing ingratitude. She had done every- thing to show her sympathy in their bereave- ments; had duly assumed and put her children   Mr. and Mrs. Harry Winston.   67 into the heaviest and most ungraceful of mourning suits; had, with her daughters, made numerous calls, and, unheeding the gay, bright world out- side, sat for hours in that great silent house, anid borne its funeral-like gloom; had turned the re- pulses she and hers had met into harmless ebulli- tions of heart-broken grief that were not to be minded, but patiently and tenderly borne; had, in spite of the particular aversion shown her Ella and Bella, professed the most profound compas- sion and the most unbounded attachment; and now to see all her plans frustrated, her diplomacy of no avail, incensed her to the last degree. She brought her complaints to her husband; but, im- mersed as he was in business, having as much as he could possibly attend to, he turned an apa- thetic ear to her grievances; said it was too bad, enough to provoke a saint, and he'd speak to Robert about it, and then turned complacently to the new advertisements he had had inserted in the morning paper. They looked imposing, as he knew they would, and conscious he could fulfill the flaming promises so boastfully made, a smile rested benignly on his face, and only as a far-off petty annoyance he heard the voice of his wife. He was the most successful merchant in U.; there was not another that had the custom, wholesale and retail, he had. His large, handsome store,     68      The Orphan Sisters. with its several departments, was from early in the morning till late at night thronged with purchasers coming and going; his clerks had a busy time of it, and he had need of a clear head and sharp eyes to keep the whole a-going. What if his brother did take those orphans home and do for them; let him. .He had, or would have, enough for his own. To be sure, it would have been a little more brotherly in Robert to have taken one of his; but as he didn't, the best way for them was to let it rest just as it was. Robert would probably do for them so far as to educate and get them well settled in life; but left child- less, his children would naturally fall in for his property-at least the bulk of it; and with what he, their father, would be able to leave them, they would be very well provided for; much better than he or Robert were in their first setting out in life. He well remembered the struggles they had, and how hard it was for them to keep up. It only seemed as yesterday when he gave a hasty cross-lot glance, but a time far off, ages and ages back, when he went round the way, looked at the months and years, and thought of all the changes that had come over them since the dull Novem- ber day they stood beside the dying bed of their mother. Robert was then a young man of twenty- two; he only a boy of twelve. Ten years inter-   Mr. and Mrs. Harry Winston.   69 vened in their ages; and while he wept as one not to be comforted, how calm and collected Robert was. The extreme pallor of his cheek, the deep, sad look in his eye, the firm compression of his lips, were the only outward tokens of the inward agony. His voice was low, and even his manners hushed and subdued to perfect quietness as he bent over her wasted form, and solemnly promised to be faithful to him, his young brother, and have a father's care over him. And he was. Cold and proud as he seemed, what a warmth of affection he showed him; how he toiled and denied him- self every comfort to give him the benefit of an education such as he would need. Then he set him up in business in a small way. For years they struggled on, hardly able to keep their heads above water. Prosperity shone at last on Robert, and the way became smooth before him. He did not forget his promise to their dying mother; he still continued to have a care over his younger brother; he came'to his assistance; set him firmly on his feet, and ever since he too, like Robert, had gone on well-fortune had smiled propitious upon him. Robert was a proud, reserved manl; he did not show a warm, genial temper; and since his home had been so overshadowed by death he had displayed a harsh, passionate gloom that made him at times almost fear for his reason. His mut-     70      T   phe Orphan Sisters. terings about retribution, and an outraged con- science, and his taking that orphan, and wanting the other one, had to him, when he had time, or took time to consider it, a painful meaning. Not that there was in Robert's record anything that would not bear the closest scrutiny, the broadest light; but in the repeated blows that had fallen upon him might there not be an unsettling of his mind! It might never result in anything more , serious than a few harmless eccentricities; he might get on some hobby, such as charity, tem- perance, universal amelioration, or something of the kind; and having an eye over him that he did not in carrying out his fanciful projects enter into any ruinous speculation, or do anything materially to injure himself or property, he thought it best not to cross him. If it amused him to do for those children, by all means let him. So Harry Winston felt, so he reasoned; but his wife took another view of the matter. She never considered Robert so very affectionate. He had set Harry up in business, and afterward showed him favor at a time when he sorely needed it; but with his ample means, what was that? With his black, surly pride it was more satisfactory to him that his brother was well to do than that he was one of the toiling, shabby poor. To gratify his pride, not out of affection, had he done for him.   Mr. and Mrs. Harry Winston.   7r Harry need not deceive himself.  Affection! that gruff, stony-faced image of pride and inso- lence, to be actuated by any softer feeling than love of self-the thought was preposterous. Meekly and patiently as she had seemed to bear his repulses, she winced under them; and in her heart hated, or if that is too strong a word, ex- cessively disliked the stricken father staggering under his great afflictions. She knew her husband was doing a good business; that he was in a pros- perous way; but the demands of society were great, and her children would need all they could get. Robert's wealth, if his own children died, should by right go to Harry's. No one had a better claim ; and it was wrong, decidedly wrong, to think of it going to others, perfect strangers- strangers to his race, his station. It was not only wrong, it was degrading. But Robert did not think of going so far as that. If he did not as yet, he was in a fair way to do it. One of the orphans was at his house; the other was going there as soon as her, time with them was up. She must see to it, and hinder it if possible, and if possible get the other away. If she accomplished this, she would feel she had only done her duty. She could not approach the subject to Robert or his wife, or to Addie or Herbert. Herbert was away, seemingly glad to get from the living tomb     72     The Orphan Sisters. of his own elegant home; Addie was too feeble to be intruded upon-so at least her father and mother reported; and Robert and his wife too infatuated and buried in self to be able to view the matter in its just light. Only to the orphans themselves could she appeal, not direct and openly, but in a way that promised, so far as Sarah Gleason was concerned, to be effectual. She sneered before her at her sister being at Robert's, asked if she was not able to do for herself, and wondered at her want of self-respect, her down- right meanness. Poor Sarah! very different was her life at Harry Winston's from Emily's at Ro- bert's. More than once was she tempted to leave and seek some other place. As to going to Robert's, that was out of the question. Mrs. Harry Winston had tauntingly asked her if it was not enough for one sister to be sponging on him. Did she too want to take advantage of his folly, and crowd herself into his home? The question stung to her heart. No, no; she would not go to Robert's; she did not want to; she need not fear it; but it seemed she did, for still she would not release her from her engagement. Counting the days, and feeling that the wheels of time were locked, would never move, and her release draw near, the weary, dragging weeks passed, autumn gave way to winter-Christmas was just at hand.   Mr. and Mrs. Harry Winston.   73 Mr. Winston was seated in his office back of his store; he looked much younger than his brother, and had a fine open countenance. Several letters lay before him ready to be mailed, and he was folding another to put it in an envelope, when he happened to see among those he had read and answered one he had not noticed. "How is this?" he said; "I thought I had opened them all." He reached out his hand and took it up. A glance showed him that, although directed to his place of business, it was Robert's, not his name on the envelope. He rose and stepped to the door. "Here, Tracy," he called a clerk to him; "take this to Robert Winston's." The clerk took it and silently prepared to obey him. Harry Winston stood for awhile at his office door complacently regarding the tide of customers coming and going; the clerks had all they could do; without bustle or' excitement, there was an under-current of intense drive all the time. He walked leisurely down one of the aisles, and nodding to some and speaking to other pur- chasers, rounded a counter and returned by an- other. Reaching the office door, he made' a final bow and disappeared. Sinking into his chair, he leaned his head on his open palm, and thought, with a feeling of great satisfaction, how well he 4     74     The Orphan Sisters. was doing, and what an unnecessary trouble his wife was making herself about Robert's property. If he went on for a few years to come as he had for two or three years back, he could get along very comfortably indeed without it. From these pleasing reflections he was interrupted by a quick, nervous rap at his door. Before he could speak the door opened, and a large, good-natured look- ing gentleman of forty-five or fifty entered. Mr. Winston at once arose, and warmly shaking his hand, said: "So you are not gone yet." "No," was answered, while he sunk into the chair hastily wheeled up for him; "wish I was, though, for I don't like this getting all ready to start, and then having to wait. It's my opinion, Winston, nobody does." "Certainly not; but what's the cause of the delay? Mrs. Gage, I hope, is not sick. "No; but the children's'nurse is, and of course can't go; so another will have to be hunted up." "I should not think that need delay you long." "I thought the same, and started out this morning with high hopes. At onwe place after an- other I have called, and yet no nurse. Any of the dozen I have seen would be willing enough to come; but the idea of leaving home for a voyage across the ocean, and an indefinite time in a   Mr. and Mrs. Harry. Winston.   75 foreign land, frightens them. I don't know what Madam will say when I get home. Like the amiable old Primrose, I feel almost tempted to anticipate her anger at my want of success by falling into a passion myself." "Don't; 'for the sake of your mind's repose,' don't," was laughingly answered. "It wouldn't do you a bit of good." "I am not so sure about that; It seems it would vastly relieve me now to let off some tre- mendous sentences." "Not in the least, not in the least; take my word for it. The Orion sails Saturday?" "Yes." "And to-day is Tuesday. You certainly have no time to lose." "You want to get rid of me by reminding me I ought to be on the search." "No, no, Mr. Gage; I assure you I was not thinking of that. I like to have you drop in, and I tell you I will miss your morning chats when you are gone." "When /"Mr. Gage repeated, in a half-fretful, half-laughing voice." "Yes, when you are gone," Mr. Winston re- sponded. "You don't suppose this is going to stop you." "No, but it delays me. I have had several     76      The Orphan Sisters. advertisements put in the papers, and to-morrow Mrs. Gage and I will have the pleasure of attend- ing to the applicants for place and station. If I am as successful as I have been to-day answering advertisements, our contemplated trip is a thing of the future." Mr. Winston started as a happy thought struck him. "My dear sir," he exclaimed, looking sharply at him, "I think the matter can at once be ar- ranged for you." "How?" was eagerly asked. "We have a very good girl that would prove an excellent nurse for your children. Mrs. Win-: ston, I know, would not object to letting her go in such a case." Mr. Gage instantly rose. "Then I will just step up to your house and see her." Mr. Winston rose too. "No, Gage, let me see her first; I think it best." "Why, if Mrs. Winston and you are willing to give her up, what objection can she have?" "The same some of those had you have called on this morning." "Well, when will you see her? You won't wait till dinner?" "No ; I will go directly home, see all about it, and send word over to you at once." He took   Mr. and Mrs. Harry Winston.   " his hat, and followed by Mr. Gage, left the office. On their way out they passed through the heavy winter clothing and carpet department. A lady was looking at a rich Axminsters. She called Mr. Winston's attention to it. "Well, is-it not very beautiful?" he asked. "I don't exactly like the bordering," she an- swered. "Not like the bordering, Mrs. Townley! Why, what could be more rich and gorgeous?" "You mean gaudy," she returned. "I beg your pardon, Mrs. Townley, I do not. The colors are certainly very brilliant, but they only serve to relieve the plainness of the body. Surely nothing could be less gaudy and more. gorgeous." He let his eye rest admiringly on it. "For your library," he remarked, as if he knew without asking. "Yes, for the library. I thought I would rot have to get a new one this year; but I find car- pets are not lasting, especially when the stumps of lighted cigars are thrown upon them." "No, certainly not." He looked at the price marked. "Three dollars a yard. You do not consider that dear?" * "No, not if I liked it." "William-(he turned to the attending clerk) -roll out some of those others. I have no doubt-     78      The Orphan Sisters. (again turning to his customer)-that among them, Mrs. Townley, you will be able to find one to suit you. There are some of them perfectly mag- nificent; and the rugs, you must look at them. For softness of shades and richness of texture they are not to be matched." "Oh, I have a very good tapestry one that will do." "But the Smyrna rugs, Mrs. Townley; you must certainly look at them. It will richly pay you." Mr.. Gage touched his shoulder. Making a low, impressive bow to the lady, he passed out of the store and wended his way homeward. It worried his wife so much, the thought that Sarah Gleason would go to his brother's. Here was an excellent chance to get her out of the country, and quiet his wife's fear. He was provoked at her for her fears; but at the same time, if he could remove them by making sure of keeping the orphan from Robert's, he would be glad. Getting her to Gage's was not doing her an injury. They were a fine family, and, without overtaxing her strength, would pay her generously. May be she would be perverse and not go. Like the others, the ocean and the foreign land might be too much for her. Then, too, with all his love for Robert and the loneliness of his orphaned childhood--it came an   Mr. and Mrs. Harry Winston.   79 after-thought to him-she might hate to leave her sister. He was not sure, but he soon would be. He hastened his steps, and soon arrived at home. Sarah Gleason was at once sent for to Mrs. Win- ston's room. '. 'T     CHAPTER VII. SARAH GLEASON'S LEAVING HARRY WINSTON'S. MRS. WiNSTON'S face wore an expectant, but it could not be said pleased expression. In the in- terval of the orphan's being sent for and making. her appearance; Mr. Winston had hurriedly in- formed her of the object of his early return home. She had not time to make up her mind whether to be pleased or not. She certainly did not want Sarah Gleason to go to Robert's, and she as cer- tainly wanted Emily away from there. If Sarah accepted the place to Gage's and left her, her hope of influencing Emily through her would be gone ; if she stayed, she was not sure she would be proof against Robert's and his wife's entreaties to go to them. The expectant look deepened to one of great annoyance as Sarah, with a gentle, timid bearing, came in. Mr. Winston was stand- ing before the grate with his back to it; Mrs. Winston was seated in an arm-chair near the table, on which was crowded a miscellaneous col-   Sarah Gleason's Leavinzg Harry Winston's. 8i lection of toilet articles, soiled sheets of music, and irreparably-injured engravings. Bidding her to be seated, Mr. Winston opened the business by remarking: "I believe, Sarah, you do not exactly care to stay your six months out with us." "I agreed," she answered, a faint tinge suffusing her cheeks, "to stay six months; and I have told Mrs. Winston that, as she desired me to stay, I would not leave till the six months were up; that I would adhere to the contract." "Yes, I know you have, and I have no doubt you would; but still it would be more agreeable to you to be somewhere else." Sarah could not deny it, and was therefore silent. 'Accepting her silence as an affirmative answer to his remark, Mr. Winston observed: "Very well then; I know where you can get an excellent place; and to go to that place Mrs. Winston is willing to give you up before the ex- piration of the six months." "Where is it?" "To Gage's. Their children's nurse, has been taken sick, and they are looking for another. He was speaking to me about it, and I mentioned you as one that would well fill the situation." "Buthut- -"  Sarah hesitated, and finally stopped, unable to utter a single word. She     82     TThe Orphan Sisters. would have been glad to leave Mr. Winston's for any respectable family in the city or vicinity; but she knew the Gages were going abroad; that the Winstons had laughed at Mrs. Gage's intention of taking her children with her; that they called her a second Mrs. Trollope; and won- dered if, like that indefatigable lady, she would feel it necessary to give her impressions of places and people to the public. If she accepted the situation, and went with them, she might be gone for years, and this she could not think of. She must be near Emily and the dear Asylum. She wanted to say as much, but could not do it; her tongue clung to the roof of her mouth; her hands grew cold, and a deathly pallor. settled on her face. Mr. Winston went on to tell her-what her wages would be, how light her duties, and what delightful sights she would see. The wages were far more than she was now getting; the duties she did not mind; if she accepted the situation, she would faithfully perform them; but the sights, what did she, or what could she care for them? What sight could compensate her for the loss of her sister, and the loved Asylum, hallowed by every endearing memory? Mr. Winston looked and spoke as if she had gladly and gratefully ac- cepted the place. Your trunk," he said (out of her wages she   Sarah Gleason's Leaving Harry 1Winston's. 83 had got herself a small cheap one), "can be packed at once, and sent over this evening. In the meantime you can visit the Asylum, have them send for your sister, and bid her and the Sisters good-by; and here-(taking out his pocket-book) -is what we owe you-thirteen dollars. This will get you any little thing you need before starting." Stepping up to her, he placed the bills in her lap. The pallor was succeeded by a deep flush. "Mr. Winston," she said, in a low but firm voice, "I thank' you, but I cannot accept the situation." "Why can't you?"Mrs. Winston asked, in a' tone she meant to be smooth and conciliating, but which had in it the peremptory dash of a mistress addressing a too-forward. and insolent servant. "Because"-she spoke hurriedly, and her words, low and clear, came quick and fast-"I cannot leave my sister. I want to be where I can occa- sionally see her, and the Sisters and the Asylum." "I see, I see," she sneeringly remarked; "you would gladly go if you could take your sister, the Sisters, and the Asylum with you." "I cannot and I will not leave them," was the quiet answer. "But, Sarah," said Mr. Winston, in an expos-     84      The Orphan Sisters. tulatory tone, "this is nonsense. You surely don't expect to be always hanging on the Sisters and the Asylum. Emily, at my brother's, is well provided for, and you must think of yourself. You have your way in life to make, and here is a fine prospect opening before you. You go to Gage's in the capacity of a nurse to their children; you wander with them all over Europe. Without ex- pense, under pay all the time, you can see a great deal, and store your mind with pleasing memories for a whole lifetime. Surely," he continued, "you cannot be so foolish as to let such a chance slip from you." "There are only two of us, Emily and myself, and I do not see why we need be so far apart. I do not want to hang on the Sisters; I want to support myself; but in order to do so, I do not see any necessity there is for me to fly to Europe. No, no; I cannot think of it. What are the sights I should see or their pleasing memories to being away from Emily." Painful memories of his darkened boyhood, and the heart-warming comfort of the presence of Robert, the tones of his voice, and the love he had for him, and the care he had over him, gathered fast before him, bringing with them a dewy moisture to his eyes. Just so would he have pleaded, just so have hated to go away from   Sarah Gleason's Leaving Harry Winston's. 85 the last tie that linked him to his olden home, the only one that knew him down to the depths of his being, to whom he could open his heart and let its inmost secrets be read. But these memo- ries, holy and sanctifying, were ruthlessly swept back by Mrs. Winston, in a hard, severe tone, re- marking: "Of course it would not be altogether agree- able to be so far away from Emily;. but then you know you could write to her, and she to you." "That may be; but still, I repeat, I cannot go. She smiled derisively, The idea that a bit of paper with a few words scribbled over it could make up for the loss of Emily's presence, and all that presence implied! Mrs. Winston's small blue eye fairly blazed as she imperiously asked: "Am I to understand that you intend to throw this excellent chance away?" Her fears that Sarah intended to go to Robert's were fully roused. Intensely worldly in all her 'feelings, she gave but little credit to the motive assigned for not accepting the place to Gage's. She knew perfectly well the reason; she could not throw dust in her eyes. Away from Emily, that was disinterestedness indeed; and to be near her she would forego every personal advantage, would work harder, accept of lower wages, and     86      The Orphan Sisters. stand in her own light in every possible way. Very probable, indeed Those extremely sensi- tive feelings, that wire - drawn sentimentality, might look very fine in the heroine of a fashion- able story; but off of paper, in real life, it, was either the height of folly or a covert for the carry- ing out some low, intensely selfish plan. Sarah Gleason was not a fool, child that she was; there was a depth about her that would take a wise person to fathom. Harry, her husband, with his romantic memories and mouthings of orphan loneliness, and deep attachments of desolate hearts, was not the one to understand her. It took one of her caliber to do it. Sarah's eyes filled, and her voice, in spite of her, trembled as she answered: "I can't leave my sister-I can't; and I don't see why you should want me to." "Probably not," was the sneering answer; "but as long as you do not like your present place, I should suppose you would be glad to exchange it for one you would like." "But not for one I do not like." "As long as you have not tried it, you do not know whether you would like it or not. You do not like to be with us, and there may not be a place in the city you would be better pleased with. I find," she tauntingly added, "that ser-   Sarah Gleason's Leaving Harry W/inston's. 87 vants in these improved days have grown some- what fastidious. It is seldom their employers suit them; whether they suit their employers or not is of small consequence." A scarlet wave washed over Sarah's cheek, neck, and temple. "Whether the place suits me, or I suit the place, is not the question." "It is that, and nothing else." "I beg your pardon, it is not," she repeated, with firmness. "If I could find a place in the city, and you were willing to let me go before my time, you might wonder at my not wanting to go; but to leave the country, and go to a foreign land to stay there nobody knows how long, and may be to die there, is different as different can be." The tears were running fast over her cheeks. Mr. Winston had let the conversation pass into Mrs. Winston's- hands. He now thought it time to interfere. "Eunice," he said, addressing his wife, "you urge the matter too strongly. She and her sister are alone in the world, and it is not strange that they should be warmly attached to each other." "You think it is this precious attachment makes her loth to go?" "I certainly do. I remember well how it was with Robert and me in our early life. You were     88      The Orphan Sisters. not an orphan, Eunice, and you do not understand how she feels about it." "I understand more than you think." Then, thoroughly provoked at what she considered her husband's miserable blindness, she spoke of Robert and the probable death of his last remaining chil- dren. From the way she worded her remarks, it sounded very much as if she was expressing a wish that they might die, and at the same time a fear, if they did, the orphans he seemed so inter- ested in might take their place in the inheritance of his property. Mr. Winston's cheek burned, and to cover before the servant his wife's intense sel- fishness, and consequent heartlessness, he hastened to say: "That is, you fear they will die, but .devoutly hope they will fot ; that poor Robert and his wife will not in their feebleness and age be left child- less." "Of course, of course I do." "And if they are, your sympathy in their be- reavement will overpower every other feeling." There was a very decided approach to a sneer as he gave utterance to this remark. He did not want to see anything wrong in his wife's anxiety for the welfare of her children ; he wanted to look upon it as only an instance of her strong maternal affection; but Robert's desolation, and their old,   Sarah Gleason's Leaving Harry Winston's. 89 old attachment, rose up before him in such power- ful light, that he saw, with a distinctness that pained and startled him, the deformity which selfishness, intensified by pride and insolence, canl throw round a character. She had once seemed so different; had felt so keenly his orphaned youth, and expressed such tenderness for others in the same desolate state. To contend with her he very well knew would be useless. To quiet his agitation, and get over the bitterness that welled up in his heart against her, he said: "Sarah does not want to go to Gage's; then do not urge her; she is anxious to leave here; do not object; let her go." Mrs. Winston's face assumed a still harder, colder look. "Leave here to go to your brother's?" she sneeringly asked. "No," Sarah quickly rejoined; 'I do not want to go to Robert Winston's. Anywhere else but there." "You do not want to go to him?" "No, Madam, I do not." "I wish I could believe you," she incredulously returned. "You may believe her," Mr. Winston answered. "I know exactly how she feels; how at her age I would have felt myself." There was something in her husband's manner, something in his voice     90      The Otrphalt Sisters. and eye, that checked the reply that rose to her lips. She had gone as far as she safely could. Turning to Sarah, she suavely said: "Mr. Winston's vouching for the sincerity of your words is enough. You will not go to Robert's if I dismiss you; therefore you may consider your- self free to go. I will only add that I wish your sister possessed your independent spirit." Sarah's pale face grew paler still. She was from her heart glad to be released; but she could not bear to hear her sister spoken of so lightly. She rose and tried to speak, but her words refused utterance. She leaned heavily on the piano, and struggled as if for breath. "My sister," she gasped; "my-my-Emily- oh, if I was only as good; ask the Sisters; they know her, and-and-"   Unable to proceed, she covered her face with her hands and sobbed aloud. Mrs. Winston looked grimly at her, and coldly replied: "Let her prove her superiority by actions. When, putting aside the smooth sentimentalities of romantic young misses, she betakes herself to the honest labor her station demands, we will be- lieve you; till then we must be permitted to have our doubts." Poor Sarah's heart sickened within her. She was well aware of the advantages her sister en-   'Sarah Gleason's Leaving Harry Winston's. 9I joyed in Robert Winston's family, and of the great stress they laid on her remaining with them. That Mrs. Harry Winston should feel Emily stood between his wealth and her children did not strike her as altogether unnatural. Of course she considered her children his rightful heirs, and was incensed at one who should strive to supplant them. But neither she nor Emily wanted to supplant them; they coveted none of his wealth. If through the kindness of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Winston, Emily got an education, and was thereby able to support herself, she did not know why iVIrs. Harry Winston should feel so spiteful about it. He was rich enough to do it without materially lessening what would be left to them. Something to this import she said, when Mr. Harry Winston exclaimed: "Of course, of course he is, and I, for one, am willing, perfectly willing, he should." Then, as if he wished to change the conversation, he re- marked: "On leaving us I suppose you will return for awhile to the Asylum?" "Yes, sir; I have nowhere else to go." "Very well; I will send over your trunk to- morrow morning." He bowed, and waved his hand to the door. Rolling up the few bills in her hand, sle left the room, as Mrs. Winston seated herself at the piano,     92      The Orpfhan Sisters. and moved her fingers daintily and swiftly over the keys. She thus effectually silenced any re- proachful word Mr. Winston might have felt in- clined to favor her with. She was conscious that with the memory of his own orphaned youth always haunting him, she had offended him by some of her remarks to the orphan; but she did not care; she could not help it. Such memories, she thought, might do for holiday wear, but were not suited for the stern realities of everyday life. he was slowly pacing the room with bowed head and downcast eyes. His anger was not of the furious, blazing kind; it had in it something of the gentleness which the memories of a once crushed and broken heart always bring. He could have spoken words' filled with the gall of bitterness; but the woman offending was his wife, the mother of his children, and with a forbear- ance that would have done honor to a Christian, he repressed them and was silent, while she, with a hard, glittering eye and stony face, coolly played on. Finally pausing a moment, she partly turned her head and asked  "When are you to see Gage?" "Ah, I forgot," he exclaimed, starting from his reverie; "I must see him directly." He hastily left the room; she heard him descend the stairs, walk to the door, open it, step out, and close it.   Sarah Gleason's Leaving' Harry Winston's. 93 The next moment, glancing out of the window, she saw him, with bent head and stern face, making his way among the crowd. "He is almost," she moodily said, communing with herself, "as infatuated as Robert, and yet, under the same circumstances, I know he would not go so far. Something more than I can divine urges Robert on; there is 'a reason, deep and hidden, that causes his sudden interest in those children, perfect strangers that they are to him and his. But only one of them will he have; I have made sure of that, and I do not regret it." And thinking how she would like to thwart him by getting away the other, she again seated her- self before the instrument and lightly touched the keys. After playing several irs, she softly said: "They always, every one of them, acted as if they were immeasurably above Harry and his family, or if not above him, at least above me and the children. They had their hour of triumph, and now is their day of humiliation and sorrow. All right; all as it should be." A cruel, relent- less smile parted her lips. Again her fingers swept the keys, aid glad and joyous was the melody that filled the room. No one listening to it would have dreamed of the unholy passion that prompted it.     CHAPTER VIII. MSS IRVING, THE GOVERNESS. EMLY GLEASON was seated before her desk, poring over her morning lessons. Her face wore a weary, but calm, serene expression. Her gov- erness was standing at the window looking up at the misty sky and watching the fast-descending snow. She was apparently twenty-four years, or thereabouts, above the medium height; she had a fine rounded form; her countenance indicated talents of the highest order; there was a deep, restful look in her dark brown eyes; but the con- tour of face and feature spoke a temper naturally stern and imperious. But the sternness was re- placed by a considerate gentleness; the imperious- ness'by a humility that had in it the tranquillity of heaven. She impressed one with a feeling of reverence; her stately beauty might command admiration; but it was the pure, gentle, unflinch-' ing soul looking out from her calm, thoughtful eyes that raised that admiration to a higher   Miss Irving, the Governess.   95 standard. You admired her beauty, but yet more you reverenced her goodness. Addie's heart at once opened to her. In the bewildering mazes she was in, it was a comfort to lay her doubts and perplexities before one so strong and reliable. Firmly established as she now was in her 'faith, there was a time in her life, and Addie knew it, when she too was groping in the dark, and vainly seeking peace and security. Whether she could rest where she did, or there were peace and se- curity for her at all, she did not know; but it was a comfort to find in Emily's governess one who could be so prized a friend. The morning hours sped swiftly past; Emily's lessons were over, and she was looking at those for the next day, when the door opened, and a servant made her appearance. "Miss Addie would like to see you in her room," she said, turning to Miss Irving. Miss Irving instantly rose. Emily looked up from her book; there was no message to her, and, unbidden, she would not accompany her governess to the invalid's apartment. She glanced out at the sullen sky; thought of the loved Asylum and her sister, and how a sight of the dear place and Sarah would have rested and refreshed her; and sighing at the lonely day before her, let her eyes wander again to her book.     96      The Orphan Sisters. "Put it away, my child," Miss Irving kindly ad- vised; "you have studied enough far the present." "But how shall I pass the time, how occupy myself?" "You can practice awhile, and then, as it is too stormy to go out, you can walk up and down the passage?" "And then, Miss Irving?" Miss Irving smiled. "You feel, my dear, that you must be doing something." "I cannot sit with my hands idly folded." "Well, then, if you like, you can arrange those shells-(pointing to the cabinet)-the way I showed you the other day." Emily bowed her head in acquiescence, while Miss Irving repaired to the invalid's room. She found her reclining on the sofa, a chair be- side her, on which were lying several volumes. "You, too, Miss Winston," she smilingly ob- served, drawing up a chair and seating herself, "have been at your morning studies." "Not morning alone," she drearily answered, "but noon, evening, and night." "And do you get on?" "No; the lessons are as far from being learned as when I first set myself to them. I almost envy Emily, the dear child, her easy tasks." "You confine yourself too closely. You should t.   Miss Irvizg, the Governess.  97 study less, ride out more, and strive to keep your mind on genial topics." "All very easily said, but not, in my state, very easily acted upon. You think there is a terrible gloom over them," pointing to the books on the chair and on the table. "I not only think it, I know it; I am sure of it," was calmly answered. "And for that reason you would have me 'shun them." "I would." "And resign the hope that now keeps me up?" "The hope that. through them," Miss Irving remarked, "you will find the truth you seek?" "Yes." "Then let me tell you, you will find your labor all thrown away; your hope, bright as it looks, a mocking illusion." "No, no; I cannot believe you. You mean to speak the truth; you would not for the world de- ceive me; but you are mistaken. Where else, if not in books, can I find it?"She rose from the sofa, and walking to her arm-chair, threw herself listlessly into it. There was a weariness in her face, in her folded hands, as they rested nerve- lessly on her lap. "You think, perhaps," she added, while a sneering smile distorted her fca- tures, "that I should go to my friends, point out 5     98      The Orphan Sisters. the difficulties in the way before me, and be guided by their advice." "I doubt," Miss Irving mildly answered, "if their advice would do you any good, if you could follow it." "You understand what it would probably be?" "I think I do." "Perhaps in your searchings you tried and found out, and that is the reason you speak with such certainty on the matter." A grave smile flitted over Miss Irving's face, while Addie leaned her head against the back of her chair and raised her hand to her hot brow. "You say those books will not aid me in my. search," she weariedly remarked; "I sometimes fear the same; and yet, if they fail mej I do not know where to turn. But one thing I do know: As well might I go to the wall and breathe forth my wants, and expect it to give me what I ask, as to go to my friends." She suddenly raised her head and sat upright. "You think my books will not aid me," she said. "I do not want to believe you; I want to feel that they must, that they will, Sometimes this feeling, so brave and hopeful, is severely tried. I am puzzled; I don't know what to do, or how to get on; but one thing is certain- I cannot go to my friends. They are some of them truly kind-hearted, but they lack depth; a   Miss Irvintg, the Governess.   99 certain shallowness marks their character. Giddy, light-hearted, and gay, they shudder at the sight of grave books and graver studies. They flippantly rattle over the names of philosophers, to show in this exceedingly enlightened age they are not benighted ignoramuses." '"Then they are skeptical, too?" ' Skeptical! to be sure they are. Philosophy-- in other words, infidelity-is a badge of honor, and they are skeptical and sneering, just as they are fashionable. They adore a new love of a bonnet, and they worship a new theory. They do not' know or care how the former is put together; and question them as I have, and you will find as little do they understand the ins and outs of the latter. They admire the first because it is a change, a de- parture from something that has gone before. It is new, a novelty; therefore charming; therefore to run its day, lose its fascination, and be with the rubbish of the past forgotten, or if remembered still, remembered only to be despised. It is, Miss Irving, the same, exactly the same, with the last new theory; it is admired for no other reason than because it is new, and being new, fashionable. By and by it will, with the old bonnets and the old dresses, be hustled to one side, and something fresher, and because fresher, delightful, take its place. To such gossamer souls I feel it would be     ioo     The .Orphan Sisters. useless to breathe a word of the agonizing doubts that assail me. If I did, I know I would speak to them a language they cannot understand; I would appeal to feelings they know nothing about." "But surely, Miss Winston, all your friends are not of the gay, butterfly sort. I see among those that call upon you many of another stamp." "I know you do; they are grave, and they think themselves wise. They began by doubting, and they have ended by having no doubts at all, by being imperiously, domineeringly positive. From Deism they have passed to the grossest Atheism. The present is all they are sure of; the soul, a hereafter, a system of rewards and punish- ments, an overruling Providence, are monstrous delusions got up to frighten weak minds. Man at best, according to their view, is only an educated brute; and they declare it in so brutal a manner that, so far as they are concerned, I cannot help thinking they are half-way right. You remarked they were grave; they are grave-grave even to sternhess; but watch them, and you will see their gravity is not the result of a peaceful mind raised above the follies and nothingness of the world. A restlessness is over them, and they rush from excitement to excitement, not because they are gay and trifling, and love a continual change, but because they are supremely wretched. The soul   Miss Irving", the Governess.  10I within will not be so trampled upon by the gross and perishable flesh; hence the inward revolt and the outward wrath." "But all your friends are not infidels." "No; there are those that profess a great veneration for the Bible without knowing much about it, and are members of the Church that seems to them the most eligible, without having any clear understanding of the tenets of any. To save their lives they cannot tell you why they are Methodists instead of Baptists, or Baptists in- stead of Presbyterians, or Presbyterians instead of Episcopalians. There is a difference, but con- fusion seizes them if they attempt to point the difference out. I @ould tell them more of their respective Churches than they themselves know. But you will say they have the Bible. True. And having the Bible, it is not necessary to be so par- ticular. True again. ,And having the Bible, and free to interpret its meanings without reference to any judgment but their own, what is the use of a Church at all? The Bible can tell them all; it is all the authority they acknowledge; all they need. Why go to the expense of erecting meeting-houses and supporting ministers and their families to have the meaning of the Bible explained, when their own private' judgment, their own interpretations, are all they are obliged to follow? I tell you,     102     The Orphan Sisters. Miss Irving, as I considered the matter, this looked to me very inconsistent with reason and common sense. I began to wonder what those members understood of the volume that was their only guide, whose teachings they were alone to obey. Did they know by whom the different books were written, under what circumstances, which treated of the history of an isolated people, which of their legislation, and in which were the legislation and history blended? What was the-difference between the Old and the New Testaments, when were the venerable records gathered together, how were they preserved, and by whom handed down? Of all this, nothing could they tell me. With their profound veneration for the sacred volume, their numerous Bible Societies, and their broadcast sowing of it throughout the land, it is astonishing how little they know of it, and what an unap- proachable and never-to-be-revealed mystery it is to them. Churches without tenets, the Bible a veiled and unknown object of worship, such seems the status of religion in the Protestant world. You see I cannot go to it, to my friends; I have only those books to help me. I do not, 'tis true, get on with them, and you say I confine myself too closely; I should study less, ride out, and keep my mind on genial topics. I might with all profit follow your advice if my mind, like yours,   AMiss Irving, the Governess.  103 was at peace. .It is not; I am where Olivia was when the summons came. I thought to find light; so did she." She paused, and without completing the sentence, took up one of the books lying on the table and opened it. Watching her move- ments, Miss Irving said: "That is Parker, is it not?" "Yes." "I thought you were done with him." ' I thought so myself; but I wanted to glance again at his Absolute Religion." "You did not make it out before?" "No. His ideas of goodness, religion, and the duties of man seemed to me very rhapsodical. They might do for poetical effusions; but to be reduced to common sense, and acted upon in real life, was out of the question." "And now do you feel the same?"Miss Irving,. unrolling her embroidery, asked. "I see another meaning in them." was slowly and painfully answered." "I am not surprised to hear it. As rhapsodical as his writings may appear to the weary searcher, there is a meaning, and a terrible one, in them. FHe does not write without a purpose. Rejecting Christ and His doctrine, hurling them to one side, he parades before you a huge, misty, unshapen something, which he styles Absolute Religion.     104     TThe Orphan Sisters. Christ and His Christianity are to be rejected; Theodore Parker and his Absolute Religion to be accepted in their place. He and his clique are the regenerators of a fallen race. In one place he tells you that the ' doctrines of Christianity were known long before Jesus, for God did not leave man four thousand years unable to find out his plainest duty. There is no precept of Jesus, no real duty commanded, no promise offered, no sanction held out, which cannot be paralleled by similar precepts in writings before him ;'* and- yet, according to his own showing, not for four thousand years only, but for nearly six thousand years has man been left in darkness as to his great paramount duty, the duty embracing all others, that of offering the only true and acceptable wor- ship to God, summed up in the Absolute Religion of Theodore Parker." "But," said Addie, " notwithstanding his asser- tion of the antiquity of Christianity, again he de- clares ' Christianity was a new thing; new in its spirit; proved new by the life it wakened in the world.' "t "If," rejoined Miss Irving, "the precepts, the duties, the promises, and sanctions were so well known, and withal so old, wherein at the same * Discourse on Matters Pertaining to Religion, p. 269. t Ibid., p. 269. I   Miss Irving, the Governess.  I05 time could they be new? In one place you are told 'All self-denial is a vain superstition, a muti- lation of body or soul, something unasked of God and unneeded by man ;'t and again, that 'self- denial is indispensable to a strong character, and the loftiest kind thereof comes of a religious stock.'* So throughout his writings contradictions meet you at every turn. He assails all and every form of religion. On what ground? On the ground that they limit the freedom of man. Man is made supersttiious because he is taught to practice self- restraint ; again he is praised for putting a restraint upon himself; the blessed Lord is to give without our asking, for he knows, without being told, our wants; again, we must ask if we wish to receive. The Catholic and Protestant forms of religion had their good points, but also their bad, and fearfully bad they we're. They narrowed man's mind, they retrenched his freedom. Naturalism did the same; there was only his, Theodore Parker's, Absolute Religion, to be depended upon. And now what is this Absolute; Religion that is to lift man from all the faults and follies of absolute systems, and give him a true and hallowed one to rely upon? You have studied it long and carefully; have you made it out?" "I have; at last it has dawned upon me." * Ten Sermons of Religion, p. 246.     o16     The Orphan Sisters. After an impressive silence, looking earnestly at Miss Irving, she added "And it is opposition to all authority, human. and divine." She bowed her head, while a tear slowly trickled down her cheek. She had hoped so much, and been so sorely disappointed. Miss Irving looked at her with pity and compassion. Her agony recalled bitter passages in her own life. In the same way had she toiled and, hoped, and only met in return the ruin of every promise and 'expecta tion that had lured her on. Dropping her work, she opened the volume Addie had laid .down, Parker's "Discourses of Religion," turned to page "9, and clearly and distinctly read: "Protestant- ism delivers us from the tyranny of the Church, and carries us back to the Bible; biblical criticism frees us from the thraldom of the Scriptures, and brings us to the authority of Jesus; Philosophical Spriritualism liberates us from all personal and finite authority, and restores us to God, the pri- meval fountain whence the Church, the Scriptures, and Jesus have drawn all the water wherewith they filled their urns. Thence, and thence only, shall mankind obtain Absolute Religion." "Then mind," she said, raising her eyes from the volume, "he immediately asks: 'Is this a retreat for man- kind?' and he answers by saying: 'No; it is a progress without end.'"She closed the book and   MiJss Irving, the Governess.  107 laid it on the table. "A most significant passage is that," she remarked, "and one which should make every thoughtful mind reflect. Released from Church, Bible, and Jesus, and brought to God, the primeval fountain of all good, we are still to go on, for our progress, he says, is to be with- out end; and where, I ask, are we to go?" Addie's clear, bright eyes were fastened upon her. Her quick mind comprehended the nature of the question, and in a calm, impressive voice she answered: "Having reached God, we have reached the highest pinnacle; there is no above or beyond Him; and still obliged to go on, unable to stop, what must a farther going on be but a retrograde movement, a descent?" You may well call it a retrograde movement, a descent. As they have begun by protesting against authority, so they will go on. They have protested against Church, Bible, and Saviour; and now brought, according to their own account, to God, the primeval fountain of all good, their further progress will be a protesting against the authority, a warring with God Himself. And this protesting against all authority, human and divine, is the essence of Parker's Absolute Religion. Study it as you will, it is all you can make of it. He is ready enough at tearing down, but he cannot     iog     Tze Orphan Sisters. build up; or what he buills is like the tyrant's castle in the desert that poor Aner thought im- posing at a distance, but which, on nearer viewing it, resolved itself into rent rocks, dark fissures, burning craters, and devouring flames. I remem- ber how I used to pore over his writings, dazzled by their false eloquence. At last their meaning became clear to me, and I turned from them in terror and disgust. His is not a good, merciful spirit urging him on, as he would have you be- lieve ; it is fierce, cruel; sanguinary. He utters his loudest protest against authority, and utters it in a tone that shows a domineering and tyran- nical spirit. Having destroyed all institutions, what would be left to man in his Absolute Re- ligion, with its boasted show of freedom, but, as in the Reign of Terror, a shuddering and soul- sickening tyranny! There must be authority, religious as well as civil; destroy the religious, and you tear down the civil; and civil and reli- gious authority done away with, where would the multitude run? Into every excess. Law and order swept away, all restraint removed, passion, the impulse of the moment, the only governing power, and what safety for life or property, for well-being here, or peace and happiness hereafter, would there be'?" "You remind me," said Addie, rising from her   Miss IrviZ,'n the Governess.  I09 chair and walking to another, before which was a softly-cushioned stool, " of what Hedge, in his 'Reason in Religion,' in the chapter entitled 'Freedom in Bonds,' says: 'Suppose mankind absolved from their allegiance to right and duty; suppose that no one finds 'in himself, or out of himself, any law restraining his inclinations ; that each one does what passion urges or impulse sug- gests ;--would that,' he asks, 'be a comfortable state of society?'  "And if I recollect right, Miss Winston, he an- swers by emphatically declaring: ' No hell within the compass of human imagination could exceed the possibility of such a state ;'* and then further on in his chapter entitled 'The .Two Types,+ pur- suing the same thought, he says, speaking of civil authority: 'The constitution is not infallible; it may be faulty in some of its provisions; it may need revision and amendment; but, so long as it is the constitution of the State, it is very evident that wisdom and the public good require its ob- servance. It is very easy to see what mischief must ensue, what disorganization and dissolution of all bonds and proprieties, what confusion, what hazard to life and goods, if the people of the State, and especially those in authority and public trust, should wholly disregard its provisions, and * Ten Sermons of Religioon; p. 189.     I IO     The Orphan Sisters. conduct themselves as if no such instrument ex- isted, as if nothing were settled, but everything left to the private discretion of each individual. It is obvious that the State could not stand on such a basis as that. There must be some kind of constitution, written or understood, to secure the well-being, to secure the existence of society. And there must be constitutional men to maintain and execute its provisions.'" "In other words," exclaimed Addie, "there must be authority, as you say, and that authority obeyed, in order that society may exist." "Exactly so; so much for civil authority; and now hear what he says of religious. I will get the work, for in quoting his words my memory may prove treacherous." She stepped to the book- case, took down the volume, and reseating herself, opened at page 426 and read: "The Christian Church is a, spiritual society, associated for spiritual ends on the same terms, as regards the point we are now considering, on which the State associates for civil and temporal ends; that is, on the terms of a mutual under- standing on that point, on the question: What is truth, or what is the truth which the Church has to teach? That understanding expressed or implied, is the constitution of the Church.' And when I say the Church I mean each particular   Miss Irving, the Governess.   I I branch of the Church, by whatsoever name it may be called. Each branch of the Church has its constitution, which serves as the basis of its action, and the maintenance of which is essential not only to its prosperity, but to its very being. Suppose that no such understanding existed; that the doc- trine of the Church, of any 'Church, were wholly undetermined; that not so much as a fundamental proposition or general outline of Christian faith were admitted or understood; that every proposi- tion which might offer, from whatsoevei quarter, of whatsoever import, were equally entitled to call itself Christian, and to be received as the doctrine of the Church ; that instead of a constitution, the Church presented a blank tablet, on which each might inscribe his own theory and call it Chris- tian ;-suppose this, and what follows? It is easy to see that Christianity,. as a form of faith, would soon become extinct, overlaid with the specula- tions of all who incline to speculate, with the visions of all who are given to dream. The Clris- tian Church, instead of being the temple, the fane for Christian worship, would become a pantheon for all divinities of all religions, or a pandemonium for every abortion of the human mind." "Strange," said Addie, " that one who writes- and feels like him should himself be wandering about, owing allegiance to none." '! rlclL  IIL     "2     The Orp/hat Sisters. "Yes, it is strange but it only proves that, with all his blindness, he is not insensible of the necessity of authority." "No, indeed," rejoined Addie; "it is this ad- herence to authority that makes, he says, the. excellence of the Jewish or orthodox party of religion. And yet he accuses it of being narrow and clannish, and in its .strict adherence to the law wholly averse to progress. If I recollect right, he prefers the Greek type in religion, which, he insists, is the very reverse of the Jewish-broad, liberal, and eager for every onward movemenf; that it hates restraint, and cannot bear to be kept back." "No," observed Miss Irvinig, " it cannot bear to be kept back, and rushes on sometimes to good, sometimes to evil. He gives, as you observe, great praise to this type, but is obliged to own that its excesses are more to be feared than the Jewish ; 'that the Greek propensity in religion, so far from securing the inquirer against that exces- sive credulity which might seem to be the peculiar attribute of the Jewish mind, is itself especially liable to this weakness, and not unfrequently terminates in grosser illusions and wilder super- stitions than ever authority imposed on those whose faith requires a sigt ;' and farther on he says: 'The propensity of the Greek mind is to   Miss Ir'ving, the Governess.  113 require a reason for every truth. And it needs the critical action of this propensity to distinguish truth from falsehood in the doctrine presented to the mind; to secure the mind from error and superstition, and that unlimited credulity which is practically no better than unbelief. But let it be remembered that truth is not the product of reason, and that there are truths for which no reason can be given but reason assigned for the being of God-"I am because I am." This divine becaulse is the terminus of human inquiry in re- ligion and philosophy, and beyond which specula- tion is fruitless, and where reverent minds will bow submissive, and inquiry yield.' He goes on, Miss Winston, to say, 'that a mind indulging this bias, and p(shing this propensity without heed or 'check, will be very likely to lose its self-posses- sion, and either to founder in the realm of inani- ties, without bottom and witlout goal, or, what is equally bad, to entangle itself with life-long inex- orable bondage. There are minds that riot in ultraisms. The complexion of their ultraism de- pends on conditions. In one direction they be- come brawling infidels; men who glory in having no God, and no hope, no calling but corruption, and no destination but the grave. In another direction they become vehement schismatics, dis- organizers, destructive, anti-Church, anti-State,     "4     lThe Orpzan Sisters. anti-law; implacably hostile to everything estab- lished, and, above all, to established peace and good-will among men; or if, as sometimes chances, they land in the Church of Rome, they find special satisfaction in all the extreme and most offensive features, of that religion."' Miss Irving closed the book, laid it on the table, and' was about to make some comments, when Addie smilingly said: "That last sentence was quite a fling at your Church?" "I knew it was there, and would not stop till I had given it utterance; for in what he says of au- thority I do not wish you to suppose that I am laboring under the delusion that he is spealking in defense of my cherished religion. He is not. He is only one of those who, indulging in the critical propensity of the Greek mind, has, to use his own words, lost his self-possession, and is foundered in the realm of inanities, without bottom and without goal. This does not hinder him from catching now and then glimpses of the truth. He sees in the mistiness surrounding him the necessity of authority, and he is not afraid to own it. But to resume. He says ' the Jewish type and the Greek have both existed in the Church from the begin- ning, and both are needed; that each supplies the lack of the other; but Christianity is larger   Hiss Irving, the Governess.  I 15 than Jewish authority, and deeper than. Grecian philosophy.'" "But," exclaimed Addie, "rejecting Christ and His Christianity, what does the word Christianity mean in his mouth?" "The word Christianity, in a philosopher's mouth, may have one meaning in one place, and quite another in another. Reduce these contra- dictory meanings to a definite term, and you will see that it is'something without form, being, or existence; in other words, Christianity with them, stripped of everything that can give it form and being, is only a vague sentiment, a vapory nothing. In Christ's Church, the Catholic Church, alone will you see a true type of Christianity-the Chris- tianity that is larger than Jewish authority and deeper than Grecian philosophy. In speaking as he did of Romanism, he made, you say, a fling at my Church, this Christian' Church; he made a greater one at his own party when he spoke of the brawling infidels, the disorganizing, destruc- tive, anti-Church, anti-State, and anti-law philoso- phers, who in their writings, finding fault and con- demning every system, show themselves implaca- bly hostile to everything established, and, above all, to established peace and good-will among men. There is a remark in Theodore Parker's     16     The Orphayn Sisters. preface to his 'Discourse on Religion' that proves the truth of my assertion." "VlWhat is it?" "That 'modern theology stands by the forbear- ance of the skeptic ;' and then, a moment after, he emphatically declares 'that one must needs blush for the patience of mankind.' There speaks the disorganizing, destructive, anti-Church, anti- State, anti-law spirit that urged. on the fright- ful excesses of that terrible time known by its very appropriate name of the Reign of Terror. It is probable that the boasted philanthropists of the day, those daring and mightily-endowed dis- ciples of reason, felt the same 'that modcrn'the- ology stood by the forbearance of the skeptic,' and 'blushing for the patience of mankind,' rushed upon altar, priest, and people with the fury and madness of demons." "It thrills me," said Addie, "with a shuddering horror whenever I think of that fearful time." "I look," rejoined Miss Irving, " on that bloody page in the history of the last century as one 'of the most significant to man. It plainly shows to what crimes and wretchedness, what horrible ex- cesses, this warring against authority, human and Divine, must lead. The philosophers cry out against tyranny; and professing in the midst of their violence the most unbounded toleration, an   JMiss IrviJng, the Governess.  117 all-embracing philanthropy, they inflame the mul- titude with vengeance against authority, and incite it on to do their bidding, to shout their names, to hold them up as demigods, saviours of the world, carvers of a brighter destiny for man, and once getting the power in their hands, they show what their toleration means. Never such chains' as they rivet upon man, never such soul-shudder- ing, life-destroying tyranny as theirs." "But," interposed Addie, "the philosophers refer to the excesses committed in the name of religion." "I know they do, and at the same time are silent about the horrible crimes their theories, reduced to practice, call' forth, or else shamefully glory in them as something worthy to command the admiration of the world. But compare the two-the excesses committed in the name of re- ligion, and the excesses of infidelity-and how- ever much the former may be exaggerated, and the latter softened, you will at once see the differ- ence. The one at the worst was a warring against man, the other against God and man. In the one you see a human wickedness, in the other a de- monic malignancy. The wrath of the bigot went out to his fellow-creature ; tlat of the infilcl reached up to heaven, and would have torn God from His throne if it could. Its exterminating     T I8    7ITh Orphan Sisters. cruelty knew no bounds ; its ribald blasphemies filled the air like the black smoke issuing friom the mouth of the pit." "And that any one," exclaimed Addie, while an indignant flush spread over cheek and temple, "could be found to make excuses for that horrible time, or to glory in its frightful excesses, fills me with profound amazement." "B ut there are those besotted enough to do it. "I know there are. Victor Hugo, putting his own sentiments in the mouth of the ex-conven- tionalist of G. in his 'Les Miserables,' says 'the French Revolution was good, for it was the con- secration of humanity.' In another place, in ten- derly referring to that most horrid time of butchery and blasphemy, he pronounces it only a headlong hurling of a people into truth, a rousing from stag- nation, a staunching the wounds of the country, an onward movement in the civilization of the world." "But what kind of a rousing," exclaimed Miss Irving-" hurling into what? A rousing into the most atrocious wickedness; a hurling into the most filthy, most obscene idolatry. The tyranny and extravagance of the higher orders, and the embarrassed state of the finances, were the ex- cuses they made, the excuses their defenders still   Miss Irving, the Governess.   119 make for the horrors of that terrible time; but in order to reform the one and improve the other, to redress their wrongs, was it necessary to commit such frightful butcheries, to rush into such horrible impiety? Not to mention the daily victims in Paris, and the numbers it took to keep the trenches that carried off the blood in order, was it a consecration of humanity to take a band of five hundred children of both sexes out, and coolly and barbarously shoot them? and when, owing to the smallness of 'their statures, the bullets at the first discharge flew over their shoulders, and they, breaking from their ranks in wild confusion, clung round the knees of their executioners, and piteously begged for mercy, was the deaf ear turned to their appeal a staunch- ing the wounds of the country, an onward move- ment in the civilization of the world?"  "Victor Hugo," exclaimed Addie, with a shud- der, " would have you believe it was." "You say," continued Miss Irving, "he pro- nounces the French Revolution good. What, the monstrously abjuring Christianity and instituting in so foul and shameless a manner the worship of reason; the abolishing all the services of religion, so 'that infancy entered the world without a bless- * See Gould's Abridgment of Alison's History of Europe, p. 36.     120     The Orphan Sisters. ing, and age left it without hope ;' the devoting every tenth day to the promulgation of the most revolting atheism; the placing on the public cemeteries the inscription that ' Death is an eter- nal sleep'-was this good? was it a consecrating of humanity? Away with such goodness, with such consecration! It is the goodness of de- mons, the consecration of madness. The tender sympathy of the philosophers of the present day for the teachings, and the result of those teach- ings of the philosophers of the last century, should be a warning to the lovers of progress. This violent protest against all authority, human and divine, if followed out to its inevitable con- clusion, can only end in the most crushing tyranny, the most frightful excesses." The door opened, and Mrs. Winston came in. Turning to Addie, she said: "My dear, those en- gravings you sent for are come. Would you like to see them?" "No, mother; not now." Her mother cast on her a glance of tender solicitude, and gently remarked: "You'look pale, very pale ; I fear these heavy studies are exhaust- ing you." "No, mother, no. If I could only find that for which I am searching, I feel it would lift me up again to health and strength. I am a little tired   Miss Irving, the Governess.  L 12i now, and will lie down and rest awhile." She extended her slight form on the sofa. Her mother tenderly threw over her a soft quilt, and arranging her pillows, Addie said: "You can show those engravings to Miss Irving; I know she will like therm; and I would be alone for a little while." "To sleep, love?" "No, mother; but calmly to reflect on the writings I have been poring over." "Don't, my child, don't," Mrs. Winston, bending over her and imprinting a kiss on her pure white brow, said; "put them out of your mind and rest. Think how I should miss you, your father and I, darling ; how desolate we would be. Oh, think of it and rest-in mercy to us, rest." Tears were standing in her eyes, and an agony seemed to shake her frame. The invalid threw her arms up round her neck, and repeatedly kissed her pale cheek. "My mother, my dear, dear mother, I am strug- gling in a thick and terrible blackness. All around me is the shadow of death; light is beyond; and if I could only reach it, I feel it would renew my life. Don't hinder me, mother; let me search, and searching, find what alone can give me com- fort here and peace hereafter." 6     *122     The Orp1an Sisters. Her voice sunk to a whispering sob. For awhile only the heavy breathings of their pent sorrow could be heard; then gently releasing her thin arms, and once more pressing her lips upon her brow, Mrs. Winston arose, and with Miss Irving left the room and descended to the parlors. '     X          ' . 'F   CHAPTER IX. SARAH GLEASON AGAIN AT THE ASYUM. IT was several days since Sarah Gleason left Harry Winston's. She was still at the Asylum, and did not know how long she would have to stay. She had made two or three applications for a place, and not succeeding in obtaining one, had gone back to her old duties, and was once more the active assistant in the dormitories and clothes- room, and the grave, studious pupil in the school- room. She was deeply attached to the Sisters; it was a pleasure for her to be with them ; but she felt, notwithstanding the generous welcome they had given her, that she was old enough and strong enough to do for herself, and should no longer be burdening them with her support. Sister Edith, with her usual sweetness, had assured her of their undiminished regard, and advised patience; and patient she tried'to be. It was Saturday; there was no school, and the morning's work done, she quietly sat down to her sewing in the orphans' -     124     The Orphan Sisters. room. Her countenance wore a troubled look; she had not yet seen Emily since leaving her place; and as anxious as she was to pour into her ear her cares and sorrows, she dreaded to tell her of her determination never to go to Robert Win- ston's, or in any way accept of his bounty. She knew a home would at once be offered her; that she would share the advantages Emily was enjoy- ing, and in every respect be well provided for; but Mrs. Harry Winston had made so many cut- ting remarks about her sister being there that her heart turned to gall at the thought of going there too; besides, she had given her word that she would not go, would not accept his bounty, and she should keep it. That Robert Winston and his wife should take such an interest in her and her sister was something for which she could not possibly account. They were only poor orphans that owed to charity the shelter, food, and raiment that had been theirs since their mother's death. How came Robert and his wife to know them, and knowing them, what caused their great interest in them? Addie had told Emily she believed her mother had never seen her parents, at least not her father and her mother, but once or twice ; that neither her father nor mother knew of her being in the city, and only recently had learned of her death. Her father knew Mr. Gleason; but till   Sarah Gleason again at the A sylim. 125. about introducing the orphans into his home she had never heard him mention his name. But per- haps his death so far back had caused him in a manner to be forgetten. No; her father and mother oftei spoke of friends who died long be- fore him; but knowing neither of her parents, or having but a slight knowledge of them, how came they to take such an interest in their children, and feel, as it seemed, so obligated to do for them? It was a question she could not answer, though often and often, in the midst of her duties and broken plans. for the future, it came distract- ingly up. The clock struck ten; she raised her eyes from her sewing and glanced out. It was a'clear, still day; the show, like a white mantle, lay on the little grass-plots and flower-beds; the trees, with their bare arms, stood placidly over them, watch- ing, as it were, their quiet repose. Some of the larger orphans were passing over the neatly-swept brick walks leading to the out-houses and day- school. On the brick-paved square, neatly swept too, a band of smaller orphans, in their little hoods and capes, were gayly running about, and sending up joyous sounds like the twittering of birds. As Sarah looked down on the merry. little tilings and listened to their pleasant voices, she thought of her kindly cared for and sheltered past. The     1ZO)     I //e urp/ta7l ,zstcrs. contrast between those lightsome and happy years and her care-shadowed present was pain- ful; the peace and security of her childhood were gone; that hallowed spot was no longer to be her refuge ; she was an intruder in its sacred pre- cincts; the world was before her, and she was to battle in it. For her was no father's shielding love, no mother's strengthening words. Even' Emily, her only relative, her one lamb, would be  removed from her. Her surroundings would form an adamantine barrier between them. How could the tenderly cared for favorite of a wealthy home familiarly associate with an illy-clad and toil- burdened menial! The gravity of her face deep- encd; her breathing became short and hurried; her firmly-pressed lips parted, grew tremulous, and tears rolled swiftly over her cheeks. Bowing her face upon her hands, she wept bitterly. Sister Edith was not present. With one of the Sisters of the day-school she was visiting a poor sick woman; but the orphans beside her looked won- deringly and compassionately at her. "Don't cry," they pityingly entreated; "dont; it will break your heart, without doing you any good." Poor Sarah! the envenomed words of a hard, remorseless worldling were rankling in her mem- ory, and poisoning every better feeling within her.   CJ - re- - -w V (I.4 t 'Za i. 127 The innocent children beside her little understood the matter; to them she was only losing a good place, and being thrown out of employment. They sympathized with her, but were sure she would soon get another as good, and maybe better. If she didn't, why then it would be time enough to feel bad about it. These had been their sentiments while noting as they sewed the gravity of her countenance; but when they saw the tears gather- ing, and heard the choking sobs, they could hardly restrain their own; and yet, such is the strange contradiction of the human heart, felt almost pro- voked that for so small a thing she should so deeply grieve. "Oh, Sarah," one of them exclaimed, "don't feel so bad about leaving Mr. Winston's; you will get another place, you may be sure you will. Maybe, too, you can go to the other Mr. Winston's, and be where Emily is." "Yes, indeed," rejoined the other; "be with Emily; be with her all the time; just think of that." Comforting as this was intended to be, it failed to arrest the sobbing, which event became more violent. Her sister, her Emily, the only living being that, to her knowledge, had a drop of her blood in her veins; the beloved of her mother; the sharer of her pleasing and painful memories; the lb     one link between her and all her past-the past that, knew her mother, and the little ones God called early home-the past that prattled of nar- row rooms, small means, gentle love, and, under the deepest sorrow, the most unwavering piety- Emily, that knew all this, was her all, to be taken from her, to know her no more, to meet and pass her as a stranger, was an agony before which all the sorrows and bereavements of her life paled and grew insignificant. In her wild weeping she did not hear the door open, or the glad exclama- tion of the girls beside her-did not hear the light, quick step; but a voice struck on her ear that thrilled her to the soul. Before she could look up Emily's arms were around her. "Sarah, dear, dear Sarah!" she joyfully ex- claimed; "so you are free from Harry Winston's, they tell me, and now you'can come with me." Sarah silently returned her caress, and pressed her to her heart with a fervor that spoke plainer than words how inexpressibly dear she was to her. "And you will go back with me," Emily re- peated, seating herself beside her. "Mr. Winston will be so glad, and you will like Addie and her mother, they are so kind." Before the other orphans she could not give her a decided ,answer ; so she evasively said: "I know   .. , JtWUas0Z agazIn at thze Asylu. I29 they are kind, and for your sake I am glad to hear it." "And as they are kind to me, so they will be to you." "But Addie-is she better? is she likely to live?" "Oh, I hope so. She is very thin and pale, but not more so than when I first saw her." "And Miss Irving?" "I like her every day more and more, and so does Addie." She looked as if she could have said more, but the presence of the girls restrained her. They now from various tarts of the room gathered around her, examing her dress (her out-door wrappings had been removed before coming in), the silver circular comb keeping back her hair, the little emerald brooch Addie had given her, and her rich sash with its full, graceful bows hanging down behind. With the familiarity of long association they made their admiring com- ments, and told her over and over again how glad they were that she had everything so fine. It was a blessed trait in their gay young hearts; not a spark of envy appeared at' the great good fortune of their former companion. She glanced round the room at the forms and desks; Sister's platform with its table and chair;     130     The Orpzhan Sisters. at the pictures and mottoes on the walls-the "Tree of Life," "Christ blessing the Children," "Madonna and Child," "God is everywhere," "The All-Seeing Eye," "Love God and obey Him"-and quietly remarked: "I see no change; all is as it used to be." "And you are pleased that it is so?" "Yes, Fanny; not for the world would I have it changed." "But it is going to be changed," exclaimed a bright little elf, skipping about, unable in her ecstacy to stand still. "How, Katie?"Emily asked, watching with a smile her graceful movements..  "Why, we are going to have a Christmas tree. Sister Edith said so; and it is going to stand there," pointing with her little dimpled hand to the Sister's platform. "There's going to be lots of things on it, and I guess I shall have some- thing pretty nice. Old Santa Clause won't forget me." "Don't make yourself too sure," another ex- claimed. "His gifts may not last till they get round to such a mite as you." "I am not afraid, I am not afiaid," was the laughing answer. There was now considerable noise and merri- ment in anticipation of the joyous festival.   Sarah Gleason again at the Asyl:m. 13 "Children, children," exclaimed Sarah, who was acting as mronitress durihg Sister Edith's absence, you must be more quiet. What would Sister say if she heard you?" "She'd say we couldn't help it," answered one. "She knows Christmas comes but once a year," exclaimed another." "But it hasn't come yet." "But it's a-coming; next Thursday, next Thurs- day is the blessed, blessed day." "You'll be hoarse if you keep on in this way before then, and won't be able to sing the Adeste Yideles. Do, I beg you, be still; you must, you positively must. If you won't go back to your seats and sewing, go out and shout, and run up and down the square with the others." She looked pained and grieved. Seeing it, some went back to their seats, and industriously re- sumed their needles; others skipped from the room, and the next moment were exercising lung and limb on the dear old play-ground. Com- parative quiet was restored. Emily's desire to see Sarah alone for awhile increased. She tried to think of some excuse to draw her aside. "Have you seen my new velvet cloak?" she asked. "No; but I know how it is. Ella Winston     132     The Orphan Sisters. says it is just like hers-purple body, With black bands." This failing, she soon thought of another ex- cuse. "I must see the dormitory," she said ; "I want to look at our dear little beds. Fanny, you will be monitrcss till Sarah comes back.  Come, Sarah." She rose, and taking Sarah's hand, they re- paired to the narrow-bedded dormitories. Here she felt they would be undisturbed, and could freely open their minds to each other. "And you will go back with me," she peisist- ently said, as they seated themselves on one of the little beds. "No, Emily; don't ask me." "Why can't you?" "Because I have given my word I would not." "To whom have you given it?" "You know without asking," she petulantly answered. "To Harry Winston and his wife?" "Yes." "And what right had they to exact it? Was this the precious condition on which they released you from your engagement?" If Mrs. Harry Winston thought I was going to   Saraht Gleason again at the Asylum. .133 Robert's, I don't believe she would have given me up." "And to get away from there you gave that promise?" "Whether I stayed there or came away, I would have given it. I can do for myself, and will. You don't know how I feel about it." "But one thing I do know." "What is that?" "That you make me wretched with your ob- stinacy. I did not dream you could be so foolish and stiff-necked. Here we could be together, and grow up side by side. But you don't care for me; you don't love me as I thought you did." Poor Sarah! her eyes had a wild and troubled look. Not care for Emily,; not love her better than her own life! The thought was madden- ing." "Emily," she said, in a hard, constrained voice, "you must not speak in that way. I cannot bear it; it will make me crazy. To be near you, and because I love you, I gave up perhaps a better chance than I shall ever again have." "Your place to Harry Winston's?" "No."                  7 And then she told her of Harry Winston and his wife wanting her to go to Gage's; how she re- fused to go, and wherefore; because she would be     134     The Orphan Sisters. far away from her sister. Mrs. Harry Winston had once remarked to her: "If your sister stays at Robert's, you and she will soon cease to be anything to each other; and when in dismay Sarah asked her why, coolly answered: "A fine accomplished young lady like Emily will not care to be on very intimate terms with a poor, ignorant servant." "You don't know my sister," Sarah in-' dignantly retorted; "let her be ever so fine and accomplished, she will never cease to love me." Mrs. Harry Winston, with a softened expression on her cold, proud face, answered: "Ah, poor child, little do you understand the exactions of society, and how easily the heart changes its idols." "But Emily will not. mind those exac- tions," Sarah confidently returned; "her heart will not change. Besides, she will not, after all, be so much above me. She does not intend to stay at Robert Winston's only till her education is finished; then she will leave, and not rest till every cent expended on her education is repaid. She will be laboring for her support, and I will be doing the same. There will be no inequality be- tween us." As if bent on torturing her, Mrs. Harry Winston snccringly replied: "Yes, yes; these are your sentiments now ; very excellent, very comforting they are, but not likely to stand the wear of time. Emily will condescendingly   Sarah Gleason again at th/e Asylum. 135 stay till her education is finished. That impor- tant object attained, then she will stay for some other'cause equally just and commendable. She is a fixture there, whether you believe it or not, and you---"There she paused, and left it to Sarah's imagination to finish out the sentence. And she did finish it--finish it just as Mrs. Harry Winston. knew she would. The great dif- ference between Emily's surroundings and hers would waft Emily from her; in a few years she would be nothing to her. A wild storm of passion swept over her tortured soul; then came a lull, a reaction. Emily might forget her; so be it. Others might take her place in her affections, and in her complete abandonment she might be doubly orphaned: she would not. object. She tried not to feel miserable in thinking this; to steel her heart against every tender and loving throb; to raise herself above sympathy or the want of it. With the energy of despair she deter- mined, if she must suffer, no one should know it.; she would hide her misery under an assumed in- difference; no one, and least of all Emily herself, should dream of her anguish or desolation. The next time they met at the loved'Asylum, Emily noticed a coldness and restraint in her; but at- tributing it to her dissatisfaction at being at Harry Winston's, did not seriously mind it. In a few     136     The OrpThan Sisters. months her time would be up, and she would be free. But when, as the weeks passed, and her coldness and restraint increased till she met her silently, pressed her almost frantically to her heart, then pushed her away, and turned petu- lantly from her, she began to wonder at it, and grieve at the unaccountable change that had come over her. On the morning of her dismissal from Harry Winston's, the proposal to go to Gage's -that is to say, to leave the country, to put the broad ocean between her and her loved sister, the dear Asylum and the gentle Sisters-came so un- expectedly upon her that she forgot the harrow- ing fear of Emily's ceasing to care for her, and only remembered that she was her sister, her darling sister, from whom it would be impossible to be entirely separated and live. Mrs. Harry Winston prudently avoided goading her fears and jealousies just then; and so she left, promising never to partake of Robert Winston's bounty, and totally oblivious for the time being of her late fear and anxiety. For the first, on returning to the dear Sisters, the generous welcome accorded her, going back to her old duties, and being with the children she knew so well, and with whom she and Emily were such favorites, she forgot. all about Emily becoming a stranger to her and ceasing to care for her. But now it came up again   Sarah Gleason again at the Asylum. 137 with more intense bitterness than ever. She could hardly speak with calmness to her; and when she looked into her face, so like her own in every linea- ment, she thought with exultation-an exultation that wrung her heart with an anguish-"She can- not change her features, and ashamed as she may be of me, she will still be like me." She smiled as she said this to herself, and there was something so painful, so wild and desolate in her smile, that Emily, seeing it, threw her arms protectingly around her, and kissed her cold cheek. "You will not go back with me; you look strange at me, and draw back as if you did not like me to be near you. What does it mean, Sarah? Tell me; let there be n6 secrets between us." "It means," Sarah answered, "that we must each learn to depend on ourselves." "And in order to depend on ourselves, must we begin by being cold to each other?"  ' I am not cold to you." "But there is something you will not tell me. You are in sorrow, and you will not let me know what it is, that I may sympathize with you." "I want a place," she evasively answered, "and I. can't get it. I am old enough to support my- self. I have no right here, and I do not want to intrude."     138     Th7e Orphan Sisters. "Have the Sisters said anything to make you feel that you are intruding?" "No, no; they are too good and kind to do it; but, nevertheless, I know and feel it." "And have you tried for a situation?" "Yes, in three different families, and failed. They each had got a girl before I called." "Do you see no meaning in this? "What meaning?" "Why, that there is a place open to you, and you should go to it." "You mean Robert Winston's." "Yes." "Never." "Sarah, what has come over you? Why are you so perverse?" "I am not perverse; I want to support myself, and, God helping me, I will. I will never'sit with my hands folded and look to others to do for me." A flush spread over Emily's' cheek. "Sarah," she asked, " do you mean that that is what I am doing." Sarah hung her head and sullenly refused to answer. The quick tears started to Emily's eyes. Seeing them, a change passed over her counte- nance; the sullenness died within her. Opening   Sarah Gleason again at the Asylum. I39 her arms, she spasmodically pressed her to her heart, and sobbed: "My sister, my own sister, she will not, she cannot forget me; she will always love me; and pride and hardness will never come between nme and her. Never, never!" Emily looked at her in amazement; in a moment she read the meaning of her altered bearing. Some one had been poisoning her mind with base suspicions and foolish jealousies. Who? It was not hard to make out. Not the kind, gentle Sis- ters. No, no; surely not them. But Harry Win- ston's wife. Her smooth brow wrinkled, and a flush of anger died her cheek as she thought of the ill-will she lexpressed for her whom she had never seen, and the insulting remarks she had made about her being at Robert Winston's.. "And did she," she asked, caressingly passing her hand over her sister's hair, "tell you that?" "What?"Sarah shudderingly whispered. "That I would grow proud and forget you." The only answer was another embrace and a close pressure of the arms around her neck. "And you believed her, and have grown cold  and distant to me, and cannot trust me, cannot confide in me. Oh, Sarah, Sarah!" There was a tender, and at the same time re- proachful tone in her voice. Poor Sarah! the     secret she was going to hide with such sedulous care lay open before her sister. She knew it, knew it all, and, as might be expected, felt hurt and indignant. But she could not help it; her heart was sorely afflicted. With the most ardent and devoted love for Emily, the thought that she would spurn her affections, turn coldly from her, and learn to forget her, had paralyzed every other feeling. What could she say for herself? How plead her case? How extenuate the enormity of doubting the fidelity of that loving and truthful heart? She bowed down, and covering her face with her hands, whispered : "Forgive me, Emily, forgive me. You don't know how wretched I have been, how wretched I am." "I do forgive you; but never again doubt me. Let those you go among say what they will, never again believe that I will turn against you. As our mother is now looking down 'upon us, you may trust me, and know that no one on earth will ever, can ever come between me and my sister, my only one, my darling." Her voice died away in a sob; and locked in each other's arms, the sisters wept tears that washed away the bitterness of distrust and fear. The dinner-bell rung. Hastily rising, they de- scended to the toilet or dressing room, bathed   oaran titeason again at thte Asyl1mn. 141 their eyes, smoothed their hair, and with a greater feeling of peace and quiet happiness than they had known for weeks, repaired to the refectory. After the meal they returned to the orphans' room. The cloud had passed from their faces, and they could join with spirit in the preparations for the coming festival. Emily would no longer object to Sarah seeking a place, and, without bitterness to her sister, Sarah could see her return to her new home. In the course of the afternoon Sister Edith got back from her sick call, and after a cordial greet- ing to Emily, reported that the poor sick woman was very low ; that she feared she would not last till Christmas. In the meantime, to remove her uneasiness about her two little girls, the Sisters were going to take them the next day home to the Asylum. If they were provided for, the poor mother said she could die happy. While the dear, kind Sister was yet speaking, Sister Alphonsus came in to tell Sarah there was a 'lady in the parlor that had called to engage her to wait on her children and help her in her work. "Not another Gage," she asked, "going off to Europe." "No, my dear," the Sister answered; "a Mrs. Hacket, residing on Mary street."     "2     The Orphan Sisters. With a bright flush on her face she left the room. In a few moments she returfied, and to Emily's silent question, as she looked anxiously at her, answered: "Yes, I have a new place; I am going to it on Monday."   CHAPTER X. HEDGE'S "OLD ENIGMA." IT was the day before Christmas. Herbert Winston had been expected home to spend the holidays; but he wrote he could not come. An. important suit was pending before the court, and although it would be adjourned over Christmas, he could not leave the city. His whole mind was given to it, for the character and well-being of his client depended on his exertions. Under the circumstances, they could not ask or expect him to come.- Herbert Winston, though young in years, already enjoyed an enviable reputation as one of the ablest lawyers of the day. His skill, integrity, and splendid talents made his services eagerly sought. Addie knew this, and was proud of her gifted brother. Christmas would come, and he- would not be with them. Alas! there were others that would be absent too, who would never, never again gladden her heart with their loved presence. Olivia and Genevieve, so grand and regal in their stately beauty ; Mary and Lilly, so     "4    pThe Orphan Sisters. petite and graceful in their fairy-like movements; Ralph and Robert, talented each in his own way as Herbert-all gone, all wafted from her, and from that home they once made so joyous with their warm-hearted affections. No wonder her father was 'so bowed and his hair so bleached; that her poor mother's eyes had so lone and wist- ful a look, and her voice so broken and plaintive a tone. The return of stated times like the pres- ent made the void in their elegant home more strikingly apparent. Christmas had not to them the deep significance it has to the fervent Chris- tian. Of the great event heralded by prophets and sung by angels, which fulfilled the expecta- tion of waiting ages, and lifted man from his fallen state, they had heard, but heard in a vague, un- heeding way that left scarce a perceptible impres- sion on their memory, and none at all on their affections. It was a day to be joyous, because others were joyous; but if the sable folds of, sor- row wrapped them around, then was the joy a bitter mockery, and the pleasant voices and merry greetings sounds that struck excruciatingly on the ear. A day to be enjoyed, if all was well; other- wise totally ignored, if possible. Such was Christ- mas to them. Strange that to any a day which touches so deep the throbbing pulses of humanity should have no profounder meaning, no higher   Hedge's "Old Enigma."   145 aim than worldly enjoyment and epicurean de- light ; that in the universal gladness which ushers in its annual return is not seen and felt that it is a day great and holy; a day hallowed with a crown of divine mercy and infinite love; a day in which the soul should be lifted up in love and gratitude to God, with a firmer resolve to do His bidding, to shun evil, and bear unmurmuringly the ills of life. Then, let the day be bright with the good things of earth, or overcast with its cares and sorrows, it will still be a day treasured and beloved; a day filled with the holiest and most soothing memories; a day in which the stricken heart can witness with- out an added pang the gayety of others; can even from the plenitude of divine strength and comfort join in the angels' anthem: Glory be to God on high, and peace on earth to men of good-will." Miss Irving and Emily were busy at some articles that were to adorn the Sisters' Christmas tree. They were in Addie's room, for as the day waned her heart became so lone she sent for them to come and bear her company for awhile. Her books, as usual, lay scattered on chair and table, and one was lying unopened on her lap; but that it had been read, and read carefully, the numer- ous book-marks and pencilings testified. It was Hedges' "Reason in Religion," and as she glanced. down on it she sighed heavily. 7     "6     TThe Orplhan Sisters. "You do not get on with Hedge better than you did with Parker," Miss Irving, noticing her weary, hopeless look, observed. "I don't know," she answered; "Hedge takes a broader view of Christianity than Parker. He is not so violent, so little master of himself. His passion is not forever hurrying him beyond the bounds of moderation, and making him utter wild and incoherent rhapsodies. He is sometimes sorely puzzled at the mysteries of religion, the cravings of the soul, the sorrows of life; expia- tion here and fruition hereafter; and he is not- ashamed to own it." "But can you accept his views on the vital question of Revelation? He rejects the Scriptural account of the Fall. In his chapter entitled 'The Old Enigma,' he labors to show the inconsistency of the Biblical account. He says: 'Whoso inter- rogates the order of nature from the ground of Theism soon stumbles on the world-old problem of evil-its origin, reason, and right to be in the scheme of things.' This very problem was one that troubled me, and weighed like an incubus upon me in my day of trial and search. I could not accept Enler's cold and unsatisfactory solu- tion. After admitting it was a subject beyond human understanding, to say that we know not whether the plan of the world could subsist with-   Hedge's "Old Enigman."    147 out evil, struck me as a very incompetent way of disposing of the question; and then to add *' that the wickedness of some men contributes to the correction and amendment of others, and thereby conducts them to happiness,' might be true enough as a simple statement; but as an answer to the problem was no answer at all. It only made the way darker, and started other and more vexing questions. Was the salvation of one-to be effected at the price of the damnation of another? Must one be damned in order that another may be saved? This, I felt, was a narrow and imperfect view. I could not accept it, and looked for a bet- ter. I searched long----" "And without success?"Addie's dark, brilliant eyes were bent earnestly upon her. "Without success outside of Revelation," Miss Irving calmly answered. "The philosophers," she continued, "in their boasted wisdom, sneer at that plain and lucid explanation, and ousting it to one side as nothing worth, they pompously give their own. What are they? What can you make of them? Hedge, after dwelling at length on the universal prevalence of sin and sorrow, and show- ins the inconsistency of the Oriental philosophy of two supreme principles or gods-the one good, the other evil, by whose agencies all the happi- * Enler's Letters on Philosophy, p. 297.     "8     The Orphan Sisters. ness and misery of the world are brought about -attacks the Biblical account. The vorld was what it should be, a garden of delights, till man transgressed; he disobeyed the divine command; and then came death and all calamities-cosmic disturbances, elemental troubles, storms and tem- pests, floods and earthquakes. This theory, he says, throws on man's free will the responsibility of all the evils that afflict the world, and honors, or seems at first sight, to honor God. In affirming a creation originally free from the imperfections which now attend it, and which only opposition to God's will could engender, he goes on to say,' that, rightly considered, it furnishes no satisfac- tory vindication of the fact and agency of evil in the scheme of things ; that what it gains by it for one of the divine, attributes it loses for another, inasmuch as it represents a God whose plans are traversed, and whose purposes of mercy are de- feated by His creatures. The Divine Artificer con- structs a world of absolute perfection, free from flaw, blessing and only blessed ; His creature dis- obeys Him, and constrains Him to undo' His work, remodel it to man's unworthiness. And then the writer gravely asserts that this theory of the origin of evil fails to satisfy universal reason, and would * Hedge's "Reason in Religion "--Chapter on the "Old Enigma," p. 117.   Hedge's "Old Enzigma."    149 not merit a moment's attention were it not stoutly defended, and of course believed in." "And then, if I recollect right, he gives his own." "No, Miss Winston, not yet. He first considers the cause of the stoics who dispose of the ques- tion by denying the existence of good and evil, and declaring all the pains, ills, and calamities of life of no consequence, something beneath notice, scarcely causing a ripple on the calm surface of the soul. They do not ask: Whence the evils of the world? They close their eyes, stop their cars, and with sublime indifference ignore its existence. Leaving the mere statement of this theory to re- fute itself, he comes to the optimists, that the world is the best possible world on the whole." "It seems to me," said Emily, for the first time joining the conversation, " that this theory closely resembles the stoics." "It does in some respects; in others it does not. They know there is evil and there is good; but this good and this evil are for the best. The evil, like the bitter oil of the peach and the orange, gives to the good a more exquisite flavor. The optimists suppose 'evil to be a necessary accompaniment of finite being; a condition inherent in the act of creation ; a consequence resulting from the limita- tions which bound individual existence, a necessary X     1 U.  1   E. t J  t. ,t, -jfC(.r. v a,.t r a condition of development and growth.' What par- ticularly strikes me in this theory is the total for- getfulness shown of the fault found with the Biblical account that the world was free from evil till man's transgression, and through this transgression it came. This plain explanation he rejects, because what it gains for one of the divine attributes it loses for others ; and yet, considering the theory of the optimists, whose solution of the question is in his judgment, the most defensible that has ever been propounded, he does not hesitate to declare 'there are some things of which it is no disparage- ment of infinite power and wisdom to say are im- possible even with God. God could not make an infinite, and therefore a perfect being, much less a universe of such beings.'* With the memory of the fault found with the Biblical solution before us, let us for a moment consider the meaning of these sentences. - God could not make an infinite, and therefore a perfect being. In order to be per- fect, is it necessary to be infinite? Are the two terms synonymous?  No, they are not. The angels are perfect; God made them so; but they are not infinite, they are not Gods; and to be in- finite they would be, and of co-existence with God Himself, for God's duration is infinite, having nei- ther beginning nor end; and the angels, to be * Hedge's "Reason in Religion "--Chapter "Old Enigma," p. I2I.   z'eages "JUd Enigma."    151 infinite, too, must have neither beginning nor end, and therefore could not owe their existence to God, could not be created by Him. But He did create them; therefore they had a beginning; therefore, though they are perfect, they are not infinite. Infinite and perfect are not synonymous terms. To say that God could not create a per- fect being, and a universe of such beings, strikes me as impugning the divine attributes far more than the Biblical account. God made man free innocent, and happy-in other words, perfect- and placed him in a garden of delights. He trans- gressed, he lost his innocence, he sinned; and in this transgression, this sin, sorrow, misfortune, death-evil came into the world. Is this attacking the divine attributes as much as to assert that God with His omnipotence could not make a free, happy, and innocent being, and could not make a world suitable for such a being?" But, Miss,Irving, though he considers optimism offers the most defensible solution of the question, he is far from thinking it altogether satisfactory. He, moreover, declares it is a problem no philoso- phy will ever solve with entire satisfaction of all the questions involved in it, and all the minds per- plexed by it, for he says: 'Pursue it, and it brings you to the question why God created a universe at all. Why went He forth of Himself in creative     152     The Orphanz Sisters. action? Why rather did He not abide in Himself, sufficient to Himself?'" "Yes, Miss Winston, he says that, and he says too that it is an enigma not to be solved by phil- osophy, but if solved at all, solved by an act of faith. Faith in what? Belief in revelation weak- ened and destroyed-faith in what?" "I take it that he means faith in the belief that all is for the best." "With revelation and the cross to lean upon, ,all for the best? But without them, 'the best' is but the stoic's solution put in other words." Addie was silent. She thought with bitterness was it best that her loved ones should be stricken down in the bright morning of their lives; best that she should be bereaved of all that made ex- istence dear; that now, nearing the grave herself, all should be dark before her; best all the sorrow, all the sin, all the agony of life! Best, best! Oh, what mockery, what heart-breaking, soul-crushing mockery! Why did God create a world at all if He could only create a suffering world, a world full of misery and pain? But good would come out of this misery and pain. Where? If not here, bevond the grave. How did she know it?  If she could not believe what was before her eyes, how could she believe what was beyond their vision. VlSIO1l.   Hedge's "Old Enigma."    153 "All for the best, all for the best!" she thought- fully murmured, wiping a tear from her cheek. "You cannot," said Miss Irving, finishing her work and rolling it up, "look upon the sin and misery of the world in that light." "No; if I go so far as that I must go farther." "Why He created a world at all? Why He did not, to use Hedge's words, ' abide in Himself, suf- ficient to Himself?'" "Yes ;you look pained and shocked, Miss Irving, that I say it." "I am pained, but I am not shocked. It is no more than I should feel myself if Revelation and the efficacy of the Cross were torn from me. The philosophers reject Revelation, and in rejecting it necessarily reject the Cross. They both go to- gether. The Fall necessitated the Cross. Reject the one, and you reject the other; and these re- jected, what have you to guide you but the ravings and contradictions of the philosophers?-the blind leading the blind, and groping on in ever thicken- ing darkness. That is Hedge's in your lap?" "Yes." "Will you please hand it to me?"  Addie reached it to her. She opened at page 124, and slowly and distinctly read: "Whatever is created is finite, and a finite world implies evil, because it. implies limitation, imperfection; the imperfect     154     The Orphan Sisters. striving after perfection. This is Reason's ac- count of the origin of evil." She closed the book and laid it on the table. "And a most unsatisfactory account it is," said Addie, after a short, impressive silence. "But look at it closely," rejoined Miss Irving, "and you will see, besides being unsatisfactory, that it has in it the most unheard-of presumption, the strangest inconsistency. God Himself, ac- cording to Hedge, could not make a perfect be- ing; but the being he made imperfect and full of faults, he could strive to do what his Maker could not do: he could strive to be perfect ; and in his striving to be perfect evil came. 'The imperfect striving after perfection; this is Reason's account of the origin of evil.' Place beside this boasted Reason the Biblical solution. God created man perfect, that is, free, innocent, and happy-I lay a stress on the word free, for, notwithstanding his innocence and happiness, without this freedom he would not have been perfect-and placed him in a garden of delights. One command, and one only, was laid upon him. He broke it, he disobeyed, and in his disobedience, sorrow, pain, death, all evil came. God in His infinite mercy did not wholly cast him off; a Redeemer was promised; in the fullness of time He came; the sting was taken from death; pain and sdrrow could no   Hedge's "Old Enigma."    155 longer be unendurable; divine faith spreads over them a halo of light; and by that light we see there is no evil in the world that may not, through God's tender and enduring love, be turned into good to those who love Him and keep His com- mandments. All for the best, the Christian lean- ing on the cross in love and confidence can ex- claim. All for the best, though the heart quivers and the lips grow pale. Christ is with us; His promises sustain us; He hath fought our battle; and now, through the griefs, and sorrows, and tumults of the world, He, the loving Saviour, the beloved of the Father from all eternity, is leading us on to victory. Love, gratitude, and a trusting faith that ,looks up, and in looking up grows strong -such are the blessed effects of the Biblical solu- tion of the origin of evil. Compare them with the philosophers that only engender bitterness, doubts, and questionings that lead but to greater misery, and end at last in hopeless Pyrrhonism." Addie's eyes were closed, as if to keep back the rushing tears; her lips were tightly compressed; her cheeks flushed and paled. She could not con- tradict Miss Irving's words. She knew into what torturing doubts and questions following the teach- ings of the philosophers had led her; and where was she now? What did she believe in? Of what was she sure? Of her own existence-     I56.    The Orphan Sisters. nothing more. She was; that was all she knew. How long she would continue she did not know. Darkness thick -and horrible was all around her. She tried to retain her composure, but in vain; the great sobs swelled her throat, and would not be forced back, Crossing her arms on the table, and bowing her head upon them, she wept long and bitterly. Miss Irving and Emily essayed kind and soothing words; but with an imperious tone she commanded them to leave her-leave her alone in her sorrow and desolation. That evening Mr. Winston was to take over several packages to the Asylum, and Emily, lin- gering with a wistful look on her grave young face, Mr. Winston said: "Our house is sad and gloomy for such a festive time. You are thinking, child, how you would rather be with the Sisters over your beautiful Christmas than here." "I like to be here; you are all so good and kind to me; but," she timidly added, "I would surely like to be with the Sisters to-morrow." "I don't wonder," he thoughtfully answered; "they opened their doors and took you in when only for them you would have been homeless." As he said this he gasped as if for breath. "Yes, yes," he muttered; "homeless, and orphaned, and -but what am I saying?"He started, rubbed   Iedge's "Old Enigmna"    157 his forehead, and looked wildly round him. Miss Irving was regarding him with a calm, scrutinizing glance. Hastily turning from her he again ad- dressed the orphan: "Well, child, as you are to go with me, run and get your wraps as soon as you can. I will wait for you, but don't keep me waiting long." With a wildly-throbbing heart Emily flew from the parlor, and in a short time returned ready to take her seat beside him in the carriage. It was a silent ride, but Emily had so many things to think of that she was glad not to be disturbed. The Christmas tree, with its wonderful fruit, kept dancing before her mind. It would be heavily laden, and how happy the dear children would be. Mr. and Mrs. Winston, Addie and Miss Irving, had each sent their gift, and she too was bringing hers. There were stout little shoes and stockings and warm flannels from Mr. and Mrs. Winston; a pair of blankets from Addie; check aprons of the pat- tern they were wearing from Miss Irving; and lots of pocket-handkerchiefs from her. Besides these very serviceable articles, there were little dolls, blocks of Liliputian houses, and ever so many papers of nuts and candies. To the dear children Emily knew these last would be alto- gether the finest and most prized. In the hall of the Asylum, when Sister Alphon-     158     The Orphan Sisters. sus thanked Mr. Winston for his kindness, and hoped he and his might enjoy many and many a happy Christmas, he turned his moody eyes on her, as if not quite sure he had heard her aright. "Me and mine," he absently repeated. "Yes, Mr. Winston, you and yours," she cor- dially said; "may our dear Lord reward your kindness to the poor orphans; and may you," she solemnly added, after an almost imperceptible pause, "in your own children be blessed." The cloud left his eyes; a broad light played over his worn features. In a tremulous voice he thanked the Sister for her kind wishes, bade Emily good-by, and left. In the happy excitement of helping to arrange the many packages, the loneliness and desolation pressing on the child of wealth in her elegant home was forgotten; but kneeling in prayer it was again remembered, and grateful supplications ascended in her behalf.   CHAPTER XI. HERBERT WINSTON. IN a large and handsomely-furnished room in one of the aristocratic hotels of New York sat Herbert Winston. 'He was somewhat above the ordinary stature, with a thin, wiry, and not un- graceful form; his hair, a dark brown, lay in thick clustering curls on a broad, white forehead already marked with the lines of care; his eyes were large, of the same color as his hair, and had a grave, thoughtful expression, which was farther carried out by the thin, delicate lips, the clear-cut nos- trils,.the poise and bend of his head; his counte- nance was refined and earnest, with a touch of 2   sadness which softened what might otherwise, in its earnestness and thoughtfulness, have been stern. He was five or six years older than Addie; but from zealous devotion to the arduous duties of his profession he looked older than he really was. * An hour passed; dropping his pen, he leaned     I6o     T  he Orphan Sisters. back in his morocco-covered chair, and let his eyes rest complacently on the written sheets be- fore him. "Yes, they will do," he said, speaking aloud his thoughts. "Frank can copy them out in full to- morrow." He gathered them up, carefully assorted them, and placed them in different packages; then he rose and touched the bell. "If Howland calls," he said to the servant that answered his summons, "you will tell him the papers are made out; I may not be in." "Mr. Burrett," said the servant, "called some time ago, but I told him you were busy. He went away, and now he has called again, and is most anxious to see you." "Tell him I will be down to the office to-mor- row. He must wait till then." The young man left, and almost immediately returned. "I have given him your message, but he begs to see you; says he can't go till he does." A flush spread over Herbert Winston's worn face. He stepped to a desk, opened it, took out an open letter, and handed it to the servant. "There, take that to him; I suppose it is what he wants, and tell him I got it last night. His suit will not come on till Thursday, at the best." The servant left, a few moments passed, and   Herbert Winston.     i6I again his broad, good-natured face appeared at the door. He stepped in and handed Herbert a It   scrap of paper. "He still insists on seeing you, and will not be put off. He don't understand law, and this, his first suit, almost distracts him." This was added with the air of one who understood perfectly well all its tortuous intricacies. "Surely he might wait till to-morrow; in court or at the office I could see him," Herbert im- 4   patiently exclaimed. Then, running his eye over I   the paper, he said: "Tell him he can come up." He wheeled up another chair as a man, ap- parently sixty years of age, careworn and hag- gard, came in. His attire, scrupulously neat, was. threadbare; his eye restless, his manner nervous and excited. He held the letter Herbert sent down to him in his hand: he had not looked at it. His suit had been before the courts, put over and carried up for two or three years, and cost'him more than, with all the extortion of the law, he had thought possible; and now he was nearly dis- tracted. Herbert winced as he seated himself, and setting his eyes upon him, commenced in a sharp, querulous tone the oft-repeated and oft-listened- to tale of his hopes, fears, testimony to be brought forward, &c., and then lapsed into a dull and most tedious, most monotonous history of the whole     I62    pT/e' Orphan Sisters. affair. Herbert listened in silence, only now and then uttering a word to hurry him on; but he felt impatient and sorely tried. The suit then pend- ing before the court, and which involved far more for his client, rose up before him, and its impor- tance compared to Burrett's irritated him beyond measure. But, looking on the worn, harassed face of the man, he restrained his impatience, and let him run on. "Why should I stop him?" he said to himself. "If it gives him relief, let him talk. If he goes on in this way he will soon have to stop without any brusqueness from me helping him to do it." At last there was a pause, and the man rose, paler than when he came in, but with a calmer and more contented expression of countenance. "Well, I am glad I have seen you," he said, mechanically buttoning his coat; "I wanted you to know what Knox was going to bring forward, and have you all prepared." Herbert allowed himself the luxury of a smile. "You see the importance of my suggestions?" Herbert bowed his head. "And you will act upon them?" "Certainly." He would if the man had not annoyed him by coming in, but it was no use to tell him so. As he kindly bade him "good-morning," a tender   Herbert Winston.     163 compassion beamed in his thoughtful eye for his poor worried client. He thought if the suit had been his' and he was as inexperienced, he might have been as unnecessarily wretched about it. Once more alone, he turned to his papers; but they had for the time being lost their charm. He opened a book lying on the table, but it failed to interest him. Laying it carefully back, he rose and walked up and down the softly-carpeted floor. Pausing before one of the windows, he glanced down on the throngs wending their way to the various churches. A satirical smile parted his thin lips; then the smile died away, and was suc- ceeded by the old look, serious and grave, but not stern. "Eighteen centuries," he exclaimed, "have not obliterated-the memory of that wondrous birth. Eighteen centuries, and it still holds its influence over the heart of man." Then slowly, and with a musical rhythm, he repeated: "'He was in the world. and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came uito his own, and his own received him not. But as many as re- ceived him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe in his name. Which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor the will of man, but of God.'* A wonderful heritage, wonderful," he commented; * St. John, chap. i., v. 10, II, 12, 13.     164     The Orphan Sisters. and again a smile, not bitter with its incredulity, but weary and sad, with a dash of something like contempt, flitted over his face. He raised a hand, almost as fair and delicate as his sister's, swept the clustering curls from his brow, and turning from the window, resumed -his measured walk But he was restless; an influence was over him he could not shake off. The Ecce Homo over the low mantel-piece, which he had hung there himself, and which, with the other pictures adorning the, walls, belonged to him, attracted his attention. He paused before it, as many and many a time he had done before, and studied the superhuman agony depicted on that holy and divine counte- nance. Presently he passed to one of the book- cases, laid his. hand on a volume, and was about taking it down, when he put it back, walked into his chamber, and soon returned with his overcoat and scarf on, and holding his hat in his gloved hands. With one more glance at the thorn- crowned head, he left the room. Several board- ers met him in the corridor, and heartily wished him "A merry Christmas." Quietly returning the compliment, he hurried down the stairs and out on the street. Once there, he lowered his head, and wandered on. he hardly knew where. It was not long, only a-few moments, when, with his rest- lessness, he had to stop. He raised his head, and   Herbert Winston.     I65 found himself before a stately temple. With a vague, absent feeling he said to himself: "The Jesuit Church, St. Francis Xavier's; I think I will go in." He mechanically ascended the broad granite steps and entered the crowded vestibule. Some one, he did not know who,.made way for him, and courteously led him to a pew about half- way up the middle aisle. The altar was ablaze with lights and laden with the choicest flowers; the breath of incense filled the sacred edifice; iMass, the last of the many Masses of the day, had not yet commenced, but the organ, with its deep worshiping tones, was peeling forth an anthem of praise, the Adeste Fideles. A rich soprano voice took up the strain, and sweetly, powerfully, carried it aloft. Herbert, that wanted to be cynical, to look upon all he saw with the cool, critical eye of a skeptic, found himself thinking of the angel band the Bethlehem shepherds heard; and when at the Venite Adoremus the whole choir joined in, he said to himself: "Surely, surely it must have been like or very similar to it." Then looking at the altar with its numberless lights, its glorious flowers, its rich paintings, the grand and massive cornices blended with the steril simplicity of the Gothic ceiling, on the cushioned pews with their velvet- robed occupants, and instead of sneering com- ments in his heart about its being all for pomp,     i66     The Orphan Sisters. vanity, and the gratification of the senses, he con- sidered gravely how well it all was. Why should they not adorn their temple with the rarest and richest of gifts? It was but meet that they, earn- est believers, should show their faith in, according to their means, beautifying their place of worship. The love .of the beautiful had for a wise purpose been planted in the heart of man. Should it everywhere have scope but in the house dedi- cated to the worship of Him who made us and gave us that love.? What kind of philosophy was it that would ransack the earth for the rare and the beautiful to gather in and around our homes, and leave but bare walls and repulsive plainness -for the place of worship? Certainly there was a grand wisdom in that Church which, with its mag- nificent temples and imposing ceremonials, irre- sistibly appealed to the wants and necessities of the human heart. Whatever its divine, its keen, far-seeing wordly wisdom was not to be doubted. All through the Mass the same thoughts held possession of him. After the first gospel one of the priests, a thin-formed, square-browed, sharp- featured, dark-eyed man, ascended the pulpit, and preached from the gospel of the day a very pun- gent and practical sermon. Herbert particularly liked it; not a particle of gairish rhetoric was about it; it came right down to the point-the   Herbert Winston.     I67 duties of Christians, the charity and benevolence of the rich, the patience and unwavering trust of the poor; And when speaking of these latter, Herbert noticed the sharp tones of his voice soft- ened, the severity of his eye melted to an ineffable tenderness. He had seen that priest before; seen him in the cell of a criminal, hardened, and about to pass from time to eternity with an imprecation on his tongue against society which he had out- raged, and a fierce rebellion in his heart against God whom he had offended. The man had sent for the lawyer, but not for the priest; still the priest was there, and the very sight of him threw the prisoner into a paroxysm of rage. Herbert could do nothing with him, and left, promising to call again after court. He did so, and found him humbled and penitent, and Father Ignatius-that was the priest's name-so soothing and kind that the fierceness had all died out of his poor heart. He had a child, a little girl, that he wished to see. Father Ignatius learned where she was, and brought her to him. He wanted to leave her in better hands than she was then in. Father Igna- tius got her into one of -the dear Sisters' orphan asylums, and the aged father of the prisoner into one of their hospitals. Herbert happened to be with him one day that a Sister came with his child to see him. It was a pitiful sight, one that     168     The Orphan Sisters. brought tears to his eyes, 'and to the eyes of. Father Ignatius, for he was there too-that poor, rough, crime-stained father, and the innocent, frightened little child, meeting and crying in each other's arms. Father Ignatius and the dark- robed Sister spoke as tenderly to him as if he had been an object worthy of all respect, and so to them he was, for he was poor, despised, an out- cast, a suffering member of Christ crucified. He heard the Sister tell him that-" a suffering mem- ber of Christ crucified ;" and as he looked at her, so gentle and holy, and in her gentleness and holiness so tender to the once violent and terrible but now humble man, he felt like bowing down in reverence before her. Surely there was something in Christianity that soared above and beyond the cool calculations and the serene, self-complacent speculations of the philosophers. He did not like to say it or think it ; but his was not a life passed in a library; he mingled with his fellow-men, and had to see and note the things about him. Maybe if it had not been for that he would have sat there in the pew that beautiful Christmas day, and ex- perienced only an intense dislike, an envious loath- ing; but now he thought, well may they have their grand churches and imposing ceremonials, backed as they are by their hospitals, asylums, protectories, and schools. The poor as well as   Herbert Winston.     I69 the rich are cared for and seen to by that far- seeing, politic body. But the Mass progressed, and Herbert forgot comparisons, approvals, and everything else in the great awe that at one time came over him.  The worshiping tones of the organ ceased, the choir became silent, the deep- tolling voice of a bell struck on his ear, the con- gregation knelt, and then 'came a great hush, a hush that thrilled through and through him. His eyes were on the altar; the officiating priest, bow- ing down, elevated the Sacred Host; and, un- conscious of the act, Herbert fell on his knees and bowed his head in lowly reverence. The Mass continued; again the vibrating tones of the organ and the full-voiced choir took up the song of praise and thanksgiving; and Herbert, sinking back on the soft cushions,again fell into a liberal and tolerant state of mind. A little startled at the effect the grand ceremonial had on him, he satisfied himself with feeling it was impressive, and one well suited to strike a deep chord in the heart of man. After the service, and the Christ- mas offering had been made, he quietly left the church. As he was descending the broad granite steps some one laid a hand familiarly on his shoul- der, and looking up, he saw himself side by side witj one of the most distinguished lawyers in the city. Herbert knew he was a Catholic; but the 8 I     170     The Orphan Sisters. religious belief of a man affected him so slightly that he had hardly minded it. After the compli- ments of the season had passed between them, the gentleman, walking on beside him, gayly re- marked: "Well, Winston, I am glad I found you at church to-day. You look as if you needed to go. "What do you mean?"Herbert asked, a faint smile flitting over his grave face. "That with the blessed Christmas all around us, in the streets, the sky, the very air, there is nothing of Christmas about you. You were not to your office this morning?" "Certainly not." "You took your breakfast in your room?" "Yes." "You didn't and you wouldn't hear the merry greetings around you." "I hardly minded them." "I thought so." "Morris's suit, you know, comes again to- morrow." "Of course I know it ; and you were at it?" "I made out the brief, and left it ready for How- land; and then Burrett was in to see me about his suit." "It comes on after Morris's?"   Herbert Winston.     171 "Yes; is the next on the calendar; and he is greatly agitated about it. He, I tell you, has no Christmas in his heart. He came in and went out without once referring to the day." "And you did not remind him of it?" "No, sir, I did not." "And maybe forgot it too." There was a deep solemnity in Herbert's voice as he answered:  *"Mr. Larkins, it is hard to be gay or joyous when the sable wing of Death shadows your heart and your home. Since Christmas dawned on the world a year ago the grave has opened to receive two of my family. Of eight children there are but two left, and before another Christmas these two may be gone." "Your health is not good," Mr. Larkins feel- ingly observed. "It is not bad; but yet the shadow of Death, like the sword of Damocles, hangs over me." "You devote yourself too closely to your pro- fession. You should seek rest, and-" Impatiently interrupting him, Herbert ex- claimed: "Rest! What do I want with rest? I devote myself to my profession, keep myself busy, and leave no time for gloomy repining. I have heard that this feverish thirst for constant, unremitted [      172     The Orphan Sisters. occupation can only come from a heart burdened by crime, and anxious 'to escape the cruel pangs of remorse; but I know from experience that the heart, free from crime but crushed by sorrow, craves, nay, imperatively demands a respite from painful memories, and finds it not in the giddy whirl of society, but in real earnest labor." "But does this earnest labor, this close atten- tion to the arduous duties of our profession, banish those harrowing regrets-does it bring peace?" "In a certain way it does?" "Does it after a fashion, you mean?" "Yes." "Still not in a way altogether satisfactory. You have thoroughly tested the remedy, but the cloud is not lifted from your heart ; and as for the peace, to me it seems more like exhaustion than anything else. I know a little what these severe bereavements are; and let me tell you, my dear sir, there is nothing like religion to soothe and strengthen us under them. That, and that alone, can dispel the cloud from the heart, and bring us a peace that is restful and soul-comforting indeed. You do not doubt me?" Herbert looked up in his face and answered: "Emerson  speaks of the insecurity of one's moods; and however much the feelings of to-   Herbelrt Winston.    173 morrow may contradict the feelings of to-day, I will own to you-for I know you will not scoff to hear that a lawyer is capable of religious emo-- tions-that I experienced while in the church a sensation that thrilled me through and through; and then a feeling like the peace you speak of- restful and soul-comforting-came over me." And then?" "And then, Mr. Larkins, for a moment Christ- mas burst upon me, and I knew what it is to have a glad, lightsome heart." "But it did not last, did not follow you out of the church." "No; it came and went, and all was as it was before. But I am at the door of my hotel; will you walk in?" "No, thank you, not to-day; but come and see us; we will be glad to have you. Can't you take your Christmas dinner with us?". "No, thank you." "What is to hinder you? No previous engage- ment?" "No; no previous engagement; but still, with many thanks, I must decline your invitation to- day. Some other day I will gladly accept it?" "What Will you be doing to-night?" "Reading, looking over my portfolio, walking my room, and thinking."     174     The Orphan Sisters. "Thinking of your suits?" "No; of what I have been reading?" "What is that?. Excuse my asking; as a friend I feel for you." "I do not doubt you. As a friend I consider you; as such I am open to you. Just now I am greatly interested in Emerson." "You read those transcendentalists, and try to follow their vagaries." "I read them, but I do not accept all they write." ': Of course that is not to be expected. Would it be an intrusion on your learned leisure if I should drop in upon you to-night?" "By no means; on the contrary, I shall be glad to have you." "Very well; I shall endeavor then to do so; and you must tell me wherein you cannot agree with them. And now, good-by till then." He shook hands with Herbert and hurried away.   CHAPTER XII. PANTHEISM AND FATALISM THE SAME IN. TENDENCY. THE fire from the burnished grate threw a rich glow on the tinted walls and costly pictures. The gas was not yet lighted; and as Herbert Winston, after pacing his room, sank into his cushioned chair; and leaned his head against its back, lie sighed wearily, like one who had labored long, and whose task was far from being completed. He was a successful young lawyer, for whom a brilliant future was confidently predicted ; but he sat there, with his hand pressed to his burning brow, with a feeling of utter wretchedness, only conscious of crushed hopes and bitter disappoint- ments. Light feet tripped up the stairs and along the passages ; pleasant voices and merry little laughs sounded outside his door; but he heeded them not. He was thinking of his darkened home; of the new mounds in the cemetery; of his sister Olivia, going before the great questions engaging her attention were solved; of Addic, still poring over them with grieved eyes and a sad,.     176(     The Orphan Sisters.  hopeless look on her wan face; of the shadow they cast over him, obscuring the brightness of his life, and wrapping a funeral gloom over all his prospects. He rose, lighted the gas, and stepped up to the Ecce Homo. A great gravity rested on his thoughtful face. Long and attentively he studied that divine countenance. A smile curled his lip as he sneeringly exclaimed: "And they chose Barabbas before Him! Chose a robber be- fore the Just One."  "Yes," was answered; "and they do it still. Rejecting Christ and His Church, and following the philosophers and their teachings, they still  cry: 'Away with Him! Crucify him! Give us Barabbas in His place!'"             a So absorbed had Herbert been that he had not heard the servant opening the door and announ- cing his friend, or his entrance. "You have not joined in the cry?" he added,  glancing at the two or three other pictures on the walls-"Christ Stilling the Tempest," "Christ Choosing His Disciples," and "Christ Healing the Withered Hand."  "No," Herbert answered, wheeling up a chair for him; "I certainly do not, would not join the cry of 'Give us Barabbas instead of Christ.' .But Barabbas, if you recollect, was the peoples  choice." ClliCC.           4kU   Pantheism and Fatlism.    1" "Their choice," Mr. Larkins rejoined, sinking into the proffered seat, "when inflamed by the Scribes and Pharisees against Him." "And in your estimation, Mr. Larkins, the phi- losophers stand in the place of the ribs and Pharisees." "In their assumption of superior wisdo , and their animosity to Christ and His teachings, ey certainly do." Mr. Larkins opened one of the books lying on the table. It was one of Emerson's. "Are you an admirer of Emerson?" he asked. "I read him, and like some of his writings, and intensely dislike others. In many things it is not easy to define what he means; I doubt if he knows himself But his pantheism is evident, and to me preferable to the cold philosophy that would make  God a mechanism, who, having by one stroke of  His creative power, called the universe into exist- ence, and given it its governing laws, retired into the unapproachable glory of the Deity, and had no more to do with it. Such a theory is cruel in the pitiless despair it entails. It silences the voice of prayer, and leaves man helpless and unbe- friended under the direst affliction. It hushes the song of gratitude; for if good come, it comes not through the loving mercy and providence of God, but is merely an accident of the laws governing    .                  Of:VLIII     178     The Ophanz Sisters. the world. According to it, supplication is un- necessary and gratitude uncalled for. The evil that is in the world, like the good, is only a part of the governing laws, a portion of the machinery; some of the cog-wheels and springs that keep the whole agoing. God made it as he made the rest. If prayer is abortive, so is worship; for how can man, under suffering and stripes, adore the God who makes him wretched and then closes His ears against his appeals and refuses to redress his  wrongs: who made those wrongs, and compels him  ! to endure them, who called him into the world  for no other purpose? Mr. Larkins, from the vin- -, dictive fatalism of such a system I see 'but one  i escape-pantheism." "And," observed -Mr. Larkins, "from the cold  repulsiveness of this Calvanistic fatalism, or, as you prefer to style it, philosophical fatalism, you  would rush into pantheism, to save yourself from  what you consider a more fearful plunge-atheism.  Is it not so?" "It is. Atheism or pantheism-that is the  question." -  "And do you consider pantheism as offering an  escape from atheism?"  "I do, inasmuch as it does not destroy worship by making God the author of evil, and a far-off cruel and inexorable being."   - ztuZeszsmz and Fatalism.   79 "It makes -Him an ever-present Deity, blessing and only blessed." Yes, sir, an ever-present Deity so near us that we fel! His presence, and know His being is in- fused in all His works." "If pantheism went no farther than the omnis- cience of God as understood and declared by Theism, it would not be the dangerous system it is. But, my dear young friend, be not deceived with its fair-sounding terms. Look at it clearly and calmly, and you will see behind its smiling mask an atheism as hideous' as that you recoil from in fatalism." "Toland," exclaimed Herbert, "in defending his pantheistic principles, declared his belief 'in God the ci:eative and ruling power of the universe, distinguished by reason alone from the universe itself. Spinoza positively asserts causaIty in God, and makes a clear distinction between the infinite and the finite. This does not strike me as atheistical in its tendency." "You lay. a particular stress on the name of Spinoza."  "I may well do that, for the very good reason that he is the clearest expounder of pantheism Schleiermacher, Goethe, and .other pantheists proudly acknowledge the power he holds over them.".     180     . The Orpjhan Sisters. "And you discover no atheistic tendency in his doctrines?" "No; nothing of the kind ; in all his writings, I repeat, nothing of the kind." "Then you have not rightfully understood them. Pardon my expressing myself so bluntly, and listen a moment before speaking." Herbert's face had flushed, and he opened his lips to reply; but, waving his hand in a command- ing manner, Mr. Larkins continued: "Spinoza emphatically denies any other agency in the spiritual or physical world than God. He considers the human mind to be a part of the in- tellect of the Deity. Man has no separate exist- ence ; he is merged in the one universal cause. As part of God, deprived of an individual nature, he loses his freedom of will. It is not man that thinks and decides; it is God, as constituting the essence of the human mind, that thinks and decides." "But," exclaimed Herbert, about to interrupt him. Hear me out," Mr. Larkins authoritatively said; "listen to me. Man merged in the Deity cannot look zp to find God; God is but another term for self; Lord or Master is swept away, and worship abolished. In paying homage man pays it not to a Superior Being; for, part of the Deity   Pantheism and Fatalism.    181 himself, where can he find his superior? He can- not; and self-worship going even beyond his most besotted vanity, and the innate and not-to-be- mistaken instinct of his own nothingness, becomes abhorrent. He cannot pray to self. In power, and filled with the spirit of domination, he might exact homage from others-we have both read of such instances-but he could never ask or exact it from himself. Man, however blinded by pride and insolence, could never-it would be contrary to the nature God has given him-kneel down and beg and implore favors for himsef from him- self. Hence pantheism, as effectually as fatalism, does away with worship, and silences the voice of prayer." Mr. Larkins ceased, but Herbert did not speak. With his elbow on the table, and his hand sup- porting his head, he gazed earnestly, thoughtfully before him, as if he were taking Mr. Larkins's words one by one and carefully examining their meaning. A surprised, startled look gradually set- tled on his face. After a lengthened pause, as he continued silent, Mr. Larkins quietly observed: "But I am not yet done with pantheism. You said fatalism made God the author of sin, inas- much as the evil as well as the good came firom Him; and I assert that pantheism does the same."     182    'The Orphan Sisters. Herbertturned a troubled glance on his friend, but he did not, as before, attempt to refute his statement. In justice he felt he could not do it. Once the matter was opened to him, his logical mind traced out the inevitable conclusion. "This projecting," continued Mr. Larkins, "of the Deity into all nature, making all nature but another expression of divinity, destroys personal responsibility, and leaves no resistance in man. Our good comes from God; and our evil-where does that come from? You cannot deny the ex- istence of evil; you see it all about us; to the most casual observer it is apparent; in our pro- fession we are continually, and sometimes in the most harrowing manner, obliged to know it-are, as it were, brought in daily contact with some of its most distressing accompaniments. Good comes from God: admitted; but the evil, swill you say that comes from God too?" "No; most emphatically no. The thought is abhorrent." "True; but, according to pantheism, who else can it come from? God is not only the sub'stance but the sole agent in the universe; the human mind is a part of the divine intellect ; it has no action of its own; it is not free; all its workings are the workings of God; man does not think or will; it is God that thinks and wills in him. If   Pantheism and Fatalism.    183 the thought and the will are for good, it is God's; if for evil, it is still God's; and being God's thought and will, should the evil bring punishment on the evil doer? And who is the evil doer? and who is to punish him? I shudder to think of the horrible blasphemy, the soul-sickening profanity pantheism leads to." After a short silence, in a clear, hushed voice of deep and reverent awe, Mr. Larkins, leaning forward, and bending his earnest gaze on Herbert, asked: "And can. we, in truth and Isincerity, worship a God of evil, and in so worshiping, pay homage to sin and all manner of wickedness? No; every instinct of our being revolts at the mere thought; and herein you see how pantheism, as well as fatalism, leads to atheism. There is no question between them; they both involve the same prin- ciple, and lead to the same result." Herbert, with compressed lip, still offered no reply. Rising slowly and with difficulty, as if age had come suddenly upon him,'he stiffly walked up and down the floor. In the habitual seclusion of his room he seemed to forget the presence of his friend. Great truths were before him, and he cowered in his pigmy nothingness at sight of them. Mr. Larkins watched his movements with a kind of commiserating expression; but he wisely     I84     The Orphan Sisters. forbore to annoy him by ill-timed remarks. He knew the inward struggle over, he would speak, and speak not in anger or dislike. At length, raising his eyes, he encountered the symyathizing glance fixed upon him, and suddenly pausing be- fore his chair, he sank into it and covered his face with his hands Pantheism had been such a refuge from the grim fatalism and gross materialism of the age; and now it was rudely torn from him. Nothing was left him; all was swept from him. He could not accept fatalism or pantheism, and atheism was utterly repugnant to him. Nihilism -in other words, nothingness-was his only por- tion. In dismay he asked himself: "Whither am I tending? What do the jarring elements around me mean? Is man placed here to toil, and strug- gle, and war with his fellow-man, and then pass away as if he never had been? Where were those that but a short time ago were thrilling with life, its hopes, fears, triumphs, and failures? Where were those of his own family whose memories filled his boyhood's home? Had they sunk to dust unmindful of the love hoarded up for them, with no farther claim on being and existence? Was death the summing up of life? the grave, worms, and corruption the only heritage of man?" He looked at Mr. Larkins; his kindly, beaming face had such a hearty, intelligent expression.   Pantheism and Fatalism.   185 No weakening doubt or glimmering uncertainties marred its manly strength and energy. He had not made the philosophers his guides, and their wearing, mind-confusing contradictions had not cast their palsying spell over him; he moved with an ease and freedom that spoke the lightness of his heart; his clear eye shone with the calmness and surety of an unclouded, well-balanced brain; his voice had in its tones the authority of one who was certain of his position, and therefore could adhere to it with the conscious dignity of real possession. Nothingness was not his portion and inheritance, and everything about him be- tokened it. Mr. Larkins stepped to one of the bookcases, and rumning his eyes over the books, came to a row that attracted his attention. Stooping, he read the names of Parker, Emerson, Alcott, Chan- ning, and others of the same transcendental repu- tation. "I see," he smilingly observed, "that Black- stone and Kent, and Coke upon Lyttleton, do not claim your whole attention." "No, sir," Herbert returned; "I have enough of them down at the office. Sheepskin and parchment must not intrude there-(he pointed to the bookcase before which Mr. Larkins was standing)-but if you want a glimpse of your old     i86     7li07 OrpThan Sisters. friends turn to those." He reached his hand in the direction of a bookcase on the right. Mr. Larkins, without moving, merely glanced at them and resumed his seat. "Parker," he remarked, adjusting himself easily in his chair, " stands the first in the row. Is he the first in your admiration?" "By no means, sir; I do not like him at all. From the first he dissatisfied me; I saw in his writings a violence that betrayed as tyrannical a spirit as that he warred against. Justice, in sight of oppression, may wear an aspect of stern, un- compromising gravity; but she never descends to coarse personalities, or forgets the dignity of her office in the display of noisy and vindictive hate. His writings are those of a demagogue, better suited to raise factious tumults than to promote the cause of truth." "It strikes me," Mr. Larkins quietly rejoined, "that all your philosophers are very much alike in that respect. They are a factious set, more given to clamor than reason. With all their de- sire to appear of a calm, equable temper-in other words, of a cool, philosophical mind-they'are the most fault-finding, quarrelsome people on the face of the earth. Nothing pleases them, either in the past or the present. They would tear the whole world to pieces for the sake of putting it together   Pantheism and Fatalism.    187 as it should be. It is all wrong, miserably wrong, and they long to see it right, to set it right. No one but they, endowed as they are with a sort of supernatural sagacity and wisdom, can do it. They khow-no one else-wherc it is wrong, and how it might and should be righted; and therefore on them devolves the task. For years they have been at work, and what have they accomplished? Shall I tell you?"  Herbert smiled and bowed his head. If they had accomplished anything, he would like to hear it. He was laboring under the impression that, with all their writing, they had effected very little. Mr. Larkins, his friend, had sharp eyes, and maybe through the thick mist enveloping them, he was able to detect some vital improvement, some real and notable progress. "They have," said Mr. Larkins, laying his hand emphatically on the table, "accomplished the sowing throughout the length and breadth of the land the pernicious seeds of infidelity, of instilling in the minds'of their readers a general feeling of unrest and disquiet, a contempt for Christianity, a thirst for novelty and change. Trampling Reve- lation under foot, spurning Church, Bible, and the Blessed Saviour, what have they given in their place? Anythinhg real, tangible, that can be grasped, felt, and taken possession of? No. For     i88     The Orphan, Sisters. all the soul-strengthening and blessed certainties they have torn from man they have only given in return vain, vapory nothings. Their Absolute Religion, Essential Religion, Reason in Religion, Over Souls, Me's and I's, and all the rest of them of whatever vague, unmeaning term, are only so many far-fetched, sentimental impossibilities, used as catch-words to entrap the unwary, and fill with empty vanity and conceit those unfortunate enough to trust in them. The really earnest inquirer like you they leave restless and unsatisfied. You have learned from them to distrust Christianity. Its forms and dogmas are only another name for tyranny and oppression." "Mr. Larkins, permit me to inform you that you are in error about their dislike to Christianity. While lifting themselves above the tyranny of the Churches, they are by no means so hostile to Christianity-the spirit of Christianity-as you seem to think." "I know very well, Mr. Winston, that, with the most consummate hypocrisy, they profess a cer- tain' respect for Christianity; but they give you distinctly to understand that it is not the Chris- tianity of the present time. It is Christianity in its early days, its swaddling clothes, that enforces their generous admiration. But as it grew up, and arrived at maturity, it began to show its tyranny,   Pantheism and Fatalism.    I89 Its tyranny consisted in having forms and dogmas -it had them, forms and dogmas, from the very first; but in their admiration they suavely ignore the fact, and speak as if forms and dogmas were of a later date. But they would set you free from them. Man to be free, to enjoy his inalienable rights, should not be trammeled by them. Forms and dogmas are only for slaves, and ever calcu- lated to mark an unjust and cruel authority on one hand, and a groveling subjection on the other. Christianity is very good; its pulses throb through- out the world; but it is not the Christianity of Jesus and the Church. What kind of Christianity is it? It is the Christianity of the philosophers. What kind of Christianity is that? It is the Chris- tianity the listening ages have been waiting for; the Christianity that is to lift man above dogmas, forms, and all- manner of tyranny; that is to leave him to do just as he pleases, enjoy himself as he will, at whomsoever's expense he may. No one is to check him, for he is to bow to no other au- thority than the law in his own heart, and. that law tells him to get all he can, enjoy himself to the utmost, and care as little for consequences as possible. To whom should he answer for follow- ing the impulses that urge him on? Who is his Master? This answering and holding to account are of the old tyrannies that belong to the en-     I90 .    The Orphan Sisters. slaved and moldering past. He has nothing to do with it; he is a free, enlightened, philosophical Christian, glorying in his rights, and determined to enjoy them. Their boasted freedom, you see, my young friend, is only another name for unre- strained license; their Essential Religion, and all the rest of it, a general and total depravity of faith and morals. How is this going to end? Not in the grim Calvinistic fatalism you so much dis- like, but in the fairer, gentler pantheism which gives to man so exalted a view of himself. He is a part of the Deity, an irresponsible expression of divinity; hence his right to be his own Master, to owe allegiance to none, for none are or can be above him. Pantheism becomes another term for philosophical Christianity; and in' considering pantheism you know to what at last it leads-the apotheozing or deifying of evil. The philoso- phers, in their pride and insolence, reject Revela- tion as something beneath the notice of sensible people; but look for a moment, with calm, un- prejudiced eyes, on their boasted systems, and tell me if ever was folly like theirs? Trace their teachings to their inevitable results, and the soul recoils with a shuddering horror from the abject misery they would entail upon the world. There must be authority." "Yes," exclaimed Herbert, "every day of my   Pantheism and Fatalism.    I91 life I am more and more impressed with this fact." "Civil authority, you mean?" "Certainly; and from the necessity of civil au- thority I see there must also be ecclesiastical or religious authority. You may call this latter what you please - forms, dogmas, worship, or what. That it is as necessary in the religious as in the political world I freely admit." "And do you in the writings of the philoso- phers find any acknowledgment of this?" "Yes, in many of them I do." "And, tearing down the authority that is estab- lished, do they establish one in 'its place?" "No; that is the trouble with them. They say a great deal about duty, right, &c., but there is a vagueness about them that is most unsatisfactory. Their Absolute Religion, Essential Religion, Rea- son in Religion, appear to me to be just what you termed them-far-fetched, sentimental impossi- bilities. There is nothing tangible about them. When I read the masterly way in which they attacked the doctrines of Revelation, the calm- ness and strength with which they pointed out its errors, I surely thought they had something better to offer in its place; but as I read on I found my mistake. For a long time I tried to persuade myself that their sentimentalities could     192     The Orphan Sisters. be reduced to practical truths; or, to speak more exactly to the point, I tried to close my eyes to the fact that their ideas concerning the brother- hood of humanity and the progress of truth were extremely fanciful, and more like the muttered visions of deluded dreamers than the clear utter- ances of calm, sensible beings." "You wanted  something tangible to rely upon?" "I did, and, I may add, I still do." "And you hoped among the philosophers to find it?" "Yes." "And do you still hope it?" I can only answer that I have not yet found it." "And I can assure you that among them you never will. The more you study them, the more you will perceive that their forte is not to build up, but to tear down. What good, after all their writings, have they effected? Is the millennium any nearer us? Fraternity, equality, and liberty, these words are constantly in their mouths; and what, issuing from their lips, do they mean? Dis- cord, riot, and tumult. There must be authority, you admit. Where is the authority they would submit to? where the authority they have not done their best to destroy? Man, according to   Pantheism and Fatalism.    193 their teachings, was at first only obliged to obey his own reason; that was placed above all; other authority, of whatever kind, paled before the in- fallible right and undisputed grandeur of this individual potentate. Now reason will not do; it is not sufficient in all the concerns of life; only the heart, with its still small voice, its passions and impulses, is to be followed. Man, you see, with his boasted freedom, is to become the slave of his passions ; and a more miserable, abject slavery never existed; a more fearful, peace- destroying tyranny never held bondage over man. And this is the millennium that is prom- ised us-the goal the striding progress of the day is leading to!" The cloud deepened on Herbert's brow; he raised his head, and let his eyes rest on the divine face of the Ecce Homo over the mantel-piece. Gradually the cloud cleared, and turning to Mr. Larkins, he thoughtfully remarked: "When I look on that heavenly countenance, and think of the sacred life it foreshadows, I feel that 'religion is a fact, and not a question.'" "Yes," rejoined Mr. Larkins, " 'a fact, and not a question ;' and being a fact, must have a positive meaning, and that meaning is Christianity. And now, I ask, what is Christianity? Is it a vague sentiment? an ideal ahd never-to-be-realized col- 9     i 94     Thze Orphan Sisters. lection of pretty, fanciful nothings? No; but a most tangible thing, an intense reality, having a vitality that has triumphed over eighteen cen- turies, and that will never bow to the palsying power of time. This tangible Christianity, this intense, earnest, and living Religion, has a Church and worship-in other words, a visible existence; and without this visible existence it could not make itself known and felt.; Church and worship are as necessary to Christianity as the breath is to the body. Religion without dogmas is as impos- sible as a government without laws, a State with- out a constitution." Herbert listened with bent brow and com- pressed lip. Mr. Larkins paused, but he did not speak. There was a worn, sorrowful expression on his face. Like his sister, he looked like one who had hoped and struggled, and found only the bitterness of disappointment to repay him for his toil. His heart was empty and cold; his brain weary and confused; his soul filled with wretched misgivings and unsatisfied longings. "Hedge," he at length exclaimed, " is as urgent on the necessity of authority as the most strenu- ouS Churchman could be." "But of what does his authority consist? Is it of Church and Bible?" "No; for he says we are liberated from both.   Pantheism and Fatalism.    I95 Protestantism. delivered us from the Church, and left us only enslaved to the Bible,; Rationalism * et us free from the Bible; and now the only au- thority we are obliged to obey is the still, small voice, the oracle within, by which it is evident he means conscience." "Sweep all other authority away, and how much would this do in protecting the weak and restrain- ing the vicious? There is a startling absurdity in their writings; the only wonder is that any one endowed with common sense could for a moment be deluded by them. Admitting the necessity of authority, and then attacking it!" "He declares, Mr. Larkins, that 'the imagina- tion can picture no condition more appalling than that of a creature absolved from law ;' no state so fearful as that in which all authority is de- stroyed." "And then leaves us only the still, small voice 'to do all the governing." "That is all the authority that, coming down to the point, I can find in his 'Reason in. Re- ligion.'" "And you, if the daily experience of your pro- - fession, know how much this would effect in the great majority of cases." "I do." * Hedge's Reason in Religion, pp. I88, I89. k,     I96     The Orphan Sisters. "Very well; then it cannot satisfy you. His Reason in Religion, like Parker's Absolute Re- ligion, and Emerson's Over Soul, gives olnly an intangible confusion for you to craze your brain over, but never to strengthen your faith, or afford you a rule to guide and direct you." "I can make nothing of them, I confess." "Of course you can't. It is not to be supposed you could. Man wants religion, and that religion embodied in forms and dogmas, in faith and worship. Tear these from him, and his religion becomes a floating mist, obscuring rather than lighting the way before him. The philosopher's senseless vaporings is the strongest possible proof of my assertion." The clock struck one, and Mr. Larkins started up. "I have staid too long," he exclaimed. "You have a hard day's, I might say week's work before you, and need rest.' Herbert rose too, and his eye as he spoke turned to his books. "Rest," he repeated, and there was a very per- ceptible curl of his delicate lip. "Promise me," Mr. Larkins said, taking his hand, "to leave those books alone to-night, and go to bed and try to sleep." "You seem greatly in earnest," Herbert smil- ingly observed.   Pantheism and Fatalism.   197 "I am in earnest; I mean just what I say. You look worn-more worn than you are aware of. I came over to-night to cheer you up; I am afraid I have not succeeded." "I thank you, nevertheless, from the bottom of my heart for your kind and charitable motive; and although the cloud is not yet lifted, let me tell you the darkness around me is not so intense; I see a glimmer of light." "Thank God," Mr. Larkins fervently exclaimed; "may that light be the dawn of a bright day of faith to your poor troubled soul." Tears sprung to Herbert's eyes; Mr. Larkins was affected too. In silence they shook hands and parted.     CHAPTER XIII. MR. AND MRS. HACKET. THE holidays were over. Emily, under the care of her governess, was quietly pursuing her studies. Mr. and Mrs. Robert Winston were as kindly in- terested in her as at first, and took it greatly to heart that Sarah, now that she was free from her engagement to Harry Winston, would not come to them. Emily was pained at her persistence in owing nothing to their bounty. She felt they would think Sarah rude and ungrateful, and in- capable of appreciating kindness. On the other hand, Sarah's firmness in adhering to her resolu- tion to do for herself, seemed a reproach to her for letting others do for her. This lay like a load upon her ; and many a time, when receiving praise from Miss Irving for her assiduity in her studies, or Addie or Mr. and Mrs. Winston showed her by some little extra kindness how dear she was to them, her heart smote her, and she asked herself was she doing right in being there and accepting   Mr. and Mrs. Hacket,    I99 their bounty, when they were strangers upon whom she had no claim. But by-and-by she would pay them every cent expended on her; she would prove that she too had spirit enough to do for herself. Not that she would ever forget their kindness, or cease to feel a lively gratitude for all they were now so generously doing for her. Some- thing to this effect she said one day to Mr. Winston in the parlor, after a short call from Sarah, and she was startled at the change that came over his countenance, and the strange words that fell from his lips. At first he seemed not distinctly to hear her, but gazed intently at her, as if reading in her face a long-forgotten chapter of the past. It could not have been a pleasant one, for a wilder and still wilder look gleamed from his eyes, and large drops gathered on his brow. "And so you will leave us," he at length ex- claimed. " Do you think my home accursed? Are you afraid if you stay that you too will wither and fade away? Is it that?" There was a hushed calmness in his voice as he put these questions, but a sneering smile parted his lips, and added to the ghastliness of his face. She hastened to assure him that she never har- bored a thought of evil hanging over his house; that she was truly grateful for his disinterested kindness; but, having no claim on him, she felt it     200     The Orphan Sisters. was her duty, when she got learning enough to teach, to do for herself. As soon as he had put the question, without waiting for an answer, he had commenced walking up and down the room; and now, with eyes bent on the velvet carpet, and hands crossed on his back, he did not appear to hear her, or even to be aware of her presence. A sharp, peculiar ring of the door-bell, and as quickly as possible she glided from the parlor and ascended the stairs just in time to escape the impaling glances of Mrs. Harry Winston and her daughters. Sarah Gleason's new place was very unlike her old one. Edward Hacket was a carpenter; his home humble, but well ordered; his wife was an active, energetic woman, mild in voice and man- ner, and cheerful and hopeful in temper. They- had seven children; the eldest, a -daughter, was sixteen years; the youngest, a boy, some eighteen or twenty months.. This little one had been very sick with inflammation of theflungs, and still con- tinued quite feeble; and not to keep Jane, her eldest, out of school, Sarah was got to take charge of him, and help Mrs. Hacket in her household labors. Mrs. Hacket, without being dissatisfied with her station in life, like a fond mother, looked forward to something better fdr her children. She worked hard, economized, and kept up the flagging hopes of her husband, who was not of so buoyant   Mr. and Mrs. Hacket.    201 a turn as herself. Jane was so advanced that in a year or two more she could get a fine situation as teacher; and so, one by one, each would be able to do, and they in their old age could lay aside their toil, and have it a little easier before going to their final rest. And maybe, who knew- stranger things happened-that high station, and wealth, and fame waited some of the little ones who were such a care and burden to them now. In the dim perspective she read glorious things, and patiently waited till, Hearing the distant goal, others would see and read them too. In her pleas- ant pictures of the future there was a strange forgetfulness of shadow; all was light. Disap- pointment, pain, sorrow, death, were in the world; she knew it well; saw them all around her, and felt a tender sympathy for bereaved and suffering hearts, and in her sympathy, so real, so active, forgot that her own home might beovershadowed; that the-future of some of those dear ones might he even more glorious than she dreamed-more glorious than the heart of man was able to con- ceive, or his eyes to behold. Brave, pious, and hopeful, she labored, looked up as well as ahead, and urged on. Her blindness was strange; per- haps it was just as well; she would not be the less prepared to meet the trial, and even others more grievous still. The habit of looking up as     202     The Orphan Sisters. well as ahead, her piety and hope would stand by like winged messengers of comfort from above. Sarah was kindly treated by the whole family, and liked them all, but became particularly attached to her little charge. He was a fine, healthy child before his sickness, but since then had a very fragile appearance and a lingering cough. Gentle and winning in disposition, he turned lovingly to his little nurse, and she learned to have a tender affection for him. The other children, like all children, were troublesome and vexatious at times, and again helpful and generous. Sarah got along well with them. Sometimes they liked her best of anyone in the world except mother and the baby, and again had a very powerful and short-lived aversion for her. Several weeks passed, and little Georgie, in- stead of growing stronger, as his mother con- fidently predicted he would, became more and more feeble. Sarah's whole attention was given him; the children, coming in from school, moved softly and spoke in hushed voices ; Mr. Hacket's face wore a troubled look; but Mrs. Hacket, re- doubling her care, was more hopeful than ever. Georgie would not die; he was the flower of her flock, and he would be spared to her; she had seen children sick before, and knew just how it was; they might be feeble after it, but by-and-by   Mr. and Mrs. Hacket.    203 they would rouse up, and get back all their old strength, and more too, enough to give them a good start, and make up for lost time. But a day came when her eyes were opened. Georgie had passed a miserable night; the mother and father watched over him till the gray light of morning broke over the world. When Sarah entered the room Mrs. Hacket placed the little wasted form in her lap, and going out, soon returned with the other children. They were weeping bitterly, but she checked their tears. "You must not cry," she said, and said it, Sarah noticed, with a subdued and touching piety. "Our dear Lord calls little Georgie, and as we love him and wish him well, we must not feel bitter about it. He will be happier in heaven than he could ever be with us. Let that thought comfort you." The elder ones understood her, and tried to obey her, but the tears zvould come. The younger ones looked up at the pale, worn face, and, with- out comprehending the meaning of her words, were awed into silence. The struggles of the little sufferer were painful to witness. From Sarah's arms he was lifted to the bed; for awhile he was  easier; then the convulsions came on; again the mother took him ; and in her arms he quietly breathed his last. She stooped and kissed his waxen cheek. As she raised her head Mr. Hacket     204     The' Orphan Sisters. touched her on the shoulder, and, with the con- fidence of a true and humble faith, said: "Georgie is happy with God, the Blessed Virgin, and the Saints, and we must not wish him back in this world of sin and sorrow." "I do not, I dare not," was gravely answered. \ All through the preparation for the funeral she showed the same spirit of resignation to the Divine will; and after the funeral she resumed her household labors with her old energy, still looking ahead for her children, referring to Georgie in the most loving and tender manner, but never letting drop a word that could be con- strued into a wish that he was back. "God was good, was merciful; He knew best; His holy will be done." Might she always have the grace and strength to say it. Sarah had been engaged to attend Georgie; he was now gone, and she began to think of getting another situation. She spoke of it to Mrs. Hacket about a week after the funeral. The children that were old enough were in school; two little bright- eyed, sandy-haired boys were in one corner of the kitchen playing with some bits of carved wood and strips of ribbon-like shavings their father had brought them from the shop. Mr. Hacket was at his work, the breakfast cleared .away, the house tidied, and the dinner in preparation. She and   Mr. and Mrs. Hacket.    205 Mrs. Hacket seated themselves at their sewing. The orphan looked calmly at her employer; there was nothing in Mrs. Hacket to intimidate; she was rather above the middle stature, and of a stout, muscular form; her hair, of which she had an abundant growth, was dark brown, eyes hazel, brunette complexion. Her features must have been quite regular, for they did not particularly strike one, or leave a vivid impression on the memory. You could not tell to a hair's breadth how high or broad the forehead was; whether the nose was Grecian or Roman, the mouth thin- lipped or the reverse, the chin massive and pro- jecting in its iron strength, or tremulous and retreating in its delicate sensitiveness. You only remembered that it was a good, motherly counte- nance, expressive of kindly feeling and considera- tion for others, and refined with the refinement which real piety always gives. "I think, Mrs. Hacket," Sarah hesitatingly said, "that maybe you don't want me any longer, now that Georgie's gone."' Mrs. Hacket promptly answered by asking: "Have you another place to go to?" "No, ma'am ; only the Sisters." "So Mr. Hacket and I thought, and we con- cluded we would keep you two or three weeks longer, and by that time Edward and I will have     206     The Orphan Sisters. another place for you. The dear Sisters have enough to do and think for without our sending you back to them." "But they would not grudge my being at the Asylum." "Of course they wouldn't; but that does not change the matter. For the present you will stay with us." "But the wages?" "We will continue them. I have some sewing for the children, and you are so handy with your needle that you can help a great deal with it." There was a trembling tenderness in her tones that sunk deep in the orphan's heart. She looked into her face, and saw a tear in her eye. "I won't have any sewing for Georgie," she ob- served, wiping it away. "But he won't need it; he won't need it; he is clothed with a brighter, garment than I could ever make him." "He was a dear, dear child," Sarah ventured to say, "and we can't help missing him." "No, dear, we can't help missing him; but when we think how happy he is, we dare not murmur, or be so selfish as to wish him back." She sewed on very busily, and did not speak again for some time. At length, on newly thread- ing her needle and knotting her thread, she re- sumed her remarks.   Mr. and Mrs. Hackct.    207 "Yes, Georgie is gone, and we might have known he would go." "He was too good, too beautiful for earth, Mrs. Hac'ket." "He was indeed, and I was blind not to see it. It was just so with my mother. I had a beautiful little sister that we were all so proud of; her name was Angella, and we thought she was named right. We called her Angel, our golden-haired, blue-eyed Angel. We were always bringing her toys, or getting her dainty ribbons or laces, some- thing that would more effectually show off her wondrous beauty. She was the beloved of the whole house; we couldn't love her enough. I think our love went beyond its just bounds; that there was a sort of idolatry in our devotion. Be- fore her fifth year she sickened and died. We felt the blow terribly for awhile. Afterward, in look- ing back, I could see how well it was; how merci- ful to our darling our dear Lord had been. It's so now with Georgie." "Yes, ma'am," Sarah answered, "it is well for him." And then she spoke of her mother and little brothers; of their weary watchings for the father that was never to come home ; of the let- ters from him her mother used to open with such eager, trembling joy; of the one that came in a strange hand, and with a black seal telling of his     208     The Orphan Sisters. death; of the blank, and poverty, and struggling after it, and then the narrowing of the home circle, her brothers going first, her mother following, and she and Emily being left aloine in the world. "I don't see what would have become of you," said Mrs. Hacket, trying, but in vain, to speak with her usual composure, "if it hadn't been for the Sisters." "No, indeed, ma'am. Where could we have gone? Who could we have turned to? There was no one we had any claim on; no one that we knew who was able, or who thought them- selves able, with their own children to do for, to take us." "The almrs-house," inadvertently escaped Mrs. Hacket's lips, and Sarah shuddered. How had she and Emily been saved! What a refuge had been opened to them! How serene and happy had passed those years of lonely help- lessness! How could they be grateful enough to God for raising up the dear Sisters to do for His poor little homeless ones! She sighed heavily, and looked up with eyes suffused with tears. Mrs. Hacket drew her chair nearer her, and soothingly said : "I did not mean, Sarah, to wound your feelings. I was only thinking how young you were left, and how much you owe the Sisters."   Mr. and Mrs. Hacket.    209 "We owe them more than we can ever pay them," was quietly answered. "I often think," she added, in the same subdued tone, "of an expression Sister Edith made when she was preparing the children for their First Communion." "What was it?" "That in all trouble and perplexity we must not feel crushed and lone, but look up and be brave; that, although we might seem very friend- less, we were not; that we had our dear Lord, the Blessed Virgin, the angels, and the saints to go to; and that no one could or,should feel forsaken and uncared for who had the Hosts of Heaven to turn to; and this all had, particularly the lone and friendless. She told us never to forget this, and ended, as she generally did, by begging us to shun evil and persevere in good, to be faithful in prayer and in approaching the sacraments, and leave the rest to God, and we need never fear. I often and often think of her words, Mrs. Hacket." "I am glad to hear it, and I hope you will never forget them. What the Sisters did for your body was good, for in their charity they sheltered, fed, and clothed you; but what in their blessed teach- ings they did for your soul was better still." She rose and proceeded to busy herself about the stove, every' now and then glancing at the     210     T t' Orphan Sisters. clock, as the hands pointed nearer-and nearer to twelve. That there should be a dull, aching feel- ing in her heart so soon after the death of her child, was not to be wondered at; but as, not- withstanding her words of resignation on her loss, she should experience such an oppression weigh- ing on her breath, her strength, her whole being, was surprising. She liked the words the dear -Sister had spoken to the orphans they shone luminous before her; and in their light she had felt a moment's lifting of the black clouds above her. Surely, surely no one could or should feel lone and friendless who had the Hosts of Heaven to turn to; and these the lone and friendless always had. She told Sarah she hoped she would never forget that; and she too must remember it. Yes, the lone and friendless had the Hosts of Heaven to turn to. What a comfort, what a blessing! But why should she feel so lone and friendless? Why should such a shuddering dread gather around her, chilling her life and palsying her every faculty? She was not one to allowidle fears to disturb her. If they came, she turned her back on them, and gazing steadily at some pleasant goal in the future, soon forgot them. But now it was different; she could not rise above the gloom that weighed her down; she worked, and talked, and listened, and tried to   Mr. and Mrs. Hacket.     2" take an interest in what she heard and said; but it, was to no purpose. Passing into the well-kept little buttery, she fell upon her knees, and fer- vently crossing herself, raised her eyes in prayer, Sarah, seeing her, thought she was mourning for Gcorgie, and with an earnest sympathy, laid aside her sewing and set the table. The children at the usual time came in; the meal was ready; but they did not eat, as their father had not yet made his appearance. Mrs. Hacket looked uneasily out of the window, and wondered at his delay. One o'clock struck, and that the children might not be detained from school, they sat down to their din- ner, a generous share being set aside for the father. They ate and hurried back to school. Mrs. Hacket bade Sarah go to her sewing, cleared the table, and reset it for Mr. Hacket. Two o'clock, three o'clock struck, and still he did not come. Mrs. Hacket no longer tried to talkl; she kept every moment going to the door or the win- dow; she took up her sewing without sitting down, and then, without drawing a stitch, threw it aside. Sarah had never seen her so agitated. "I can't stand it any longer," she at length ex- claimed "I must see what it means." Mr. Hacket's place of work was two or three miles from his home, on the outskirts of the city. He was employed on the inside work of a large     I. le urp/zan bgssters. building next to the hospital, and generally rode home in the stage. She would take the stage, and bethere in a short time; she was sorry she had not done it before. She would, but she was afraid he would be annoyed at her fears, and maybe ashamed before the other workmen at her want of nerve; but if he was all right, and was only waiting to finish some part they were at, she could make some excuse for her presence, and not let him know what really brought her there. Full of these thoughts, she hurriedly assumed her shawl and bonnet, and was-stepping to the door when there came a loud rap. She hastily opened the door: a couple of gentlemen came in.  "Mrs. Hacket," one of them said, bowing to her. She acknowledged her name. They drew up chairs and seated themselves. Every particle of color had left her face, and she stood trying to speak, but her lips only moved; no sound came from them; her eye had a wild, frightened look. There was another rap. Sarah arose and opened the door. It was their pastor, Father Francis. His countenance wore a troubled and sorrowful look. Mrs. Hacket wildly seized his hand. "Something's the matter," she huskily ex- claimed. "Tell me what it is; don't keep me in suspense. Is Edward-is he-e- Oh, he isn't, he can't be; I am crazy to think it."   VMr. and Mrs. Hae/et.   213 "Is not what?" the priest feelingly, pityingly asked. "Isn't dead?" she hoarsely whispered, clutching the table for support. "No, no, he is not dead; he is only hurt." "Hurt! iAnd why has he not been brought home?" "He was working very near the hospital, you know, and they carried him there." She did not ask how or in rwhat way he had been hurt; she only thought of flying to him, of having him brought home, of hearing from his own lips all the particulars. "You too came to tell me that Edward was hurt?" she said, turning to the gentlemen. "Yes, madam," they both answered, "that was our object in calling." "He wants me, and, has sent you for me, and I am going to him. I would have gone; I was just a-going when you came in. Sarah, clear the table, and have the bedroom warmed again we get back." She had reached the door, when Father Francis laid his hand on the knob and gently pushed her back.  "You need not go just now." "I must; he shall be brought home. Let me go; I say, let me go."      214     The Otphan Sisters. There was a peremptory tone in her voice that strangely contrasted with the reverence she had always shown him. Father Francis took her cold hands in his, and stood leaning against the door. "My poor, poor child," he said, " listen. Your husband cannot be brought home. . The least movement would be fatal to him." A still more deathly pallor spread over her face; a wilder look of agony shone'in her eyes. "But I must see him, must speak to him, and hear his voice," she exclaimed. "He is insensible; he would not know you; and if he did, the very sight of you and your anguish might overcome him. He is hurt-badly hurt." She wrung her hands, and a dry sob convulsed her throat. One of the gentlemen placed a chair for her. "Sit down, Mrs. Hacket," he entreated. "You are all of a tremble. You will fall if you don't." "No, no," she answered, mechanically sinking into the proffered seat; "I will not faint; don't think it. But the doctor; have you sent for one?" (t The attending physician and Dr. Brown and Dr. Hughes are with him." "And he can't speak, and don't know any one I Oh, my God! have mercy on me!"Again she   Mr. and Mrs. Hacket.    215 started up. "But I must see him. Don't fear, I will be calm; I won't worry him." ' But the children?" "Sarah will see to them. Oh, Father Francis, don't keep me back. Let me go; for the love of God, let me go." There was a dry-eyed agony in her appeal that was not to be resisted. "You will not be weak?" the priest said. "No, no; the good God will keep me strong, and the Blessed Virgin." Her lips trembled. After a moment's pause she added: "She stood, the Blessed Virgin, at the foot of the cross--" Whatever else she was going to say was turned aside bytone of the children coming up and timidly plucking her dress. She stooped, caught it in her arms, frantically kissed it, pushed it from her, and was gone before they knew it. Father Francis and the other gentlemen almost immediately left. Sarah had cleared away the table, and now gathering the children into the little bedroom, she knelt with them in tearful prayer.                 215     CHAPTER XIV. SUBLIMTY OF CHRISTIAN RESIGNATION. MRS. HACKET, with a heavy beating at her heart and blanched cheeks, stood in one of the passages on the second floor of the hospital, me- chanically listening to the physician's words of caution about appearing calm and collected on entering the apartment in which her husband was lying. "I will be calm," she said, in a strained, husky voice; "I will say nothing to disturb him." Her eyes had a wild, startled look; her lips, when she ceased speaking, were pressed so tightly together that not a particke of color was in them. A door on her right was opened, and she entered a clean, well-ventilated room. Near one of tlhe open windows, on a low cot bed, her husband was lying; his chest, which had been crushed in his fall, was covered with folds of wet cloth; one arm lay bandagred by his side; there was no bruise, no mark upon his face, but the blood   Sublimity of Chzristian Resignation. 217 oozed from his lips and flowed down his cleanly- shaven chin; it was quickly wiped away by an attendant; his eyes were clear, and it was hard to say whether he was conscious of his state or not; his features, naturally thin and sharp, moved and worked, but he gave no sign of hearing the physicians, and his eyes remained closed. Mrs. Hacket looked down silently upon him, and tak- ing her handkerchief, wiped the blood from his lips; then she renewed the wet cloths on his chest, and gently raised his head a little higher on the pillow. Something in the touch of her fingers as they lingered over his face seemed to thrill through and through him. He opened his eyes and gazed wistfully at her. "'You know me, Edward?" she said. The eyes answered yes. The hemorrhage ceased, but the breathing con- tinued short and rattling. He tried to speak, but no sound issued from his lips. A thin stream of blood again rising to them, showed how danger- ous the attempt was. "Don't, Edward, don't try to," Mrs. Hacket entreated; "I know what you would say. You are hurt very bad ; but you will get over it. You are better than you were, and you will soon be still better." He did not again attempt to speak, but a frown 10     218     The Orphan Sisters. contracted his livid brow, and a helpless, worried expression gleamed from his eye. Her shawl and bonnet had been removed before she entered the room; but now, making a move- ment as if divesting herself of them, and as if they suffocated and oppressed her, she knelt by-the low bed, and bending over him, said: "No, Edward, you must not think of that. You will surely get over this, and be spared to me and the children. We need you," she falteringly added; "and as you were not killed by the dreadful fall, so the dear Lord will spare you to us." Something like a smile flitted over his ghastly face, but it' was a smile of pain and incredulity. She looked around her. Was there anything she could do for him? She parted his thick locks and kissed his cold, pale brow, took up his well hand, and tenderly pressed it to her heart, all the time her lips moving in earnest prayer. Tears flowed down the poor man's cheeks; then came a break, as it were, in his breathing, followed by the blood again rushing to his lips. Mrs. Hacket wiped it away, and renewed the wet cloths on his chest. The physician put a spoonful of medicine to his lips, and again reminding Mrs. Hacket of the urgent necessity of calmness, he, with the other attendants, glided from the room. The   Sublimity of Christian Resignation. 219 crushed and crippled husband and his heart- broken wife were left alone. A change had come over her. Taking her rosary from her pocket, she held the crucifix before him, and said: "Edward, dear, if it be the will of God to call you, don't let me and the children keep you back. The blessed, blessed Lord knows best, and bow to His holy will. Don't fear for us; He will do for us, for the widow and the orphan are His especial care. Remember that, Edward; keep it in your mind; He will do for us, and we will not want." Now a relieved light beamed from his poor, sad eyes, which were humbly and- gratefully raised; and on the pale face of the sorrow-stricken wife was an expression so pure, so hol'y, that for the time being she seemed raised above the griefs and agonies of the world. Hers was a submission and peace not born of worldly prudence and wisdom. As she saw on the least exertion the blood rising to his lips, his utter prostration, and the quick, labored rise and fall of his crushed chest, hope- the hope of his recovery-died within her. A pang such as she had never, with all her cares and sorrows-for her path had not been a flowery one-experienced before, rent her heart. But though the flesh be weak and trembling, the spirit, strengthened and upheld by divine faith, is     220     The Orphan Sisters. strong; and from the sickening terror of her an- guish and coming desolation she looked up to God, and bowed her head in submission to His holy will. Then the energy and determination of her character shone forth. She bathed her husband's forehead, renewed the wet cloths on his chest, poured from a bowl standing on a table near the bed some liquid on his bandaged hand and arm, and chafed his cold feet. This done, and telling him she would be back presently, she left the room. She wanted to see the doctor. Drs. Brown and Hughes had gone before she reached the hospital; only the attending phy- sicians had she seen; and now she wanted to see them, or one of them, again. She did not know their names, but it mattered little; she did not ask for them, but bent her steps to the reception- room on the first floor. In the hall she met the one that had seemed the most active round her husband, and cautioned her about being calm. He was passing with a quick step to the front door, but on seeing her he paused, and with a sympathizing face and gentle, respectful bearing, waited to hear what she had to say. "Doctor," she said, looking up with painful earnestness, "Etdward will not get well?" "No, madam, I fear not." "Iow long," she was going to ask, "can he   Sublimity of Christian Rcsignation. , 22I last ;" but. only the first two words could she utter. The physician understood her, and gravely answered : "A da:, perhaps two days; it may be even longer." "I cannot leave him; I will stay with him." "Certainly, madam." "I would like to send word to the children, and have some things from home." The physician touched the bell-rope; an at- tendant made his appearance. "Mrs. Hacket," the physican said, "you can give your orders to this man. I do not think you need send for the children to-night. To- morrow will be better; their father will be more collected." "But I want Father Francis sent for." "He has been here, and he will be here again in the morning." "Will Edward ever be able to speak again? Tell me that?" "The probability is that he will not." She clasped her hands wildly, but no groan, no cry escaped her lips. After a little silence she said :  "But he can swallow. I saw you put a spoon to his lips."     222     The Orphan Sisters. "The medicine in it moistened his lips, and has an astringent effect. But what passes to his stomach has to be conveyed there by means of a silver tube." "And is the power of swallowing gone?" "His hurt, my dear madam, is such that I must answer it is." He said nothing of the paralysis of the epiglottis or esophagus, or made use of any medical term which he knew she would not be able to under- stand. His skill was none the less for the sim- plicity of his language and bearing. She turned to the attendant, and giving him her orders, returned with the physician to her husband. His eyes were closed in a kind of lethargic slumber, but on their entrance they at once opened. "Father Francis is coming to see you in the morning; so are the children," she remarked, bending over him. "They would come to-night, but the doctor thinks it better to wait. I will stay with you ; I will not leave you." The eyes looked their satisfaction. The phy- sician felt his pulse, watch in hand, again moist- ened his lips, and giving careful directions to Mrs. Hacket, left the room. Again were the husband and wife alone. Hour after hour passed; the gas was lighted, and, not to pain him by two great a glare, partially turned A\   Sublimity of Christian Resignation. 223 off. Mrs. Hacket was kneeling at his side, pray- ing with uplifted hands, when, glancing down, she found his eyes fixed wistfully upon her. She placed her hand lovingly on his cheek, and found the tears coursing down it. "Edward, you are worrying for leaving me and the children," she said; "you must not, dearest. As I told you before, God will do for us." And then, feeling that he would be easier in his mind if he knew what she meant to do when he was gone, how she would manage, and what pros- pect of success there was for her, she tried to think of some project she could tell him. God help her; the blow, the terrible blow, had come so suddenly upon her, that she hardly knew herself what to turn to. Only a general trust and con- fidence that she and the children would be cared for had prompted her words. Now she felt by the intense earnestness of his gaze, the silent agony that sat upon his pale face and bedewed his cold brow, that he was thinking of their forlorn state. With strict economy, from his day's wages they had been able to lay by a little sum over and above the family's support; but Georgie's sickness and death had taken it all. She did not grudge seeing it dollar by dollar going ; she tlought Edward would be able to earn more, and tihat she could again begin to save, so as to have a little to     224     The Orphan Sisters. turn to if need came. The need had come, come in a heart-sickening form, and she was wholly un- prepared; he knew it, and in the pain and suffer- ing he was in she could see the knowledge of the destitute way he was going to leave his wife and children added to his every pang. She must say something to reassure him on this point, to set his poor mind at ease. She hurriedly thought what would she, what could she do. A hundred broken, disconnected plans surged through her brain; not one of them seemed, under her circumstances, feasible. Edward would want to hear something sensible, something that could be relied upon; any- thing wild and out of the way would add to his tortures, because in his speechless state he would not be able to point out its folly. She pressed her hand to her throbbing temples, and listened, with a pained and absent earnestness, to the light steps in the passages, and felt, in a vague, un- conscious way, that there were suffering, heart- aches, and partings all around her; that the stately building she had so often looked upon with, 'tis true, a certain sympathy for its inmates, but a far greater appreciation of its imposing height and vast dimension, was the gathering- place of trembling fears and palsying agony. "Edward," she at length said, bringing her lips close to his cars, "listen. I will tell you what we   Sublimity of Christian Resignation. 225 will do-I and the children." She did not say when you are gone, but the "I and the children" plainly expressed her meaning. "I will speak to Mr. Clark, that keeps the foundry, and ask for three or four of his workmen to board. I'll en- gage that they be honest and respectable, and you may be sure I'll get them. I'll have to let Sarah go, but Jane can stay in school till her term is out. By-that time she will be advanced enough to get a situation in the primary department, and Father Francis will see that she gets it. The rest of the children can still go to the Brothers' and, Sisters' free schools. In the spring, Johnny can go to the tinman's, just as you intended he should in a year or two from now. I will get along, never you fear. The rent, coal, and pro- vision will come from the boarders, and we have clothes enough to last till Jane and Johnny are able' to earn more. The children with their mother will work hard, and remember their father, and faithfully pray for him, and offer up their holy communions for him, and have Masses said for his soul. By-and-by,it will only be a little while, Edward, we will meet again, and this parting will be forgotten in the joy of a union that will never end. Think of this, dear, dear Edward, and don't grieve to go. 'Tis God's will; bow to His holy will."     226     The Orphan Sisters. She stooped and kissed his cheek, and though the tongue was silent, the eyes in their earnest, tearful gratitude showed how well he understood her words, and what a load was lifted from his mind. He knew how brave and generous she was, what a help she had been to him, and how true and tender to his memory she would be. With his well hand he pressed hers, and looked up as if calling down the blessing of Heaven upon her. Then the eyes were cast toward her, as if listening, and she went on to tell him more and more what she would do, hiding all the time the sore, sore spot in her heart; not cheerful, oh no, no, but hopeful, hopeful in the divine protection and help, and strong in that hope. Gradually she led him to preparations for his departure. Father Francis would be there in the morning, and al- though he was not able to speak, he could make his confession, for Father Francis could question him, and being his confessor so long, by his eyes and pressures of his hand he could understand him, and give him absolution and the last bene- diction, and anoint him. All this she said with a tender, loving bravery, pausing every now and then to moisten his lips, renew the cloths on his chest, and wet the bandage on his hand and arm. Toward morning, while she prayed, he sank into a fitful slumber, starting every moment and wildly   Sublimity of Chzristian Resignation. 227, opening his eyes. At early dawn the physician made his appearance, with one or two attendants. Mrs. Hacket was prevailed upon to leave the patient long enough to take a cup of tea in an adjoining room, while they kindly attended to his wants. As the morning advanced he sunk into what seemed to Mrs. Hacket a refreshing sleep. His breath did not sound so rattling; it was, in- deed, almost inaudible. Turning to the physician, in a low whisper she remarked: "His breathing is easier." The physician' did not answer, but looked grave.  At eight o'clock he awoke. Sarah Gleason and the children were there. Cautioned by their mother, the poor little things stood round his bed silent and awe-struck. He pressed the hand of each, and then they moved to make room for Father Francis. He put on his stole, and all left the apartment. An hour passed, and again they gathered around him. His breathing was certainly easier, so easy that one could scarcely see the rise and fall of his chest, but a peaceful expression beamed from his eye, a serenity rested on his pale face. The physician consulted his pulse; Father Francis, watching the physician's countenance, knelt, and motioning to the wife and children to     Z26     lhze Orphan Sisters. do the same, read aloud the prayers for the dying. The eyelids gently closed, the breathing became still easier, so easy that the chest no longer rose and fell. Mrs. Hacket was a widow, her children fatherless. An awe was over them, and they did not cry; they were afraid to disturb him, afraid of-they hardly knew what. Father Francis rose and spoke words of comfort to them; they hardly heard what he said; but from the tones of his voice they were roused from their lethargy of woe, and sobs and wailings burst from their full hearts. But no tear dimmed Mrs. Hacket's eyes. A heavy responsibility had fallen upon her, and she must bear it with the unflinching bravery of a Christian. Edward was gone, and now she was to be both father and mother to the children, his children, Edward's. Her love and reverence to his memory must be proved in the love and care she showed those dear little ones who turned so appealingly, so helplessly to her She stooped and kissed them each one, and then, turning to the priest, spoke to him about having the remains of her hus- band brought home, and the funeral. No tremor or weakness appeared in her grave, collected man- ner or pale face. Her upward glance, the loving look she cast upon the inanimate form on the low cot, the tender embrace she bestowed upon the children, told plainly what her feelings were. The   Sublinity of Christian Resignation. 229 physician standing by thought, with reverent face, what a strange faith is the Catholic's, and how consoling. He had noticed long before how it fortifies the parting soul, and how it enables the bereaved friends to bear the burden of their woe with a resignation that puts to blush the boasted calmness of the philosophers. The powerful re- straint of their feelings did not arise from the studied coldness of insensibility, but from warm, quick impulses, chastened and directed by the holiest promptings of piety. He saw how it was, and as he saw he gravely pondered the subject in his mind. Two days after came the funeral, and in a week the boarders from Mr. Clark's foundry were at the widow's. Sarah Gleason staid till she was settled in her new way of living, and then she went back to the dear Sisters till she could get another situa- tion. It was only a few weeks since she left them, and she had witnessed two deaths-one a fair lit- tle child, under the withering hand of disease; the other a middle-aged man, cut off in the full bloom and vigor of life. The nothingness of worldly wealth and grandeur rose up plainer than ever before her, and more and more she turned from the thought of going to Robert Winston's. His elegant home had no attractions for her; the mold of the grave was over it ; its cold, white statues     230     The Orphan Sisters. reminded her of silent white-shrouded ones sleep- ing their last sleep; its pictures bore the sem- blance of life without possessing the vital germ; they were mocking illusions; Addie a passing shadow; Mr. and Mrs. Winston, with their strange interest in her and Emily, mysteries she could not unravel, Miss Irving was different; her kindness was as easily understood as it was real; she liked her, and would have been glad to be with her, but she did not belong to the Winston family; she had nothing in common with them; she was in their home not for their sake, but for Emily's. As to Mr. Winston, he did not now ask her to come, or seem even to wish it. He knew Mr. Hacket was dead, and that she, back to the Sisters, was out of place, but he did not come near her, or seem to care about it. She rejoiced in his indiffer- ence, for it saved her the pain of another rejection of his charity. She never would accept of his bounty-never. She was able to do for herself, and, God helping her, she would. A week had not passed before Miss Irving called upon her to go to her mother. She lived in a pretty little cottage a mile or so from the city. Sarah's duties with her would not be hard; she wanted her to bear her company while her two daughters, Emily's governess and another, were teaching. She could attend to her studies, and   Sublimity of Christian Resignation. 231 she herself would hear her lessons and tend to her improvement. As to wages, Sarah, under the circumstances, did not expect any, but a sum ras mentioned that startled her. She objected at first, but had at last to yield. Before Miss Irving left it was settled that she was to go to her moth- er's on the following Monday. Mr. Winston, in his library, smiled as Miss Irv- ing, on her return from the Asylum, reported to him the engagement. "That is right," he exclaimed; "I am glad, very glad to hear it." After Miss Irving left him he walked up and down the room with a serene, uplifted expression on his usually sad, stern face. "Now," he at length murmured, "I can rest; now feel the leaden load lifted from my heart. Addie and Herbert will be spared to me and their mother; our old age will not be left childless and lone." Just then came a sharp ring of the door-bell; the next instant a servant came in with a scrap of paper in his hand. "A telegraphic dispatch," he said, handing it to Mr. Winston. As his eye ran rapidly over it he looked up and asked in a constrained, tremulous voice: "Where is Mrs. Winston?" In Miss Addie's room."     232     The i Orphaln Sisters. "Tell her I wish to see her in the library, and say nothing of the dispatch." While waiting her coming he stepped into the hall and spoke to another servant in a low, hurried voice. Turning to Mrs. Winston as she made her appearance, he said: "We are sent for; Herbert wants us. We must go at once." "But Addie," she exclaimed, turning deadly pale. "Don't tell her where we are going. Say to her that business calls me away, and that you have concluded to avail yourself of the oppor- tunity to see a friend to go with me." "But will she accept of such an answer?" "It is the only one I can think, of just now. Herbert has been taken quite sick. He is not at his hotel, but in the home of a Mr. Larkins, who sends the dispatch, with his address. We must go. If you can think of anything better, tell her it, but don't let her know the cause of our sud- den journey. And I thought it all smoothed, and the curse lifted from us. My God! my God!" He sunk into a chair and bowed his head in agony. -'^^   CHAPTER XV. THE NECESSITY OF AN INFALLIBLE GUIDE. IT was a clear, cold day in the latter part of February. The white spread of winter still lay on the lawn, and hung in light, feathery forms on the trees. Every tiny branch had its delicate cover- ing, and every twig its snowy-like blossom. In her room Addie Winston listened to Miss Irving's sweet and powerful voice, as in the adjoining apartment, Emily's study, she sang and played a portion of the Mass, Credo in unum.11 "How strong she is," she thought. "With her is no shuddering dread or sickening fear. She has a faith, and how it supports and comforts her. She is brave and full of fortitude, for she knows exactly where she is, and how she is'to go on. Emily, too, poor fragile little orphan, without a relative except Sarah in the wide world that she knows ofalone, and, but for my father's house, homeless, and how brave she is. She too has a faith, sure, strong, in- fallible, and what a power it puts in her. With-     234     7re Orphan Sisters. out it she is one that would be dismayed at her own shadow, before whom nameless terrors and inexpressible fears and dreads would be continu- ally starting up. But now the terrors, the fears and dreads are exorcised, and, looking up and. leaning on that faith, she walks bravely on. Why can't I have some of their courage? Why can't I too have faith?" She irose from her chair and walked slowly up and down the softly-carpeted floor. Her pale hands were tightly clasped, her head bent, while tears hung on the long lashes. "Et expecto resurrectionem mortZorztm, et viz, in venturi saculi. Amen;" and the rich voice in the next room ceased; the instrument became silent. ' Expect the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the world to come," Addie exclaimed, sink- ing on the sofa. "The life of the world to come," she thoughtfully repeated. "So do I expect it; so am I sure of it. I shall yet see my loved dead; I am not parted from them forever. No, no; I will, I must see them again." She rose, walked to the table, took up a book, and returning to the sofa and extending her slight form upon it, slowly and carefully turned the leaves. At times she paused, and her brilliant eyes filled; then wiping the tears away, she went on again. At length the book was laid on a chair   The Necessity of an Itnfallible Guide. 235 beside her, and the long lashes swept her wan cheek, not in sleep, but in wearying, heart-depress- ing thought. Twice the silver-tongued pendule on the low mantel tolled the passing hours ; then she heard the door of the study open, and a light step in the passage. "Her morning lessons are over," she exclaimed, risin'g. "Now I will go in and see them." She took the book from the chair, and with it in her hand proceeded to the study. Miss Irving wheeled up an arm-chair before the grate, brought a soft-cushioned stool for her feet, and made the invalid as comfortable as possible. "I love to come in here," Addie said, smiling; "you both always seem so glad to see me." "So we are," rejoined Emily, returning with an embroidery pattern, and seating herself near the invalid. "We look to your coming to see us, or our going to see you, as the great events of the day, and by far the pleasantest." "I am glad to hear it," Addie answered, "and from your countenances I do not doubt you ;but it is a mystery to me how, in your quiet, restful happiness, you can bear to have one around you so wretched and restless." Emily and Miss Irving looked at her surprised. "Is it news to you," Addie fretfully asked, " that I am not happy?" "No," Miss Irving answered; "we know you     236     The Orphan Sisters. have deeply suffered, and most sincerely do we sympathize with you." "If you could do more. Sympathy, real and unfeigned, is, I own, most soothing and comfort- ing; but in my case I want more." Miss Irving, laying down the crayon she was using, ventured to ask: "Is the way, Miss Winston, getting clearer before you?" "No; I am more puzzled than ever. The more I read, the more I am plunged in darkness." "I see you still cling to Hedge." She pointed to the book that lay unopened in Addie's lap. "I don't know about that," the invalid replied, a weary smile flitting over her pale face. "I did have all confidence in him, but my confidence is considerably shaken. He tries outside of Revela- tion to make a comfortable and all-embracing doctrine or creed, but, like the rest, he gets terri- bly befogged, and in the mistiness around him makes more admissions than in his place I would. These admissions weaken his argument, and place him too much at the mercy of the reader." "You would not do it?"Miss Irving smiled as she put the question. "  No, I would not; I would stick to my point." "But if you could not do it?" "Could not honestly do it, you mean?"   The Necessity of an Infallible Guide. 237 Yes." "Then I would give it up and get one I could stand by. Emerson seems to think these conces- sions, contradictions, and inconsistencies the glo- rious proofs of free, exalted minds; only small minds are embarrassed by them. But in so im- portant a matter I cannot agree with him. In the minor affairs of time he would be looked upon as a fool who would allow the utterances of to- day to contradict the utterances of yesterday; who would glory in his inconsistencies, and pride himself upon them; and in the great affairs of eternity shall he be considered wise in so doing? No; as eternity is above time, so is his folly the greater who thinks and acts in this way. I can- not subscribe to it. I am an earnest seeker after truth; my whole present and future happiness is staked upon finding it; and I cannot endure this brainlessly making light of so awful a subject. Hedge may not be so brilliant as Emerson, but he is more sensible." "Do you mean that he is more consistent?" "In one way he certainly is. If he contradicts himself, as he frequently does, he does not glory in it. There is a gravity in his style that I like." "Still he does not satisfy you." "I am puzzled," Addie answered, impatiently,     238     The Orphant Sisters. pushing the dark hair from her brow, "at the use made of the words reason and understanding. Reason, according to Hedge, does not mean un- derstanding. Reason and understanding are two distinct words, with meanings as far asunder as the poles; but faith and reason are synonymous terms. In one place I am told that the-truths of religion are not to be grasped by the understanding; that 'the understanding has no God, no spiritual high calling, no immortal destination; that whoever would know of these things must follow the dic- tates of faith, must obey the law written in the heart.' Hedge positively asserts 'that to the mere understanding the world is just as intelli- gible and as satisfactory without a God as with one; that humanity could do without this idea- (the idea of God)-which, after all, does not solve the problem of existence to the intellect, but only replaces it by a new one, and gives us, instead of an inexplicable world, a more inexplicable God;' and he further adds, 'that if the understanding were the only or principle source of knowledge and organ of truth, mankind would have lived to this day without God in the world, and would never have felt the want of the Being whom we so name-would never have felt the inadequacy of a world without a God.'* Then he goes on to * Hedge's Reason in Religion, p. 14.   The Necessity of an Infallible Guide. 239 say that there are other faculties and functions in man; other sources of perception and conviction than the understanding; other necessities and cravings than those the understanding can sup- ply; and now, in the chapter entitled the 'Cause of Reason the Cause of Faith,' I find by the word reason he means understanding, and to show con- clusively that this is what he means, he declares, speaking of the earliest controversy in the Chris- tian Church, that 'it was a revolt of the emanci- pated intellect against ecclesiastical authority.' Here by the word intellect he clearly shows he means understanding." "You have read the whole chapter?" "Yes, Miss Irving, with the closest attention." "And how does he make out the cause of rea- son to be that of faith?" "As well as I can understand him, he simply means opposition to authority. In elucidating this statement he mentions the great separation that came in the Church in the sixteenth century, and says this separation 'exhibits pre-eminently this relation and antagonism of faith and reason with authority.'* He declares Luther the arch rationalist of the old Church, and the type of faith to all succeeding generations of the new." "I have heard others besides Hedge say the * Hedge's Reason in Religion, p. I98.     240     The Orphan Sisters. same," Miss Irving quietly remarked. "Luther in breaking from authority became the father of Protestantism; and that, in time filially following the example of their father in keeping up the spirit of opposition to authority, broke from all bonds, and plunged headlong into infidelity. Well may the philosophers glory in him, and look upon him as the type of their boasted rationalism." "You think Protestantism, carried to its logical results, ends in rationalism?" "I do." A smile passed over Addie's face. "I cannot contradict you," she said; "Hedge thinks the same." "And you?" "Oh, I am too good a disciple of the philoso- phers not to think for myself. Every one must be a law for himself; so am I. My own opinion is more to me than any philosopher's.; I have as good a right to follow mine as they have to fol- low theirs; but in this matter I agree with them. Hedge's opinion is my own.  'Protestants,' he says, 'we are all rationalists in the fundamental principle of our ecclesiastical position.' This fun- damental principle carefully examined, is nothing out opposition to ecclesiastical authority. Oppo- sition to ecclesiastical authority is therefore the fundamental principle of rationalism. He em-   The Necessity of an Infallible Guide. 241 phatically declares there is no middle ground. Reason or Rome-Rationalism or Catholicity- that is the question." "In other words," responded Miss Irving, "Ca- tholicity or infidelity." A frown contracted Addie's brow, and she sighed weariedly. "Catholicity or infidelity," she repeated, in a low, earnest voice. "What other choice is there?"Miss Irving asked, taking uip her crayon as if she meant to resume her drawing; then laying it down and pushing away the paper, she answered her own question by saying with emphasis: "Nihilism; and that you can hardly call a choice. As ration- alism is the natural progress of Protestantism, so one step more, and from rationalism comes nihilism." "And then what?"Addie inquired, starting up, while a still greater pallor settled on cheek and brow, and she leaned forward in a listening atti- tude "Paganism," Miss Irving answered, her clear eye fixed calmly upon her. "Man must," she continued, "have something to worship. God dethroned from the altar of his heart, unclean idols will be placed thereon, and he will bow down in homage to them." "     242     The Orphan Sisters. "Are you not rushing to untenable conclu- sions?" "No. Read over that very chapter you have referred to in Hedge's-his 'Cause of Reason the Cause of Faith'-and following the premises he there lays down to their inevitable conclusion, what else can you say? He declares rationalism and Protestantism closely allied; the spirit of both to be opposition to ecclesiastical authority. Catholicity relied on the authority of the Church; Protestantism opposed the infallible Church, but did it still clinging to an infallible guide in the infallible Bible. This infallible Bible is next op- posed; its authority sneered at. He says: 'You take from us first the infallible Church, and now the infallible Book;' and he asks, 'To what oracle then shall we flee for safe conduct in the controverted questions of theology for safe deliverance from the agonies of doubt and the endless mazes of the mind? Is there no ex- pressed and unmistakable answer of God, on which the soul may repose with the certainty of infalli- ble truth, and there end the bewildering quest?' He answers that there is no infallible oracle out of the breast. The oracle within, the answer of the Holy Ghost which the listening, waiting soul receives in the inmost recesses of her conscious- ness, is for each individual the high tribunal of   The Necessity of an Infallible Guide. 243 last appeal, and yet this oracle he does not pro- nounce infallible. He says an infallible guidance, however desirable, has not been vouchsafed us, and with the use of the world and the needs of the soul neither is it desirable, for it would be incom- patible with moral discipline and moral growth. 'For what, after all,' he asks,' would be the differ- ence between infallible guidance and mechanical guidance?'" He asserts that we do not want a certainty to rest upon; that the search'after truth is the better part of truth." "Which I do not, cannot believe," exclaimed Addie. "I know from experience that this uncer- tainty is most harrowing to the soul, and the search after truth most wearying." Tears sprung to her eyes, and rolled swiftly over h&r wasted cheeks. She laid her almost transparent hand on her heart. "If I could find certainty," she sobbed, "it would bring rest and comfort to me. But this seeking and groping is so heart-breaking. Only the hope that in the end I will find it keeps me up. Without that hope I would sink down in despair. But, Miss Irving, you said his premises, followed to their legitimate conclusions, would end in nihilism, and that in due course in pagan- ism. I do not see how you make it out." "By simply following the thread of his argu- * Hedge's Reason in Religion, p. 205.     244     The Orphan Sisters. ment. Man does not want an infallible guide, an infallible authority; it is not suited to his fallible nature; he wants a guide as liable to err as he is himself. Not able to bear an infallible guide, how could he endure an infallible God? Such a God would not be suited to him; he must have one before whom his nothingness would not be shocked. Then, as he had opposed the infallible Church and the infallible Bible, he would oppose the infallible God. The soul must have its God, and to supply this want a God not infallible. A god like the murderous Jupiter, or the thievish Mercury, or the furious Mars, or cruel Moloch, would be lifted up to fill the empty niche in his heart. It is not a question between Catholicity and infidelity this spirit of opposition to ecclesiastical authority: it is the question of Catholicity or paganism. Emily, who had moved near the window, glanced out, and turning to Addie, said:  "You ride out to-day?" "No," Addie answered, weariedly, pressing her head against the velvet lining of her chair. "But why do you ask? The day is clear; do you wish to go out?" "No, Miss Addie; but your father's covered sleigh stands at the door." "Mother is probably going out. You can go with her."   The Neeessity of an Infallible Guide. 245 She spoke absently, as if her thoughts were far away; and yet her eyes rested on the orphan, and she noted how well the rich crimson dress became her graceful form; how the silver circular comb kept back the chestnut tresses from her fair open brow; how gentle and refined was her sweet face; and she thought, if she and Herbert should go, and her parents in their old age be left childless, what a blessing she would be to them, how ten- derly she would watch over them, and with what depth of affection would she tend to their every want. She reached out her delicate hand. "Come here, child," she said. Emily quickly approached her, seated herself on a stool at her side, and looked up lovingly in her face. "Ah, dear, dear child," Addie said, passing her hand caressingly over her cheek; "you will love and cherish them, father and mother, when we, Hgrbert and I, are gone." "I love them now," she warmly returned, "and I shall always love them; but don't, Miss Addie, don't say when you and your brother are gone. You are not going ; you will be spared." "You wish it, child." "I more than wish it; I pray for it; so does Miss Irving. She and I are saying a Novena to our Blessed Lady that you and Herbert may be spared, and that your living may not be contrary     246     The Orphan Sisters. to the glory of God, the salvation of your souls, or the souls of others. That is the way we word our petition." The quick tears sprung to Addie's eyes. Bend- ing over, she repeatedly kissed the orphan's cheek, while the orphan, throwing her arms around her, pressed her to her heart. Mrs. Winston entered the room. Her first thought, on seeing Addie and'the orphan locked in each other's arms and weeping, and Miss Irving regarding them with a grave, compassionate face, was: "She knows of my journey, and why I am going. Some one has thoughtlessly told her." She had on her cloak, bonnet, and furs; 'her -gloves were in one hand, while in the other was her long mourning veil. "Addie dear," she said, maintaining by a pow- erful effort her composure, "don't, I beg you, allow yourself to be unnecessarily alarmed." "Alarmed, mother!"Addie exclaimed, looking Wildly up. "What do you mean?" Miss Irving quickly spoke. "Miss Winston was grieving at the thought of herself and brother being called away from their parents, and Emily was assuring her that they both would be spared to them." "And so you will, darling," Mrs. Winston eagerly responded; "so you will. Your father   The Necessity of an Infallible Guide. 247 and I," she was going to say, "are now sure of it;" but the memory of the dispatch received that morning in the library checked her words and froze the fond hope in her heart. She abruptly paused; a painful silence ensued. "Mrs. Winston," Emily ventured at length to say, " will it comfort you to know that I and Miss Irving are offering up our prayers that you may not be left childless." "And are you?" "Yes. You have been so good and kind to me that I wanted to do something in return for you." "Oh, child, mention not our kindness or good- ness." She shuddered, and drew her cloak more closely around her. "Addie," she said, "your father is going to New York. He starts on the A tI  I2 o'clock train; I am going with him. I want to see Herbert, and I take this opportunity to gratify my wish." X    HHer voice was very calm, but her hands, as she drew on her gloves, trembled. Addie half rose in her chair, and sank back into it unable to speak. A heavy, hurried step was heard ascending the stairs, and the next instant, throwing open the door, Mr. Winston, with over- coat and comforter on, stood before them. "I am waiting, and have been waiting an age,"     248     The Orphan Sisters. he impatiently exclaimed. "You have told Addie where we are going?" Yes," Mrs. Winston answered, looking mean- ingly at him. "You are going to New York, and, so as to see Herbert, I am going too." "Very good, very good.  Addie, bid your mother good-by-she will be gone a day or two -and then we are off." Mrs. Winston clasped her in her arms and turned away. Mr. Winston came in, stooped, and pressed a kiss upon her brow, shook hands with Emily and Miss Irving, and begging them  to have a tender care of the invalid till their return, picked up his wife's veil, which had fallen on the carpet, and left the room. Addie heard them de- scending the stairs, heard the front door open and close, and then the jingle .of the sleigh-bells. Leaning forward, she wrung her hands and sobbed piteously. She felt her parents in love had held- back the truth from her. Her brother might be dead or dying. Their going had a fearful mean- ing; of that she was sure; it had come upon her so suddenly that she was for the .time bereft of speech or motion; she could not stir; could not ask a question; and now they were gone. What should she do! Oh, what should she do! They had not even promised to wite to her, and if they did, would they not, in mistaken kindness, still   The Necessity of anz Infallible Guide. 249 hide the truth from her? A shiver ran through her form, and throwing her arms on the table, she bowed her head upon them, and moaned in the helplessness of her agony. To all of Miss Irv- ing's and Emily's kind, hopeful words she turned a deaf ear. Finding it useless in soothing con- versation to comfort her, Miss Irving seated her- self before the piano, and running her fingers over the pearl keys, the Stabat lMatcr, so soul-touching in its tender and beseeching earnestness, floated on the air. Gradually the wild sobbing ceased. Addie raised her head, and let her eyes rest on a picture over the mantel-piece. It was Mr. Win- ston's Christmas gift to Emily, and represented "The Raising of the Widow's Son." In the fore- ground stood the mild and compassionate Saviour. He had placed His hand on the bier; the proces- sion had stopped; the mother's face was raised with a wild, glad look breaking over it ; the son that had been dead was sitting up erect, the pro- fundity of the tomb stamped upon his features; in his eyes the expression of one to whom the secrets of the soul had been revealed. His arms, still bound together, were extended to the Saviour, as if in Him he recognized the Lord and Master of Iife and Death. On the rough fatces of the mul- titude was a great awe, and they' turned their glances on the Divine Countenance before them     250     The Orphan Sisters. with fear and adoration. In the background was the city, over which the lengthening shadows of the setting sun were cast. There was in the whole a Raphael-like attention to details; the folds of the dress; the expression of the different countenances with the one overpowering emo- tion; the walls of the city; the open gate; the trees scattered round, their branches almost seem- ing to stir in the gentle breeze; the dusty high- way lined on either side with soft and tender green, interspersed here and there with starry- like blossoms; the deep blue sky above melting in the west to amber, gold, and orange. The whole scene was peaceful in the extreme, and yet over it all rippled a deep, subdued, and thrilling excitement. Addie studied it for some time in silence; then, without a word, rose and walked to the door. There pausing, she turned to Emily and said: "And you pray for me and Herbert?" "Yes, every day." Then redouble your prayers for him. It is the only way you can help or comfort me." The door closed upon her. In her own room and alone she struggled with her fears and agony, anid felt, in spite of her skepticism, it was good to have the orphan's prayer ascending in her own and brother's behalf.   CHAPTER XVI. MR. AND MRS. WINSTON'S VISIT TO THEIR SON. THE morning on which Mr. Larkins had sent the dispatch to Mr. Winston, he had called at Herbert's office, and found hiin at his desk, not, as usual, busy with the legal documents before him, but with his hands hanging lifeless over the arms of his chair, his head, sunk on one shoulder, lean- ing against the back. His wiry frame had at last succumbed to the immense labor pressed upon it. Mr. Larkins hastily summoned assistance, and had him conveyed, not to his hotel, but to his own home, where he felt he could be better attended to. Availing himself of their kind and pressing invitations, Herbert since Christmas had spent several evenings at Mr. Larkins's, and the whole family had become greatly interested in him. His seriousness had for them a deep and touching meaning. They saw him strugglingl with doubts and perplexities; at times made captive, again partially triumphing over them. An ambitious     252     The Orphan Sisters. young lawyer, with fame and position-urging him on, little had he recked the vital questions that now constantly haunted him. Death came in his family; one by one the loved ones of home passed from his sight; the deepest feelings of his nature were stirred; to casual observers there seemed but little change, for he had always a grave, serious bearing; but the world, its honors and distinctions, no longer claimed his undivided at- tention. The yearnings of his soul reached out to a hereafter. Ite felt the necessity of support; that man, left to himself, was weak, and unable to bear up against the sorrows and ills of life ; tha t death overshadowed all his joys, and added to the poignancy of his griefs ; that the realization of his fondest hopeWs was a mocking illusion; that how- ever much he might toil, and however well suc- ceed, he had to pass rapidly away; that he was born, suffered, and died was the history, short and painful, of man ; that under the accumulation of his woes he must have something to lean upon. Faith, belief. Faith, belief in what? In Reve- lation, in nature, in philosophical systems. The first pointed to a Divine Source, an Over-Ruling Providence, that guided and diiected though the voice of inspiration ; that watched over the con- cerns of man, and had for him a loving care. So far it was acceptable; but with its guidance and   The Winston's Visit to their Son. 253 care were enwrappcd mysteries he could not un- ravel. The presence of evil startled him; how or why in the Divine plan .evil should exist puzzled him. The Scriptural account presented difficul- ties hard to be reconciled to the ideas that had unconsciously taken possession of his mind. With- out realizing it he had imbibed many of the preju- dices of the philosophers, and feeling in his deso- lation the necessity of faith, he still was not ready to accept the clear, plain, and most satisfactory solution that has ever been or ever will be given of that profoundly agitating question. He turned to nature, but here he could not rest. The beau- tiful world around him, with-its blue dome studded with innumerable stars, which science taught him were the far-off suns of other systems, did not owe its existence to self, was not self-created. As a piece of mechanism proves the existence of a mechanic, so the world proved the existence of a Creator. From Nature up to Nature's God was but a step. This was the beginning of faith in his heart, but only the beginning. He must know more; he could not pause. What was the belief of a Creative Power calling worlds and universes into being if he did not know more of that Power? if his belief did not resolve itself into homage and dependence, homage to worship, dependence to rely in the vicissitudes of life with love and con-     .. u. . .ecur w O rzs , fidence on that Creative Power? There must be some system which would teach man his duty, and enable him worthily and in right spirit to pay allegiance and claim protection. That belief was not, could not be a cold abstraction in the heart; it was a necessity, an instinct stronger than life, and more powerful than death. He must know how it was to be directed, how acted upon. Re- jecting Revelation, in his doubts and perplexities he turned to the philosophers. It is needless to say he found not in them the light he sought. Without in the least neglecting the duties of his profession, he still continued his weary investiga- tions. The time others use in healthful rest and relaxation he devoted to philosophical research; he grudged the loss of a moment; his visits home became rarer and their duration shorter; his let- ters were brief, and in the irritating disappoint- ments attending his arduous labors, almost churl- ish in tone. Of a grave, reserved turn, his gravity deepened into sternness, and his reserve into a coldness that to many appeared the effects of a crushing pride. His heart was opened to none ; he could not make the questions that stirred his very being the subject of idle, frivolous discussion. There were many with whom he was thrown in contact that had a lofty, self-conceited way of airing on every possible occasion their skepticisim.   The tWinston's Visit t their Son. 255 He felt the subject was too sacred to be treated with levity, and too deep for the superficial to handle with becoming gravity. They caught a word here and there, and fancying they had mas- tered the whole question, they gave forth their opinions with a flippancy that showed how little they comprehended what they were talking about, and how exceedingly narrow and cramped their ideas were. Turning from such profitless com- munings, he groped on in darkness till the Christ- mas evening Mr. Larkins called on him. The' pictures on the walls and the books around him suggested topics of conversation that had insensi- bly opened his heart to him. "To have," as John- son says, " no assistance from other minds in resolving doubts, in appeasing scruples, in balanc- ing deliberations, is a wretched destitution." Her- bert Winston had keenly felt this want. Addie, who was struggling in the same doubts, could not aid him any, more than he could aid her; and the consciousness that a recapitulationf of his troubles would only add to her own from her inability to lighten his, had kept him silent to her on the sub- ject. He knew how she toiled, and how bitter- ness and soul-wearying disappointments were so far her only reward; and while offering her the comfort of his earnest and tender sympathy, he never let her know that he too, like her, was wan-     ;,    1 lie /urpr/tpan Siste/rs. dering in all the horrors of unbelief. is inter- course with Mr. Larkins and his family opened a new era for him. More and more his heart warmed to them. /Mrs. Larkins was a gentle little woman, with tie sweetest voice and the kindest and most beaming eyes. Her movements were quiet and yet quick and rapid; she did everything with the greatest seeming ease; her piety was most sincere, her compassion easily enlisted, her sympathy un- bounded. She was one of those we occasionally meet in life whose picture is so hard to paint, there is so little shade and so much light in it. One fears, too, that in depicting a character so lifted above the frailties of humanity, in which the angel so plainly shows, that he or she will be accused of drawing from the imagination, and not from real life. Thank God there are such characters that real genuine goodness, united with an agree- able person, and free from harsh, repulsive eccen- tricities, do exist-are not figments of the brain.  Their son, about Herbert's age, was occupying a prominent position under government, and was in every respect worthy of the confidence reposed in. him. In this family Herbert became a frequent and welcome visitor. His cold, distant reserve mcited away in their genial society; and if with the thick clouds that still wrapped his sky he was not happy, he at least was not so wretched. The   a1 Ith VVi -/3fUtI J 3V t3L U Lf CtCt' 3JU/. l/ relief came none too soon. His philosophical labors, joined to the cares and toils of his pro- fession, were beginning to tell on his wiry con- stitution. He did not know what it meant, his dreading to go to his office ; his disrelish for the sheepskin volumes that had once been his delight; his apathy in the court-house; his restlessness in his quiet room. He could not sleep well; the nights were interminably long; a thousand broken thoughts surged through his brain ; he could not grasp one of them, and methodically arrange it before his mental vision; the attempt to do it only brought an avalanche of other thoughts, all broken, unconnected, and jarringly unlike, upon him; his appetite failed; all viands had but one flavor, that of sawdust and ashes. He spoke to no one of ill health; he suffered no pain; but he could not close his eyes to the fact that he was growing weak. The walk to his office tired him ; his speaking in court brought the perspiration in large drops to his brow, a quiver to his voice, and sometimes a quiver too or trembling to his heart. He thought of going home for a change, but con- cluded to wait till after the term, the second of the year, was over; then, without injury to his clients, he could leave the city. Before the term was over Mr. Larkins found him as before stated, and had him at once conveyed to his own home.     258     /The Orp/han Sistcirs. On opening his eyes Herbert looked about him, and wondered where he was; he was not at his hotel nor in his office. He raised himself on his elbow and glanced round the room; it was large and lofty, and furnished with elegance and taste. The pictures adorning the walls were new to him. One, the one opposite his bed, a Mater Dolorosa, particularly engaged his attention. He was look- ing at it when the door opened, and the sweet, gentle face of Mrs. Larkins appeared. In a moment the mystery was in part explained; he knew where he was; how he came there he was still to learn. "Ah, you have awakened. How do you feel? Stronger, I hope." With motherly freedom she smoothed the hair from his forehead. "Yes, dear madam, much stronger, almost well. But how came I here?" She explained the matter to him, and in con- clusion informed him that Mr. Larkins had tele- graphed to his parents, and that they were then on their way to him. An expression of regret escaped his lips. "Do you not wish to see them?"Mrs. Larkins kindly asked. "I fear the-effect of the sudden news of my sickness on my sister. She is very feeble, and the shock may be more than she can bear."   The in'rston's Visit to their Son. 259 "But we have already sent her very favorable reports of your condition. As soon as you re- vived and'sunk into a peaceful and refreshing sleep, the doctor said the danger was past." "Danger! And was there any?" "We surely thought there was. There was hardly any appearance of life about you, and you continued so long in that lifeless way that we began to fear you would never revive; that it was surely death." "Death!" he mentally exclaimed, while an electric shock thrilled his heart. Death while what he sought was still unfound! And they were filled with dread and fear, while he knew and suffered nothing, was to all appearances dead. Was death then really a dreamless sleep, a blank on which no characters are traced, an oblivion of all feelings, an annihilation of being? As from sleep, so from death there is an awakening. There is no such thing as waste in nature. The body decays, but it does not perish ;it passes through changes, melts, dissolves, form's other shapes, takes other names, but in' all the changes not a particle is lost. From the first -morning of crea- tion, if nothing has been gained, nothing has been lost. This is true as to matter: how much more true as to spirit, to the soul within? He looked eagerly at Mrs. Larkins; so readily had the an-     260     The Or./han Sisters. swer come to his silent questions that it seemed she must have spoken. She' smiled her genial' kindly smile, and seeing him fold his hands rest- fully on his breast, remarked  "You do certainly look better. Your sleep has done you good." "It has. My head is clearer than it has been for some time back." "And could you not take a little refreshtment now?" She touched the bell-rope as she spoke. "I do not feel any occasion for any, Herbert answered.          for any," erbert "But a cup of tea and a bit of toast would not hurt you. You must try them, and then you can sleep again." "You speak," Herbert smilingly rejoined, "as if I was a little child that could turn from his toys and his repast, and sink into happy slumber with- out scarcely an effort." "You are a child so far as the rest is needed, a poor, overtaxed, and sick child, and for the pres- ent I am your mother, and you must try to do as I tell you." "I will, I will. As a mother you seem to me; as your son, your Clement, I will obey you." She laid her soft hand tenderly on his forehead, and as the face of her "boy," happy, peaceful, and   The Winston's Visit to their Son. 26i healthy, rose up before her, the contrast between the pale, worn, and harassed one on the pillow brought tears to, her eyes. She thought of -his bereaved mother mourning in her darkened home for her cherished dead; of her hastening with breaking heart to her last remaining son; of the feeble daughter still lingering behind; of the ,poor, crushed father growing old before his time. Herbert had told her all; she knew just how they were situated; and from her deep compassion an unvoiced prayer went up that in their desolation the light and comfort of the True Faith might be vouchsafed them. Herbert partook sparingly of the viands the servant brought in on a salver, took the powder the physician left after, arid while listening to the sweet voice of Mrs. Larkins reading to him from "The Following of Christ," sunk into a peaceful sleep. When he awoke the shades of evening filled the room: the gas had not been lighted; the stillness of the grave was around him; but in the gloom and silence he saw he was not alone. ,Ik   Two dark-robed forms were sitting at his bedside 5"B   watching over him. He knew it was his father and mother. He reached out and took a hand of each. That of his father was hot and tremulous; his mother's cold and clammy.     Zus     z/ie O/phanzz Sisters. "Mother and father, you are here, you are with me," he said. "   Yes, my son," his mother answered, "we are beside you. We have come to watch over you and nurse you up again to strength. How do you feel now?" "Better, a great deal better. Mother, dear, your hand is very cold; you are in mortal fear; but you must not be; I am not going to leave you  and father; I am almost well again; I shall soon be up and down to my office." "You will not," his father, for the first time speaking, gruffly rejoined. He rose, lighted the gas, and stalked back to his seat. "Do you mean I will not be up and well as ever in a few days?" A smile flitted over Herbert's pale face as he   : put the question. He knew what his poor father,  hiding under his sternness the depth of his affec- ! tion, meant.  "No, I don't. You will be up again; you are  not going to die; I am sure of it now; I have them  provided for; H--"  "Robert, Robert, you are wandering," came in meaning tones from his wife's lips.  "Yes, yes, I know I am. What was I saying?"  "You were going to say that Herbert should not go back to his office." p 1   1 ECUt I/V t1/CJ t/f - 3 Y 3 C CC/ 1/f'tt/' JV/l. Gsf\J "No, he shall not; I will lock the door and throw 'away the key; and just as soon as he is able he shall come home, and stay there. That was what I was going to say, and that is what I am going to carry out." "What about my profession?" "Your profession go--" He stopped. The first laugh that had rippled over Herbert's lips for months sounded in the room. "Yes, you are to come home with us, and let your profession go. The best profession for one in your state is the profession of common sense." "In any state, father, the profession of common sense is not amiss." "Of course not, of course not. Who ever said it was?" There was a tremor in the father's voice. The sight of his son, the tones he loved so well falling on his ear, affected him more than he wished to show. He rose and walked rapidly up and down the floor. "Sitting all day in the cars has made me stiff," he remarked, coming to a hasty pause. "And you are really better? It is no idle fancy? "Yes, father, much better. I have slept and rested well." "And you have not been able to sleep?"     204     Thze Orphan Sisters. "No, father; for weeks sleep has only visited me by snatches, bringing with it dreams that made  its visitations almost dreaded." "And you never let us know, and wrote that you were well." "What was the use of troubling you about it? I thought it would wear away, and with a little rest I would be all right again." "And you went on and on, and grew weak and sunk down, and might have died only for Mr. Larkins's timely call, and you never so much as thought of the breaking hearts at home. Oh, Herbert, Herbert!"Sobs swelled his chest, and  choked his further utterance. "My father, my dear father," Herbert ex- claimed, seizing his hand and warmly pressing it, "I did think of you all, and it was to spare  your feelings I was si-lent." "Of course," his mother interposed, in her quiet, peace-restoring way; " it was through tender con- sideration for us you bore up in your pain and weakness, and never let us know how feeble you were. And your father, Herbert, knows it; only  he must speak as he does. His fiery love must have vent in a kind of a harsh way."  "1 know, mother, it is not in the bitterness of wrath he speaks; it is deep, unutterable affection  prompts his words."   The Winston's Visit to their Son. 265 His father had sunk back in his chair. Over his stern features stole a gentle light; he took his son's hands in his, and looking up, his lips moved. It seemed he was praying, or strengthening some unspoken resolve by solemn promise. Bending his head, he kissed the pale, thin hands, and then gently and quietly released them. The entrance of a servant with Herbert's supper arrested for the present further remarks. Mr. and Mrs. Win- ston, seeing on their arrival their son sleeping peacefully, and having their fears quieted- by favorable reports of his state, had been able' to partake of their supper with the family; and to- night, with tender thoughtfulness, they were left alone with their son. It was a week before Herbert was able to de- scend to the parlors, and another before he was strong enough to return home with his parents. A warm friendship had in the meantime sprung up between the families. Mrs. Winston could not find words to express her gratitude to M-rs. Larkins for her care of her poor sick boy; and Mrs. Larkins, from the bottom of her compassionate heart, pitied one who had been so sorely afflicted. Mr. Larkins and his son's friendly, cordial ways thawed Mrs. Winston's distant reserve, as they had Herbert's; and she found herself as easy and unembarrassed before them as if she had known them for years. 1'2     266     The Orphan Sisters. As to Mr. Winston, he liked them well enough, but he was anxious to get home. He tried to be courteous and bland, and hide his impatience under a studied politeness. He only partially succeeded. Mrs. Larkins attributed his peculiari- ties to his anxieties. Clement considered him naturally eccentric; had heard of such charac- ters; in fact, knew several whose singular disposi- tions would, if he had been of a philosophic turn, have formed an interesting study; as it was, he noted them without any particular desire to sound their depths. Mr. Larkins, without in the least showing it, was puzzled. He did not know what to make of his abrupt remarks about Herbert and Addie being spared, now that he had done some- thing; and then that strange interest he mani- fested in those orphan girls he spoke of so often, the broken sentences so full of hidden meaning, and invariably, if Mrs. Winston was present at their utterances, so warningly interrupted ; if she was not, ending in rapid strides up and down the floor, and sudden sinking into incoherent mutter- ings. He did not like to admit it even to himself, but if it was any one else but Herbert's father he would be sure, positively sure, that man was suf- fering the pangs of remorse for some unexpiated sin in the past. What it was, .what it could be, began to be vexing questions he could hardly   The Winston's Visit to their 'Son. 267 keep in the background of his mind. From the guarded looks and warning tones of Mrs. Winston he was certain, whatever it was, she knew it, and was striving her best to hide it for him. This, in her affection and loyal devotion, might be easily accounted for. She would naturally want to cover and hide from view anything that would reflect discreditably upon him; but in the terror lurking in her eye, the general depression and cold, still severity marking her bearing, the shrewd, sharp- !sighted lawyer thought he detected a something deeper than mere sympathy and loving and true- hearted reserve. Whatever it was, he felt sure it was something that affected her as much as it did her husband-how or wherefore he could not tell. But then they were his guests; their shrouded past was nothing to him ; and he tried to dismiss the subject from his mind. His endeavors in that respect were decided failures. Every day, every hour, some remark, uncalled for, unpremeditated, and totally unexpected in the general conversa- tion, would suddenly revive his suspicions, and rouse up those perplexing questions. But neither the suspicions nor questions were ever allowed to rise to the surface. He continued the courteous host, effectually concealing his growing dislike to the parents, and feeling his interest no way de- creasing for the son. He looked upon him as one     268     The Orphan Sisters. whose aims in life were most noble, and he fer- vently prayed that the gift of the True Faith might be vouchsafed him. The insufficiency of Protestantism and the arrogant nothingness of the philosophers could not satisfy him; only the True Faith, with its blessed realities, its sublime teachings, its grand and soothing harmonies, its adaptability to all grades and to all wants, could ever comfort or sustain a mind like his. Every- thing about him was real, and shams and counter- feits sickened his soul. The real, the true in religion he must have; nothing else would he accept.   CHAPTER XVII. THE FATHER OPENS A CHAPTER OF THE PAST TO HIS SON-THE COMFORT OF CONFESSION. IT was the day before Mr. and Mrs. Winston's and H-erbert's return home. Mr. Larkins was down to his office; Mrs. Larkins and Clement were in the front parlor, waiting for Mrs. Winston and Herbert. They were going with them to several of the charitable institutions of the Ca- tholic Church. Herbert had expressed a desire to see them, and now that he was able to ride, they were going to -gratify his wishes. The car- riage stood at the door, and more than once Clement glanced at the pendule on the marble mantel-piece, compared it with his watch, and wondered why they lingered so. He was 'natu- rally of a quick, nervous temperament, and could hardly restrain his impatience. "I declare;" he exclaimed, rubbing his hands and walking rapidly up and down the softly-     270     The Orphan Sisters. carpeted floor, "they must have dropped off in a Rip Van Winkle nap. I'll just send up and have them roused." He reached to the bell-rope, but his mother arrested his hand. "Don't, Clement; they will soon come down." "I canjt be kept waiting for years." "And you will not be asked to. Was the let- ter you handed Mrs. Winston this morning from Addie?" "I should think that it was; it was post- marked U." "I hope it is not the bearer of ill news to them." "I hope so too. It seems to me that Mr. Win- ston would hardly be able to stand it. While Herbert is evidently getting better and better, he is growing more and more haggard. I think I never saw a face more indicative of heart-breaking sorrow." "His home is so desolate." "I know it, mother. Without the sustaining arm of religion to lean upon, his repeated be- reavemants have crushed him to the earth. He still fears others, that his daughter and Herbert will go too, and the fear has almost unsettled his reason. I verily believe, if they too went, it would quite."   The Comfort of Confession.   271 "Poor, poor man! I pity him from the bottom of my heart. If he is called upon to part with them, may our dear Lord strengthen him to bear it, to bow to His holy will." "Amen to your pious prayer, dear mother; but it would indeed be a terrible loss." "I know it," Mrs. Larkins answered, thinking what a blight the loss of their bright, genial son, whose career so far had fulfilled the expectations of his early youth and childhood. But if God in His infinite wisdom chose to call him, would they, his father and mother, dare to keep him back? She devoutly crossed herself, and raised her holy violet eyes with an expression of the deepest and most earnest piety. Clement had measured the length of the parloi several times, when the door opened, and Mr. and Mrs. Winston made their appearance. "Mrs. Winston is going," Mr. Winston, in a harsh, abrupt tone, remarked, "but Herbert is not. He is going to stay with me; I want him." His face had a pale, wild look. "Have you heard from your daughter to-day?" Mrs. Larkins kindly asked. Xi   "Yes," was briefly answered. "I hope she is well." Mr. Winston had turned away; it was Mrs. Winston that answered. IAN'      272     The Orphan Sisters. "Yes, Mrs. Larkins, she is well, thank you, and counting the hours till she sees us again." "I suppose so, dear child, I suppose so." They had moved to the carriage, and Clement kindly helped them in, taking the front seat him- self. He was sorely disappointed. He was going to devote a day to showing Herbert some of the charitable institutions of his Church; it would take a week, and more too, to see them all; but a few, what he could steal one day from his busi- ness to show him, would convince him that while the philosophers were defining Christianity, Essen- tial Christianity as the brotherhood of man, and the progress of humanity, to the Catholic Church, with its blessed institutions, was left the carrying of the sentiments out, the reducing of them to life, giving practical facts. This practical part was beyond the ethereal organizations of the phi- losophers, or, as they prefer to style themselves, Transcendentalists. It was enough for them to talk, to dream; and talking and dreaming were such soul-elevating, mind-transcendent, and, at the same time, body-exhausting labors, that it was as much as would,.could, or should be ex- pected of them. Their Essential Christianity was the getting together, and uttering pretty things, and admiring themselves prodigiously for them. His mother, Mrs. Winston, himself-and he would   The Comfort of Confession.   273 that Herbert too-were going to-day to the Foundling Hospital, to one of the Orphan Asy- lums, Industrial School, Reformatory, Protectory, and the Little Sisters' Home for the Aged. From infancy to old age, the blessed charity of the Catholic Church watches over the needy, the suffering, the afflicted. He was proud of the elegant churches of his holy faith ; of its cherish- ing in its pictures, statues, and ornamentations the love of the beautiful, and the shadowing forth in its grand imposing ceremonial of its vast sublimity; but in its wide-spreading charities he recognized the glorious sign of its election. "Love ye one another; by this shall all men know ye are my disciples."  The Church does "not love in word and tongue," but, as St. John says, "in deed and in truth."t- Its brotherhood of man and progress of humanity is not a matter for theorizing and dreaming over, but a serious reality, a bearing of one another's burdens, know- ing thereby it fulfills the law of Christ."t That law' so practically set forth in the twenty-fifth chapter of St. Matthew: "For I was hungry, and you gave me to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave me to drink; I was a stranger, and you took me in; naked, and you clothed me; sick, and you * St. John, xiii. 34. t First Episile of St. John, iii. I8. : Galatians, vi. 2.          ,             ,     274     Tze Orphan Sisters. visited me; I was in prison, and you came to me. Then shall the just answer him, saying : Lord, when did we see thee hungry, and fed thee; thirsty, and gave thee to drink? And when did we see thee a stranger, and took thee in, or naked and clothed thee, or when did we see thee sick or in prison and come to thee?"The impressive answer to these vital questions is : "Amen, I say to you, as long as you did it to one of these my least breth- ren, you did it to me."* The Church knows this, and therefore its hospitals, asylums, reformatories, protectories-in fine, its abounding charities. In its love for Christ, and fulfilling of His holy law, its brotherhood of man and progress of humanity rises above the vapory region. of dreams and theories, and becomes a benificent fact, a soul- strcngthening reality. Mr. Winston returned to Herbert's room, again took up Addie'S letter lyi:ng on the table, and carefully read it. She too was better; Miss Irv- ing and Emily, the dear child, were so kind to her; and they prayed, prayed every day, that if it was our dear Lord's will, her parents might not in their old age be left desolate. She felt their prayers would be heard; she was beginning to understand what faith was, and to know and feel its comforting power. She still did not accept * From 35 to 40o.   The Comfort of Confession.   275 of any creed, and she did not know as she ever would; but when she saw them kneel and pray with such fervor, such confidence, a new feeling- came over her: she was not so alone, so perfectly abandoned in the starless night around her. There was a light, faint and glimmering; 'tis true, but it broke the black darkness, and enabled her to go on with a braver, stouter heart. She longed in- expressibly to see them, to see Herbert, to look into his face, and note, if possible, any uplifting of the heavy cloud that had settled upon it. On finishing the letter, Mr, Winston replaced it in the envelope, and laid it back softly on the table; then, leatling back in his chair, regarded Herbert with a scrutinizing, troubled air. Once or twice he opened his'lips as if about to speak, but closed them, and looked more troubled than ever. Herbert, leisurely turning the pages of "Barbour's Reports," did not notice his father's perturbation. At last, withdrawing his eyes from his son, he rose, walked to the window, drew aside the blue damask curtain, and gazed listlessly out on the hurrying throngs. His mind all the morn- ing had been busy with the past. With painful distinctness a morning in the great city fifteen years before came up, when, standing at his hotel window, he had, as now, gazed out on the hur'ry- ing crowd. Many a time since then had he been ,      276     The Orphan Sisters. to the city, but this one particular time eclipsed all the others. It seemed as if it was but yester- day, and the crowd the very same. There was the same rush, the same leisure, the same pre- occupied air, and the same thoughtlessness; there too were the very faces, young, middle-aged, and old, joyous and sad.' He was conscious of great changes in himself, in his family. The hair that was now white was then a raven black, the step that was faltering was firm and elastic, and his now silent home was filled with the merry voices of childhood. He peered out sharper, and a wilder and more haggard expression settled on his face. The same, the very same," he muttered;" and yet, O God, how different!" He let fall the curtain, and turning to his son, walked slowly and feebly to him, and stood lean- ing against the back of his chair. Herbert raised his eyes from the Reports. "Father," he gently remarked, "you do not feel easy here. You want to be home." "We will start to-morrow," was -curtly an- swered. "Yes, father, to-morrow. It is only a little while, a, few hours," he soothingly added; and then his eyes were going back to his b9ok, when   The Comfort of Confession.  2" his father laid his hand on his shoulder, and im- patiently exclaimed: "Don't, Herbert, don't. You have read enough; put it away. I want to talk to you." The book was immediately closed and laid on' the table. "Sit down, father," Herbert kindly urged. "You look worried," he added, compassionately noting his worn and haggard face. Mr. Winston sank into the arm-chair beside his son, and bowing, his head upon his hands, groaned aloud. Herbert was greatly moved. "Father, what is the matter? What is worry- ing you so? Are you still afraid I will not recover? ^ Don't you see I am almost as well as ever, and in a few weeks will be at my office again?" "Not with my consent, Herbert; not with my consent." He raised his head, and looked mournfully at him. "Well, father, we will not for the present dis- cuss it. You are wretched and miserable away from home. Once there and settled, your nerves will get stronger, and things will take on a more cheering look." To this the father, in a hoarse tone, asked: ' Do you know the day, the 8th of March?". Herbert gravely bowed his head.     278     The OrphaJn Sistcrs "The anniversary of Robert's death," he ob- served, in a low, faltering voice. "Strange, father, strange; I had forgotten it till you spoke. Have you reminded mother." "  No, Herbert, I have not." "Then don't. If the day can pass without bringing up harrowing memories, let it." "Ah, but she knows it. I saw her this morning looking at his miniature, and weeping bitterly over it. Seeing me, she hastily slipped it out of sight without speaking." "She wanted to spare your feelings." "I suppose so; and I, you think, have been less considerate, less thoughtful." "No, no, father; not so. We are not all alike, and it is well; there should be shades of differ- ence. Through love mother is silent, through love you speak. Yes, it is a year ago since Robert died." "And died away from home." "But we were with him, and his remains were carried home and laid in the family cemetery. All our loved dead lie together, so we have the mel- ancholy pleasure of being able to visit their resting-places." "True, Herbert, true. And the orphans I told you about cannot do this. Their dead lie widely scattered; the father in one place, the mother in   The Comfort of Confcssio'n.  279 another, the children in another-all far away, without a stone to mark their resting-places." His features twitched convulsively as. he said this ; his hand, resting on the arm of his chair, trembled. "You are much attached to the dear child," Herbert said, a great gleam of compassion light- his eye. "I am doing for her," was moodily answered. He raised his hand, swept the white hair from his forehead, and breathing heavily, exclaimed: "I must tell you, Herbert; I can't keep it any longer; I shall go crazy if I do. See to the door; lock it; leave the key in it; let no prying ears hear what I am going to say." There was a deathly pallor in his face, a glazed look of agony in his eyes. With a strange fluttering at his heart Herbert obeyed him, and coming back, drew his chair nearer his father. Graver and graver grew his face as he listened ; he strove to restrain every emotion, to appear perfectly calm and collected; but once he started up, and a hoarse whisper escaped his white lips. Recollecting himself, he sank back in his chair, and averting his eyes, said 1)  placidly: "Father, don't stop; tell me all." Mr. Winston wiped the great drops that had     280     The Orphan Sisters. gathered on his brow, and in a sharps suppressed tone went on. "There now," he said, in conclusion, "I have laid the whole matter before you." Some moments passed ere Herbert spoke; his father, with a crushed, bowed look, waited to hear his voice. At length, laying his hand on his arm, he said: "You are shocked; you cannot speak; my words have turned you to stone." Herbert started; a scarlet wave swept over his pale face. What he had heard was so painful, so unexpected. He glanced at his father, and then rubbed his forehead to assure himself he was awake, and not under the influence of a terrible dream. "You spoke to me?" he vacantly observed. "Yes; but you did not answer." Again he pressed his hand to his forehead. "Yes, yes." Now he knew the import of his father's last remarks. It was about drawing up writings, and settling that matter without delay. "You are right, father," he exclaimed; "there can be no better day than to-day." "Rest first a little; you are very pale." "No, father, I can't think of it. My paleness is nothing." But you are tired."   The Comfort of Confession.   281 "I can never rest till this is attended to." He wheeled his chair to the table, opened his I   * portfolio, took out several sheets of paper, selected a pen, dipped it into the inkstand, and wrote dili- gently till two pages were filled. "There, father," he exclaimed, dropping his pen and looking up into his face. "When Mr. Larkins and Clement come to dinner you can put your hand to that. They will be your witnesses." "But read it, Herbert; let me see how you have worded it-if it is all right." "It is just as you said; but to satisfy you, you shall hear it." Mr. Winston listened attentively while Herbert was reading the paper, and when he finished it remarked: "You are generous, Herbert; it is what is yours, not mine, or mine only a little while." "And' Addie's, too, father." '"Yes, her's too. I have been treated better than I deserve. Not a word of reproof, no scorn, no hesitation. Oh, my s6n! my son!"He caught his hands and pressed them to his lips, then drop- ping them, covered his face and wept. Herbert kindly and soothingly said: "Father, don't be so excited, be calm; listen, I beg you." "You don't turn from me. You don't hate and loathe me."     282     The Orphian Sisters. "As God is my witness, no. This instrument signed and sealed ; it is a subject I will never refer to again. Addic need not be old ; it is enough that I know it. The painful, the deeply painful results cannot be canceled, but what we can do we have done. Let this comfort you and mother. You and she have keenly suffered ; suffered more than the world dreams of." "We have, Herbert; we have. Only God knows how our hearts have been torn with painful and unavailing sorrow and remorse." "Not ufiavailing, father, if what I read be true; and I believe it is." Mr. Winston was more calm and collected; his haggard face wtas lighted with an expression of greater peace than had rested upon it for months. - As Herbert, with his arms raised and his head leaning against his hands, regarded his father, a remark in Hecker's "Questions of the Soul," in the chapter treating of the necessity of confession, occurred to him. It was that "Confession is a natural effort of conscience to relieve itself of the burthen of sin, and its cry after help."* His father looked as if a burthen had been re- moved fromi him. What he had done in having those writings made out; what he would do in putting his hand to them, he could have done, and * P'ae IS S.   The Comfort of Confession.   283 could do without breathing a w7ord of the painful past to mortal I His sorrows and the fatal steps that led to them might have been a locked-up I   p-age, written iin unknown characters with never a Champollion to decipher them, and make them known. Why had he come to him and laid it in all its glaring hideousness before him? Because, as Hecker in his clear, truthful, and candid way, declares he could not help it: "To sin is a part of human frailty; to seek to free the soul from its burthen by confession, is the natural instinct of man."' In lifting the curtain from this shrouded ipast he run the risk of forfeiting the respect of a son in whom his whole life was centered, of ren- dering himself an object of abhorrence to one whose love and esteem were the joy and comfort tI:  of his old age ; but this instinct of confession was stronger, mightier than the risk. It was a craving he could not resist; a cry within the depths of his soul he could not silence. Now that he had attended to it, given the cry utterance, how. serene and almost happy he looked. :  Father," Herbert quietly remarked, "you feel better since you told me." "Yes, my son, a heavy load is off my heart. Often and often have I wanted to. lay it before * Page 189. , I  *     284     The Orphan Sisters. you, but I was afraid if I did you would hate and loathe me. Hate and loathe your own father!" "And even with this fear staring you in the face, you could not hold it back." "No, my heart was breaking; the time had come when I must speak or die, let the conse- quences be what they would."  Surely, surely, thought Herbert, the words f Father Hecker must be true. He eloquently de- clares that "the Church of Rome has sounded the depths of the sinner's heart, and offers for its wounds and miseries a complete and satisfactory remedy in the sacrament of Penance. Penance-in other words, Confession-is one of the imperative wants of the soul. In the experience attending his profession, he had felt the truth of this before, had been willing to admit the necessity of unbur- thening one's heart; but never had it been brought home so forcibly. Now he not only admitted the necessity of confession-he claimed it as one of man's inalienable rights; it was a subject he would like to ponder. He rose and commenced slowly walking up and down the room; his father's eyes patiently and unweariedly followed his mea- sured tread; he felt annoyed, embarrassed; his train of thought was broken, he could not gather up the links. Turning to his father, he spoke in the tender tone a mother might use to an ailing child:   The Comfort of Confession.  285 "Father, you look-tired. I know you did not close your eyes last night ; now that your mind is easier, lie down, I beg you, and try to get some rest." "I will, rHerbert; I will lie down here on the sofa; you can throw that silken quilt over me." Herbert did not say he would rather he would go to his own room, that he wanted to be alone. With a touching gentleness, he smoothed the pil- low for his head and spread the quilt over him; then wheeling the high-back chair to the grate, he threw himself into it, and withi his elbow on-the arm and his head resting on his palm, revolved the words of Father Hecker. In his clear and sensible style he struck right down to the root of the matter. Herbert felt he was .one that could understand him, one that maybe had once suffered and toiled as he and Addie had, and who had at last found peace and security for his troubled soul. Could he find it in the same way? He had once answered that question with an emphatic No. Now. the No was not so positive-was fainter, weaker, like an echo of the first. He had been so wearied with the contradictions and inconsisten- cies of the philosophers, that it was refreshing to turn to an author who was firm in adhering to his points, and whose points were all so deeply true, and calmly sensible. From Hecker he went back     286     The Orpha/n Sisters. to his father and his shrouded past. Words that had seemed the sudden outhreak of a passionate heart, crossed in its holiest affections now took on another mcaning, a meaning almost tragic in its harrowingl significance. He turned in his chair and glanced at his father ; in the stillness of the room, and with his mind cased, he had sunk into a slumber; his gray hair was pushed back from his furrowed brow; his face in its sleeping repose had a worn, pitiful expression; the mouth drooped, the deep wrinkles in his shrunken cheeks looked as if they were the channels of bitter tears; one pale, flaccid hand rested on his chest, the other hung nervelessly over the low sofa on the carpet. Herbert rose, walked lightly to the sofa, and bending down, carefully lifted the fallen hand, placed it reverently by his side, and smoothed the quilt over him. Mr. Winston started, and mur- muring "All, all, I told him all. Oh the burden had-I must-" relapsed again into unbroken sleep. Herbert gazed down thoughtfully on him, then went back to his chair and took up a volume; it was not the Reports, but Hccker's "Questions of the Soul." The chapter on Authority and that on the Idea of the Church had made a deep im- pression on his mind, but the two treating of Confession, were the ones he gravely turned to now. Slowly and meditatively he read on, while   The Comfort of Confession.   287 the bronze clock on the marble mantel, with clear metallic ring, tolled out the passing hours. That evening., in the presence of Mr. Larkiins and Clement, Mr. Winston signed the paper Her- bert had drawn up, thereby puzzling Mr. Larkins more than ever, and even rousing the dormant curiosity of Clement. X O     CHAPTER XVIII. "LLY IRVING. SARAH GLEASON was very happy in her new home; she found her duties more those of a school-girl than servant; her own room tidied in the morning, the parlor swept and dusted, the flowers in the sitting-room watered and tended, she went at once to her books. Mrs. Irving was her teacher, and a kind, patient, and efficient one she was; her daughter Lilly taught in an academy in the city; she was a bright, cheerful girl of seventeen; this was her first year of teaching, and she felt the full importance of her responsible position, and the dignity of being able to contri- bute her part toward the support of home, and the keeping in school a younger brother. She was not tall and stately like her sister Genevieve, but short, very slight, with light brown hair, a delicate oval to her face, and dark blue eyes that had either a somewhat consequential or merry   Lilly Irvizng.     289 expression. She was one that it was easy to love, and very hard, for those older, her sister for in- stance, not to pet. Sarah soon learned to watch her coming, and regret her going. Mrs. Irving had known bitter reverses, but she never referred to them in a murmuring manner; she spoke of her old home and of the friends that had gathered around her in it, but it was always in a calm, re- served, and dignified way. Sarah liked her, she was so gentle and kind, but her heart did not open to her as to her daughter; in Lilly was a joy, a warmth that irresistibly attracted the young, and made her a loved companion to them ; she was young herself, but in her intercourse with her pupils and with Sarah, she assumed an air of ivis- dom and experience that did not in the least clash with the light gaiety of her bearing; she knew they were not very wise, but then she was once young and callow too, and she must not forget it. They at times broke the rules by whispering, and again, their lessons were not always perfect; but then, as to the first, why they had such active tongues they could hardly help it; and as to the latter, she was sure it was only an accident. that next time they would do better; and they did; her confidence in them urged them on to closer attention and greater exertion. In her good- natured way, she kept up a constant emulation l.?13     290     The Orphian Sisters. a;;   among them; they must get on, her classes must be ahead of the others, they must leave them 1s:   lway back, and show the power that was in them. Her department, it must be confessed, was the noisiest in the school, but the pupils progressed rapidly, and almost worshiped their genial, bust- -i;   ling little teacher. In the evening, she looked over Sarah's lessons, played some airs, generally of a lively kind, on the piano, or told in a light, graceful way, little incidents of her classes, or some scrap of news she had picked up in the day. When away from the piano her fingers were busy with sewing or knitting. "Have got to do it," she would say, when her mother kindly remonstrated, and begged her to take a little rest. "Can't think of it, would dearly like to sit and do nothing, but where would be my collars, cuffs, and beruffled aprons, alas! where? And my beautiful afghans, antimacassars, and d'oylies among the things that might be, but are not. No, my darling mother, I cannot think of taking my ease; I want these things, cannot do without them, and so, with your gracious permis- sion, I go at them, keep at them, till, lo, and behold! I have them, they are mine, mine to wear, mine to look at and enjoy, and to make presents of if I like." She was very proud of Genevieve, looked up to   X     ZLilly Irving.     291 her as altogether a superior being, and was de- lighted to find that Sarah knew her, and held her in such admiration. That Addie Winston appre- ciated her worth did not strike her as anything singular in the least. Who could live in the house with her and not learn to love and revere her. As to the opinion she had of herself, in the privacy of home, she was very candid in giving it ; it was not derogatory. She thought herself clever in a great many things, and she undoubtedly was; that her mother and Genevieve would be very lone without her, and they certainly would; that she did her share in the support of the family, and she truly did. Away from the sacred precincts of home, she discreetly kept silent on her own excellencies and perfections, but a self-satisfied complacency shone in the merry twinkle of her eye, and gave a certain dash and eclat to her bear- ing. It was drawing to the close of the spring term; there was more drive than ever, for the next one was to be the examining one of the year. Lilly was very busy, but one evening after tea, when her mother had retired to her room to write a letter to her brother, she turned to Sarah, and said: "I saw Mrs. Harry Winston to-day, and she had several messages to you." "To me!"Sarah exclaimed.     292     The Orphan Sisters. "Yes, to you; I was in Dickson's to get you some drawing paper, and Mrs. Winston and her daughter Ella were in looking at some books. As soon as she saw me, she asked if you were engaged to stay with mother all summer. I told her I be- lieved you were. She said she knew of a very fine place for you, with excellent wages, and not too hard labor, in case you were not in, or like to be in a place. I asked her where it was; she answered it was in New York; she moreover said, she would like to see you, and requested me to tell you to call on her on Wednesday next. She made a great many inquiries as to how we liked you, what we paid you per week, and how you were looking. Of course I made as favorable a report as possible; we could not think of giving you up; mother could hardly keep house without you, &c., &c." "But did you tell her I was taking lessons, and that you and your mother were so kind as to teach me every thing Emily was learning of Genevieve at Mr. Robert Winston's?" "No, miss; I told her nothing of all that." "But you should." "But I should not." Sarah looked pained and puzzled. Lilly laughed patronizingly, and patted her on the cheek. "You see," she remarked, in her superior way, you are a dear, inexperienced little child; you   Lilly Irving.     .293 do not know anything at all of the extreme dis- interestedness of some of the fashionable ladies of the day; you very innocently believe all they say, and are ready to lay your hopes and pros- pects and cherished little plans before them." "But I don't see any harm in telling her how kind you and your mother are to me." '"Neither is there any good or any necessity for you to do it." But I cannot go to the place she spoke of." "Of course you cannot." "I could find no place I like so well as the one I am in, and I shall tell her so." "If you see her, you mean?" "And I will." "I doubt it." "Why?" "Because I think it would be better not to see her." "I don't understand you." "Do you think Mrs. Winston entertained very friendly feelings for you or your sister? From what Emily told me, I should conclude she did not." "No," Sarah thoughtfully answered; "she did not seem to like me, and she spoke very spitefully of Emily."     294     The Orphan Sisters. "So you see it is not through any friendliness she wants to see you." "But she was thoughtful about getting me a good place, if I needed it." "Was it for you or herself?" "Why, for me, to be sure." "To be sure, indeed. Was it for you or her own ease of mind that she was going to send you to Gages?" "She was very indignant that I didn't go." "And would be indignant again." "No, she has not the same cause." Sarah said this with a little air of importance. Lilly, finishing the last loop in the octagon stitch of her antimacassar, asked: "And pray what cause had she then?" "She thought I refused because I was going to -1 Robert Winston's." "What was it to her whether you did or did not go?" "She feared if Addie and Herbert died that Emily and I would be adopted, and cut her chil- dren off from their uncle's wealth." "And how do you know that she does not yet fear it?" "Oh, she knows, for I told her that Emily would only stay long enough to be educated, and I would   Lilly Irving.      295 never go near him; that neither of us would ever be adopted by him." "Yes, you told her that; but, judging you by- i:1b  herself, she may see fit to doubt you." "No, no, she cannot doubt me. I have given her no reason. She sees I have kept my word. I am not at his house or partaking of his bounty. I am doing for myself." A something like a smile flitted over Lilly's face, but Sarah, straightening the stem of a geranium, did not see it, and a moment after Lilly said: '"But you will not call on her?" "Not if you think it b'etter." "Under the circumstances I certainly think it would be better not to. You can write her a note apologizing for not calling, alleging as a reason that you have a place you do not wish to leave." "And that I like too well to think of leaving." "Well, yes, if you wish, you can word it in that way. And now let me see your copy-book." Sarah hastened to lay it before her, and the con- versation drifted away to the lessons of the day. Herbert Winston's return home made no differ- ence in the routine of the family. Addie's read- ings went on the same as before; Emily quietly pursued her studies, and Miss Irving's presence in the invalid's room was as urgently required. Mrs. Harry Winston made an early call to congratu-     i e296       The Orphan Sisters. late him on his recovery, and to tell him how wor- ried she had been on his account. She repeated her call as often as once or twice a week, and, never failed to remind him of her former disquietude and present thankfulness. As soon as he was rested from his ride he called on his uncle and fair cousins, and showed a proper regard and gratitude for their disinterested kindness. As to his uncle, he really liked him, and felt the warm grasp of his hand and the hearty tone of his voice meant something more than the hollow mockery of form. The balmy spring passed, and the sultry summer followed. Herbert's health did not warrant a re- turn to his profession. Till the fall term at least his father insisted on his staying at home, his cool, shady homc, with its grove and arbor, its flowers and fountain, and sacred memories. Emily had a rest from her books. Part of her vacation was passed at the dear Sisters, in tlhe loved Asylum, and part with Sarah, at Mrs. Ir- ving's. Miss Irving was also home; so Addie and Herbert, with their mother, father, and the servants were alone in the great house once resounding with the loving voices of now silent sleepers- their cherished dead. Addie's health was somewhat improved; her eye had a more serene expression, her cheek not so great a pallor; her rides were extended to sev-   Lilly Irving.      297 eral miles, and her appetite was proportionably increased.. Once more she took an interest in the beautiful grounds surrounding her elegant home, and spent many a pleasant hour under the wide spreading branches of the trees, just within hearing of the musical play of the fountain. One sultry afternoon in August, she and Herbert were in their out-door parlor, as they called their shady retreat, with its fine rustic seats, and here they received their aunt and cousins on one of their friendly calls. There was a new topic of conversation: the aunt was in a flutter of excitement, the cousins gently and timidly agitated. Had it not been for the awe theystood in of the stately' Addie, and kind but unapproachable Herbert, their agitation would have deepened into a perfect frenzy of interjec- tional expressions. As it was, they simply rip- pled over with "l ;t. ange, very strange, as mamma says; and fortunate, too, for the orphans." "How is it strange?"Addie coldly asked. "Why, that uncle should have been the one to make the discovery of the legacy left them." "Not at all strange, when he interested himself in them, that he should have been the one to find it." "He was looking for it probably," Mrs. Harry Winston, with a perceptible approach to a sneer, remarked. /     298     The Orphan Sisters. "I believe he was," Herbert quietly returned. "I think," said Ella, who had not yet spoken; "that it was strange it was not sooner discovered. Forty thousand dollars was a great sum to lie by without an owner appearing." "But how did it come to lie by, and lying by so long, how did your father come to find it out?"' Mrs. Winston tried to put the question to Herbert in an even, silvery voice, but a hardness rung in her tones, and a sinister light shot from her eyes. "I cannot say, aunt, how it was. You will have to ask him yourself." "Mercy! ask him!"A pair of hands was ner- vously thrown up; "I would rather beard a lion in his den." Herbert smilingly observed, "Not very com- plimentary to father." "But true, Herbert, true. You. know how sen- sitive he is about these children?" "He likes them." "That may be; but that is no reason why he should make himself so excessively disagreeable to every one about them." An injured, aggrieved expression passed over her face. "Aunt," said Addie; in a hurt, indignant tone, "you should make your remarks about this par- tiality to father; you should not come to his children with them ; we, for our part, do not care   Ii Lilly Irving.      299 to hear them." Her eye had a sparkle of anger, and her pale cheeks flushed. "Go to your father," Mrs. Harry Winston coolly rejoined; "why, bless you, I have been to him, and that is all the good it done. I don't see how your mother bears with his eccentricities as she does. I am glad Harry is not so full of them." 'I Mother may very well bear with them when, so far as regards his partiality for those dear chil- dren, she is just as bad, or good as he." "And I suppose you, too, are afflicted in the same way?"There was no attempt this time to mask the sneer with which this was said. Addie was about to retort, and retort sharply, to judge from the gathering storm on her face, when Herbert quickly and suavely interposed: "Addie, you look tired; suppose you retire to your room, or one of the parlors, and lie down. Aunt and cousins will excuse you." "You want to put me, like a bad child, to bed." "No, I never thought of that; but you look ,very pale and worn." "Indeed you do," exclaimed Ella; "and. let me go with you. I will not wear you out with my idle chatter; I will be very discreet and silent." She rose ; and Addie, turning her beautiful dark eyes upon her, said in a kinder, gentler tone than* she had used to her aunt: lI     j13 -  300     The Orphan Sisters. "Sit down, Ella, sit down. Herbert is mistaken; I am not tired, I do not want to go in; I love the fresh air, and the blue sky peeping down upon us through the leafy curtains of these great old trees." "So do I," Ella returned, gracefully resuming her seat. She was affectionate and impulsive, and Addie would have loved her dearly had it not been for a little of the hardness and cool, calculating offi- ciousness of her mother, now and then appearing in her. Scarcely had she sunk back in her seat before sheeffectually removed the favorable opinion of her kind offer by saying: "I suppose the house looks to you like a prison. Sarah Gleason told mamma last winter that she too would die if she had to stay in it; that there was something withering in its very atmosphere. But then," she added, daintily picking to pieces with her white jeweled fingers a cluster of scarlet clianthus, "she is apt to express herself strongly; I might say, spitefully." Addie's face again darkened, but it was in a soft- ened, even tremulous voice, she answered: "I suppose our home did look like a prison to the dear child, and she felt she would wither in it." "Sometimes you fear you will wither in it, Jr:   too."   Lilly Irving.      301 ij   Herbert answered this remark, not to his aunt,  vho made it, but to Addie. "Addie, dear, I think you ought to leave home for awhile. You are getting morbid leading so secluded a life." "Leave home to die away from it, like Robert. No, Herbert, no; home may seem lone, but the great world outside of it is more lonely still." "But," said Mrs. Harry Winston, anxious to change the conversation, and full of the one theme, "is it really true that the Gleason girls have so much left them? Forty thousand dollars is a large sum." "It is, aunt, a great sum," Herbert quietly re- marked, "but I believe, in fact I know, that the report is for a wonder correct." "Correct! Why -Cousin Herbert," exclaimed Belle, "the report is one hundred and forty thou- sand. After hearing that, forty thousand seems to me a miserable,falling off, an insignificant sum." "You wouldn't think so Belle, if you were to see it counted out." "I suppose so, mamma; but dear me, what will they do with it?" "What would you do with it?"Addie, much amused, asked. "I should have a splendid time, I assure you."  "How, in what way?"     302     The Orphan Sisters. "Oh! I can't just now map out the journeys I would take and the things I would get; but I know I should see a good part of the world, and have lots of mementoes of all the places I visited. And then, besides that, I would just-- "The appear- ance of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Winston, Who had returned from their call at the Asylum, interrupted her further disposal of the orphan's legacy. After a courteous greeting to the aunt and cousins, Mrs. Robert Winston, sinking on the rustic seat beside Addie, said: "The dear children were so glad to see us." "And when is Emily'coming back?" "Next Monday." "And to-day is Thursday. Three days more, and then back to her books." "And Sarah is coming with her; they will both be with us." "Indeed. I am glad to hear it." "And will Miss Irving be their governess?" "Certainly, Miss Ella; where could we get a better?" "It would be impossible, father," Addie ansiwer- ed, "to find one more excellent for them or more agreeable to me." "So much for Sarah's horror of the house and its withering atmosphere," Ella Winston contemptu- ously observed. ir   Lilly Irving.      303 A laugh that sounded very real ajnd enjoyable burst from Herbert's lips. "I dare say she will manage to survive it," Mrs. Harry Winston coldly returned. "I hope she may," Mr. Winston gruffly said. "But, father, how did you prevail on her'to come?"Addie asked. "Why, by letting her pay her board and tuition. She is to owe me nothing, only for my good will toward her and her sister. She is very spirited, and would not come on any other terms. i "I shouldn't think she need. With forty thou- sand dollars they might be'spirited enough to pay their own way." "And they intend to, and all the years back they were,at the Sisters. They are so glad they can do it. Ah! the dear children, they are very happy." Mr. Winston stood leaning against the back-of Herbert's chair. "I should think," exclaimed Belle, "they might be happy. If some one would leave me and Ella forty thousand dollars we would be happy too. But come, mamma, if we are to call on Mrs. Samp- son this afternoon, we have no time to lose." "Very true, my dear." The aunt and cousins rose, and pressing Herbert and Addie to come and see them, and receiving a polite invitation in re- turn, took their leave.     304     7lte Orphan Sisters. After their departure, Addie weariedly leaned her cheek on her hand, and let her eyes rest thoughtfully on the ground. Her father and mo- ther were in a more cheerful mood than usual, and conversed with Herbert about the Asylum-how well and happy the orphans looked, and how or- derly, neat, and gentle the Sisters were. She did not wonder the dear children were so deeply at- tached to them. "They took them in, a-nd fed, clothed, and shel- tered them, when but for their charity they would have been homeless," Mr. Winston responded, the old, worried look coming back to his face. "Yes, father," Herbert said; then, in a meaning voice, he added: "And now, with their legacy, they can repay them." "So far as dollars and cents go," Addie, waking up from her revery, rejoined, "'they can repay them ; but the charity prompting their kindness to them can never be paid in that way. Our dear Lord has graciously promised a reward for a cup of water given in His name. How glorious, then, must be the reward of these Religious oi the Catholic Church whose whole lives are devoted to doing for His poor and afflicted." "Their pure hearts," said Herbert, " are so filled with love to God that they overflow with good will to all His creatures. This is the secret spring   Lilly Irving.      305 of their devotedness to the suffering and needy, and the reason, too, for the abundant success that attends their labors. Their whole hearts, all their aims and ambitions, are in their work, and that work, the good of souls." "True, Herbert, true. But mother, what paper is that you have in your hands?" Mrs. Winston had taken a paper from her pocket, and .was now unfolding it. "It is a copy of some verses," she said, "that Lilly Irving gave to Sarah Gleason. It seems she was grieving, the dear child, that their legacy had not been known of before, and that her mother and brothers had not lived to share it; and then her own and her sister's orphanage rose up so desolate before her, that Lilly gave her these verses to comfort her. They are very beautiful and affecting, and I thought you would like them, so I begged for a copy of them." "By whom are they written?" "By a Miss S. A. Pemberton. She writes with great force and feeling; read them, Addie, and read them aloud, so your father and Herbert can hear them. I know, like me, they will be struck with their touching beauty." Addie reached her delicate hand for them, and in a low, but clear and musical voice, read:     306      The Orp/han Sisters. i      "'"IN HEAVEN WE'LL KNOW OUR OWN." "Thank God for the faith that teaches, When the struggles of life are o'er, We shall meet our own, our loved ones And shall know them all once more. What matter though life be dreary, And we tread its paths alone, If, when the journey be ended, In Heaven we'll know our own. "Sometimes when Fate's frowns are darkest, And clouds hide the fair blue sky, For the tender love of the lost ones, How our souls will vainly cry; Then sweetly over our spirits, Hushing the heart's wild moan, Comes the whisper of Faith, 'Be patient,' And in Heaven we'll know our own. "And life and its cares grow brighter, In the light of this precious thought, When the conflict at last is over, -And the Battle of Life is fought. If we work in faith and submission, The victory shall be won, And in Heaven, where rest awaits us, We shall meet and know our own.   Lilly Irvintg.       307 "And how will it be, I wonder? Shall those who were dearest here Be dearest again in heaven? Or think you, when we stand so near The throne of a loving Father, That His children, every one, Shall seem equally dear to each other- Can any be like our own? "I wonder-but then no matter: This belongs to the great To Be, And we'll see all these things more clearly, In the light of Eternity. 'Tis enough to know if we are faithful, Till the labor of life is done, In the 'sweet by-and-by' in Heaven We shall meet and know our own." As Addie finished them, and wiped a tear slowly trickling down her cheek, Herbert warmly ex- claimed: "I must copy those verses in my-com- mon-place book.  They are indeed comforting, and I shall often turn to them." The tea-bell rung, and slipping the dear lines into her pocket, Addie arose and followed her father and mother and Herbert into the house.      CHAPTER XIX.  HAVEN OF REST. MISS IRVING came back with the orphans, and was duly installed the governess of Sarah as well as her sister Emily. Every day Mr. and Mrs. Winston would come into their school-room and sit awhile, very silent if they were studying or re- citing, or chat pleasantly with them if they were not. They never seemed to know when the hours of study were; if told them, as they sometimes were by Addie, they invariably forgot them, as- sured that their presence was never disagreeable to the oirhans. In this they were right; the or- phans lea-ned to love them, and looked with plea- sure for their coming at any time. They still occasionally made remarks that seemed filled with a deep and hidden meaning, and they watched with nervous anxiety the steps of their daughter, and. looked wistfully into her face to note if the faint color appearing on her cheek was the roses of *!'   Haven df Rest.      309 returning health, or the deceitful flush of deepen- ing disease. Addie assured them she was better, much better; but they looked fearful and unccr- tain, and felt a greater dislike than ever for the wearying books over which she and Herbert still pored. "Will they never be done with them?" Mr. Winston would snappishly ask, and then, after an uneasy silence, would generally add: "I would they were burned; they are dragging them down to the grave; they would both be well now only for them. Oh! my children, my children! why are you so blind, so insensible to our sorrow-our desolation?" As in the past year of toil and study, Miss Irving's presence after school hours was demanded in Addie's room. Herbert was deeply interested in her. She had passed through the same trials; she knew better than his friend Mr. Larkins, or Clement, whose visit of several weeks had been such a comfort to him, how to sympathize with himself and sister. She had not only heard of them, but she had been through all the dark places, and knew from the most painful experience what his own and Addie's desolation was. No wonder Addie prized her, that the sound of her voice struck soothingly on her ear. It was at the close of a bright but chilly day in ,     *              i     310     I e Orphan Sisters. October; Addie was sitting at a window in her room, watching the shower of golden and crimson leaves fluttering to the ground, and listening to the murmuring sound of the wind as it swept mournfully through the trees and round the house. The flowers in the garden, with the exception of a few hardy plaints, were faded; the lawn had ex- changed its velvet robe of green for a russet brown; the sky, that in the summer arched so high above, seemed to bend lower down, and as she raised her eyes she felt the symbols of the dying year were not unlike the symbols of the parting soul. From the snows of winter the earth awakes to another spring and harvest time, and from the mould of the grave the soul rises to another life more glorious than this. She was roused from her reverie by Herbert touching her on the shoulder. "Addic," he said, "come up to the grate. The night is cold; I am afraid you will get chilled." "Yes, it is cold," she remarked; "and the night now comes on so fast." She moved to the fire, and sunk into her arm-chair. Shadows filled the room, and Herbert rose to light the gas. "Don't," she entreated, "I love the dusk; rest- ful thoughts come with it." "Always, Addie?" "No, not always; but to-night they do. I hear   Haven of Rest.      3" Miss Irving's steps; she is coming, draw up a chair for her." Herbert drew up a chair as Miss Irving entered, and Addie called her to it. Drawing up another for himsgelf, he said something about his sister not wishing him to lighf the room. I, too, like the dusk of evening," she answered. "In its shadows I live over my whole life." "Do the sorrows as well as the joys of the past come back?"Addie asked. "Yes. The sorrows are toned down, so are the joys. The former are not so poignant, the latter so wildly excitingg" "I know," rejoined Herbert, in the quiet voice suited to the repose of the darkened room, "how it is in the light of memory we live over again our lives, but it is in a sort of a shadowy way." "Only more real than shadows are." "You are right in one sense, Addie; in another, so am I." "But the joys and the sorrows are real, Herbert. They may not be so rapturous in the one place or poignant in the other, when looked at from a dis- tance as when confronted close at hand; but, near or distant, they are ieal." "Although in the latter case shadowy?" "Yes, Herbert; real, though shadowy ; for with- out a substance, a reality, there would never be a     312     The Orphan Sisters. shadow. It takes real things to make shadows. But, Miss Irving, I have a favor to ask. Will you grant it?" "Before I answer," Miss Irving, with gentle dig- nity, replied, "I must hear what it is." "You have often," said Addie, "referred in general terms to the trials you passed through in your search after Truth. Will you now, dear Miss Irving, favor Herbert and I with a full history of them. Suffering now as you suffered then, it will possess an interest for us that only the weary seeker can ever know." Miss Irving paused awhile before speaking, then in a low, tremulous voice, said: "To comply with your request, Miss Winston, I will have to go back to an early period of my life." "Do not, I beg you," Addic entreatingly returned, "let that hinder you. We, Herbert and I, are listening." She siezed Miss Irving's hand and held it in a warm clasp. In the dusk of the. room, with only brother and sister as auditors, Miss Irving told the tale of her early life. We will not give it in her words, but in our own. At the age of twelve, Genevieve Irving, in order that she might have a thorough as well as a pol- ished education, was placed in one of the Sisters' schools; at eighteen she graduated and returned home.  She had been a grave, thoughtful child,   Haven of Rest.      313 and she was now a grave, thoughtful woman. The pleasures of society had but little charm for her. The gay routine of party, play, and concert, the feverish restlessness and rushing from one amuse- ment to another, looked to her puerile in the extreme. Trifles might please and attract chil- dren, they might form an agreeable relaxation from severe labor, mental or physical, but to claim the whole attention of mature age showed a heart- less and brainless folly.. Time was given fot too noble a purpose, and was too precious to be thus squandered. She did not blazoni forth her opinions with angry vehemence-she simply lived up to them. She marked out a course for herself and faithfully followed it. A portion of each day was given to reading, another to social converse with her family, another to receiving her friends or making a restricted number of calls, and another to jottings in her common-place book. Every moment was occupied. A year passed, and instead of being satisfied and serene, she experienced a mutinous revolt in her heart. While at the Sis- ters, she had, in her quiet, observant way, carefully noted the effect of piety on the natural disposition of the different teachers and pupils. With her cold, distant bearing, it was hard to make out what conclusion she reached, whether they would have been just what they were without religion, "     3T4     The Orphan Sisters. or whether it really exerted a kindly and elevating influence over them. One thing is certain-she never evinced any desire to embrace their faith. She left the convent as she entered it; a cool, cal- culating, non-committal bigot-bigot in her set adherence to no religion. Her family were de- lighted, and boasted she had a mind of her own; her father, in particular, prided himself upon it. He had been warned of the danger of placing her in a religious school, a nunnery, a convent, and he triumphantly pointed to the result. Her rich intellect'had been most carefully cultivated, her mind was well stored; in every respect her educa- tion was altogether superior, and yet she was in no way deluded, or her mind clouded by the dark- ness of superstition. She had secured the good, she had escaped the bad; he was a happy father. But in the midst of his triumph a change was coming over her. She had heard and read, time and again, that it was the master minds that had, by the mighty power of thought, emancipated themselves from the galling chains of Church and Bible, and with a feeling of reverence for their strength and outspoken intelligence, she had looked up to them. They denied Revelation and the Divinity of Christ; they submitted to no authority, but they were not infidels; they were thinkers. Thinkers! what a sublime appellation!   -I1 Haven of Kest.         315 However much thought, the distinguishing mark of the soul-thought that raises man above the brute and proclaims him closely allied to the angel-'might be denied to the palsied members of the various sects, they possessed it, and pos- sessed it in an eminent degree. Thinkers! Yes, they were thinkers, whether they inclined to posi- tivism, like Compte and Theodore Parker, or pantheism, like Spinoza, Hegel, and Emerson. Thinkers clear of intellect and brave of heart; thinkers so full of soul, in which the spirit so pre- dominated, that they were almost raised, above the weakness of the flesh; thinkers striding along the highway of progress, and setting an example the humble multitude might at a respectable dis- tance profitably follow. 'Such they complacently proclaimed themselves to be, and such, taking them at their own pricing, she had considered them. And now all around her were these think- ers-free, independent, belonging to no Church, owing allegiance to none, and what on .close inspection did she find them? Calm and collected as she appeared, a tear filled her eye as she looked on the fancied picture and the real. Catching the word thathought w as the honored badge of the age, not - vain, conceited, empty butterfly of soci- ety that did not proclaim him or herself a thinker. Yes, a free and independent thinker. The more *,     316     The Orphlan Sisters. frivolous they were the more they boasted them- selves free from the restraints of religion, and reveled in the liberty of their cherished indepen- dence. Like silver in the days of Solomon, com- mon sense was of no account; all possessed the gold of a rich and gifted intellect. Never was such a set of philosophers, never such a profound and knowing multitude. But all were not of the giddy, butterfly sort; she must be just; and because fools followed in the wake, and shouted the cry of progress, she must not look to the fools alone- her vision must have a wider range. There were sensible people who were called thinkers; she must see what they were, and how the appellation became them. She now shunned the young and gay, and sought the companionship of the middle- aged and grave. They rejected the authority of Church and Bible, denied the Divinity of Christ, and reveled in the delight of spiritual emancipa- tion. The still small voice speaking in the inmost recess of their consciousness was all the guide they wanted, all they would accept; and what did this voice tell them? It was hard to make out; there was a great vagueness over all they said on the subject; they did not believe in the doctrines and traditions of the past; they were: free. Freedom and unbelief were with them synonymous terms; but as to what system of philosophy, materialism,    Haven of Rest.      317 positivism, or pantheism they turned, it was impos- sible to learn. They did not know themselves, how could they tell her. While professing the most unbounded admiration for Theodore Parker and his fearless attacks on creeds and dogmas, they scouted the idea that the religious element was a part of man's nature. Man was placed here without his leave; without his leave he would be called away. Where? A wise shake of the head, and a conceited smile of superior wisdom was the answer. What was he to do here? Enjoy him- self. How? The best way he could. Oppor- tunities were before him, he was to embrace them, not let them slip by. If he did, the fault be on his own head. But a' Hereafter, what of that? Yes, indeed, what of it?' God's presence fills all nature; the sky above, the air we breathe, the earth teeming with its thousand blessings, all, all were pervaded by the ever present Deity, were in fact a part of that Deity. From the Deity they came, of the Deity they were a part; and so, pre- eminently, was man. He came from 'the' Deity, the All Father, and to the All Father he would return. That was his Hereafter-a glorious one. What need had he to fear? why should his mind be disquieted? Oh, the tyranny of the old beliefs, that made man tremble and held him in such galling chains! They, thank God, had broken from them;     318     The Orphan Sisters. they had no fears; present evils and future horrors could no longer pale their cheeks -or thrill their hearts with their palsying power. If they wanted anything, they had only to ask for it. No, not so; they took things as they were, assured that every- thing was for the best. What should they ask, in other words, pray for? Did not the All Father know best how to govern the world? He had made it, and set the laws by which it moved and kept agoing; should they be so presumptuous as to tell Him He was wrong, that here and there His laws might be bettered? Was He so poor a mechanician as to have to keep mending and repairing His work? No, everything was fixed- nothing could be changed. Asking of the Lord! what inconsistency. What you were asking for another might be asking for too. The boon could not be granted to both. They might be warring with you and imploring victory; their victory would be your defeat. You might be imploring for victory too; your victory would be their defeat. How could you both receive that for which you ask? Impossible. No, no, let things be as they are, as they will be in spite of the murmurings and meanings of the multitude. The laws that govern the universe were long ago decided: they cannot be changed. And thus they mixed up the various systems of philosophy; and professing the utmost,   Haven of Rest.      319 deference for Theodore Parker, went directly against him in their pantheistic ideas of the Deity, and in professing the most profound admiration for Spinoza, Schleiermacher, Emerson, and other pantheists, referring to them as the exponents of Truth, and the teachers of a holier, juster knowl- edge of God and His laws, they yet strayed wildly enough from them in declaring God a far-off iso- lated Being, who, having created the universe and set it agoing, retired apart and had no more to do -with it. How could they so readily reconcile these very contradictory systems? Miss Irving was ,more and more puzzled, and asked herself in dis- may was this wandering about from system to system, with no clear idea of any, and blundering in all, the result of obeying the still small voice speaking in the inmost recess of their conscious- ness? What confidence could be placed in that -voice when its utterances were so palpably wrong? Could eternity be staked on its vague, uncertain, and contradictory teachings? She dashed the tears from her cheeks, and determined not to be discouraged. She next attacked the philosophers themselves. She knew pretty well their different systems, but she did not know how they advocated them. Here the same difficulties rose up before her-vagueness, uncertainties, and mind-bewilder- ing contradictions. They, rejecting Revelation     320     The Orphan Sisters. and the authority of Church and Bible, listened to the still small voice speaking in the inmost recess of their conscousness, and while perhaps in the main they each made some pretension to adhering to some one system, yet round that system how the wildest and most blushing contradictions gathered! She had always looked upon the reformatory movement of the sixteenth century as one of the greatest blessings to man. He had been so long enslaved, it was time, full time his bonds were broken. The names of Luther, Calvin, and Melancthon had sounded pleasantly in her ear. In her enthusiasm, she had, in thinking or speaking of them, made free use of admiring adjec- tives. They were the brave, fearless champions of Liberty. Luther and Calvin might be a little rough, but not more so than was necessary for those who were to tear down the tyranny of fif- teen centuries. To the brave, impetuous Luther, and the stern, just, and energetic Calvin, belonged the rugged prose of the Reformation; to the gen- tle, sensitive, and refined Melancthon, the poetry. The former, filled with a holy indignation at the cruelties and oppressions of the Church, could not attune their fiery utterances to times and numbers; the latter, with the piercing eye of a prophet, sweeping over the past and present, and pene- trating the future, burst forth in epic strains, and   faven of Rest.      321 sang, like another Milton, the paradise lost to man all the ages back, and in the purer, nobler faith vouchsafed to him, the paradise at last regained. But now came another feeling, a feeling of one standing on the brink of a precipice and looking down its dizzy depth. How fearfully had she been mistaken. They the deliverers of man! they his benefactors ' They were the first that, break- ing from authority, proclaimed the tones of that still small voice to be the only infallible guide. The Church was not to be followed, the Bible alone to be regarded; but regarded and obeyed as the still small voice dictated. The result of its contradictory teachings were soon felt in the mul- titude of creeds that filled the earth. At length the Bible, like the Church, was discarded; the Trinity of the Godhead denied; its Unity boldly proclaimed; Christ was swept from the altar of the heart, and the name Christian held up for the world's derision. The still small voice speaking in the inmost recess of the consciousness was still leading its listeners on, and to what? Church and Bible swept away, Christ rejected, to what? She so calm, so self-contained, shuddered as the names of the philosophers rose up before her. In bitterness she asked herself, should she, rejecting Christ, turn to them? What were they? There was Theodore Parker: was there not in his denun-     322     The Orphan Sisters. ciations a dogmatism as violent as that he con- demned in others? If he was a law unto himself, why should she not be a law to herself? Showing up the folly of following after old-established dogmas proved the folly of following after new. Authority must be carefully watched; for where one orders and another obeys, tyranny on the one hand, and slavery on the other, must be expected. No, to be free, to enjoy man's inalienable right, no one must be leader, no one follower; the multitude must go as they list--here, there, everywhere- no matter what the confusion, no matter what ruin and destruction overtake them on the way. The law written in the heart, in other words the still small voice alone must be heeded. But how was this confusion to end? It was not hard to see. As Christ and His Christianity had been swept from the altar of the heart, so would be the Father. God's name would be forgotten, self alone wor- shiped; and, as notwithstanding the conceit of man's heart, self has never satisfied its cravings of worship, so now it would fail, and to supply the place of the living God unclean gods would be lifted to the high places of man's affection; pagan- ism would again defile the earth, the worship of demons again be inaugurated. By a still shorter route, materialism would have the same ending. Man is not as the beast of the field that perisheth.   Haven of Rest.      323 Beyond the mere matter for the present, joined to it by the ethereal bond called life, is the spirit immortal, never ending. For awhile its cries may be hushed, but breaking from the numbing hold of skepticism, it will make itself known and felt; obeying the instinct of worship, it will bow down to the only God it knows, not the God of Reve- lation, eternal, omnipotent, who created the heav- ens and the earth and all things therein, but gods of its own weak imaginings, gods of its own mak- ing. Positivism and materialism disposed of, there was pantheism to consider. This did not strike her as atheistical in its tendencies, and she turned to it with ardor. It was comforting and assuring to feel the immanency of the Supreme Power in all nature. All came from God. He is the Father, the life of all life; His breath animates nature; His voice is heard in the storm when it moves in might and majesty, in the gentle breeze that sweeps softly over the earth, in the song of birds, and the joyous laugh of childhood; He dwells in the heart of man; His is the quickening impulse that gives birth to his wonder-working brain; to Him all is, all must be attributed. A restful peace stole over her, and her spirit drank in content. She had at last found an ark of safety. Ere lonig, questions began again to trouble her. If all is, all must be attributed to God, how is it about the     324     The Orphan Sisters. sin and wretchedness filling the world? Are they too to be attributed to God? She started back in dismay as the question suggested itself, but with it came others no less startling. God's holy pres- ence fills all space. This omnipresence of the Creator had comforted and strengthened her so much, that she had eagerly embraced it, as the fundamental principle of Pantheism, but in follow- ing the doctrine of Spinoza, Toland,- Hegel, and other pantheists, she found she must go farther. Not only did God fill all nature, but all nature was only another expression of Deity. Man, nature, God, were synonymous terms: Man partook of the nature of God, was, in other words, a part- of the Deity. Therefore God was not Lord or Mas- ter; therefore, man not His subject. God was God, and man, what was he? an emanation of the Deity, an irresponsible expression of Divinity! And the evil that was in his heart, was that, too, an emanation of the Deity? If all came from God was a part of Him, how did sin escape being swallowed up in the Deity? and if it was a portion of the Deity, how was man to resist it? and why punished for not resisting it? and how and by whom? Could God punish him when he was a part of God? The devil, what had he to do with it? Following out the pantheistic idea, where  was he? What was he? God filled all nature   Haven of Rest.      325 with his being, so there was no room for the devil. Therefore he was only a myth, one of the exploded horrors of the past. There was no devil, no evil, no sin, no resisting in man, no bringing to account in God. And this. was pantheism, to which, as to an ark of safety she had flown! Bitter tears rolled over her cheeks. To what system should she now turn? Where could she find rest? That still small voice should she, or could she mind its promptings when it led to such miserable mind- benumbing, soul-destroying results? What was that voice? Could it be called the spirit of truth, the oracle of the Holy Ghost? No! it was blas- phemy, black and horrible tr, think it. Rather was it the still, small voice E .e listened to in the Garden, and obeying which, brought such misery on the human family. She had rejected Revela- tion because there was mysteries in it her reason could not comprehend, but the philosophers, after finding fault with the mysteries of Revelation, have to confess there are mysteries all around us, that can never, by the longest and most patient study, be made out. Reason was to be their guide; mind, the judge; thought, the master power of the mind, to decide. This was so rigidly exacted, that they took to themselves a name that was boldly and publicly to proclaim their determination. They were not infidels or ration-     326     The Orphan Sisters. alists; not pantheists, materialists, or electants. No ; they were thinkers; thinkers who never came to a conclusion till the whole subject had been most carefully considered, who wholly and solely depended on the searching probings of thought to learn the truth of every thing relating to reli- gion or the wants of the soul; and now she found, notwithstanding their laying exclusive claim to this faculty, and arrogantly assuming it to them- selves and followers alone, that they did not, and could not depend upon it; that the mind had one set of faculties, the heart another; that of the mind, thought and intellect, in other words reason, would not do; only the heart with its intuitions, its inspirations, its still small voice was to be the high tribunal of last appeal in such matters. And thus, while styling themselves thinkers, they open- ly confessed the inadequacy of thought to solve the mysteries of religion, and depended on impulse, intuition, in other words on the still small voice speaking in the inmost recess of their conscious- ness. No reasoning, no deduction-all intuition. Shunning the labor of ratiocination, these philoso- phers were rationalists; ignoring thought, they proudly styled themselves thinkers. She wrung her hands and wept bitterly at the mocking illu- sions that had lured her on; with the wilderness of doubt and confusion all around her, she forcibly   Haven of Rest.      327 felt the truth of the words of Holy Writ: "He that trusteth in. his own heart is a fool," and "there is a way which seemeth just to a man, but the end thereof leads to death."t Yes, to death- death of faith in the soul, death to peace and security here, death to a happy hereafter, death, everlasting death! To escape this death, this fearful death, what should she do? which way should she turn? She thought of the Inspired Volume. What could man with his nothingness know of the Supreme Being, only as the Supreme Being in His goodness and mercy revealed Him- self to him? With the instinct of worship strong within him, how could he worthily pay homage only as he was benificently taught? Philosophy scorned the light of Revelation ; what had its flick- ering light proved to be? An ignis fatuus, leading only to quagmires of destruction. Tearing down the venerable monument of authority, what had it reared in its place? Another tower of confusion that only proved the miserable weakness of man when he strove to contend with his Creator. Church and Bible, must she turn to them? What else could she do? She could not take the Bible and reject the Church; the Church proves the truth of the Bible, the Bible shows the necessity * Prov., chap. xxviii., v. 26. t Prov., chap. xiv., v. Io.     328     The Orphan Sisters. of the Church. Where would those sacred records be if the Church had not gathered them together and carefully preserved them? And who so able to explain their meaning to the multitude? Place the Holy Volume in the hands of every man, woman, and, child, and tell them they needed nothing but their own unassisted judgment to read and know for themselves, and where would the confusion end? where had it ended? The general unbelief around her but too publicly proclaimed  where. Disguise the fact as she might, cover up the painful truth with pleasant, high-sounding names, Deism and utter soul-revolting atheism met her at every turn. Man left to himself is weak and erring; he cannot trust his reason; its insufficiency in solving the problems of religion, the philosophers with all their pretensions, are obliged to own; he cannot rely on his heart, for he knows from the bitterest experience how de- ceitful it is; he wants a guide to direct him, an authority to which he can unfalteringly turn. With a thrill of horror she thought of the intricate mazes into which she had wandered when left to her own guidance; what agony of mind she had suffered, how every hope within her had been crushed, every aspiration of her soul dragged down to the dust. What fearful thoughts had haunted her, and terrible temptations assailed her.   Haven of Rest.      329 Her reason could not aid her, her heart only led her into deeper depths; she wanted rest; she wanted strength, she wanted protection, and like a spent child, she flew to the only safe refuge the fluttering soul on this side of the grave can find: the Church. The Church that she had looked upon with distrust, whose infallibility had seemed to her so daring an assumption; and now this very infallibility was what gave it worth in her sight. She wanted a certainty to rest upon, an authority that. could not be doubted. Church and Bible, these were the chart and compass that would guide her frail bark over the rough tempestuous sea of life into the harbor of everlasting peace. A few months preparation and she was received into the Church. No longer following the ravings of the philosophers, or the vague wanderings of her own heart, the way was henceforth plain before her; she knew her duty, and was rejoiced to do it; she had a guide she could trust; the sacra- ments were her strength, prayer the converse she held with Heaven, worship the homage she paid her God; the Three in One-Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. Calmly the days, weeks, and months of her life glided on ; adversity overtook them, but looking up, she soothed and comforted her family, and proved to them a tower of strength in their affliction. They were amazed that her proud     330     Tzhe Orphan Sisters. spirit should be so humble, and at the same time so strong. They learned the secret of the change that had come over her, and desiring to share with her in her heavenly support, they cast aside their skepticism, and became members of the One True Church. Soon after, her father died, and with greater fortitude she bore the still greater burden that devolved on her. As a governess, she sought and found employment; her salary, with only a slight deduction to keep her wardrobe in repair, went to the support of her mother, and the educa- tion of a younger brother and sister. The year before, Lilly, her sister, graduated, and was now a teacher, so her burden was considerably lightened. In two, or three, or four years more, her brother would finish his course, and then her family able to get along without her, she would be free to fol- low the desire of her heart: to become a Religious, and consecrate her life to the service of the poor, the suffering, and the afflicted. Some time before Mr. and Mrs. Winston had entered the room, and seeing them in darkness, Mr. Winston, before seating himself, had lighted the gas. As Miss Irving concluded, and her voice ceased, a hush of several moments succeeded. At length, Herbert glancing round, and as if for the first time noticing the light, impressively said,   Haven of Rest.       331 "The room is lighted, but it is nothing to the light in my heart." "True, Herbert, true ;"Addie warmly rejoined, a bright glow sweeping over her beautiful features. "With St. Paul I feel 'the night is passed, and the day at hand,'* that 'by the freedom wherewith Christ hath made us free,'t we are free, our bonds broken." There was in the house of Robert Winston that night, a deep, unspeakable joy. * St. Paul's Epis. to the Romans, xiii., v. I2. t St. Paul to the Galatians, iv., v. 31.     CHAPTER XX. CONCLUSION. AGAIN Christmas, full of sacred memories and kindly deeds dawned on the world. In the early hush of the morning, before the stars had paled from the sky, or the sun shaken off the shades of night, the doors of St. John's Church were open, and devout worshipers gathered therein. Among the worshipers, none were more fervent, more grateful than Adelaide Winston and her brother Herbert. The last few weeks had been passed in preparations for the baptism they were this morn- ing to receive. Mr. and Mrs. Larkins, and Clement, their son, were present. It was noticed that Mr. and Mrs. Robert Winston watched the solemn ceremony that enrolled their children members of the One True Church with a glad, uplifted look, and when, with the saving water upon their brows, they returned to the pew assigned them, and near the altar, they involuntarily fell on their knees and folded their hands in prayer. The stern sadness   Conclusion.      333 was gone fronm Herbert's face, the worn, troubled look from Addie's; a holy peace, a restful calm beamed from their eyes. Through much sorrow, and days of weary, disheartening toil, they had at last found the truth they sought. Its white wings folded them around, its strength-giving power was infused into their sinking frames. They looked up, they smiled, while tears of heavenly joy rolled over their cheeks. When they left the church, and were seated in the covered sleigh, Mr. Larkins, sitting beside Herbert, asked: "Do you remember where, a year ago to-day, I met you?" ' Coming out of St. Francis Xavier's Church, in New York." "If you recollect," continued Mr. Larkins " you told me that during the service, there was a mo- ment when Christmas came into your heart, and with it a great uplifting of the heavy load weigh- ing you down." "And Christmas is there now all the time, and the load has dropped from me." "Never again to wei gh you down." "Never, no, never!" His voice was tremulous with the intensity of feeling. Addie smiled, but was silent, her emotions overpowered her; taking the crucifix which the Sisters had given her from her pocket,     334     The Orphan Sisters. she fervently pressed it to her lips. No wonder in this first hour of reconciliation and accept- ance, of deliverance and safety, she found it difficult to speak. Her mind took in the Birth and Death of the Redeemer, the Gloria in Ex- celsis of the Redemption, and the Alleluias of the Resurrection. She knew between the joyous Christmas, and glad, triumphant Easter, came the forty days of fasting and humiliation. It was meet it should be so. In this, as in every thing else, the Church points a moral, and teaches a beautiful lesson. As Christmas breaks upon the world in the full tide of a new-born joy, so the buoyant Christian in the vigor of youth begins the course of life. By and by come trials and cares, the freshness of the morning fades, the noonday heat is upon him, his labors increase, the way is hard and difficult, but he does not despair; he looks back upon the morning, the Christmas of his life, and knows that as joyous as that was, notwith- standing his present weariness, he is gradually nearing his goal; that after the penitential fast comes the still more glorious Easter, that from the sorrows of life through the efficacy of the cross, he will rise to a happiness this world can never fully know, which the grossness of the flesh is in- capable of comprehending in the height, breadth, and depth of its greatness. The sun had just   Conclusion.      335 risen as they entered the house, and its early rays played over the hall, and rested on the little group. Addie threw her arms round her mother, then turning to her father, she seized his- hands and raised them lovingly to her cheeks. "O my mother, my father," she exclaimed; "you do not know, I cannot tell you, I have no words, how happy I am, and Herbert, too; the light is on us, it floods our souls, our poor souls that were in such darkness and despair. Herbert and I, your children, have this blessed morning, by the holy sacrament of Baptism, been received into the True Church. Before another Christmas, may you, dear mother and father, know our happiness, may you in like manner be blessed." "Amen," fervently responded Mr. and Mrs. Larkins and Clement. Mr. and Mrs. Winston kissed the newly baptized and thanked Heaven they had at last found that which they sought; now they could rest, now they would be spared to them. The next day Mr. Larkins returned to New York; Mrs. Larkins and Clement stayed till after the holidays, and when they left, Herbert went with them. With renewed health, and a self-possession and peace of mind he never before knew, he resumed the duties of his profession. His energy and determination of character were not now frittered away in weariedly     336     The OrpIhan Sisters. following the vagaries of the philosophers. Like his friend, Mr. Larkins, he moved with the ease and freedom of one who knew exactly where he stood, and was not palsied by miserable uncer- tainties; his vision was clear, his faith strong; he labored for eternity as well as for time, and while from his exertions, wealth and fame grew up around him, he did not forget the heaping up of those treasures which are not touched by time, which the canker and rust cannot consume, nor the violent bear away. He became as noted for his real piety and general benevolence as for his great legal knowledge and business sagacity. Addie's health rapidly improved, her eyes shone with the steady lustre of a heart at ease, her form rounded out into full and noble proportions. Again she entered society; her bearing had in it a gentle dignity, her voice a patient kindness, which to the sad and weary was most soothing, to the joyous and light-hearted most musical, to the aged most pleasing. Like her brother, she was noted for her exalted piety, and the strict perform- ance of every duty belonging to her station. She was too earnest to be gay, too sincerely grateful for the great favor that had been vouchsafed her to be gloomy or desponding ; a kind consideration for others, a generous appreciation of merit, 'a charity for defects, a Christian courtesy to all--   Conclusion.       337 these became her ruling characteristics. As she had before been admired for her brilliancy, so now she was revered for her sound sense and unfailing goodness. More than ever her heart warmed to the'orphans; she did not wonder that her father and mother looked on them with the tenderest affection. They were worthy, and in their grate- ful devotion, more than repaid every kindness shown thep.  She thought their legacy such a blessing, it removed from their sensitive minds any idea of dependence, and shielded them from the ill-natured remarks of the meddling and envious. Mrs. Harry Winston was relieved from her fears that they were to be the heirs of Robert Winston. Herbert and Addie, happily recovering their health, were to be sparedto their parents, and no strangers were to come in for what, in case of the death of the brother and sister, should rightly go to Harry's and her children. This thought made her congratulations extremely cordial, and at the same time very real. Still she could not get over Robert and his wife's great interest in the orphans; it was so strange they should turn to them of another race and creed, and care nothing for their own relatives. There was a mystery in this, let Harry say what he would. Through some remark Herbert let fall, it at length came out that Robert Winston was under great obligation to the father 1b            338     The Orphan Sisters. of the orphans; that had it not been for him, there was a time in his life when he would have failed, lost all. Harry was aware there was a period when his brother was in great danger, but how he weathered the storm he never knew. If this Gleason had done him such a favor, he wondered how he came to be so silent about it, and why, when his widow was left penniless, he did not try to do something for her, why he had, let her strug- gle on till. she sunk under the burden of her lot. This explanation, so far from clearing the mystery, left it shrouded in greater darkness. Robert Win- ston seemed much happier than he used to be, his manner became kinder and gentler to all, but it was noticed that wlen looking at the orphans, he often sighed, and a shade passed over his counte- nance. He showed a father's love and tenderness for them; he sought in every way to smooth their path, and when in return they expressed gratitude for his kindness, seemed so moved, so affected thereat. To Herbert, and Herbert alone, he spoke freely on the subject of his interest in them; to him, and him alone, was the secret of it revealed. Mr. Larkins was still puzzled at the expressions Herbert's father now and then made, and one day that he was in Herbert's rooms at his hotel, sud- denly said: "Your uncle Harry thinks your father's grief at   Conclusion.      339 his severe bereavements has rather unsettled his mind. Do you, too, fear it?" "No, not at all; my father's grief, as well it might be, was deep a nd poignant, but his mind never sunk under it. On. the contrary, it was strengthened, and he sees with a clearer vision than ever." "But he speaks strangely; what he just said before leaving us a moment since had in its regular meaning a singular significance." "You refer to the remark he made about the monument he has lately erected to the memory of the orphans' parents." "Yes; he declared it a solemn duty which he owed to the harrowing past. Why should the past, so far as those children's parents are con- cerned, be harrowing to him? You may consider that it is no business of mine to ask, but as a father I think different. Pardon me for saying it. Not for the world would I wound your feelings, but you know that my son is greatly interested in your sister." "And before," said Herbert, a flush mantling his cheek, but his eye clear and sharp, "you can con- sent to their union-that is what you mean by the word interested?" Mr. Larkins gravely bowed his head. "You want to know if there is insanity in the family to which he would ally himself?"     340     The Orphan Sisters. Mr. Larkins gently put his hand on his shoulder. "Don't, I beg you, be offended with me. Put yourself in my place, and judge what your feelings, your fears would be." A stern, severe expression settled on Herbert's face. He leaned back in his chair and regarded Mr. Larkins for several moments without speaking; then, in a cold, set way, remarked: "I admire your candor, but at the same time I must say that I do not see how Clement's unfor- tunate predilection for my sister should make it necessary for you to question me so strangely." "You are hurt with me," Mr. Larkins replied, a moisture dimming his eye." In a tone marked with a quick, quiet haughti- ness, Herbert rejoined: "You ask me to put my- self in your place and judge your feelings, and I repeat the same advice to you. Put yourself in my place and how would you feel? You fear that my father may be the victim of insanity; if so, that insanity runs in the family, and you do not want your son to join it. All right, perfectly right. I for one am willing, even glad to have the connexion severed. Better, far better, now than later." Mr. Larkins was deeply pained. In a voice in which some of the coldness of Herbert's tones sounded, he remarked:   Conclusion.       341 "I know Clement is most devotedly attached to your beautiful and gifted sister." "And," said Herbert, quickly interrupting him, "I believe she is in every respect worthy of that attachment. If you are of a contrary opinion, so be it." "But I am not. Listen to me; I say, listen." Herbert had shown an intention of taking up his pen, and in the drawing up of a brief, abstracting himself to every thing around him. The entreaty in Mr. Larkins's voice arrested his hand; he laid down the pen, and reluctantly attended to what he had to say. "Herbert, let me repeat, I revere your sister, as every one who knows her must. I look upon her as most worthy. Never could Clement find one who would be so dear to his parents. You say your father is of sound mind." "I do." "I see no reason to doubt your word; his ways and expressions have often struck me as singular, but their singularity may be easily accounted for on other grounds then insanity." He paused, hesitated, and resumed:' "That singularity, then, has nothing to do with the mar- riage in question; let it be consummated, and the sooner the better. I shall rejoice in the day that blesses me with such a daughter, my son with such     342     T  he Orphan Sisters. a wife. Let us be friends, Herbert; I am open with you because my heart warms to you as to a son." He reached out his hand, Herbert looked at him a moment, then seized it and warmly pressed it. The cloud passed from his brow. "Mr. Larkins," he impressively said, "I do not, cannot forget the great good your kindness and frankness did for me in the past. It was my manna in the wilderness; it strengthened and sup- ported me when without it I should have sunk utterly exhausted. Yes, you were open to me then, and'in your charity and sympathy you probed the mask of my wretchedness. My reserve melted away in your kindness, my isolation became insup- portable; in your home, in yours and your family's society I learned what real friendship can do to soothe the lone and desolate. You became so dear to me that I was rejoiced when I saw the attachment springing up between your son and my last remaining sister. I felt it would lead to an indissoluble union of our families, and I rejoiced exceedingly thereat. This afternoon you spoke in a way that curdled for a moment these fond hopes." "But only for a moment," Mr. Larkins ex- claimed. "Only for a moment," Herbert repeated; "and   Conclusion.       343 now to go back to where our conversation start- ed."  "You need not, Herbert." "But I must. I too will be open. The sacred duty of inviolable friendship demands it. You have noticed a singularity in my father; others, too, have noticed it; they attribute it to insanity. I tell you it does not arise from that, and you unhesitatingly accept my word." "I do." "You are right. Not insanity, but a stinging remorse calls it forth." Mr. Larkins started; in the low, deep voice of restrained feeling, he exclaimed: "It is as I suspected from the very first." After a little pause, Herbert resumed: "You may recollect, Mr. Larkins, the glowing reports several years since of the splendid fortunes made in California?" "Perfectly well." "Well, when these first began to agitate the public, my father was doing a good business in U. in the mercantile line, but he was not satisfied with moderate gains, and much against my mother's wishes he sold out in U. and moved to San Fran- cisco, the Eldorado of his dreams. ,He then went into the banking business, and was successful to his heart's desire. In the way of business, he had     344     The Orphan Sisters. formed the acquaintance of a poor miner, who often got him to make small remittances to his family. Fortune frowned on the poor fellow, and notwithstanding he was sober and industrious, he sometimes found it impossible to save enough to make out the little sum for his needy family. Occasionally he would get it from father, and father took great credit to himself for his benevo- lence in only charging a fair percentage for the use of his money. Things went on in this way for several years. Then came one of those financial crashes; hundreds who considered themselves safe were swept under." "But your father escaped?" "My father was in great danger; if he could go on for a few days, maybe weeks longer, he might weather the storm; but he wanted money to do this, and he neither had, nor could raise it. About this time, his humble friend, the miner, began to be more prosperous; he had, with means my father had advanced him, been able to buy some small privilege or claim in one of the mines; the claim proved a rich one, and brought him a fortune he never dreamed of possessing. He was almost wild with joy; now he could go back to his wife and children, and bring them ease and comfort to the end of their days. He called on my father, and such was his excitement, that father feared   Conclusion.      345 for his reason. That night he was stricken down with a fever; in a week he died. Father settled his affairs, and found he had left twenty thousand dollars. I told you my father was in want of means to keep him up a little while; without them, he must become bankrupt; with them, he could steady himself for the present, and go on more prosperously than ever for the future. Here the means were. There was, 'tis true, a sacred obli- gation resting on* him to forward them to the widow and her fatherless children, but he argued to himself, if he used them, the storm over, he could easily return them with interest. In the meantime, he would send the widow a letter, and two or three hundred dollars, and say nothing of the larger sum in his hands for her. He did so; the miner's money saved him, the storm passed, and he found himself more firmly established than ever. Now, one would suppose that he would have gladly and gratefully returned to the widow what was hers," Herbert paused as if it was diffi- cult for him to go on. Mr. Larkins waited several moments; then, in a quiet voice, in which no emotion was visible, asked: "And did he not do so?" "No," Herbert answered with bitterness; "with success, the spirit of greed took possession of him; the more he had, the more he craved, he could     346     The Orphan Sisters. not bear to part with it. He quieted his conscience with the miserable argument that she was with her father, and though not wealthy, he was in comfortable circumstances, and would not see her or her children want; besides, in one way or another, the miner had put him to considerable trouble, and had it not been for his advancing him the-means, he would never have been able to pur- chase that claim; again, as long as the widow knew nothing of the means her husband left, had never had them in possession, it was not like de- priving her of what was rightfully hers. This was the wretched sophistry with which he silenced every remorseful pang, and went on as peacefully as if no fearful wrong overshadowed his path.. In a year or two, fearing another crash, he retired from business, and with a large and independent fortune, returned with his family to U., his boy- hood's home, to enjoy it. In tending to the safe investment of his property, buying and beautifying his home, meeting the requirements of society, the fate of the widow and her children passed entirely from his mind, or if he thought of them at all, it was with no painful regret or torturing remorse. She was doubtless doing well enough, and what was the use of his troubling himself about her; besides, my uncle, father's only brother, needed help, and he should not be thinking of strangers   Conclusion.      347 when his own required assistance. By this time, you see, the returning the twenty thousand dollars to the rightful owner looked to him like the actual bestowal of a free gift. He generously helped my uncle, and was enjoying the satisfaction which his kindness to him brought him, when my brother Ralph, who had just returned from Europe, was stricken with a fever here in New York, and before any of us could get to him, he died; soon after my sister Genevieve followed; then May and dar- ling Lilly. My father was roused from his false security. He felt the death of his children was in judgment against him for his dishonesty to the widow. He began to make inquiries about her; he ascertained that her father had died, and she had been in the deepest indigence. She had left her home in A., because it was no longer hers; but where she had gone, he did not learn. In the meantime, another of our family, my brother Ro- bert, died; and like Ralph, away from home; and soon after Olivia went, too. Father's remorse now rose to a perfect agony; he felt all his children would be called from him; he looked on Addie and I as doomed; mother, to whom he had re- vealed all, shared his terrible fears. They made every exertion to hear from the widow; they traced her. from A. to U.; they learned of her death, and that she had two children, and these children were     348     The Orphan Sisters. in the Catholic Orphan Asylum. They feared, as Protestants or non-Catholics', they would not be allowed to adopt them, lest they might be drawn from their faith, and neither did they want to adopt them. They wanted to take them to their home, and do for them as if they were their chil- dren; in this way, they might avert the judgment hanging over them, and their own children be spared to them. Of course, they could not make this explanation to the Sisters, and therefore, to bring their object round as quietly as possible, they represented that it was as servants they wished the girls to come to their house. One was already out at service, the other they got, and determined as soon as her sister's time was out at her place, they would secure her too. This one, as it hap- pened, was at my uncle's; and his family, fearing they were to be adopted, and stand for my father's property, in case all his children died, inflamed her mind against my father and mother, and repre- sented the meanness of letting others do for her, instead of nobly doing for herself; that, on leaving them, she refused to come to us, or recvee any favor whatever from us. Father and mo ht were deeply pained, and studied how they could,/with- out her knowing it, do for her. Finally, /father hired her board at Mrs. Irving's, and paid that lady for giving her lessons, at the same time t iat the   Conclusion.      349 poor child thought she was going through the duties of a servant. Father meant to restore every cent to the orphans; and doing for them now, and meaning to be strictly honest with them, he began to hope the anger of the Lord might be turned from him, and he would not, in his old age, be left childless. Scarcely had he taken this hope into his heart and been strengthened by it, when he received the dispatch from you informing him of my sudden and severe illness. His other sons had died away from home, and he felt I, too, was going; that I would never, but as a lifeless corpse, return to the home over which hung so black a curse. He came; he found life in me, and in order to pre- serve it, he was lashed on to make still further restitution. As soon as I got able to bear it, he laid the whole matter before me, and requested me to draw up writings which would secure to the orphans twenty thousand dollars apiece, thereby just doubling what had been left them. In his remorse, he felt, if the widow had not met with such poverty and distress in her widowhood, she might have been spared to her children; therefore, to make up as far as he is able their sad loss, he and mother intend to have a parents' care over them.' Addie and I have regained our health and strength; there' is every prospect that we will be     350     The Orphan Sisters. spared to them, that their old age will not be left childless, that thankless relatives or utter strangers will not inherit their wealth, and they attribute it to the restitution that has been made the orphans; and on this account they are very dear to them. Gentle, loving little things, they have entwined themselves round the affections of the whole family, so we are united; no discord mars, no petty jealousies disturb our home-peace and hap- piness. Of the still greater favor in the gift of the True Faith that has been vouchsafed Addie and I, I need not now speak, but I entreat you and Mrs. Larkins and Clement to join ours, Addie's, mine, and the dear children's prayers, that the same ines- timable gifts may be extended to my mother and father." "We will, Herbert; most gladly will we offer up our prayers for them. I am glad you have opened this sealed page of your father's life; it explains many things which I am free to confess looked very mysterious to me. Your father's restitution proves his contrition real, and the gratitude and affection of the orphans show how capable he and your mother-and I must add yourself and Addie- are of real kindness. Clement, as you are aware, is deeply attached to Addie, and let me assure you, that I and his mother will bless the day that   Conclusion.      351 will give us a daughter so worthy of our most earnest affection." Herbert, unable in the fullness of his heart to speak, grasped his hand and warmly pressed it. On the festival of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Winston were bap- tized. Their children and friends felt their prayers 'had been heard and answered. In the course of a couple of years, Addie and Clement were married. The home in U. was not thereby left desolate, for at the same time, Herbert was married to Lilly Irving. Herbert having attained an enviable repu- tation in New York, as one of the first lawyers of the day, found he could maintain that reputation, and find ample business in U. Miss Irving, feeling her mother was now well provided for, joined the Orderof the Immaculate Heart of Mary. In three years more, Emily Gleason became a Sister of Charity, and Sarah Gleason married the brother of Lilly, a successful young physician. Mrs. Hacket, with her warm, fervent piety and indo- mitable energy prospered; her children grew up a blessing to her and an honor to the Church. Her- bert's worth and integrity were duly appreciated, and he was called to fill high and important sta- tions; but no distinction was so prized as that of an earnest Christian. With the growing laxity of     352     Thze Orphan Sisters. faith and morals, he would have feared that an insidious skepticism would become universal, and sweep Christianity, and with it all good from the. earth; but he knew Christ's word would never fail, that the Catholic Church was " the same yesterday, to-day, and forever," and in spite of all the storms raised against it, Christianity, through that Church, would endure to the end of time. m            '.F D.   "ST OF BOOKS PUBLISHED BY D.     i. Sadlier & Co., 31 Barclay Street, NEW YORK. Is' Any book on tlis list will be sent by mail, pos8t age paid, on receipt of the pub4eswdc price. A Sure Way to find out the True Religion. 16mo. cloth,            . $0 25 Abbey of Ross. 16mo, 50 cts. * cloth gilt, . O 75 Adventures of a Protestant in Search of a Religion. $1 50; cloth gilt, . .   2 00 Agnes of Braunsberg. 16mo, 50 cts.; cl. gt. O 75 Alice Harmon; and other Tales. By an Exile of Erin, $1 25; cloth gilt, . . . . 1 75 Alice Sherwin : an Historical Tale. 12mo, . 1 25 cloth gilt, .  .  .  . .  .  . 1 50 Anecdotes of Napoleon. 32mo, cloth, .  . O 60 Art Maguire ; or, The Broken Pledge, .   O 75 cloth gilt- ..            1 00 Art of Suffering, The. 16mo, 50 cts.; cl. gilt,. O 75 Augustine the Mysterious Beggar. 16mo, .  O 50 cloth gilt,       .       O 75 Aunt Honor's Keepsako. ByMrs. J. Sadlier. 16mo, $1; cloth gilt, . .      1 25 A Stormv Life. By Lady Fullerton. Svo, cloth, 1 50 cloth gilt, .   .  .  .  .   2 00 Babbler, The: a Drama, in One Act, for Boys, O 25 Balmes's Fundamental Philosophy. Trans- latedby Brownson. 2vols., $4; half mor., 6 00 Banim's Works Complete. 10 vols.-12mo, cl., 15 00 half morocco, $20 half calf . .  . 25 00 Benjamin; or, The lPupil of the Christian Brothers, 50 cts.; cloth gilt, . . . O 75 Bessy Conway; or, The Irish Girl in Ame- rica. 75cts.; cloth full gilt, . . . 1 00 Sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of the price.     2       Publications of BIBLES: Sadlier's Pocket Editionq from $1 50 to .$7 50 Post Quarto Edition, from $4 to. 8 00 Small Quarto Edition, from $4 to 13 00 "  Boy. Quarto Edition, from $11 to 20 00 Imp. Quarto Edition from $17 to 32 00 "Folio Edition, from 1i8 to . .38 00 Canvassing Editions, from $16 to 18 00 Bible History. By Rev. James O'Leary, D D. Half bound, ......           1 50 cloth, $2; cloth gilt,         2 50 Bit o' Writin', and other Tales. By Banim,. 1 50 Black Baronet, The. By Carleton,  .    1 6U Black Prophet: a Tale of the Famine. By Carleton,  .  .            50 Blakes and the Flanagans. 'By Mrs. J. Sad- tier. $1 25H; cloth gilt, . . .  . 1 50 Blanche Leslie, ..   ..         O 60 Blighted Flower, The. 16mo, .-   .    O 50 cloth gilt, .  .  ..           075 Bohemians in the 15th Century, .    . O 60 cloth gilt, ..       .  .  . O g0 Bossuet's History of the Variations of the Protestant Churches. 2 vols. 12mo,  . 3 00 Do.  do., half mor., . .  .  .    00 Boyhood of Great Painters. 2 vols., .   1 20 cloth gilt  . .....          1 80 Boyne Water, The. By Banim. 12mo, .     1 50 Bridge's Algebra, with Additions by the Christian Brothers. Half bound, .    O 45 Bridge's Ancient History. 12mo, .  .    1 25 Bridge's Modern History. 12mo, .  .    1 50 Brownson. Conversations on Liberalism,   1 00 Brownson's Essays. Cloth, -2 ; half nmor., 3 00 half calf.  ..              50 Burke's Primary Arithmetic, .        O 95 " Practical Arithmetic -  -    . 0.6 rractical Key to Arithmetic, .   1 26i Bits of Blarney. By Dr. R. Shelton Mac- kenzie, 12mo,  .1 50 Cmecilia : a Roman Drama in 3 Acts, .  . O 40 Calista: a Sketch of the Third Century. By Rev. John 1I. Newman,    ..     1 25 cloth gilt,     .         1 50 Card-Drawing. The Half-Sir. and Suil Dhur, 1 50 Carleton's Works. 10 vols. 12mo, cloth, . 15 00 half morocco, $20; half calf, . . . 25 00 Carpenter's Speller, .      .     O 20 Castle of Rousillon. 75 cents; cloth gilt, . 1 00 CATECtISIMS: Butler's Catechisms, with Scriptural Cate- chism for U. S. Per 100, net, . . . 4 50 Do. do. with Prayers at M ass, cloth,   O 15 Do. do. for Diocese of Quebec. Per 100, net 4 50 Do. do. for Diocese of Toronto. Per 100, net 4 50 Do. do. for Diocese of St. John's. Per 100, net 4 50 Sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of the price.   D. & J. Sadlier &      Co., N. Y.  3 Small New York Short Abridgment Chris- tian Doctrine. Per 100, net, . . . $2 75 Boston-an abridgment of Do. for Diocese of Boston. Per 100,. net  . . .   2 75 Do. do., with Prayers at Mass. Per 100, net, 4 50 Do. do. do., flex. cloth. Per 100, net,. . 8 00 General Catechism Christian Doctrine. By order National Council. Per 100, net,. 2 75 A General Catechism prepared by order of National Council, Illustrated with 50 Engravings and Descriptive Text,  . O 25 Catechism Sacred History, By Mrs. Sadlier, O 25 Catholic Youth's Library, 1st series, 12 vols. 6 00 cloth gilt,   ,  .       . 9 00 Do..  Do.    2d series, 12 vols., 6 00 cloth gilt, .9 00 Do o .   .   3d series, 6 vols., 3 00 Catholic Youth's Library. 3d series, 6 vols., cloth gilt, .  .           4 50 Do.   Do.    4th series. 6 vols. 3 00 cloth gilt,       .  .  .  . 4 50 Catholicity and Pantheism. By Rev. J. De Concilio,        .       2 00 Catholic Choir-Book. By Garbett, .   . 2 50 Catholic Harp. By Kirk, .  .  .  .  .0 50 Catholic's Rule of Life .  .  .     O 25 Catholic Legends. 12mo, cloth,   .    1 00 Catholic Anecdotes.-Vol. 1, . .  .   O 75 Do.   Do.   Vol. 2, . .  .  . 1 00 Do.   Do.   Vol. 3, .  .     1 00 Do.   Do.   3 vols. in one,    2 50 cloth/gilt, .  .  .  .  .. .   3 00 Catholic Crusoe, $125 2 cloth gilt, . . 1 75 Catholic Christian Instructed. Paper, .  O 25 cloth,  .  .  .    .  .    . o 40 Celt's Paradise. By Banim. Cloth gilt,   1 00 Children of the Abbey. 12mo, . .    . 1 50 Christian Armed -against the Seductions of the World,  .     .0 50 'Christian Brothers' First Reader. Per doz., 1 50 Do.   Do.  Second Header,  .  . O 25 Do.   Do.  Third Reader,   .  . O 63 Do.   Do,  Table Book. Per 100,   5 00 Christian Instructed. Quadrapanni, .   O 40 Christian Missions. By Marshall. 2 vols., . 4 00 half morocco, $6; lialf calf, . . . 7 50 Church Architecture.-Ten Working Designs for Catholic Churches. By Chas. Sholl. Large folio, $15; half morocco,  .  20 00 Circles of the Living Rosary. Per 100 sheets, net, . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 2 50 Clare Maitland. 50 cents: cloth gilt . . O 75 Clock of the Passion. By St. Liguori, . . O 45 Cloister Legends. $1; cloth gilt, .   . 1 50 Cobbett's History Reformation, .  .  . 1 25 "  Legacies to Parsons  .  .  . O 60 Collegians: a Tale of Garryowen, . .  .  1 50 Collott's Doctrinal and Scriptural Catechism, O 63 Con O'Regan. $1; cloth gilt, . .    .  1 25 Confederate Chieftains: a Tale of 1641,.  2 00 cloth gilt, I  .  .  .  .  .   2 50 Sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of the price.     4       Publications of Confessions of St. Augustine,      . $0 75 cloth, red edges, . . .  .  .  .  00 Confessions of an Apostate. 75 cts.; cl. gt., 1 00 Consolation for the Afflicted and those who Mourn. 3Smo, paper, 25 cents; cloth, 50 cents; cloth, red edges, 75 cents; roan, red edges, $1; morocco, $2; calf, . . 2 00 Cottage and Parlor Library. 12 vols., . . 10 75 cloth gilt,   ...   .  . .  . 13 75 Do.   Do.   2d series, 10 vols., 10 75 cloth it   .             13 25 Croppy.  yanim    Cloth, . . .  .   50 Daily Steps to Heaven. By Nun of Kenmare, 1 50 cloth gilt   ...   . .  .  . 2 00 Daughter of Tyrconnell. 50 cts.; cloth gilt, O 75 Davs, Thomas. Poems and Essays,   .  . 1 50 De Smet's New Indian Sketches, .  .  . O 60 cloth gilt. .  .  .  .       0.90 Denounced, The. By Banim, .        1 50 Devil, The. Does he Exist? . .  .  . 1 00 Devotion to St. Joseph. $1; cl., red edges,. 1 25 Disappointed Ambition. 75 cts.; cloth gilt, 1 00 Duke of Monmouth. By Griffin,  .  .  . 1 50 Dumb Boy of Fribourg. 50 cents; cloth gilt, O 75 Duties of Young Men. 75 cents cloth gilt,. 1 00 Duty of a Christian towards Go .  .  . O 63 Dyrbington Court. $1 25; cloth gilt, . . 1 75 Easter in Heaven. By Rev. F. X. Weninger, S J.,  . .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1-00 cloth gilt, .  .  ..         1 25 Elder Brother: a Drama in 2 Acts for Boys, O 25 Elinor Preston. 75 cts.; cloth gilt, . .   00 Ellie Laura: a Drama. By Rev. Jas. O'Leary, O 40 Emigrants of the Adharrah. By Carleton, . 1 50 End of Controversy. By Milner, .  ..   1 00 paper,   ...   .  .       O 50 Epistles and Gospels. Cloth,   .   . . 30 Evil Eye. By Carieton,       .  . 1 50 Exile of Tadmore. Cloth, 50 cts.; 'cloth gilt, O 75 Fabiola. By Cardinal Wiseman,  .  .  . 1 50 cloth gilt, .  ..          2 00 Faculties ef the Soul: A Drama, .   . O 25 Fardorougit , the Miser, .     .   1 50 Fate and Fortunes of O'Neils and O'Doneills, 2 00 Father Connell. By Banim,  .  .  .  . 1 50 Father Jerome's Library. 12 vols., cloth, . 3 60 paper,    .  ..   .  .   .  42 40 Father Mathew. Maguire   .    .  . 2 00 Father Mathew. Nun of Henmare,    .  1 00 Sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of the price.   D. & J. Sadlier. Co., N. Y.      5 Father Sheehy. 50 cts.'; cloth gilt,   $0 75 Father De Lisle. 60 cts.; cloth gilt, . . 0 Fetches and Peter of Castle. By Banim,   1 Fireside Library, Sadlier's. 12 vols., cloth, extra, $9 25; cloth gilt   .    12 2 Florence McCarthy. By Lady Morgan,     1 50 cloth gilt, .2 00 Flowers of Christian Wisdom, . Following of Christ. 24mo, cloth, 60 cts.: red edges, 75 cts. ; emb. gilt, $1 13 morocco extra, $2 50; 18mo, emb. gilt, $1 50; full gilt, $175; morocco, extra, .     3 00 For Iusks, Food. By author of "Lascine,  1 50 Family, The. By Mrs. James Sadlier. Paper, O 25 cloth  .               O 60 Garland of Flowers  .  .        2 50 Gerald Marsdale. 1 25; cloth gilt     1 75 Germaine Cousin. ByLady Fulleron,     O 25 Ghost Hunter, The. By Banim,  .  .    0 Giles's Lectures. $2 , hf. mor., 2 50 hf. of 3 00 Golden Primer: Per dozen,  .      .  7. Goldsmith's Poems and Vicar of Wakefleld. 16mo, $1; cloth gilt,  .       i  Gospel of St. John, in Latin. Per 100,   O 75 Graces of Mary. 60 cents red eds, .    O 75 Great Day, The. 50 cents; cloth gilt, .  O 75 Gahan's Sermons .    .      . HandyAndy. ByLover. Cloth, $1 50; paper,  75 Heiress of Kilorgan. $1 25 ; cloth gilt,  1 50 Hermit of thO Rock. $1 25; cloth gilt,   1 50 Heroines of Charity. $1; cloth gilt,    1 25 Hidden Saints. 12mo   .    .     1 25 History, Manual of Ancient,  .      1 25 History, Manual of Modern,  .  .     1 0 History of Captivity of Pius IX.,     O 40 History of Ireland. By McGeoghegan, .   3 50 half mor., $4 50; half calf, .5 00 History of Ireland. By John Mitchel, .   3 50 half morocco $4 50 * half calf, . .  5 00 History of Ireland. By McGee. 2 vols., cloth, 00 half mor., $4; half calf, . . . .  5 00 History of Ireland. By Nun of Kenmare.   4 00 half mor. . 5 half calf, $6; mor., extra, 8 00 History of Irish Saints. $2 50; cloth gilt, . 3 CO History of Irish Martyrs. $2 cloth glt,  2 50 Hiistoryof War in LaVend6e. $1 25; cl gt., 1 50 Holland Tyde. By Griffin,        . 1 50 Holy Way of the Cross. Paper, 10 cts.; cloth, 015 Hornehurst Rectory. By Nun of Kenmare,   2 50 cloth gilt  . .  .         3 00 Hue's Ohristianity in China and Japai  2 volg.,!3; half mor., $4 50; half calf,- 5 00 Idleness; or, The Double Lesson, . .   O 50 cloth gilt, .       .     O 75 Ierne of Armorica: a Tale of the Time of Chlovis, .  .  . .  .  .  .  .    150 Sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of the price.     6      Publications of Immaculate Conception. By Lambruschini, $1 00 Invasion: a Tale of Conquest. By Griffin, .1 50 Invisible Hand: a Drama,  .   . .    O 25 Ireland-Mitchel and IcGeoghegan. 1 vol. 4to, half morocco, $15 ; mor., extra, $17; panelled, $20; blocred, $22; imitation blocked, $16; 2 vols. half mor., gilt, $20  cheap edition, 8vo cloth, 2vols., $7; half mor., $9; half call, $10. Irish in America. By Maguire, .  . . 2 00 Irish on the Prairies, and other Poems, . 1 50 cloth gilt, .            2 00 Ivan, the Leper's Son, 50 cts,; cloth gilt, , O 75 Jane Sinclair. By Carleton, .  .     50 Jim Fagan. 50 cents; cloth gilt .    . O 75 Julia; or, The Gold Thimble: abDrama, . O 25 Keighley Hall and the Maltese Cross, .  . O 0 cloth gilt, . .  .  . .  .  . O 75 King and Cloister: or, Legends of the Disso- lution. $1; cloth gilt,     .  1 0 Langalerie, Mouth of St. Joseph. Translated by a Sister ot St. Joseph. Cloth, . . O 75 Lady Amabel. 50 cents; cloth gilt  ..  O 75 Legends and Stories of Ireland. ByLover, $1 50; do., paper,   ..  ..    O 75 Letter-Writer, The Practical. Half bound, . O 31 Legends of St. Joseph. $1 ; cloth gilt, . . 1 50 Life of Blessed Margaret Mary Alacoque. By Rev. Geo. Tickell, S J. $1 25; cloth gilt, 1 75 Life of Blessed Virgin. 8vo, cloth, $4; half mor., $5; half mor., gilt, . .    6 00 Life of Blessed Christ. Cloth, $4; half mor.: $5; half mor., gilt, . .  . .  . 6 00 Life of Blessed Virgin. 32mo, . .0 40 cloth gilt, . .  .  .  . .  . O 60 Life of St. Bernard. $150; cloth gilt, . 2 00 Life of St. Elizabeth. $1 560; cloth gilt,. . 2 00 Life of St. Francis of-Assisium, Life of St. Francis of Rome. $1; cloth gilt, . 1 25 Life of St. Francis Sales. $1; cloth gilt, . 1 25 Life of Vincent de Paul, $1; cloth gilt, .1 25 Life of St. Joseph. 75 cents; cloth gilt, . 1 00 Life of St. Patrick. $1; cloth gilt,. . . 1 25 Life of Father Mathew. Maguire, . .   2 00 Life of Father Mathew. Clare, .  .   1 00 Life of St. Paul of the Cross. $1 50 ; cl. gilt, 2 00 Life of Empress Josephine. $1 50 ; cloth gilt, 2 00 Life of Gerald Griffin. $1 50; cloth gilt, . 2 00 Life of John Banim. $150; cloth gilt, . . 2 00 Life of Mary, Queen of Scots. $1 50; cl. gt., 2 00 Life of Curran, . .  .  .  .  . . 1 75 Sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of the price.   D. & J. Sadlier &   Co.,  . y.   7 tLife of Catharine McAuley. $2 50; cloth gilt, $3 00 Life of Brig.-Gen. Thos. . Meagher, . .2 00 cloth glt,   .  .  .  :  .  .  .  2  Life of Scour Marie   .    .  .  .  2  Life of Dr. Doyle. 5 cents; cloth gilt,  1 00 Life of Fathers of the Deserts, . .  . 1 25 cloth gilt       .         7? Lives of Irish Saints and Martyrs. 85 plates:.  4to, cloth gilt, $10, half morocco, $15; morocco, extra,  17; panelled $20;' blocked, .  .  .  .  .  .  . Life of Blessed Virgin Mary. 84 plates.' 4to' half mor., $15- imitation mor, $14 60 mor  ex'tra, $l ; bevelled, $1p ; panel- led, a1 ; bloked,   '.     .    00 Life of Our Saviour, Jesus Christ. 34 plates. Half mor., $15; imitation mor., $14 ; mor., extra, ;17; bevelled, $18; panelled, $19; blocked,     ..          20 00 Life Duties. B Bi. E. Marcy. $1 50 6; I gilt, 2 00 Lily of Israel.. 5 cents; cloth gilt, .  . 1 00 Little Testaments, Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, O 25 Lives of'Fathers and Martyrs, and other Prin- cipalSaints. By Rev. Alban Butler. 4 vols cloth, $8; arabesque gilt, $12; h'al mor $15; mor., extra, $2   imit., mor., 16 00 Do 12 vols. half roan, $15; half rumor . 25 00 Do. Quarto Edition. 2 vols., with 57 p  lates, iit gilt $25; mor., extra, $28;   evel le d, 9 ; panelled, $35; blocked, . 88 00 Lives and Times of Roman Pontiffs. 2 vols  8, cloth, $14; imit. gilt, $18; half mor., $16. mor., $20; moi. bevelled, $22 50; panelled.  .      .   .. Lives of the Early Xartyrs. 12mo,    . 1 25 cloth gilt  .    .  .1 .       0150 Lost Genovea. 60 cts.; cloth gilt,     O 90 Lost Son. 75 cents; cloth gilt, . .    1 00 Love. By Lady Herbert. 75 cts,.; cloth gilt, 1 00 Lucille *,he Young Flower-maker, .   . O 50 cloth gilt,  .           . 075 Maguire's, John lFrancis, Works. 8 vols., .6 00 3ansan's, Jas. Clarence, Poems, .     . . 200 cloth gilt, .  .    .2          .0 Manning, Archbishop, Vatican Council,. .   25 '   "  "    Sin and its Consequences, so Manual Devotion Sacred Heart, Marion Elwood  .01    ..2 Martyrs of the Coliseum   By Rev. A J. O'Reilly. Cloth, $1 50; cloth gilt, .  . 2 00 Martyrs, The. ly Chateaubriand,   .   1 50 cloth gilt, $2; half mor.,  . .     0. 0 Mass, Prayers and Ceremonies of, .1 50 Maureen Dhu. $1 25; cloth gilt,  .   .  1 50 Mayor of Windgap. By Banira,  .     .  10 Mc(arthy More. $1; cloth gilt,       1   25 McGee's, Thos. D'Aray, Poems,'      12    cloth gilt, $3; half mor., $3 50; mor., es., 4 50 &nt by mail, postage paid, on   receipt of the plice.     8      Publications of McGee's Ireland. 2 vols. cloth, . .  $300 MoGeoghegan's History of Ireland. (See History.)  Meditations on St. Joseph, .    .  1  cloth, red edges, .          2 00 Meditations on the Eucharist and Sacred Heart. By Brother Philip, .      50 Metropolitan Old First Reader,      O 2 6,    1"J Second      .    45 (,"   lNew First Reader,      O 25 ",    L"Second  "        045 ",    "Third  "        060 "     "Fourth "       O 75 G6   "Fifth  "        1 18 "Sixth  "  ,"   Spelling-Book,        O 25 " I. Speller and Definer,    O 4 Miner's Daughter. GO cts.; cloth, gilt, O 90 Mission of Death, By Walworth, .     075 cloth gilt, ..             00 Missions in Japan and Paraguay, .    .  cloth gilt, . .    .     . 125 Mitchel's History of Ireland. (See History.) Month of May. 60 cents; clot re edges, O 75 Mufray's Grammar, abridged. By Putman,  O 20 Introduction to the English Reader, O 31 Mysterious Hermit. Cloth, 50 cts.; clo. gilt, O 75 Month of St. Joseph; or, Exercises for each Day of the Month of March. Cloth, . O 75 Mrs. Gerald's Niece. By Lady Fullerton. 8vo, cloth, $1 50; cloth gilt, .  .  . 2 0 e1apier's History of the Peninsular' War. 8vo, cloth, ' 4; half-mor, $5 50; halfcalt, 6 00 New Indian Sketches. By De Smet, .   O 60 cloth gilt, . .  ..        O  New Lights; or, Life in Galway, .    00 cloth gilt, . .. . .  .  .    3 New Testament. Cloth,         .  63 N"   "(  Fine edition, 18mo, emb: gilt, 1 00 ull gilt, $125; morocco, $2 50; cal . 800 Old Chest, The. Translated from the French by Anna T. Sadlier, $1 50; cloth gilt, . 2 0 Olive's Rescue, and other Tales, 16mo, cloth . O 50 cloth gilt, .         .  . O .5 O'Connell, Lifo of Daniel. By the Nun of Kenmare. Cloth gilt, $10 ; half mor., $15; mor., T17 ; mor. bev., 18; mor. panelled, 20 00 Oddities of Humanity, 60 cents; cloth gilt, . O 90 O'-Donnells of Glen Cottage. By D. P. Co- nyngham. 12mo, $1 50.; cloth, gilt, . . 2 00 Office of the Blessed Virgin, in Latin and Englisb,  .  *.    .  .  . 040 OldandNew,   ; co  gilt,    .. 1 50 Old House by the loyne, 1 25; cloth gilt, . 1 50 O'Leary's Bible H5istory. Cloth, 2; ci. gilt, 2 60 School Edition, hf bound, 1 50 One Hundred Tales. By Schmidt,.  .  .  60  cloth gilt, . .  .         O 20 Oram's Table Book,            00 Orphan of Moscow, 75 cts. cloth gilt,   00 Our Lady of Lourdes, $2; cloth gilt,   60 St by mail, postage paid, on receipt of th prico.   D. & J. Sadlier & Co., N. Y.  Pastorini's History of the Church,.  . . $1 25 Peep o' Day. By Banim  .  .    .   1 60 People's Martyr, The. St. Thos. i Becke,  1 00 cloth gilt, .  .  .  ..       1 50 Perrin's 1'rench and English Conversations, O 88 half bound, Perrin's French Fables, half bound,   . O 88 Perry's Instructions, .         . 1 00 Pictures of Christian Heroism, cloth, $1 ; l. gt. 1 25 Poachers, The, 50 cts.; cloth gilt,    O 75- Poems. By Griffin, .  .  .  .  .  . 1 50 "'  By McGee, .   .  .  .  ..   2 50 By Mangan, .       ..     2 00 " By Lover              1 50 By Rev. . A-.-Butler,        1 50 "  By Goldsmith,  .1 00 Points of Controversy. By Smarius, .   1 0 Pope and Maguire's Discussion, .     1 25 Pope's Niece, 50 cts.; cloth gilt     O 75 Poor Man's Catechism. Paper, 5 cts.: cloth, O 40 Poor Scholar. By Carleton. 75 cts.; cloth gilt, 1 00 Pope Pius the Ninth and Temporal Rights of the Holy See,              O 40 Prayer-Books: Altar Manual. 24mo edition. 50 cts. to . 5 00 Do.    18moedition. $1 to .  . 10 00 Daily Prayers. 18mo, with Epistles and Gospels, $1 to  .         12 00 Do.    18mo, fine ed. 75 cts. to . 10 00 Golden Manual. $1 25 to  . .  .  .0 00 Gems of Paradise. Red line ed. $1 50 to 80 00 Do.     48mo. 31 cts. to . . 15 00 Do.     64mo. 25 cts. to.  . 10 00 Gate of Heaven. 32mo. 38-cts. to  .  . 20 00 Garden of the Soul. 18mo. $1 to    . 16 00 Help of Christians. 18mo. $1 25 to  . 20 00 , Manual of the Passion. 18mo. $1 to  . 15 00 Mission-Book. 18mo. 75 cts. to .  .   20 00 Do.   24mo. 60 cts. to . .   15 00 Garland of Prayer. 82mo.  2 50 to . , 20 00 Mass-Book. 50 cts. to .   .  .    5 00 Path to Paradise. 32mo, new ed. 838 cts. to 15 00 Do.    48mo. 3 cts. to  .   10 00 ' Key of Heaven. 24mo, old ed. 38 cts. to. 5 00 Do.    24mo, new ed. 50 cts. to 25 00 Do.    18mo, new ed. 75 cts. to 80 00 Little Key to Heaven. 64mo. 20 cts. to . 5 00 Way to Heaven. 18mo. 75 cts. to  .   30 00 Do.    24mo. 50cts. to  .   25 00 St. Dominic's Manual 24mo. $1 to .    12 00 St. Patrick's Manual. 18mo. $ to  . . 40 00 Pocket Manual. 48mo. 25 cts. to  .    8 00 Raccolta, The. 24mo, 63 cts. to .  .   6 00 Journde du Chretien. 50 cts. to . .  .15 00 Paroissen des Petits. 25 cts. to .  . 10 l0 Preston's Sermons, .    .  .  .   2 50 "  Lectures on Christian Unity, .  1 50 Pretty Plate. By Huntington. 50 cts.; cl. gilt, O 75 Priest's Sister. 16mo, 50 cts. ; cloth gilt, . O 75 Prophecies of St. Columbkille, .  .  . O 60 Public School Education. By Muller, .   1 0 Sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of the price.     10      Publications of Bavellings from Web of Life. By C. J. Can- non. Cloth   .          . $1 50 Recluso of Rambouillet. 60 cts.; cloth gilt, O 75 Reeve's Bible History, . .  .  .   O 90 Religion in Society, . .  .       1 50 Robert May. 50 cents; cloth gilt, . . . O 75 Rome and the Abbey. Cloth, ,l 25 cl. gilt, 1 75 Rome and its Ruler. By Maguire,.    . 2 00 Roothan's Meditations,   .  .    . O 50 Rory O'More. By Lover, $1 50; do., paper, O 75 Rosary Sheets. Per 100, net, .      2 50 Rosemary. By Huntington, $2; cloth gilt, . 2 50 Rule of Life, .  .  .  .       O 25 Redmond Count O'Hanlon. By Carletoll,   60 ;Rose Le Blatc. By Lady Fullerton. 1inmo, cloth, $1; cloth gilt,        1 50 Sadlier, Mrs. J., Original Works of: Alice Riordan, . .           O 60 Bliakes and Flanagans, . . .  .  . 1 25 Red Hand of Ulster,  . B    *  . o 0 Willy Burke,   .  .  ..0       60 New Lights or, Life in Galway, .     1 00 The Confederate Chieftains,. .   . 2 00 Elinor Presto,    .  .       O 75 Bessy Conway, .  .0 7 Confessions of an Apostate,.   1 .     O 75 Con O'Regan  .   t   .       1 00 Father Sheehy, and Other Tales, .   O 50 The Old House by the Boyne,  .   ,1 25 Aunt Honor's Keepsake,    .100 Daughter oL Tyrconnel,  .       O 50 Mac'arthy More,.   .  .  .      00 The Heiress of Kilorgan,         1 25 Old and New,               1 25 The Hermit of the Rock,         1 25 Catechism of Sacred History, .  *   O  Maureen I)hu, .  .  .         1 25 The Secret: a Drama,         . O  The Talisman: a Drama,        , O 25 The Babbler: a Drama,           25 Jul^a; or, The Gold Thimble: a Draa, .  O 25 The Elder Brother,.           O 25 The Invisible Hand  .    .  . . O 25 adlier's, Mrs. J., Translations from the French: Orphan of Moscow,.  .         O 75 Castle of Rousillon,          O 75 Consolation for the Sick and Afflicted, O 50 Benjamin,       .         O 50 The Pope's Niece, and Other Tales, .  O 50 Idleness; or, The Double Lesson,     O 60 The Knout : a Tale of Poland,      1 00 Tne Blighted Flower, .  .       O 50 Ten Stories,   .0 50 Valeria, or, The First Christians,    O 50 The Exile of Tadmor, .    .      50 Tales and Stories, .     .     O 50 &te by mail, postage  ai, o on receipt of th price.   D. d J. Sadher   d Co., A. Y.   " The Vendetta, and Other Tales,.    $050 Wilhelm and Agnes of Braunsberg, . . 0 The Lost Son, ..              Catholic Anecdotes. Part I.;      O 7 O 75 The same, PartH.,   . .       1 0 The same. Part III,       .    00 The same. PartIII           1 00 The same. 3 vols. in ,   .2 0 The Mysterious Hermit,  .       2 b The Poachers' . .           0 The Bohemians,        . .   O 50 The Spanish Cavaliers,         O 60 The Devil, Does He Exist?       0. 7  The Priest's Sster, and the Inherita , . 00 Legends of St. Joseph,    . .    00 Faculties of the Soul. A Diaiogue for Young Ladies. In one Act and three Scenes, .  .0 The Year of Mary' or, The True Servan 0 of the Blessed Virgin, . . . Selim; or,'The Pacha of Salonica, o .  0 The Great Day,        .     O  Life of Christ. 8vo, cloth    *     0 Life of Virgin. 8vo; cloth,      400 Life of Christ, for youth,       O 75 cloth, red edges,   .       1 00 Scottish Chiefs. By Miss Porter,  .  1 25 Sebastian, the Roman Martyr,      O 40 cl oth  gilt        .   . O 75 Secret, The : a Drama for Girls,     O 1d h  rT  he PasWad of SLoniua, .  .  0 Sermons on Moral Subjects. By Wiseman, S2 0 Our Lord and his B. M.    2 00 'o   Preston,.      .  ic   By Gahan,         . 2 5 Sick Calls, 75 cts ; cloth gilt  Sin and its Consequences. y s'an n,   1 60 Snatches of Song. By Una,  .       50 - Song Books: Harp of Erin Songster. Paper, 20 cts.; c, O 40 Forget me Not. aper, 20 ts. cloth   O  40 Emerald ; or, Wearing of the reen ong- ster. o aper, 20 cts.; cloth, . . . O 40 Shamrock Songster. Paper, 25 cts. cloth, O  50 Songs for Catholic Schools, .      O 50 songs of Irelandnd Oher Lads,      00 Spanish Cavaliers. 75 cts cloth gilt  Spirit of the Nation,.        . O    Stations of the Cross. Paper, O cts. ; cloth, O 15 Stepping Stones to Grammar,       O 20 Stepping Stones to Geography. . .  . O 20 Stories of the Beatitudes. 50 cts. ; cloth gilt, O 75 St. Augustine's Confessions,      075 cloth, red edges, . .         00 Sullivan's Spelling-Book Superseded   O 801 Sure Way tofind out True Religion,  . O 25 Straw Cutter's Daughter, and The Portrait in My Uncle's DititiIg-iRoomn. By Lady Ful- lerton, $1; cloth gilt,       1 50 Sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of the price.   4     I     12  D. & J. Sadlier &   Co.,  . Y. Tales and Legends from History. $1; cL gt., $1 25 Tales and Stories. 50 ots.; cloth gilt, . . O 75 Tales and Stories Irish Peasantry. Carleton, 1 25 cloth gilt, .1 75 Tales of the Jury-Room. Griffin,  .   1 50 Tales Five Senses and Night at Sea. Griffin, 1 50 Tales from the Diary of a Missionary Priest, O 75 cloth gilt, . .  .  .  .    . 1 00 Tales of the Five Senses, 75 cts.; cloth gilt, . 1 00 Talisman: a irama for Girls, .      O 25 Ten Stories. 50 cts.; cloth gilt .0 78 Ten Working Designs for Catholic Churches, containing all Details and Specifications. etc. Folio $15; half mor., .  .   20 00 The Family. Translated from the French by Mrs. James Sadlier, paper,   .  . O 25 The Two Brothers. 50 cts.; cloth gilt, . O 75 Think Well On't. By Dr. Challoner,   . O 81 Tithe Proctor. By Carleton,    .   1 60 Travels in the East and Holy Land. By Ve- tromille. 8vo, cloth, t3; cloth gilt, . 4 00 Treasure Trove. By Lever. $1 50; paper, O 75 True Spiritual Conferences. St. Francis De Sales, ..                1 50 Truth and Error. By Dr. Brann, .  .  . 1 00 Tuber Derg. By Carleton, 75 cts.; cloth gilt, 1 00                           / Too Strange not to be True. By Lady Ful- lerton. 8vo, cloth, $1 50; cloth gilt, . 2 00 True to the End, and Cardan the Galley-Slave 18mo, cloth, $0 50; gilt. . . . . O 75 Two Victories, The. A Catholic Tale. By Rev. I'. J. Potter, 16mo, cloth, $1 ; gilt, . 1 50 Victims of the MamertinePrison. ByAuthor of Martyrs of the Coliseum. 12mo, cloth, $2; cloth gilt,   ..         2 50 Valentine McClutchy, the Irish Agent, .   . 60 Valeria. 16mo, cloth, 50 cts.; cloth gilt, O 75 Vatican Council and its Definition. By - Manning    .    .       1 25 Vendetta. lCmo, cloth, 50 cts. ; cloth gilt, O 75  Vessels of the Sanctuary. 16imo, cloth,. O 50 cloth gilt, .           . O 75 Vetromille's Travels in East and Holy Land. 8vo, $3 ; cloth gilt,        . 4 00 Virtues and Defects of a Young Girl,  .  75 cloth gilt, . .  .  ..       1 00 Walsh's History of the Irish Church,. 8vo, 8 50 half mor., marble, $4 50; half mor., gilt, 5 00 Ward's Cantos. Englaud's Reformation, .  1 00 Ward's Errata of the Protestant Bible,. . I 00 Well I Well I By Wallace. $1 25 ; cloth gilt, 1 50 Which is Which: a Drama for Girls, .   O 25 Wilhelm and Agnes of Braunsberg,    .0 50 cloth gilt   .          . O 75 Willie Reilly and his Dear Colleen Bawn, . 1 60 Winefred Jones. IGmo, cloth,       O 60 cloth gilt, . .  .     .    O 75 Winefried, Countess of Nithsdale,     1 00 cloth gilt, . .  .  .    .   1 25 Wiseman, Cardinal, Sermons. 2 vols., . , 4 00 Witch of Melton Hill. $1; cloth gilt, .  1 25 Young's Complete Sodality Manual,     1 O  Young Savoyard.  60 cents; cloth gilt, .  O      
         
      
   
