
    ----CITATION----
        Hamilton, M. J. R., Mrs.. Cachet, or, The Secret Sorrow .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6604
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               CACHET; 
               OR, THE SECRET SORROW. 
               A NOVEL. 
             
            BY MRS. M. J. R. HAMILTON.
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               G. W. Carleton & Co., Publishers. 
               LONDON: 
               S. LOW, SON & CO.
             
            M.DCCC.LXXIII. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, by G. W. CARLETON & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 
            
               Stereotyped at the WOMEN'S PRINTING HOUSE, 56, 58 and 60 Park Street, New York.
             
          
          
             
            DEDICATION. 
            TO THE MEN AND WOMEN OF THE ANGLO-SAXON RACE IN ALL LANDS, AND ESPECIALLY TO THE INHERITORS OF THAT PROUD TITLE AND ESTATE IN MY OWN LOVED AMERICA-SOME OF WHOM, CARELESS OF THEIR BIRTHRIGHT, WOULD BRING IT TO DISHONOR-THIS BOOK-PROMPTED BY A FEELING OF PRIDE IN A NOBLE BLOOD, FROM WHICH NEARLY ALL THAT IS GRAND, AND BEAUTIFUL, AND USEFUL, IN GOVERNMENT, MORALS, SCIENCE, ART AND ARMS, HAS SPRUNG, AND BY A SINCERE CHRISTIAN PITY (NOT CONTEMPT) FOR ALL THAT GOD, IN HIS PROVIDENCE, HAS MADE IGNOBLE OR HUMBLE-IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED BY THE 
            
               AUTHOR.
             
          
       
      
         
            Cachet, or, The secret sorrow 
             
             
             
                
                  
                      
                        "Pygmies are pygmies still, though perched on Alps; 
                        And pyramids are pyramids in vales." 
                     
                   
                  YOUNG. 
                
             
             
             
            CACHET; OR, THE SECRET SORROW. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               "WHAT a beautiful sunset!" said Carrie May to Lilly Byrne, as they stood upon the threshold of the venerable old College of N-; and then entwining her arms lovingly about her friend, they together sat down for a few moments to enjoy the glorious sheen of the evening sky, catch the summer zephyrs as they floated by, and talk over the many pleasing incidents that make up the too-fleeting life of the merry schoolgirl. 
               Yes, it was a glorious sunset, and never did its parting rays gild a fairer brow than that of Carrie May. Her heart had the freshness of the dewy floweret, and her spirits were as buoyant as the air she breathed. She thus attracted the rudest natures, and imparted the couleur de rose of her own mind to the darkest pictures of life. Nor was it a subject of wonder that she should have an eye for the beautiful, born as she was in the land of the Orange and Myrtle, where crystal streams and flowery meadows awoke the first thoughts of beauty in her soul. It was there her blue eyes first caught the azure of her native skies, and her heart the genial warmth of her sunny clime. She was of noble origin, and had been taught that the best blood of the Saxon race flowed through her veins; and whilst she was not arrogant or proud, it was an incentive to noble efforts to make herself worthy of her illustrious sires. 
               Carrie was an orphan in one sense of the word; for she lost her father in early infancy, and through the reverses of fortune which happen to the great as well as to the small, she became a child of poverty. Her mother was a lady of refined and cultivated taste, and well did she watch the unfoldings of the precious bud of promise. 
               Who can estimate the influence of a mother upon the character and destiny of her children! Bonaparte recognized the importance of this fact when asked the greatest need of France; he replied, "Mothers for our sons." The stream cannot rise higher than its source, nor can offspring rid themselves of hereditary taint. Like the shirt of Nessus, it sticks through life. 
               To the influence of Carrie's noble mother were attributable all those gifts and graces that scattered the lilies of purity and roses of pleasure whereever her nimble footsteps trod. Through the kindness of a distant relative, she had been placed in the College of N--, where, as a beneficiary, she was to remain until her proficiency enabled her to defray her own expenses in extra branches and accomplishments. 
               Lilly Byrne, who sat beside her, was her companion and class-mate. Though unlike her in many phases of character and feature, she seemed to possess a happy counterpart in her ambition, attracting by some negative affinity the sympathy and confidence of her friend. Lilly had a warm heart, whose susceptibilities were like the tendrils of some thrifty plant, ready to entwine around the most contiguous object that might lift it into the sunshine of happiness. She was precocious, but lacked the equanimity of her friend. Her ambition was sufficient to remove mountains of difficulty in her way to distinction; but a sombre and restive spirit was calculated to make her disposition versatile. Lilly was the child of affluence. Every appliance of wealth had surrounded her with peculiar advantages. Her parents spared no pains to educate their children, and had given all of them (three in number) not only the benefit of American schools, but foreign accomplishments. Lilly being the youngest, it was deemed expedient to prosecute her education nearer home, especially as perilous times were foreboded by the wisest politicians of the country. With a zeal for knowledge far beyond her years, she assiduously applied herself to its acquisition, believing that knowledge was power, and for one to be great much learning was essentially necessary. She was of a contemplative mind, and often given to sad reveries; so much so, that one might have supposed that the bud of infancy had unfolded beneath some Upas shade, or that some early blight had touched the delicate flower. 
               "Lilly, why do you look so sad this eve?" asked Carrie. "You ought to be the happiest soul in College. Your monthly report was splendid,-and only think, this is Friday. The last day of hard study is over, and to-morrow is our holiday." 
               "I did not know I was looking sad, Carrie. I was merely watching those gorgeous clouds, that seem so bright and beautiful to you, and have been weaving strange fancies in their weird shapes as they float like spectres before me. I read in their roseate tints the happy Past, where we together culled our school-day garlands, so redolent of purity and love; but, alas! I see mingling with those bright tints the purple shadows of a twilight Future." 
                
               "Hush, Lilly; do not indulge in sickly reveries. Life is yet happy-life is sweet; pluck its flowerets ere they fade. Don't sit philosophizing when you ought to be gay and joyous. You are too young to talk of coming shadows. Did you not know that sickly sentimentality oft begets the misfortunes we dread? My dear old aunt once told me that everybody was the architect of his own happiness, and that life was what we made it." 
               "Well, Carrie, you are a great philosopher for one so young; but are there not controlling circumstances, that make our destiny stronger than our will? Even the gentle stars that minister at our birth, may exert an influence that moulds our destiny." 
               "Well, Lilly, I never was either moon-struck or a star-gazer, but I nevertheless admire them as the poetry of Heaven; and if they are to affect my life, I sincerely hope that the sweet influence of the Pleiades smoothed my pillow of infancy." 
               "There! Lilly, the bell is ringing for our evening walk. Let us get our hats quickly, for Dr. Beaumont will not excuse us from our daily exercise in the open air." 
               Lilly arose reluctantly, for she seemed rather to wish to cherish her pensive mood than to dissipate it by exercise, or even social conversation. 
               The evening exercise was a duty enforced by Dr. B. on all the boarding pupils of his College. Believing physical training to be an essential element ment in the conduct of a young lady's education, he originated every rule in strict accordance with hygienic laws of physical development,-hence, games, graces, and gymnastics of every description, tending to develop the muscles and give vigor to the constitution, became a part of the discipline of the school. This feature, together with the cuisine, and a thorough knowledge of the uses of the needle, made this institution the model school of the South. Here young ladies were not only taught the abstract truths of science, but learned by systematic instruction how to adapt their knowledge to the practical uses of life. The graduates were, therefore, prepared to adorn the parlor and the kitchen. Dr. B. was one of Nature's noblemen, who seemed born to command. Laying the foundation of his influence in the respect and esteem of his pupils, he wielded a sceptre which a king might have been proud to sway. He was a man of profound erudition. A fine classical scholarship and fervent piety had won for him, at the early age of twenty-six, the honorable title of "Doctor Divinitatis," both at the North and the South. He was thus prepared in his philanthropic efforts to link himself to the throne of God, whilst he strove to polish the jewels committed to his care. No man in all the State stood higher in his chosen profession. Teaching to him was a delightful occupation, because he loved to train the young and tender mind; and upon this stratum of his country he has left impressions of his genius, which neither time nor eternity can efface. But to return. 
               See that bevy of happy faces and glowing cheeks, as they enter the spacious verandah of the College! They are the pupils of N--, just returning from their evening walk. How orderly they march! One would almost think they had been drilled by the martial music of the fife and drum, they move with such an unwavering column. 
               Soon every hat is deposited safe from dust or harm in their neat little chambers, where ring the merry laugh and social glee until the hour for tea is announced. This was the most genial meal in the establishment. Each face was wreathed in smiles, and the consciousness of commendation and duty well performed, gave a freedom to the unbended mind that was truly gratifying to the Doctor. To make the children happy and contented was his chief study; and his efforts were not unrewarded, as was demonstrated by their cheerful observance of his rigid discipline. In school he was firm and exacting, whilst out of school he was sympathizing and agreeable. Cheerful and witty, he always had some good joke to "point a moral or adorn a tale." 
               "Come, girls, there's our tea-bell," said a dozen frolicsome children; "let's hurry. Don't keep our matron waiting-let's keep her in a good humor; for if we are not there in time for grace, she will give us a mark for tardiness." 
                
               See! here they come, like a flock of birds, and at a given signal seat themselves for the social cup of tea, and an inimitable repast of bread and butter. Sprightly conversations ensue, and the merry laugh and pleasant joke pass round, until each gentle heart is swayed by the electric influence of the happy hour. Doctor B-- often remarked, that his children wore such continual smiles, that he did not have an ugly boarder in his house. This was an arch way that he had of paying a general compliment and fostering good humor. 
               "Doctor,." exclaimed a bright, chubby face, "please tell us one of your Dutch stories. Pa says you can talk just like a Dutchman." "Yes, Doctor, please do!" exclaimed the happy group. 
               "Oh, my children, you must excuse me this eve; I can't give the brogue when I am at all hoarse, and I don't wish to counterfeit it; for I have great respect for the honest Dutchman. Perhaps I have never told you that I am a descendant of the Dutch myself. My mother belonged to the family of Cadwalladers, which you may learn from history were among the first settlers of this country; and as they were of the best blood of the land, of course they were very proud of their name. Whether there be harm in aristocracy or not, it is a singular fact, that it is a native sentiment of all Americans, notwithstanding their democratic proclivities. They delight to trace back their lineage to a noble line of ancestry, and some have preserved in their family archives the coat-of-arms worn by their most distant relatives. Virginians are peculiarly sensitive on this subject. Aristocracy of birth and merit are jewels which they try to transmit as heirlooms to succeeding generations. No adversity or poverty can forfeit with them the esteem of the family circle. On the other hand, no appliance of wealth can elevate an ignoble name to family caste. This subject has often made them the butt of ridicule, because there exist in every field of wheat tares that to outward appearance resemble the true grain, and when winnowed prove to be chaff. But there nevertheless exists a true aristocracy; and no one can be insensible to the idea that he had a parent whose name was unsullied, and whose guerdon was merit. The very thought is inspiriting, and without its influence society would soon lose its progressive element. It encourages self-respect and-" 
               "Well, Doctor," interrupted the matron, "do you advocate aristocracy? and do you think that a person should be excluded from the first circles of society because he or she does not descend from the nobility?" 
               "No, madam, I do not advocate an aristocracy, except it be combined with merit. Water seeks its level; and so will congenial elements in society. The meed of praise justly belongs to great talents and much erudition, but even then there may be circumstances that bedim their lustre of success. Notwithstanding children are not legally or morally responsible for the acts of their ancestors, yet, if the parents have eaten sour grapes, the children's teeth will be set on edge. I am aware that there are but few families in this country who have a pure escutcheon. Spots and blurs may be found, and some like lost sheep have gone astray; but I do contend that the latitudinarianism of these times calls for a ratchet upon our social system. The time is coming when we must draw a line of demarcation, and every man erect in his own breast a standard of virtue and propriety. This would cultivate a true aristocracy of merit, and prevent those strange alliances which so often mar the harmony of social life." 
               "Doctor," replied the venerable matron, "you then believe in castes in society, and ignore the Scripture injunction, 'condescend to men of low estate'?" 
               "By no means, my dear madam. As to castes, they have existed ever since unhappy Cain slew his brother, and went forth a vagabond upon the earth. Not all the waters of the Deluge can wash the dismal stain away! Esau and Jacob were of different castes, although they were twin brethren, and progenitors of different races possessing no community of feeling. Thus we find specific differences in human character coval with the race of man. 
                
               "Society is but the development of those affinities in Nature, that have stratified the moral and mental as well as the physical world. Versatility has classified society; and though we must deplore the fact that all are not equally great and good, yet it is in harmony with God's providence, and in keeping with His prerogative, who maketh one star differ from another, and who, like the potter, 'maketh one vessel to honor and another to dishonor.' In pursuance of the command, 'condescend to men of low estate,' the heart of the philanthropist burns with fervent zeal as he dives into the great pool of humanity, drags up drowned honor by the locks, and sets it under the resuscitating power of the Cross. The poor we have always with us, that gold may not seal up the fountain of benevolence. The ignorant are the recipients of light and knowledge from the wise and lettered. Such ministrations were commanded by Paul, not that we assimilate ourselves to vice and affiliate with that which is not comely or expedient. We should raise a high standard in our views of moral excellence, and then assimilate ourselves to an ideal. Here, where we boast of the great Palladium of freedom-where the obscurest aspirant oftentimes rises to the pinnacle of fame, we are too apt to construe the voice of the populace into the pans of merit. Genius or wealth can never atone for the lack of a good name. What is genius unsanctified but a sword to pierce its possessor, or wealth but a splendid advertisement? 'Thou fool.' 'A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favor than silver or gold.' Our standard of morality should reach to a moral fitness in every alliance of life, lest we transmit to posterity a legacy the deformity of which neither genius nor wealth can hide. Much as the circumstances of birth have been contemned by the democratic American, he may yet be proud of his Saxon origin. 
               "Happy will it be for our country when birth and merit become the only passports to the lite circles of society; when vice can no longer stalk in gilded garments; and when the man of ill-gotten wealth shall hide his face among Bunyan's Strawrakers, and be scouted from the circles of his betters! Let the question be asked, How did he arrive at opulence? Are his pearls the tears of orphans and widows? Are his diamonds the bread of the houseless and homeless? Are his laurels the withered wreaths of an Arnold's brow?" 
               "Young ladies," continued Dr. B., "I am glad that Mrs. Dayton has called me out on that point. Raise your standard high, for you are in a great measure the architects of your own fortunes. It is mine to sow good seed in your youthful minds; you must cultivate them. I try to lay a foundation upon which you must build in after years. If I can imbue your minds with such controlling principles as will lead you to choose with discretion your respective paths of life, the end of education will have been accomplished. I will lead you into the garden of good; choose the fairest flowers and best of fruits." 
               Here Dr. B. made a pause, and seeming to recollect his propensity for "line upon line and precept upon precept," excused his tedious lecture; and giving a tap to his silver bell, the happy group arose and wound their way to the spacious parlor for the evening's entertainment. 
               Happy childhood! so near the portals of the blest that stray light still streams on your sunny hair, and the angel's kiss of love still dimples your rosy cheek. There is something so pure and fresh in the heart's young bloom, that age with its sightless eyes drops its misty lens and sings of the Olden Time, "When I was young." The philosopher, foiled in his weary search for truth, poises his tired spirit on the brim of the "Old Oaken Bucket," and drinks without a cavil from the fountain of youth. The learned theologian turns from the misty philosophies of faith, and learns from infant lips to trust in God. 
               Dear reader, does the chime of by-gone years still linger in your heart, as the diapason of that song which from infant lips breathes perfected praise? 
               There is something radically wrong in that heart which has no love for childhood; which loves not to watch their merry sports upon the verdant lawn, or their glad surprise on Christmas morn; and that looks with a Judas eye upon every penny spent for their pleasure as something wasted from the precious box of ointment, that might have been better bestowed. 
               But hark! glad voices are ringing out on the evening air, and the very old lamps in the College Hall are quivering with responsive jingle to the patter of merry feet. The parlor is lit up, too, and many a little hand has adorned it with the trophies of the evening walk. Vases of flowers, fresh from the wildwood and the gay parterre, are mingling their rival perfumes, alike fragrant as the breath of Samarcand. In one end of the room stands an tagre, upon which are placed some beautiful specimens of pencilling, some antique vases, souvenirs of Auld Lang Syne, together with some of the rarest selections of polypi, shells, and precious stones, from the extensive cabinet of Dr. B. One of Steinway's handsomest pianos occupies a conspicuous place in the College parlor, and seated at it is one of the merriest of the group, discoursing sweet music, whilst a number join the chorus of the glee. Each heart beats responsive, and as happy as youth and innocence can make it, floats the voice of song. 
               "Come, Julia," said a happy sprite, "let us take a game of drafts; "and down they together sat beneath the glowing light of a large chandelier lier, with arms poised upon the smooth surface of an elegant centre-table. Others soon ranged themselves around to watch the progress of the game. Two pairs of little feet were running to and fro over the soft, tufted roses of the velvet carpet, and playing hide-and-seek in the silken folds of the parlor drapery. 
               A group of juniors were sitting in the pleasant draught of a broad Venetian window, chatting over the anticipated pleasures of vacation, when books would be laid aside. 
               "Well, girls," exclaimed one of their number, "I never was so troubled in my life." 
               "What's the matter, Fannie? Something strange for you to be sad; you are only putting on airs." 
               "No, I am not. Only think, no letter or anything else from home, and examination to begin Monday. Ma promised to have my white dress here by the 12th, and now at this late day not a line or a box from home. Well, I'll tell you what is a fact: I don't intend to go upon that stage one single step unless my clothes come. Won't I be a nice-looking speckled bird, with all of you dressed up in your best! I am going to ask Dr. B. to excuse me anyhow, for I don't believe in public examinations. What business is it of the public whether I know anything or not?" 
               "Fie, Fannie, you have the blues because you are minus a dress, and that very fact proves that you do care for public opinion. How much more commendable is the pride you should have in the opinion which others may form of your talents, rather than of your appearance? Besides, an examination like ours means something. We have not been drilled to show off a few moments at the end of the term; but every day's report bears its honors to the close, and it is nothing improper that the world award us the praise due our unwearied exertions." 
               "Well, pa thinks that young ladies ought not to figure in public at all." 
               "Well, Fannie, I have often heard parents object to their daughters reading even an essay from the rostrum, and at the same time did not object to their visiting the obscene circus and theatre, or mingling in the demoralizing dances of fashionable soires. I like consistency-it is a great jewel." 
               "Julia Murray, if you could manage to wear a little more of that kind of jewelry, it would be quite becoming to you." 
               "Tut, tut, girls! why do you fret each other? Julia, don't disturb Fannie; she is a mere child, and besides, you ought not to tease one younger than yourself." 
               "Why, Aunt Dayton, I was only telling her how silly it was to have her heart set so on dress. Any simpleton can dress who has the money, and who will take the pains to consult the caprices of a fashion-plate. I have read so much about how fashions are fixed up, that I think any person almost demented who would yield his or her judgment to all the fickle and foolish whims of the modistes and couturires of the present time. Only think of all the fashion-mongers turning over the old musty clothes of Louis XIV., to find a suitable style for a lady of the present day! I am glad I have no penchant for fine clothes. I never want to lose my identity under false hair, long trains, or any other appliance of Art. I want simply to be thoroughly educated, and then allowed to gratify myself by an independent choice to dress as I please." 
               "Now, Julia, I think that you really confirm Fannie's suggestion-that you have some consistency. All Fannie desires is to suit herself. You know there is a great variety of tastes,-these originate new modes, and if every one was restricted to your plainness of style, how much of the commerce of the world would be destroyed by proscription. What would become of the thousands who toil over the expensive fabrics in foreign factories? All the human inventions that have been sought out, are blessings to the children of poverty. They supply them with opportunities for labor, and give them their daily bread. Some persons must consume these fabrics; and as it is only the rich who can procure them, it is right and proper that they should consume them. I have never believed it wrong to dress according to one's circumstances. Whilst I would not recommend what St. Paul disapproves, as the 'putting on of costly apparel as the chief ornament;' neither do I feel that there is any necessary affinity between a blanche cravat and a sanctified heart. A broad phylactery is very often indicative of a Pharisaical profession. Now, Julia, you condemn Fannie for pride in dress; I think the spirit you evoked from her, as well as the pride of opinion you cherish, are equally opposed to the meekness which you should cultivate as a womanly ornament. You gave Fannie some good advice, but your spirit was wrong, and of course you have effected no good. There is much in the way a thing is said. Try to preserve equanimity of temper, and the law of kindness will dwell on your lips. We often spoil the good we would do by mistaken zeal. A happy medium in everything is attainable-beyond this is Scylla and Charybdis. You children ought to observe how affectionate Carrie May and Lilly Byrne are to each other. Those two girls have been together for years, and I do not suppose they have had a solitary cross word between them." 
               "I wish I was as good as Carrie May," replied Fannie. "I think she is the sweetest girl in College. She is so genial, that even the Primaries load her down every morning with a perfect garden of flowers, and bushels of kisses. Lilly Byrne is too moody for me; sometimes she is friendly enough; then again, she tries to put on her Senior dignity." 
               "Well, Fannie," replied Julia, "you know that they are both older than either of us, and it is not to be expected of them to love our company like they would that of their own class-mates. When I get to be a Senior, you won't catch me associating with any of the little Preps, Sophs, or Juniors. I want to learn something from my associates." 
               "Then," said Mrs. Dayton, "you expect to be always a recipient of good, and never a communicator." 
               A truce to this conversation was made by old Uncle Ned, a faithful old family servant, who stood in the door-way like a bronzed statue of Bacchus, holding in his hands a cabaret piled with luscious fruits, wines, cakes, and other goodies. 
               Seeing the joy of the children, Uncle Ned's face, which always wore the appearance of an old yam potato, relaxed from its rigid mould into a broad grin, which showed the characteristic whiteness of his African teeth, and his dim eyes twinkled from beneath his massy brow like sable Kohinoors. The groups were scattered all over the room, and it was quite difficult to pass without stepping on another's dress or giving repeated bumps. 
               "Take car', missis; don't let ole Ned spile your putty close. I'se mons'ous car'ful, but den you see dis waiter am moughty full." Just then one of the girls gave his arm an accidental nudge, and down rolled the crimson "apples of discord." Old Ned looked despairingly for a moment until they were replaced, and then straightening up, held the cabaret high above the mischievous grasp of the teasing girls, and stepping like he was walking through ploughed ground, tried to steer clear of all impediments. The old fellow seemed as proud as though he were master of ceremonies. 
               "Whom do we thank for this nice treat, Uncle Ned?" asked a dozen voices all at once. 
               "Young missises, dis am a sprise party. You see, massa am allers tinkin' of somethin' to please de chilern; an' he jes' thort as how you was all gwine away so soon dat he would gin you a far'-well treat." 
               "That is just like Dr. B.," exclaimed the joyous crowd. 
               "Yes, missis, my massa's heart am in de right place; dat it am, sure and sartin." 
               Uncle Ned passed around, looking as lofty as his standing collar could make him. 
               "Now, Uncle Ned," said Mrs. Dayton, "you and Aunt Nancy can have your own party tonight; remove the waiter, and let the girls proceed with their amusements." 
               "Tank you, missis; but please, mam, old Ned will jes' stan here a little while to hea' young missis play dat tune-'De Ole Kaintucky Home'-I cum from whar dat was bo'n." 
               This was old Ned's treat, for it was played for his benefit. The young pianist ran into a medley of several Ethiopian pieces, which suggested the graces of the light fantastic toe; but this was interdicted, except by special consent of the president. 
               The latter part of the evening was devoted to a rehearsal of some of the duets that were to be executed at the public concert on the following week. Dr. B., who for three hours had been poring over his accounts in his studio, was suddenly aroused to the lateness of the hour, by the sonorous voice of the old-fashioned corner-clock, that for years had been the regulator of this systematic school. He quickly thrust aside his ledger, turned the key upon his valuable papers, and repaired to the parlor to close up the festivities of the evening. On entering, he made one of those courtly bows that nothing but his inimitable grace of manner could accomplish. The young ladies responded by rising, in token of his superior presence. He gently waved his hand for them to be reseated, and remarked that he hoped they had passed a pleasant evening. No answer was necessary; their bright faces still glowing with mirth and humor. He passed from the youngest to the oldest with a sprightly adaptedness of conversation, which he had acquired by long study of human nature in his chosen profession. After taking the grand rounds, he seated himself by one of his teachers. 
               "Doctor, we have been looking over these pencillings and specimens of painting. I never dreamed that there was so much talent amongst us. Look at that painting of the Madonna! See how exquisitely the light which encircles the infant's brow is diffused over the face of the Virgin Mother-that is a very difficult subject; and here is an American autumn-look at those opal clouds! I must really see this piece by daylight to appreciate all its beauties." 
               "Yes, indeed," replied the Doctor, "that piece will take the prize. Do you see those cattle browsing in the meadow, and the old farmer sitting on the stile? If you could see it by daylight, you would almost fancy that you heard the tinkling of cow-bells as they wend their homeward way. See the placid lake sleeping in the embrace of those azure mountains! What a beautiful mirror for those gorgeous hues that fringe its forest margin! There is decided talent in the execution of this piece, that would be highly creditable to an old artist. Yes, and here may be some name that may unite itself in living characters on historic page. Perhaps slumbering here may be the genius of a Rosa Bonheur, Michael Angelo, or a Raphael." 
               Just at this moment a little elf, full of mischief, summoned the Doctor to decide a mooted case. He smiled, and said, "I wish I was ubiquitous," and proceeded to obey the childish request. 
               Carrie May and Lilly Byrne, overhearing the conversation of the Doctor, continued the thread of the discourse. 
               "Carrie, if I could transmit my name to posterity in a work of art, I would prefer it to every other avenue to distinction. 'A thing of beauty is a joy forever!' One never grows weary in contemplating a work of genius." 
               "Well, Lilly, your aspirations are the criteria of your success, for you can accomplish anything you have a mind to do. Your sketches from Nature are exquisite. You know how to catch the sunbeam, and paint with iridescent light. Nature in all her attitudes duplicates herself in the magic of your truthful brush. With your perceptive powers, you could not only make the canvas glow with life and breath, but the same power that guides you amid the picturesque of Nature would make you distinguished in a literary career. If I possessed your versatility and ambition, I should not be long in choosing some avenue to fame." 
               "Dear Carrie, your generous loving heart wrongs your judgment. I never thought I had any talents worth cultivating; and yet my soul is fired with a constant yearning to do or die." 
               "Why, Lilly, you are a universal genius." 
               "Thank you, Carrie, that is quite an equivocal compliment. I never saw any one succeed who was called a 'universal genius,'-they are generally said to be 'Jacks of all trades and good at none.' Isn't that so, Doctor?" said Lilly. 
               "I did not quite understand your conversation," said he, moving near to the girls. 
               "We have been speaking of universal genius," said Carrie. "Lilly thinks it quite an equivocal compliment to be called a genius of that description, and you will have to give some expletives for me to remedy my 'faux pas.'" 
               "To have versatility of talent ascribed to you, is quite a compliment. But it often happens that such characters do not distinguish themselves, because they do not concentrate their powers on any particular subject for which they have a peculiar fitness. Thought, like the rays of the sun on a burning lens, must be concentrated in order to emit its power. A person must almost become an enthusiast to succeed in art, literature, or science. One of your temperament, Lilly, would succeed in the field of poesy." 
               "Please don't mention poetry for me, Dr. B.-the Muses are already disgusted with the miserable twaddle of their votaries, and the sublimity of Parnassus is now marred with the remains of the thousands whose bones are bleaching at its base." 
               "Not marred, Lilly, but only towering in more solitary grandeur, because of the few who have reached its summit. You recollect, when Daniel Webster was about to begin the practice of law, he inquired of an old attorney what were the probabilities of his securing a position in his city? He replied, 'My dear sir, the profession is full-you will starve.' 'Well,' said the man of genius, 'I guess there is ample room at the top.' You know the sequel." 
               "Doctor B.," said Lilly, "when I read the works of Ossian, Homer, Dryden, Pope, and Shakespeare, it seems to me that the world of poesy now trills upon a monotone." 
               "Well, poetry, my child, is the offspring of passion and feeling; and whilst there is no deterioration of talent, the manners and customs of people have much to do with the literature of every age. Philosophy and science have torn the veil from before the consecrated shrines of mystery and fancy, and mechanized the forces of Nature, until thought, feeling, and taste have become subsidiary to physical progress, and-" 
               "Dr. B., allow me to interrupt you. Have you seen the first chapter of Lilly's novellette?" 
               "No; I was not aware that she contemplated authorship." 
               "Ah, indeed; I thought, as she had so much confidence in your judgment, that she had consulted you with regard to it." 
               "Carrie, I am sorry you have exposed my weakness," interrupted Lilly. 
               "Weakness, indeed! I hope to spend many pleasant hours in perusing your youthful lucubrations." 
               "I am very glad, Carrie, to know," rejoined the Doctor, with a smile, "that Lilly is so ambitious; and I would like to give her a little advice before she has proceeded too far." 
               "Thank you, Doctor," said Lilly; "whether I continue the Reveries of a School-girl, or not, your advice on such a subject would be highly appreciated." 
               "In the first place, my child, cultivate concentration of mind. Do not let your fitful moods of thought paralyze your efforts. Learn to hold a subject in your mind's eye until you have examined it thoroughly. By this means, you will cultivate an inventive faculty, which is the source of all originality. Otherwise, you will be a mere imitator. 
               "Now, Doctor, there is my great difficulty. I can imitate, but cannot invent." 
               "Lilly," observed Carrie, "I do not believe a word of that, for you did invent one of the most plausible tales I ever heard. What did you tell me about that bouquet?" 
               Lilly cast a chiding glance at Carrie, which forestalled her explanation, and the Doctor resumed his conversation. 
               "Secondly, let me remark, that I find great fault with novelists of the present day. Some of them make prattling childhood talk with the experience perience of age, and their characters seem to be only automatons for the display of scientific research or literary argument, without due regard to naturalness or adaptability. If you do write, sketch living characters on the glowing pages of thought; give them the simplicity and ease of real personages; choose your localities carefully; surround them with probable circumstances; and, above all, let virtue and morality be eminently discernible. I shall look with great pleasure for the completion of your Reveries." 
               At this juncture, the retiring-bell rang, and Dr. B., looking at his watch, said, "It is time for you to retire,-Good-night!" 
               Lilly and Carrie, being seniors, were allowed more liberties than the less advanced pupils; and though the old bell rang out its peremptory orders, they sat still in converse. 
               "Speaking of writing, Lilly, reminds me that you have not yet written in my album." 
               "Now, Carrie, don't insist, for I know you would scold me for having the blues." 
               "No, Lilly, let it be a transcript of your own head and heart, whether it be gay or sad. I must also have your photograph." 
               "Excuse me, dear Carrie, I never had it taken in my life." 
               "Is it possible? I cannot see how you have resisted the invention so long." 
               "I never had any inclination, Carrie. I never thought I would look well in a picture; besides, you know that Saturday has been always one of the busiest days in the week with me, and I really have had but little time to fix up for such an especial occasion." 
               "Well, I must have it. I wish it for a locket which I shall wear on my bosom." 
               "Here, Carrie, wear this," she said, as she leaned forward and plucked a white rose-bud and geranium leaf from a beautiful bouquet which threw its graceful sprays over a handsome Bohemian vase. "There," said she, placing them under her brooch, "take these emblems of my constancy and affection." 
               "Lilly, would you give me a memento as fragile as a flower?" 
               "It will wither, I know; but the spirit flower will retain its fragrance. Let my memory linger in your heart ever vernal, and pure as this spotless flower. Years may roll around ere we meet again-perhaps we will part forever. You may preserve this little emblem; and when years have passed away, you may read my history in the faded flower." 
               "Come, Lilly, you must not leave such a sad association with me. You have had the blues all day; and do you know, I have my suspicions that you have not told me all. Lilly, I believe that letter you were reading made you sad. Sit here, darling, and tell me all;" and she drew Lilly down by her side on a tte--tte. "Now tell me truly, was that letter from some love-sick swain?" 
               "Indeed not, Carrie; I have not a correspondent but my relatives. Here is the post-mark, 'St. Louis.'" 
               "Well, now, who knows but some gallant knight may transplant my precious Lilly from the Blue Mountain Valley to a Western field!" 
               A faint smile passed over the face of Lilly. This encouraged Carrie's sallies of humor, and she continued: "I am disposed to believe that you have some other ideal besides a literary career. Whenever I see a girl poring over Byron and Moore, I conclude she is very sentimental and very near in love." 
               "Carrie, you shall have my full confidence on that subject. I have no gallant knight, as you suppose; but I confess that my whole soul is strung to love, passion, and poetry. I love to dwell beneath the spell of those thoughts, 
                      
                        'Where fancy consecrates the scene, 
                        And rapture utters vows and weeps between.' 
                     
                   I know it is a dangerous gift-a strong current to resist, and it will require all the powers of my mind to steel my heart against human love. I like to read Byron, because his heart glows in his impassioned lines, and every word is a scintillation of genius that enkindles admiration even in the hearts of mercenary critics. If he was unfortunate in the selection of some of his themes, the beauty of his imagery, like Powers' Greek Slave, leaves nothing for obscenity but the impure heart of the beholder. The nudity of the figure is lost in the sublime conception of the artist." 
               "Lilly, your last expression reminds me of a remark once made by Dr. B. You recollect what he said about sugar-coated pills." 
               "Yes, he was referring to yellow-barked literature-not to works of genius. Of all the British Poets whose writings I have read, Scott and Burns are my favorites. Scott has a creative genius. He breathes vitality into his subjects, equalled only by Divinity. See how he stands at the portals of history; rolls away the stone from the sepulchre of the Past, and bids the dead come forth, and familiarly clasp our hand and talk with us! How passion and sympathy glow when he leads us into the flowery meadows, beside the laughing rills, up the azure mountain-side, or in the moonlit glens! How our souls thrill with strange emotions as we follow him through those legendary fields, where poesy blends with artistic taste the lights and shadows of departed glory! Burns, too, how I love his simple lays! Like a fresh wild rose, no redundant petals multiplied by systematic cultivation; but a perfect flower, exhaling all its sweetest fragrance from his native air. His simplicity-how unlike the mysterious rhythm of modern times! He has left a fresh immortality on every scene touched by his graphic pen. If I could thus transmit to canvas or to paper the sublimity of my own mountain home, methinks upon its cloud-capt summits I would crave to die. Carrie, you smile; I know you think me an enthusiast; but no: I am a child of Nature, and home to me was only home because it nestled in those grand old forests. I remember it as a solitude. Being the youngest of the family, my mother dead, and my sister and brother nearly grown, I was left without any association save that of my father. He busied himself in the superintendence of his farm; and though he did not perform any particular manual labor, yet there was something that kept him occupied. Sometimes the old stile to mend, a plough-gear to arrange, tobacco-houses to repair, or other like duty to supervise. I, not unfrequently, strolled with him to the barn, filled my lap with the speckled corn, made pens of the denuded cobs, and for hours amused myself with these childish sports. At other times I wandered to the woods, filled my lap with the honeysuckle and woodbine, and when weary, reclining beneath some refreshing shade, would watch with bounding heart my father's flocks, and their fleecy young at play. I loved the woods, and the hills, and the streams, for they talked with me; but those once familiar haunts will know me no more. The homestead has been changed, and my father now lives within a few miles of R-- I care but little to return." 
                
               "Do you not intend to revisit your home this summer?" said Carrie. 
               "I think it very improbable. I have received a letter from my aunt in the West, who insists upon my making her a visit. She is very anxious to have me spend some time with her, and thinks it will be an agreeable variety, after the dull monotony of school-life. My aunt is wealthy, and I know will spare no pains in throwing around me what she calls the 'appliances of comfort and elegances of life.' Father has had his new house handsomely furnished, and leaves it optional with me to return home, or go to the West. He thinks it would be more pleasant for me to spend the fall and winter with my aunt. But, Carrie, may I ask, what you expect to do with yourself?" 
               "Ah! Lilly, I do not anticipate. I have no picturesque mountain home-brown-stone house with its luxurious trappings, or opulent relatives, to whom I may repair. And to tell you the truth, I have been so long an inmate of this dear old College, that it seems more like home than any other place. Dr. B. has been to me so much like a father, that I should deplore any necessity to leave. But everything just now is so unsettled, that I cannot tell what a day may bring forth. I have only one relative who could assist me, and he lives in Texas; too far off to be of service. Then, too, good old Mrs. Dayton will remain here, and I know she would take the same care of me that she would of her own daughter; at least, until I could make some arrangements to teach in this institute, or some other. If I could visit my childhood's home, nothing would delight me more. Although I could see none of my kindred, yet I long to revisit the spot of my nativity, where I might press with throbbing heart and bedew with bitter but loving tears my precious mother's grave;. Oh, I believe, that every instinct of my nature, every faculty of reason, would have to be extinguished ere I could forget the tender name of mother! Every joy I feel, every pain I bear, I long to tell to mother. Hers is the only form that retains an invisible tangibility. Methinks I feel her hand upon my head as I unclasp her dear old Bible, and it seems to me that her spirit breaks the seal of its mysteries. When I kneel in prayer, methinks I feel her arm encircling my waist, and our spirits blending in one." Burying her face in Lilly's bosom, she, sobbing, continued: "Poverty separates us in life and in death; but in the land of light and love there will be no parting. To her devotion and self-denial I owe my present education, and to her example and admonitions, all my religious impressions. When through the kindness of my uncle I became an inmate of this house three years ago, I thought I never could survive the separation; but now, I bless her memory, and although poor, I have the richest legacy of an orphan-a precious mother's prayers. God has taken care of me since the sad hour of her death, and has said that He will never forsake those who put their trust in Him." 
               "O Carrie, you are so sweet and dear to me! Your placid disposition seems to have been formed in an unearthly mould! Oh, I would exchange all the wealth that is mine, for that guileless spirit, and unambitious satisfaction with life, which you possess. But, Carrie, it seems that my soul-Prometheus like-is chained to a rock, and sometimes my very existence is torture. There is an indescribable something that clips the wings of ambition, and yet they grow again, and seem to beat against a suffocating cage. I long to soar far above this incubus, but over me it hangs like a craped pall." 
               "Lilly, if you would have that quiet rest of the soul, pillow your head upon the bosom of Jesus. I want to see you great as well as good; but do not let ambition cheat you with a fading laurel, as a substitute for those imperishable honors which belong to eternity." 
               "Carrie, I have incentives to ambition that you have not. I do not think that I am urged by a love of the world. I only wish to place myself in the niche where my advantages would assign me." At this point, Lilly waived additional serious conversation, with the remark, "Come, Carrie, dear, to-morrow will be a busy day with us; the evening is already too far spent-let us retire." 
               Carrie repaired to old Mrs. Dayton's room, and Lilly to the silence of her own chamber. Her room-mates were fast asleep. The gas had been extinguished for several hours, and a candle which had been lit threw a sickly glare about the room. It had burnt down into the socket, and she saw the struggling light quiver for a while with coruscating gleam, then suddenly sink into the inevitable oil-choked by the very element that once imparted its brilliancy. Catching the inspiration of the moment, she thought, How often has talent raised its possessor to the pinnacle of fame, and been the meteor-glare that evoked the withering criticism of the world. What care I for fame? 
                      
                        "Can honor's voice provoke the silent tomb, 
                        Or flattery soothe the dull, cold ear of death?" 
                     
                   Content with life! If I had been left in my native simplicity, to roam like the wild Indian in the forest, I should have sought no higher destiny than theirs. I have tested the powers of the world; I have felt the conventionalities of taste, and know the irrevocable destiny that fate seals in even its unoffending subjects. What had Esau done that he should be hated and his brother be loved, ere the light of life had fallen upon his ruddy face? Ah! "there is a destiny that shapes our ends, rough hew them how we will." "Pigmies are Pigmies though perched on Alps." Lilly thought, too, of Carrie's sweet words of admonition, and she drew her Bible to her and pressed it to her heart. But it was something more than the Second Birth that could interest her. 
               The Bible fell from her grasp, and she stood like an apparition in the pale moonlight, with her hands clasped above her head. Her mind wandered back to childhood; then to womanhood. Her brow ached; thought grew dizzy, and she muttered, "'Every heart knoweth its own bitterness.' 'Ah, me, miserable! which way shall I fly!'" 
               She disrobed herself as silently as possible; then folding gently down the cover of her couch, stood for a moment and gazed upon the fair face of her sleeping companion, and murmured again, "Oh, that thought could grow weary, and feeling numb, that I might share the nepenthe of thy quiet dreams!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               IT was a beautiful morning in June, in the year 18-, the last Saturday before the great ordeal to which school-girls look with such a nervous interest. Everything was in preparation for the coming week. Nothing relieves the monotony of College life so much as the opening of a package, or breaking the seal of a letter, from the dear "Old Folks at Home." That morning box after box was brought under the inspection of Dr. B., to assure himself that they contained no superfluous amount of unhealthy confections, sent by doting parents in misguided judgment to their children. All such things were interdicted, as well as superfluity of dress; but here, at the close of the session, there seemed some excuse for a violation of the rules, and each box was placed with its respective owner. 
               "Girls, do come and see my beautiful dress? Isn't it lovely! And here's my hat! Dear me, what elegant lace! Oh, I am sorry now that I was so provoked last night. Mama is so thoughtful! Here is a letter, too!" Fannie began to read aloud: 
               "MY DEAR DAUGHTER:-Do not think me tardy or neglectful."-Here Fannie was interrupted by Old Nancy, the cook, peering her red eyes in the door. 
               "Umph! did anybody eber see de like; sich finery!" 
               "Take care, Aunt Nancy," said Fannie. "Don't soil my hat." 
               "No missis-not for de world. Well, well," said she, bending over it, with her hands behind her for fear of touching it, "I recon Miss Fannie won't ax to be skused now; she'll hab to go on de stage to show her putty tings. He-he-he!-What's dis here, Miss Fannie?" 
               "Those are flowers for my hair, and this is my pretty sash." 
               Old Nancy picked up the ribbon, very daintily, between the tips of her thumb and forefinger, and examining the symmetry of the bow and long pendent streamers, suddenly exclaimed: "Well, well! lib and larn; die and forgit all." Her curiosity being satisfied, she exclaimed, "I must be gwine-it won't do for dis nigger to tarry." She made her exit; but recollecting her mission, thrust her turbaned head in the door and said: "Young ladies, de matron say put on your nice long aprons, and git ready for de last lesson in de cook'ry book. She's gwine to hab nice puddins and pies for to-morrow, and she's in a mighty hurry wid her bizness." Passing Lilly's door, she saw Carrie sitting on the foot of Lilly's bed, turning over some of her last summer's apparel, which she was about to mend and alter. Lilly was apparently directing a letter. Old Nancy looked over her shoulder, and exclaimed: "Miss Lilly, whar's yours and Miss Carrie's fine close? Ain't you got a box too?" 
               "Oh, no, Aunt Nancy; Carrie and I have not been here so long without learning to make our own clothing." Saying this, she turned to her ward-robe, and exhibited to Old Nancy's admiring gaze a dress of gaudy hue, with long flowing sash of brocaded crimson ribbon, which she had just completed. 
               "Bress de Lo'd! Now, who'd a thought," exclaimed Old Nancy, "your little fingers would been up to dat? Dat jest zactly suits my taste. Miss Lilly gwine to outshine you all. Now you'll gin Ole Nancy one your ole ones-won't you, honey?-He-he-he." 
               "Yes, indeed; I'll not go away without leaving you something by which to remember me, Aunt Nancy." 
               "Tank you, missis; de Lo'd bress you. Ole Nancy will tink of you anyhow; but den you see she is monsous poor, and dis hopes moughtly." Saying this, she folded a large bundle of old dresses under her arm, which received constant accessions as she passed down the hall. 
               "Dat's right, missis; if it's notin but your ole shoes, Ole Nancy 'preciates it; bress de chil'ern!" 
               Nancy was an old family servant, and as such, belonged to a privileged class. She was allowed many familiarities which were not usually granted to those of her color; but she was faithful, and always took care not to betray the confidence reposed in her. Leaving the girls, she hurried down to the fulfilment of her daily task. 
               Saturday was a busy day with Dr. B.; diplomas were to be signed, engagements to be fulfilled, and a thousand-and-one things to occupy his thoughts. 
               He sat in his studio, deaf to the hilarious sounds that floated on the evening air from the old play-ground. 
               It was the children's holiday; and the day passed in mirth, until twilight ushered in the silent hour of prayer. Night, too, with its visions of happiness, stole over each slumbering eye until bright day-dreams awoke at the sound of the sweet Sabbath chimes. 
               It was a long-anticipated day. The old College bell was calling together children and patrons, old and young, to this annual occasion of interest. Already, by nine o'clock, an immense audience had seated themselves in the commodious chapel, and awaited anxiously the hour for service. 
               This institution being non-sectarian, alternated each year in the selection of ministers and orators from the various orthodox churches. On this occasion, an Episcopal divine officiated in clerical robes. 
               His text was selected from chapter xxxi. of Proverbs, and comprised the 30th verse: "Favor is deceitful and beauty is vain; but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised." 
               He made the text of universal application; spoke of the inherent love of approbation; the fickleness of favor; the illusory power of the world; the evanescence of its brightest glories, and urged non-conformity to its maxims. He commended a meek and quiet spirit to woman as an ornament that would endure when beauty's bloom would pass away, and regal gems moulder into dust. His sermon was a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart, and there sat the subjects of the wise man's meditation. 
               Beauty was bartering the jewel of life for the gewgaws of fashion. The wiry politician exchanging honesty and principle for an hour's preferment. Shoddy smirking in disdainful grandeur, and Mammon hoarding his gains for the breath of applause. What a whitened harvest for the divine reaper! No doubt many went away to behold themselves in this burnished mirror, determined to correct their defects of character by the embracement of pure and undefiled religion. 
               The Sabbath passed with its usual serene influences ences, making Monday morning the more bustling from the vivid contrast. Carriages were wheeling in every direction, and no visitor could mistake the importance of the occasion to the villagers. 
               For days the examination continued, reflecting great credit upon pupils and teachers. The ordeal having passed, the grand concert followed. This was a scene worthy of a Raphael's skilful touch; nor can we introduce our readers to this place of enchantment without a description of the music hall. The spacious room was 110 feet in length and 54 feet in width, supported through the centre by elegant bronzed columns, which were twined, for this occasion, with artistic wreaths of fragrant flowers. Eight superb gas chandeliers dispensed their brilliant light amid the prismatic glow of pebbled pendants. The stage, or rostrum, was of semi-circular form, and from its ceiling hung ornamentations of white, red, and blue, representing the various States in the Union. In this recess were three niches, filled respectively with life-size portraits of Washington, La Fayette, and Franklin; whilst midway between them stood marble pedestals, surmounted by plaster-paris busts of Beethoven, Handel, and Mendelssohn, intertwined about by evergreens of olive and cedar, which contrasted beautifully with the floral ornaments that festooned the walls. The young ladies, arrayed in simple white, as they entered from an adjacent chamber, reminded one of that blood-washed throng that shall chant the anthems of the redeemed. Here were not only amateurs in music, but those who rendered the most difficult operatic pieces with thrilling effect; sometimes upheaving all the deep pathos of the soul like a transcription from the far-off music of the better land. Oh, what a power hath music on the human heart! How it soothes its obduracy, calming with the harp of David the sinful soul of Saul! No wonder that Orpheus should have sought to bring back his lost Eurydice by the wooings of his divine art. 
               "Who is that?" asked several voices, as a fairy-like form was conducted to the piano. 
               "That is Miss Carrie May, and the other young lady, that Dr. Beaumont is now seating at the instrument, is Miss Lilly Byrne. She is a Virginian, and quite an heiress. On dit there is some mystery connected with her; but I do not believe a word of it. Sometimes such reports are put in circulation by envious parties. You never saw a young lady receive the honors of her class without eliciting the ill-will of half the school. In addition, every parent thinks his child ought to have the first honor, let her be never so stupid and imperfect. She is a great favorite with the president; I heard him remark that she was so ambitious that it really made her unhappy." 
               "That is a little singular," rejoined the listener. 
               "Many young ladies of her wealth depend entirely upon their metallic charms." 
                
               "Who is she that has metallic charms?" inquired one of the b'hoys of his rowdy companion. 
               "That beautiful, dark brunette," rejoined the other. 
               "Yes, yes, money- 
                      
                        'Hath charms to soothe a savage, 
                        Melt a rock, and-'" 
                     
                  
                
               "Hush, Bill, you needn't grow poetical over it." 
               "It's a sentimental subject," he replied, and kept up an ill-bred titter until Dr. B. arose and said, "The gentlemen who are talking so loud will please be kind enough to desist." 
               A lower voice could be heard in a half-whisper to an intelligent friend,-"I tell you, madam, she deserves great credit for attempting authorship. So few of the wealthy who have been highly educated ever add anything to the literature of their country. The present poverty of Southern literature is owing to the enervation of wealth. Our girls think it disreputable to exert themselves unless they are poor; and the idea of teaching or writing for a living or pastime is considered one of the deplorable subterfuges of poverty, or as a sure sign of a miserable, misanthropic blue-stocking. We will have to rely on ourselves more before this state of things is altered. I have determined that my daughters shall work, whether there is a necessity for it or not. And as soon as they graduate, I intend to begin the rgime." 
               "You are right, sir," replied the lady. "There is a great mania for female education, and the curriculum is as perfect as it can be made, and the girls are proficient enough; but knowledge is of little use without mental activity. Their minds are like workshops full of tools-rusting for want of use. The body, too, like the mind, can only be developed by exercise, and one should not be cultivated at the expense of the other. Butterflies of fashion are ephemerals both in body and in mind." 
               This conversation was hushed by a tap of the silence bell; the hubbub subsided, and profound stillness reigned. Eyes feasted on ravishing beauty; ears vibrated with intensest harmony and wild delight; and subdued encores from every portion of the hall attested the brilliant execution. As the young ladies were about to resume their seats, a note was secretly handed to Dr. B., in which a request was made for a solo from Miss Byrne. The Doctor hesitated a moment; then turning to her, he communicated the request. She blushed, and absolutely refused. The audience, observing that the Doctor lingered as if persuasively, began their usual exhibitions of anxiety, when Lilly and Carrie arose and advanced to the piano for the performance of another duet. As the piece was not included in the programme, it had been unfortunately misplaced in Lilly's portfolio, which was not discovered until too late to relieve their embarrassment. They remained standing at the instrument until the annoyance could be remedied. 
                
               Carrie May reminded one of a beautiful blushing bride dressed in her snowy robes. The soft flaxen hair of the Saxon, combed back from a brow of Parian whiteness, fell in profusive loops over delicate sprays of flowers that touched the soft mist which concealed the marble smoothness of her sloping shoulders. The fleecy folds of her dress, conforming to her graceful step and tall symmetrical figure, floated in queenly train behind. Her deep blue eyes seemed made to melt in tenderness, whilst the lofty curve of her hopeful brow was indicative of all those benevolent traits which belong to a true woman's character. Her nose had the beauty of Grecian mould, and her hand, which rested upon a stand of flowers, looked like the tapering petals of a white lily, and we almost confounded it with that graceful flower. 
               Lilly Byrne was peculiarly dressed, and from this circumstance a stranger might have imputed to her great eccentricity of character. Her dress consisted of a blue-satin bodice ornamented with crimson flowers, whilst the skirt, alternating in folds of white and red, was looped with black-lace rosettes. Her complexion was that of a dark brunette, with a Spanish eye, which bespoke a restless activity of thought. Her forehead lacked the loftiness of her friend's, but was equally broad and full. Her nose was a little aquiline, but not sufficient to spoil the contour of beauty. Her hair vied with the raven's wing in the deep jet of her glossy curls which fell on her heaving bosom. 
               "What a perfect contrast in those two young ladies," said a scrutinizing old bachelor, as he feasted his critical eyes. "They are wholly dissimilar, and yet both magnificently represent their respective types of beauty." 
               "Yes," said the listener. "Which do you prefer?" 
               "Well, if I only desired a pleasant flirtation, I would take the brunette; but if I was in search of a wife, I should certainly choose the blonde." 
               "I do not believe you are very impressible," remarked his friend. 
               "Ah, you mistake me, my good friend. I have been too susceptible, and that's the reason I have never married. You know that old bachelors like myself get to be such convenient public institutions, that young ladies are afraid to appropriate them, lest they take the refuse of each other." 
               Monsieur le Professeur, being anxious to exhibit the vocal talent of his pupils, determined to select a duet; and as Norma was most familiar to the audience, he chose one from that opera. Accordingly, Lilly and Carrie advanced in front of the instrument, and sang, amid showers of bouquets, which fell at the conclusion of each strain, until the floor was literally covered with flowers. 
               To love poetry and music combined, seems in consonance with an innate taste. How many will listen to the most scientific music unmoved and unappreciative, who go into ecstasies over the commonest ditty. One is a cultivated, the other a natural taste. Music and Poetry are twin-sisters. They were born when the morning stars sang together, and have held their influence through every age and nation of the world. The soul-inspiring strains of Deborah and Miriam; the tragic symbols of Jephtha's daughter; David's Oratorio, and the songs of Ilium, all make the waves of passion and sympathy attest the supernatural power of song. The idea of harmony always corresponds to the cultivation and taste of a people. Hence, the power of a national hymn has overturned monarchies; silenced the fanaticism of inquisition, and rallied the dying to life and victory. We looked at the great sea of faces before us, and felt that there was a falsehood in the apothegm, that "only music's strains can sweetly soothe and not betray;" for the Syren had betrayed many hearts into love's inextricable maze. The voice of song died not away on that memorable night; for its echoes still linger in many a loving heart, as lasting as a vestal flame. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               TO the successful aspirant for literary honors, a College Commencement is an occasion fraught with peculiar interest. It is the goal of unwearied exertion, and the consummation of long-cherished hopes. To man, it is the time for high resolves. He looks down from the dizzy height in all the vigor of self-confident manhood; and feels that he of Issus or Austerlitz bore no greater laurels, nor can achieve grander victories. To him destiny points to regal thrones, and all political intricacies are but cobwebs before the expectant diplomatist. To woman, a College Commencement means something more than literary honors or emoluments-it is, indeed, the beginning of life in earnest. 
               Many are the events in the life of woman which give to her existence the charm of romance; but at no period of her life does she elicit so much admiration and interest, as when she stands like an unfolding bud in the dawn of youth and loveliness. Hope is then buoyant. To her the stream of life wears the beautiful mirage of some placid river margined with perennial bloom. How lovingly we extend to her the hand of sympathy, and are wont to garnish her pathway with flowers; but experience has taught us that thorns she must surely press. We can only follow her with our benisons and prayers. 
               It was with these reflections we sat for the last time, and gazed upon the touching scene before us. Our thoughts went back to the long ago when we stood where those peerless forms were standing, to bid farewell to a loved Alma Mater, and take a formal farewell of College life, classmates, and teachers. Many throbbing hearts in that sister band beat responsive to our own; but none wove the silver thread of life into memory's woof, except Carrie May and Lilly Byrne. To them were distributed the honors of the graduating class. 
               After the usual preliminaries, the young ladies were introduced to the audience in Dr. B.'s most courtly manner. A few remarks, by way of welcome to the vast throng before her, and Carrie May proceeded to discharge the task assigned her. One would have thought her face a sufficient exposition of her theme, "The Beautiful." 
               She spoke of the external world as a source of the beautiful, and ideality as the secret spring by which it is disclosed. The diversity of tastes regarding the elements of beauty, she likened to the mangled body of Truth, said once to have been an immaculate virgin, but now mutilated by the false conceptions of man. Skilfully she gathered up the fragmentary form, and constituted her the Priestess of the Beautiful. 
               Her style was rather poetical, and we think it not inappropriate to reproduce some of her more graceful flights of fancy. Speaking of the origin of beauty, she said: 
                      
                        "Beauty was born with the first beam 
                        That flashed across the chaotic deep; 
                        And when 'twixt heaven and earth 
                        A firmament was made, 
                        She rose on a fleecy mist, 
                        Unbarred the opal gates of Morn; 
                        High in the circling heavens she rode, 
                        Upon a golden-crested cloud, 
                        While Zephyrus drew her ethereal car. 
                        On her brow sat the seal 
                        Of God's complacent smile- 
                        Herself a scintillation of that light 
                        That spans the great white throne. 
                        'Go,' He said, 
                        'Speed thy mission on the new-born world, 
                        And seal My glory there. 
                        Thy image, Mine, on all thy subjects trace; 
                        Leave thou the seal of My perfections, 
                        Where time nor change can ever dim.' 
                        Thus from the violet curtains of the West 
                        Came forth the Evening Star. 
                        The soft lustre of her eye lay like a gem 
                        On the bridal bosom of the earth; 
                        Whilst the gentle Moon, 
                        Half concealed behind a silvery veil, 
                         
                        In timid beauty shone. 
                        Then the stars grew tremulous with joy. 
                        From the bosom of the glad earth 
                        Attendant breezes sped,- 
                        Threw back the veil, and earth 
                        Received the first soft kiss of love! 
                        'Twas a holy hour-silent as a spirit's prayer, 
                        And placid as an infant's smile. 
                        The earth awoke instinct with life; 
                        And e'er three days were pass'd, 
                        Tree, shrub, and flower 
                        Sparkled with prismatic hue. 
                        The fruit-tree, perennial in its bloom, 
                        Waved its sprayey blossoms 
                        'Midst the ripening fruit, 
                        Whilst wings of fragrance bore aloft 
                        The incense of the Beautiful! 
                        Then came the finny tribes, 
                        Sporting in the deep blue sea; 
                        And from its crystal caves 
                        The feathered songsters came, 
                        With wings of glossy green and gold. 
                        All nature teemed with vital breath: 
                        From the earth walked forth 
                        The creeping things and beasts, 
                        Which fed among the fruits and flowers, 
                        Or browsed on verdant lawns. 
                        These were beautiful! No venom touch, 
                        No ravening wolf was there; 
                        But with innocence and love 
                        All were made harmonious. 
                        Thus stood forth the earth 
                        At God's command. On nothing poised 
                        This mighty, moving world! 
                        Its waters measured in His hand, 
                        And with such precise proportions, 
                        That God His own infinity must blot, 
                        Sooner than its equipoise be lost." 
                     
                  
                
                
               Then she described man's creation as the climax of the Beautiful: 
                      
                        "Man came forth the 'microcosm of the world,'- 
                        The climax of the Beautiful. 
                        What were Eden's bloom, 
                        Or God's creative power, 
                        Without the adoring essence of Himself? 
                        In man He breathes a living soul, 
                        With the image of His holiness; 
                        By this he held communion sweet with God, 
                        And learned the wonders of omnipotence." 
                     
                  
                
               Describing the creation of Eve, she said: 
                      
                        "Voices sweet were chiming 
                        With the music of the spheres; 
                        And the glories of departing day 
                        Lay in lustrous sheen 
                        Upon the earth and sky. 
                        Back to the covert and the stilly grove, 
                        By instinctive senses fled 
                        The living, breathing world; 
                        And Earth her rosy arms reached forth 
                        To embrace her first-born son. 
                        Not from fatigue or toil, 
                        But by the sweet attraction of her laws, 
                        He sank upon her breast, in sleep profound. 
                        Near his waking hour he dreamt, 
                        That midst those happy bowers 
                        Walked his second self; 
                        That communion sweet he held 
                        With one in all his thoughts the same; 
                        That they together talked with God- 
                        Fresh powers expanding in their new delight. 
                        Incomplete within himself, 
                        Though perfect in his kind, 
                        A social void, 'till now unmet. 
                         
                        Not long the thrilling vision stayed, 
                        For soon its potent spell his senses swayed; 
                        And the light of eyes brighter than the day, 
                        Fell on his. 
                        O'er her face, in rippling beauty, 
                        Her sunlit locks were straying. 
                        Branches pendent twined her graceful form, 
                        And elfin roses nestled in her snowy arms. 
                        These half-concealed the virgin beauty 
                        Of her heavenly form." 
                     
                  
                
               Thus, gracefully, she led her auditors through the fairy realms of Beauty. Sometimes she viewed with philosophic eye the rainbow hues trembling in the drop of dew, or glowing in the gorgeous clouds. Sometimes she dwelt in coral caves where mermaids braid their flowing locks; or sailed upon the deep blue sea, where graceful sea-gulls skim the crested waves. At one time she followed the sinuous course of some majestic river; then clambered up Alpine heights of snow; traversed the broad prairie, with its waving grass and myriad flowers, or depicted the more rural scenes of golden corn, undulating grain, and smiling meadow. Down the long aisles of hoar antiquity she passed, and "The Beautiful" arose in the world of song, in sculpture, on the mimic canvas of art; and, finally, she closed with the great Apocalypse, where jasper walls and seas of glass adorn the Eternal City. In the sublime words of a favorite poet, she exclaimed: 
                      
                        "There is a place where loveliest things last longest, 
                        Where decay never lifts head above the grossest forms; 
                         
                        Where matter is all immaterial substance. 
                        The flowers fade not. 
                        Every eye sends forth a fragrant light, 
                        Till by degrees each flower, essentially consuming its fair form, 
                        Refines itself in Air, 
                        Rejoining thus the great archetypal stores, 
                        Where Nature dwells in pre-existent immortality. 
                        Here there are no storms, no earthquakes; 
                        The sky like a wide rainbow stands in gold; 
                        The clouds are like rose-leaves; 
                        The dews are the tears which the stars weep, 
                        Sweet with joy. 
                        The air is soft as a lover's sigh; 
                        The ground is glowing with a priceless ore, 
                        And sparkling like the gems upon a bride's bosom." 
                     
                  
                
               The fair speaker resumed her seat amid the confusion of applause. The multitude seemed already satisfied that the occasion would be "a feast of reason and a flow of soul." 
               Theme after theme engaged the attention of the audience. Sometimes Poesy showered its beauteous bloom, and anon the elegance of Prose sent to the heart its homely truths; but expectation decided that the best of the wine was reserved for the last of the feast, and they waited impatiently for the closing essay. 
               "The Past" was Lilly's theme, concluded by a valedictory. With a timid reluctance, enhanced by her position, she awaited the announcement of her name. Summoning a second thought, and not wishing to reflect discredit upon the honor that had been conferred, she entered upon the difficult task before her with an assumed confidence, to which she had hitherto been unused. To distinguish herself in literature was the ultima thule of her ambition; not the ignoble desire to make herself the cynosure of every eye, or to become illustrious, but a deeper motive moved the heart of this ambitious girl. 
               It would be an impossibility to give in succinct form her closing essay, or even to epitomize faithfully; but a recital of only a few thoughts contained in it will suffice to show the drift. 
               After a beautiful introduction, she first contemplated the achievements of genius, from the buddings of intellect, to the rising world of letters,-"when from Phnicia's sea-girt shore Greece felt her vital beams." Through the starry hosts she wandered, where science first scattered the Idyls of Arabic superstition, and gave man the key to the great problems of Nature, and taught him to elaborate those truths that have resulted in all the grand discoveries of science and inventions of art. Every science, both physical and metaphysical, received a graphic tribute from her pen. Over history she stood like a great prophetess. She waved her wand over the eventful Past, and the Dead Sea gave back the buried cities of the plain. Pompeii, with its cloud-capped towers and gorgeous palaces, arose from the encrusted lava of ages. In its banquet halls again floated the voice of song, and around its broken columns clustered the gems of oriental splendor. Then to Grecian oracles we listened, and wandered through the groves of Pantheistic philosophy. By Nineveh, too, we sat down, whilst the muse hung her harp upon the willows; and on Babylon we gazed, ere Upharsin was written on its crumbling walls. Jerusalem, whose glory lived but in sacred song, threw open her ancient gates, and we beheld her towers, marked her bulwarks, whilst the Queen of Sheba cast her gifts at the regal feet of Solomon. We heard the thunderings of Sinai, and the voice of ceremonial absolutions, hushed in the soft, sweet, plaintive notes of Zion's sacred hill. Rome, too, the eternal city, claimed the homage of our sighs; we roamed among its magnificent ruins; stood in the Parthenon, where the excited multitude had listened to the entrancing eloquence of Cicero, or the Sybilline verses of Cumea's graceful pen. Over the buried lore of Greece and Rome she twined a fragrant wreath to the immortality of genius, and strewed cypress upon the grave;s of their illustrious dead. The achievements of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries passed in review before us, and then we were hastily brought down to the history of our own times. She said that the nineteenth century had culminated in those sciences which had made earth and air the unconscious ministers of the fulfilment of the prophecy, "Many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased." The march of mind had placed a ratchet upon the triumphal car of scepticism, and brought all science into harmony with the principles of eternal truth. She spoke of the progressive ideas of the age in which she lived; of the influence of education upon the destiny of her own sex; congratulated them that they lived in the nineteenth century, when woman's mission was something more than ministering to man's physical wants. Although she was not designed for the political arena of life, or civil offices of State, yet she had the high prerogative of moulding the mind and expanding it with the high impulses of generous thought. It was hers to plant those seeds of virtue that spring up in the sequestered vales of life, and spread bloom and beauty on the barren waste. The influence of woman educated and refined, was like the element of heat, which could mould to models of excellence the most stubborn metals. She pointed to a beautiful silken badge that spanned her shoulders, and said, "Behold the motto of the nineteenth century: 'Educate woman, and liberty is eternal!'" 
               She forcibly impressed her sisters with the importance of keeping in the sphere where God and Nature had placed them. Alluded to the false theology that had reversed the position of woman, and placed her where Nature recoiled, and her sensibilities were blunted. Like Eve, she had been seduced from the side of Adam, and in self-dependence was reaping the fruits of temptation. Volumes might be written of the deep pathos and silence of this hour, and of the sweet heart-leaves she culled for that sister band; but it is useless, for they wear them in their hearts now as an amaranth of forget-me-nots. 
               The threshold of life is now passed, and we eagerly watch the paths of those lives that must now diverge. 'Twas a sad scene to observe one by one depart from the joyous old College walls, that for long years had been vocal with the school-girl's mirth. The old playgrounds, the swing in the grove, the grace hoops, the dumb-bells, were all mute messengers of grief to the few that circumstances had left behind. Lilly and Carrie seemed inseparable; and the friendship that had existed between them for years made the hour of separation more painful. They wended their way to the old chapel, to take a last look at the dear old hall where they had lived and loved together. As they entered, they glanced at the skeleton leaves and faded garlands that a few nights ago glistened so beautifully under the glare of evening lamps, and felt as if they were indeed treading "some banquet-hall deserted." They visited the old study-hall. The desks had been replaced, and they rummaged through all the torn bits of paper; surveyed the old copy-books, and the old inkstand from whence many a drop was taken full of tender thought and feeling. With silent reminiscences they closed the desk, bowed their heads upon it, and wept over the joys that were tasted never to return. They spoke not a word; but the deep gush of feeling proved that the friendships of youth are the most sincere and lasting. The friendships of mature life are nothing more than the calculations of interest. Whilst indulging these sad reflections, they heard a rap at the door. Scarcely had they time to look in the direction of the sound, ere Old Nancy's intruding footsteps explained its cause. 
               "Miss Lilly, I cum to tell you dat a nice young gemman wants to see you." 
               "Me?" said Lilly, wiping her eyes. 
               "Yes, Missis, make haste-I done ax'd him into de parlor." 
               "Who can it be? Do let me wash my eyes and smooth my hair," she said, withdrawing her hand from Carrie's, and with a quickened pace proceeded to the boarding-house. 
               Carrie tried to keep pace with her friend; but not having the same motive-power, she failed in the attempt. 
               "Aunt Nancy, what kind of a looking gentleman is he?" asked Carrie. 
               "'Clar, Missis, you are too hard for me. I didn't take time to 'zamine, for jes' as soon as I know'd what he wanted, I put rite out to look for Miss Lilly. He's a beau, I spec. Old Nancy know'd sich fruit couldn't stay on de tree long." 
                
               "Why, Aunt Nancy, I expect it is some one of Lilly's relatives." 
               "I dunno; it mout be. I seed one ting-he got a pow'ful red face and monsous black har, and it curls almost as close as mine." 
               "Why, I thought you didn't see him good, Aunt Nancy." 
               "Umph, Old Nancy seed enuff to know dat he was de bery picter ob helf." 
               "He must have been handsome?" 
               "Well, missis, I doesn't 'mire a bery red face." 
               Carrie entered the house just in time to see Lilly meet her brother, and passed on to Mrs. Dayton's room, where she threw herself in a large arm-chair, whilst tears rolled down her cheeks. 
               "Aunt Dayton, what will I do? How lonely I shall be. Now, when I ought to be happy, my troubles begin." 
               "Don't distress yourself, my child. You know my heart is ever open to you, and this house will ever shelter you. You have always been so sweet a child, I cannot think of ever parting with you." 
               "Aunt Dayton, you have ministered to my comfort so long, that I dislike to feel that I am doing nothing to remunerate those who have cherished me as tenderly as a daughter." 
               "Well, do wait, my child, until you get rested from your protracted study; and then, if you like, you can indulge your own taste as to some occupation pation. One trouble at a time-don't anticipate. It's enough for you and Lilly to say good-by." 
               At this juncture, Lilly came to the door, and said, "Carrie, I leave this evening. It is my brother, who has come to take me West. He says that his engagements are such as will deny him the privilege of remaining longer. I'm going at once to my room to pack my trunks." Looking at her watch, she said, "It is now ten o'clock, and I must be in great haste to get ready." 
               Both withdrew, and for several hours were engaged in gathering up and storing away books, clothes, drawings, paintings, and all the articles that had been accumulating for years. 
               Old Nancy came in, like all her race, just in the nick of time, and insisted on helping to put away Miss Lilly's nice clothes. Every now and then, when something struck her fancy, she would smile and say, "Miss Lilly, take good car' of dis,-make your little niggas' nice close." Upon which suggestion, it was invariably handed over to Aunt Nancy, who would feign great surprise, and return "a 'tousand tanks for de el'gant present." 
               However much attached negroes may have been to their owners, their covetousness surmounted all other considerations, and no parting was very painful, if it left behind a bundle of old clothes. They had a great penchant for anything that would assimilate them to their superiors. 
               Whilst these preliminaries were being enacted, Dr. B. was entertaining Mr. William Byrne in the parlor with a minute account of the closing exercises of the late Commencement, interspersed with many regrets that he did not arrive sooner, so as to witness the brilliant display. He also gave Mr. B. an account of his connection with the College, and the bereavement which had deprived him of his beloved companion, and remarked that, circumstanced as he was, he never could have been induced to remain as the president of a Female College but for the presence and extreme kindness of Mrs. Dayton. He said "she was like a mother to all the boarding pupils, and that as a token of endearment, she was addressed by them all as 'Aunt.' This fact made it admissible for him to continue in his legitimate calling." 
               Dr. B. was not one of those fidgety old widowers who made broad his phylacteries of crape, simply as an advertisement for a young and blooming wife; but he had an unaffected sincerity, and bore in his heart, and in his beneficent face, unobtrusive traces of the eventful past. William Byrne was exceedingly talkative, and could tell a great many things about Virginia, which, of course, interested the Doctor. In appearance he was not prepossessing. He was a man of medium stature-rather chuffy, with a complexion brown and ruddy. His forehead was quite low; eyes intensely black, but lacking that clear sclerotica which gives an eye of that kind a piercing brilliancy. His hair was more of a crisp than a curl; his nose aquiline, and his manner very brusk. He had been quite a traveller, and talked of what he had seen with the air of one who felt himself posted on foreign matters. Had he possessed the mental ability, no doubt another book of travels would have been added to the long catalogue of "Souvenirs of Foreign Travel," or "What I saw in Europe." Unfortunately, nothing higher than sensual gratification seemed to have been derived from his advantages. The fruits of these were visibly cropping out upon the surface of mind and body. His complexion was marred by blotches, and the glow of his morning beverage was still lingering on his cheeks. The parlor was quite dark from the drapery of the windows, and Lilly had not until now an opportunity of scanning the brother from whom she had been separated for many years. As they emerged into the hall, he drew her hand in his and said: 
               "Sis, you do not look like yourself. When we parted you were a little child, and I doubt if you recollect much about me." 
               Lilly looked at him in a searching manner, and replied: 
               "Indeed not, brother; and had I met you anywhere else I would have needed the formalities of an introduction. I think you are much fleshier than when I saw you last." 
               "Yes, yes! High living, you know, makes quite a change in men and manners; but not more changed than yourself." 
               "I hope you think I have changed for the better, brother?" 
               "Oh, yes; I think the Doctor deserves great credit for the transformation, and-" 
               Here Mrs. Dayton interrupted him, by saying: 
               "Mr. Byrne, Lilly is a pet of mine. You must take good care of her. Don't make a worldly-minded woman of her. You know girls, after leaving school, become very frequently mere drones; and it would be a pity for one so capable of living usefully, to waste her time and talents in the frivolities of society." 
               "Aunt Dayton, you need not fear that I shall become wedded to the gayeties of the world, for my course is fully marked out." 
               "Come, sis, none of your blue-stocking notions. I'll tell you what I heard a gentleman of intelligence say: He remarked that he would not marry a literary wife if she had the riches of Crsus." 
               Lilly recoiled at this sentiment; but Mrs. Dayton, as usual, felt it her duty to come to the rescue. 
               "Mr. Byrne, many fields of usefulness open to woman's energy and intellect, besides that of matrimony. It would be a pity, if all who desired to live usefully, had to incur the bonds of marriage, whether they were congenial or not. Any gentleman of intelligence who prefers an ignorant wife, that she may blindly adore his talents in self-abnegation gation, fails in his selfish desires. In the first place, mind alone can appreciate mind-'Light shineth, but darkness comprehendeth it not.' Marriage based upon an intelligent interchange of thought, taste, and feeling, is the only basis of a true union." 
               Carrie sat at the dinner table opposite Mr. Byrne. She took no part in the conversation, but was revolving in her mind all the little items of Lilly's history which confidence had imparted to her, in trying to trace the resemblance between brother and sister. The sincerity and frankness of Lilly, which were so permanently impressed upon her mind, left no place for a doubt of her integrity. All the reports concerning Lilly's assumed name were false, and Carrie dismissed it from her mind like she would have done the foul insinuation of an evil spirit. 
               "Lilly, my child," said Dr. B., drawing out his watch, "it is now almost train-time. I do not wish to hurry you, but you will have to make haste if you get off." 
               This brought the conversation to a sudden close, and the meal was quickly dispatched. Soon everything was in readiness for the departure, except the sad hearts that were to be left behind. 
               Oh, how sad is the word Good-by! Sometimes it comes over the heart like a death-chill, freezing the very soul by its sepulchral Nevermore!
                
               Lilly could hardly articulate her feelings of gratitude to her president and matron, and when she turned to bid adieu to Carrie, her grief was too great for utterance, except in sobs and tears. Old Uncle Ned and Aunt Nancy came, too, to say "Good-by." They followed on to the gate, and when Lilly turned to speak to them, Old Nancy caught her in her arms, exclaiming! "De Lord bress you, my chile, and go wid you. Old Nancy's prars will foller you whar eber you go." She then threw herself down on a little block, and hid her face from the receding coach, murmuring to herself, "Old massa and missis am gon whar all de good folks go, to lib foreber and eber, and here's Old Nancy lef' an not knowin which way she's gwine for to go." 
               "Ole 'oman," said Uncle Ned, "was dem bun'els on de steps yourn?" 
               "Yes," said old Nancy, brushing away her tears,-"Who got um?" 
               "I saw old Tray lyin on dem jes now." 
               Old Nancy jumped up in double-quick time, and all her "rumatiz" was gone, and all her sorrow fled, in her anxiety over her new possessions. 
               The baggage arrived in time at the depot, and Lilly stepped aboard the car freighted with all her hopes and expectations. The weather was very sultry, and its heat, together with her excitement, produced a severe nervous headache. 
               She secured a seat on the shady side of the car, and lay for several hours with a veil over her face. 
                
               "Come, sis, I fear you will sleep yourself to death." 
               "You mistake, brother, I have not slept at all. I wish I could while away the time in sleep." 
               "Why, you do not enjoy this beautiful country." 
               "Oh yes, when I feel better I will take great delight in making observations." 
               "Brother, I was just thinking of father: why did you not persuade him to come with you? I would have been so glad to have seen him." 
               "Why, sis, you forget; he is too old to take such a trip. He has been ailing a long time, and I would not be surprised to see him ' peg out' at any moment. But they say ' creaking doors hang a long time,' and may be you will have the pleasure of seeing him yet." 
               Lilly made no reply, but thus soliloquized: "Brother has such strange ways of expressing himself; and withal, so disrespectful of age, to say nothing of natural affection." 
               "Willie," she said, "please be kind enough to get me a little cool water. I think it will refresh me, and perhaps benefit my head." 
               "Certainly, with much pleasure. I think a little dash of something else in it will do you good." 
               "No, nothing but the water, if you please." 
               "Then, you'll take it straight." 
               Thus speaking, he hurried to the rear of the car; took down a little portmanteau, and from the jingle of bottles, one would have thought he had brought along an apothecary shop. He drew from the midst of a half dozen small flasks a very pretty silver cup, and filling it with ice-water, presented it to his sister. 
               "Now, sis, you have the honor of drinking from a cup presented by one of my foreign chums. I must tell you about it; for thereon hangs a tale." 
               Lilly held the cup up, surveyed it, and pronounced it singularly beautiful. Placing it to her lips, she had scarce taken a sip before the groggy scent sickened her. She, however, affected to appreciate the kindness of her brother, and threw the water out, as if in haste to comment on its beauty. 
               "Well," said she, "this is the first time that I have drank out of it, and I now consecrate it to the Naiads of the Crystal Streams. Never let it be defiled by anything stronger than water." 
               "O sister, you are too late; I have already christened it with lager beer, and you see it wouldn't be right to take it through a second christening. Orthodoxy does not tolerate two ceremonies of that kind on the same subject. As I was going to tell you, there are many pleasant associations connected with that cup. When I arrived in Berlin I could not speak a word of German, and I had great difficulty in making myself understood. I was conducted to a solitary little room that appeared to me like a garret, but which, I was told, rented for more than ordinary price. I threw my valise upon a sthlchen and my shawl upon that, and seated myself in despair, to muse over the terminus of my trip, and the free agency I abused in voluntarily placing myself in such a 'devil of a fix.' Excuse me, sis-but then you'll pardon me." 
               "Oh, horrible!" thought Lilly, "but then I must be kind." 
               He continued: "I thought, all the way from America, over wind and tide, and set down in a miserable little garret, without knowing a word of German with which to express my wants! I was soiled, thirsty, and hungry, and knew not how to remedy my situation. I got up and looked out of my window, and everything appeared smoky and cloudy. My heart sank within me. I turned away, and in my boyish manner blubbered right out. I suppose I must have attracted the attention of some one, for very soon I heard a rap at my door. Striving to hide my feelings, I answered it, and only partially opened the door. The voice demanded 'Was gibt es da?' I put my head out, and he said again, 'Mein Herr, was wollen sie?' I said, 'Go way with your gibberish, and send somebody here that can talk with me.' He understood the wave of my hand, and left. Soon a waiter appeared that could communicate with me, and brought me my first drink of lager beer, greatly to the improvement of my spirits. I learned from him that I would be at no loss for an interpreter, and after enjoying my breakfast, I sallied forth to see about the exchange that I needed. The interpreter whom I procured was quite a youth, but had learned to speak English very well, and we soon became of mutual advantage to each other. He knew that I handled a large amount of money, and was always ready to accompany me anywhere I desired to go. I believe he taught me nearly everything I know. He told me more about Luther and the Reformation, and showed me a greater number of historical places than I could have read about in a lifetime. We were fast friends. As soon as I understood the language well enough, I attended lectures with him. When I was about to leave him, he said, 'Well, Bill, we have had a gay time together, and I want to give you something now by which to remember me. Take this cup, and let us drink to each other's health.' Of course we took a big swig, and pledged undying friendship. Oh, how I long now for a drink of the good old stuff;" and here, lifting the cup to his nose with a knowing wink, he added: 
                      
                        "'You may break, you may ruin the mug, if you will, 
                        But the scent of the "crather" will hang round it still.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "Brother, one would think you were a perfect devotee of Bacchus. Do you mean to say that you love the taste of spirituous liquors?" 
               "Oh, no, I don't love the taste at all; but I'll tell you what I do like-I am fond of the excitement. It makes me friendly with all the world, and even if I make a fool of myself once in a while, it's all in a lifetime, and so far as I am concerned, there is not much to lose." 
               "What a pity," sighed Lilly, as she looked out at the window, and pretended to be engrossed in the moving panorama. "All this comes of bad associations, and sending children to foreign schools." 
               "What have you in your basket, little man?" asked Mr. Byrne. 
               "Apples and peaches, sir." 
               "What will you take for basket and all?" 
               "One dollar," replied the pale-faced urchin. 
               "Well, here's your money," lifting the basket from the boy's arm and placing it on a seat which he had turned down in front of Lilly. 
               "What a kind soul!" thought Lilly. "I do wish his generous heart could take on noble sentiments, and that I could be proud of this, my only brother. Oh, how I long for something to venerate, and upon which to dote!" 
               As soon as Lilly had finished a repast of fruit, her brother seemed on the qui vive for something else with which to gratify her. 
               "Do you like novels?" he said, running his hand down a huge pile of books that were poised on the knee of a bookseller. 
               "That depends entirely upon their character." Casting a glance upon those before her, she added, "No, not yellow-backed literature. Dr. B. often warned his pupils against 'such trash,' as he called it, that corrupts the morals and manners of the young." 
               "I beg leave to differ, sister. Do you not know, that if you read of vice and its effects you will be disgusted by it, and learn from the failings of others to mend your own faults?" 
               "You are very much mistaken, brother. 
                      
                        'Vice is a monster of such frightful mien, 
                        That to be dreaded needs but to be seen; 
                        But seen too oft, familiar with her face, 
                        We first endure, then pity, then embrace.' 
                     
                  
                
               "There, too, crime is painted in such glowing colors, that the transition is made easy from virtue to the most flagrant wickedness. In addition, the perusal of such works blunts the sensibilities, and closes up the avenues of sympathy to objects of real suffering. I would shun all such books as I would a demoralizing companion." 
               "Well, I believe, sis, you can beat me in an argument. Is there anything else you would like to have? If so, just speak out, for you know I have got the spondulix." 
               "Spondulix! What's that?" 
               "Ah, sister, you are a curiosity. Don't know what I mean by that word?" 
               "Indeed, it is the first time I ever heard it." 
               "I mean," said he, "that I have a plenty of the tin." 
                
               "Is that some new exchange you brought over with you?" 
               "Ha! ha! Ain't it too bad. Why, sis, I'm afraid when you get to St. Louis you'll be such a novice that-" 
               "Well, I hope that I shall at least be initiated in that which pertains to gentility. What reason have I to know such slang phrases, even if they are in common parlance. I have been cloistered with the most intelligent and refined persons for years, and I have never heard such expressions from any of my associates." 
               The conversation was interrupted by the stoppage of the train to take in wood and water. 
               "Here is something new to me," said Lilly. "What strange-looking trees are these?" 
               "Those are cypress-trees, my little novice." 
               "What makes them appear so queer? Is there a worm at the root? Their green tops seem to struggle for life, whilst their hearts are all gone. See that old moss! How lovingly it spreads a veil over their jagged points, hiding every deformity and perpetuating a semblance of thrift. What an important lesson it teaches. Sympathy often hides deformity; but, perhaps, it is not wisest." 
               "Sister, you have been cramped up in that dog'on'd old College so long, that I see you take a one-sided view of life. You know nothing about the world. Now, you are going to St. Louis, and I want you to mingle in fashionable society. That's just what I'm taking you there for. I wish you to quit thinking of mental and moral sciences, logarithms, and all such. You have often heard that aunt was very wealthy and as she has no children, you must make yourself interesting to her. You know she don't care what's in your text-books. She only wants you for company. If she takes a fancy to you, she will feel the same pride in you she would in an own child. You have plenty of money; and if you will go there determined to enjoy yourself, you will find a wide field for gratification. I tell you wealth is appreciated in the West, and has been the guiding-star of many an adventurer who now stands at the head of the bon-ton. Aunt will be sure to let it be known that her niece is very wealthy; and if you had nothing else, that would give you a passport. You will have many admirers, and will doubtless enjoy yourself hugely." 
               "Brother, you give me such strange counsel. You know my history. Life with me has been a struggle between ambition and despair. My pride has striven for supremacy without finding its gratification; and humility, which is the fulcrum of all true greatness, denies this boon, and places me where I deplore the day I was born. I cannot tell you how often my heart has bled in secret. But the die is cast, and, like a drowning person, I cling to every straw that promises to bear my head above the waves. I may go down in despair, at last, but it will be my life-long effort to keep my head above the gulf. I do not think that I will find much gratification in society." 
               "Sister, you should not fret over anything that you cannot help; but rather, should make the best of life. I intend to enjoy all I can of it. I have travelled from place to place; have tried to amuse myself, and have learned to make the wide world my home. When I meet genial friends, I enjoy myself. Now, as to taking a social glass, what harm is it? It makes me oblivious of everything but momentary gratification. Having nothing to tie me down, I love novelty, and a month is as long as I care to remain in any one place. When I enter a strange city, I find plenty of friends who love money and pleasure equally as well as I do, and I manage to spend my time very pleasantly." 
               "You must acknowledge, brother, that the life of a cosmopolite is not conducive to high aims or noble effort. Very few persons have the stamina to submit themselves to the fires of worldly excitement, and not be burned. If you would enter upon some profession in life, you would not be so visionary, or have such a wandering disposition. Suppose you try the study of law-that opens quite a field for distinction." 
               "Ah, no; I do not care about anything of the kind. What's the use of it? I lack for nothing that money can procure. I have no desire, if I could, to become prominent. You know almost as little of me, sis, as if you had never seen me before. Your brother is not so bad a fellow as you might suppose. Whenever you can see away down deep in my heart, you will perhaps pity and forgive anything that looks to you coarse and reckless. Now, good-night," said he, tucking his shawl closely around her; "I hope you will be refreshed by morning." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               TWO fatiguing days of travel had passed. Mr. B. stood upon the platform of the car smoking a fine Havana, and watching the ever-varying aspects of the country as he flitted by. At last, a five-mile post announced the proximity of Memphis, and a new line of travel. Throwing away his cigar, he re-entered the car, and approaching his sister, said: 
               "Lilly, you had better get all your little traps together, as we will soon be in Memphis. I will be very glad to get out of this dust. When we strike the river you will be delighted. The Mississippi boats are very nice, and have everything comfortable-provided we secure a new one. You have never travelled on water before, and everything will be both fresh and novel." 
               Not many moments had elapsed, when the conductor opened the door and shouted-"Memphis! Passengers for Memphis!" Everybody seemed to be glad of the change. There was quite a press for a few moments; but in a short time, baggage and all were transported to comfortable quarters in one of the nicest hotels in the city. 
               "Lilly," said Mr. Byrne, holding the bolt of her door, "I will now go below and order you a mint-julep." 
               "Thank you, brother, I do not like mint." 
               "Well, then, what say you to a gin-cocktail?" 
               "I never take any stimulus." 
               "Then I'll send a brandy-smash; if you can't drink it, some one else can," said he, laughing. "Have you any orders you would like to have me fill in the city?" 
               "Yes; I would like to have you purchase for me a few little articles which I find indispensable. Here is a list," said she, handing it to him. 
               Lilly opened her trunk soon as her brother had left, and began her ablutions and preparations for dinner. She had just completed her toilet when he returned, apparently much exhausted from the heat. 
               "Why, brother, how tired you are! I hope my commands have not walked you to death." 
               "Oh, no; here they are," said he, laying a small bundle on the table. "I nearly ran my feet off in making arrangements for our departure. We will take a boat at three o'clock this afternoon." 
               "Were you successful in getting a good one?" 
               "Only partially so. The boat secured is going up the river for repairs; but I do not think danger need be apprehended, for the reason, that the captain tain is one of the oldest on the river, and, besides, boat-racing has played out. I had to take this chance, or wait until to-morrow; and as we have no particular interest in remaining here, I thought it best to hurry on, knowing that aunt is looking for us every day." 
               Dinner was announced in the course of an hour, and after a sumptuous meal, at which Mr. Byrne freely popped his champagne, to the envy of many a less-favored guest, they left the dining-hall with numerous inquiries concerning the beautiful girl who had just made her exit. Some parties even congratulated themselves that they were to take passage on the same boat. 
               "All aboard!" thundered out the driver, and the omnibus that can hold all and every one, as its name suggests, was soon literally packed to its utmost capacity. 
               The day was very bright, and the large number of passengers seemed to portend a social, if not a comfortable trip. 
               When the hour for departure arrived, the old boat extricated herself from her fastenings and glided off, as if time nor decay had left their traces upon her. 
               When they were fairly under way, Lilly seated herself on the front deck, to watch the flow of the mighty river. 
               "What a wonderful tax upon credulity," said she, "to believe all the revelations and theories of science! Can it be possible that this grand old majestic river, upon which we are gliding so pleasantly and peacefully, was once old ocean's bed! that the splendid cities, which keep queenly watch over her levees, have been built upon the upheaval of extinct animal and vegetable life. Perhaps the very sediment that now comes darkling down this mighty current, may yet be piled up in beautiful islands of the Gulf, where the orange and the palm may gladden the waste of waters. 
               No one can follow the current of the Mississippi without being profoundly impressed. Aside from its historical and geological associations, it presents a diversity of scenery, enhanced by its great length, and the many latitudes through which it passes. Sometimes the landscape on either side embraces waving fields of grain and opening cotton; whilst at other times naught else is seen but vast forests of native oaks and marshy glens. At some points its placid waters spread out for miles upon the lowlands; and again, compressed by towering hills, are fretted into thundering falls. 
               This evening the river was sublime. Roseate tints were flooding the sister isles that lay in vernal beauty before Lilly's enraptured eye. It was just such a sunset as artists try in vain to paint. The waters and woods reflected the same hue of the skies, and the isles glowed like sapphires on the bosom of the grand old Father. 
                
               A splendid brass band which was aboard struck up the air of "Lilly Dale." Some of the more religious passengers applied the words of Zion, and sung in a dulcet tone: 
                      
                        "Arise, and shine, for thy light is come; 
                        In thy glorious robes appear." 
                     
                   It was the hour of passion and poetry. The opal tints of evening encircled the boat like the great Shekinah upon the moving tents of Israel; and daylight glided into night as softly as the last sweet smile upon the dimpled cheek of sleeping innocence. 
               The progressive ideas of the age have transformed the irksome labor of travel into one of the most delightful sources of enjoyment. One can now sit in a boudoir surrounded by the delightful aroma of flowers, the voluptuous softness of velvet cushions, the reflections of polished mirrors, and the enjoyment of magnificent fare, and be transported from place to place amidst all the convivialities of a home festival. 
               The party on board this evening was enjoying these delightful concomitants of steamboat travel. In the ladies' cabin, the music, the dance, card, parties, and conversational groups, were whiling away the hours, while the old boat was puffing with full steam ahead. 
               Lilly was engaged in conversation with Mr. Glenfield, who was introduced to her during the afternoon. He sat close beside her, took her fan from her hand-which is so often a woman's screen for her timidity-and was fanning her in a vehement style, as if it were the business of life to keep cool. Indeed, he scarcely knew what he was doing. He was literally transported with rapture. His words were incoherent-more of Ohs! and Ahs! than anything else-whilst his large, passionate eyes were trying to burn their way down into the deep recesses of Lilly's character. 
               "How does it come about," said he, "that Miss Byrne does not participate in the dance or in cards? I presume her scruples are quite weighty, or she never could resist the fascinations of either." 
               "Sir, I do not take any credit to myself, for I am really ignorant of both amusements; and having never been tempted, I have had nothing to resist." 
               "Ah! I see you are a moral philosopher. Of course you do not approve of dancing or card-playing." 
               "I think, Mr. Glenfield, that any amusement can be carried to excess. Dancing is a healthful exercise, and develops ease and grace of manner when it is practised for this purpose; but if in its enjoyment good manners are violated, it becomes as corrupting as it is fascinating. From what I have seen, I conclude that the sin, if there be any in this physical exercise, is more attributable to bad associations than anything else. It appears to me that, if health only were consulted, the round dances would be abolished, as there seems to be nothing in those contortions that develop properly the muscles, good manners, or morals." 
               "There is nothing, Miss Byrne, so electrifying as a soft pressure of the hand in the mazy dance-one feels like he was going through an enchanted labyrinth. Such an idea as a 'hygienic law' would take all the poetry out of motion, and rob it of all those enticing associations which make it the chief amusement of society. And then the waltz-ah, the delightful waltz! See Miss C., with what abandon she lays her soft, glowing cheek upon that warm, manly heart, listening for those throbs that only reiterate more than lips can tell." 
               "Mr. Glenfield," said Lilly, with stern, searching glance, "I have but little experience in life, but I am already convinced that 'it is not all gold that glitters,' and that under the most delicate floweret may lurk envenomed serpents." 
               Mr. Glenfield felt that he had almost compromised himself in the artifice by which he was coasting around. He saw Lilly's reproving manner as she attempted to draw her fan from his hand. He retained it, however, with an apology expressive of the exquisite pleasure it gave him to perform even the most menial office. 
               She arose and tried to excuse herself; but found that there was no way to get rid of his attentions without becoming conspicuous. He already had her hand clasped in his, and was pressing her to be reseated. Between the music of the dance and intervals of the sets, the vehement throwing of cards and muttering of foul play, that boded ill-luck to some, and gain to others, was distinctly heard. The noise issued from the gentlemen's cabin. Around a table sat two elegantly dressed men, attired in black cloth, and from their tout ensemble were evidently men of mark. One of them was an old man whose hair and whiskers were whitened with the frosts of years, whilst upon his features the dark brow of youth lingered, as if loath to quit the genial light of his mild blue eyes. He had evidently been accustomed to the elegances of life; for his manner was very bland and cultivated. The gentleman who sat beside him was equally agreeable in manner. We learned that the old gentleman was the first mate of the vessel, who, against the regulations of the boat, frequented the card-table, whilst the other was an expert gambler, better known as a "black-leg," on the Mississippi river. Either of them might have deceived the most critical judge of human nature; whereas, the life of each was replete with thrilling adventure and hair-breadth escapes. Opposed to them sat Mr. Byrne, and a youth of twenty summers, who was returning from the West with a small bequest left him by a mother, who had recently died. Seven hundred dollars in cash was his patrimony; and hearing the marvellous tales of fortune by chance, he determined to brighten up the little knowledge he had of cards, and try to add to the size of his purse. The first night he lost one hundred and fifty dollars, which made him almost inconsolable; and being of an ingenuous character, he had communicated it to the first mate of the boat, thinking that he was one who could sympathize with an unfortunate youth travelling in his care. 
               The first mate sought an interview with a blackleg, and by a preconcerted plan, they were first to play into the youth's hand and allow him to sweep the first stake. Then they were to stake again to the amount of all he possessed, and by a dexterous trick sweep the platter. 
               Mr. Byrne was a partner of the youth, and of course knew nothing of the villanous intent. The game progressed, vacillating now in favor of the youth, who seemed on the very verge of fortune. Intoxicated by the thought of success, his eyes wildly surveyed the coveted prize, and he boldly staked two hundred more. Alas, poor boy!-his luck had changed. Temptation grew stronger as he became morally weaker, and with a reckless hand he threw upon the table the last of his patrimony, and the memento of a dying mother's love. Just as this last was about to be lost, he discovered the trick of his opponent, and snatching his money from the table, swore that he would no longer submit mit to such foul play. Upon this precipitate action, the first mate threw off the mask of amiability, so well calculated to deceive, and dealt a blow which sent him reeling to the floor. Then, following him up with all the rage of a tiger, he was in the act of inflicting summary vengeance, when the almost paralyzed youth drew from his person one of those dangerous weapons so familiar to Texans, and quick as lightning severed the external jugular vein of his antagonist. The mate, seizing a chair, and lifting it with superhuman strength above his head with deadly intent, suddenly discovered that he was wounded in some vital part. The chair fell from his grasp, whilst with blanched cheek and quivering lips he exclaimed, "He has killed me!" Oh, horrible! The scene which ensued can be better imagined than described. The screams of "Murder!" "Fire!" each strove for supremacy. Some were ready to jump overboard to free themselves from devouring flames; whilst others who had witnessed the dreadful catastrophe were hiding from the infuriated mob of boat officers. All but the pilot left their positions. The young man, rallying from his perilous condition, and realizing the renewed dangers that beset him on every hand, rushed frantically toward the ladies' cabin with upraised hands, crying, "Save me!-save me!-Don't let them kill me!" Following in his wake were brandished carving-knives and cocked pistols, ready for the mark. 
                
               The wounded man, in a dying condition, was sent ashore in search of proper medical attention; and the youthful murderer was locked up under guard, to await his trial when he should be conveyed to the proper authorities. 
               In the mle, Mr. Byrne ran to his sister, whose screams had ended in fainting. She lay unconscious on a sofa, whilst Edwin Glenfield sat near her watching for the light of those eyes which seemed closed forever. Every restorative was used that was available. Cold cloths were placed upon her forehead, and hartshorn and mustard were freely applied. Mr. Byrne stood over his sister almost like a criminal; for he felt that he had neglected her, and that had he been with her she might not have swooned. 
               "Lilly, dear sister, speak to your brother," said Mr. Byrne, chafing her temples. Then pressing her hand, he felt the cold chill, and saw the purple nails that looked like the ashy petals of a faded rose. Presently a twitch of the brow, and a nervous tremor of the hand, announced returning life. A low moan escaped her, and soon the articulate sound of "Brother." 
               "Your brother is here," said Mr. Byrne, holding her hand in his, whilst his lips warmed the cold fingers. Suspense being ended, Mr. Glenfield whispered to Mr. Bryne, "if he could be of any assistance to call upon him without hesitation." 
               There was no time for a formal "good-night," and Lilly was carried by her brother, with the assistance of a servant, to her state-room, where she was left in charge of the faithful chambermaid. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               ON the evening of the second day, Lilly was sufficiently recovered from the consequences of her fright to walk on deck. She leaned upon the arm of her brother, who conducted her to a seat near a group of lady friends. Very soon the circle enlarged, until almost all the passengers were chatting on the upper-deck of the vessel. 
               "Where is the sick lady?" was the frequent interrogation by parties who were unconscious of her presence. This, with comments, made it quite embarrassing to Lilly, and as soon as an opportunity was presented, she descended to the ladies' saloon. 
               She sauntered about the room a short time, glanced over the pictures on the walls, and the sheet-music on the piano, until she grew weary. Then taking up a Harpers' Monthly that had been left by her brother, she reclined upon a divan at her ease, looking over its designs and reading its contents. She soon felt stupid from the concentration of her mind and sight; her book fell from her hand, and she twirled her raven curls in her fingers, all unconscious of the transition, with her mind evidently fixed upon some dim spot in the future. 
               There are mental states when the mind seems to turn in upon itself, and close all avenues to outward impressions. 
               Lilly was enjoying just such a reverie, when she heard the sound of approaching footsteps. This startled her. She arose, and was about to repair to her state-room, when Mr. Glenfield gave her a warm grasp of the hand with overpowering compliments, and interrogatories relative to her health. 
               "I have been uneasy about you," he said, "and it makes me inexpressibly happy to see you so bright to-day." 
               "You very much mistake me, sir. I am feeling very stupid, and believe I was about to fall asleep upon the divan." 
               "I am sorry, then, that I broke in upon the harmony of that beautiful picture. However, I could not resist the photograph I already had of your day-dreams, as I saw you reclining in your pensive mood. I was so anxious to see you that I could not forego the temptation of apparent obtrusiveness; and now allow me to apologize for anything you may have deemed offensive. I am sure I proved the sincerity of my motives, when in your great excitement and unconscious suffering, I was providentially the only one who could assist you. Everybody seemed frightened out of their wits and bent upon personal safety, but I risked everything to aid you; and had the casualty been fire instead of such an affray as it proved to be, even flames could not have terrified me like the loss of your precious self." 
               "Mr. Glenfield, I am not responsible for what occurred, or the assistance you may have rendered me; but I hope I feel sufficiently grateful." 
               "Let me see how your pulse is this evening," said he, smiling. 
               "No, sir, I thank you," said Lilly, drawing her hand from his; "I do not need medical attention." 
               "You must confess that I have been a very successful physician." 
               "Are you really an M. D., Mr. Glenfield?" 
               "Certainly, miss; I practise on the most vital organ-the heart. Sometimes I find it necessary to wound, that I may heal." 
               "I do not understand your inuendoes, Mr. Glenfield." 
               "Ah, well, I will undeceive you; I am not a physician. I only mention my kind ministrations to prove that my heart is sincere, and that you may be not altogether ungrateful. My admiration for you does not date back to our first introduction; but I have long known you from sight and by reputation, and during your graduation exercises, I sat in that immense throng and longed for this very opportunity to tell you of my love." 
               Lilly blushed until her face was crimson. It was the first intimation of preference she had ever received from the opposite sex. She was young and unsophisticated. She had a theory of her own and rules of conduct, but she plainly saw that there were exceptional cases, which required more art and tact than she ever possessed or dreamed of in her philosophy. 
               Mr. Glenfield was a very insinuating man; and whenever he attempted to accomplish anything, he brought into requisition the patience and perseverance of Job. Lilly did not wish to offend him, nor did she wish to be teased by importunities that were repulsive to her; but believing "discretion the better part of valor," she replied: 
               "I hope, Mr. Glenfield, you will not consider me rude, but please do not mention the present conversation again; it is very disagreeable to me." 
               "Do not turn from me so disdainfully," said he. "You do not understand me. If I seem obtrusive, it is only due to my deep admiration for you. Your very repulses prove to me how worthy you are to be loved. It is the lone cherry on the treetop that reflects the enticing hue, and not those gorgeous clusters on the lower boughs, that drop at the touch of desire." 
               "You are an enigma to me, Mr. Glenfield. Please leave me to my own reflections." 
                
               "Well, well, I will forbear; but you must promise to allow me to visit you when you arrive in St. Louis. I can be of great advantage to you, and will do everything to make you pass your time pleasantly." 
               Lilly sat motionless and silent; for she could not see how the attentions of any one she disliked could be essential to her happiness. 
               Mr. Glenfield began to construe her silence into real dislike, rather than girlish timidity, which he so much admired. After a pause, he said: 
               "You may be sorry that you have spurned the warm heart that would have enfolded you like the rough calyx the rose;" and drawing closer to her, he took from his side-pocket a piece of blank paper, and wrote on it only two words. They were talismanic! He watched her as she read, and then clasping her hand in his, said: "Do you now repulse me?" 
               The warm tears which had already started in anger, now fell more like drops of contrition. Her hand remained in his; and whilst her snowy handkerchief covered her sorrowing face, he gently raised her dimpled hand and imprinted upon it a warm and fervent kiss. Rage sparkled for a moment in her eye, and then subsided into something like passionate disgust. 
               It was a dove quivering in the hands of some reckless sportsman, or the timid fawn subdued by force! 
                
               "Forgive me," he said. "I only wished to prove to you how much I adore you. If I have embraced an artifice to whisper to you my love, it is because you spurned the heart that would have laid everything upon the altar of your affection, and closed your ears to all of my entreaties. Speak my forgiveness, and know that love often wounds to heal." 
               Lilly rose without uttering a word of the coveted pardon; and entering her state-room, closed the door, and wept alone. 
               "Can this be life!" she soliloquized. "Is this my Nemesis? Oh, I hate that man! yet confess his power. I cannot treat him too rudely, and yet I cannot love him-no, no!" 
                      
                        "Could I embody, and unbosom now 
                        That which is most within me. Could I wreak 
                        My thoughts upon expression, and thus throw 
                        Soul, heart, mind, passions, feelings, strong or weak, 
                        All that I would have sought, and all I seek, 
                        Bear, know, feel, and yet breathe,-into one word, 
                        And that one word were lightning, I would speak; 
                        But as it is, I live and die unheard, 
                        With a most voiceless thought, sheathing it as a sword." 
                     
                  
                
               Where was William Byrne? the brother on whom Lilly should have leaned in confidence and vindication in such an hour? Alas! what did he know of true fraternal feeling? He was a wild, rattle-brained fellow, unused to the refining influences of virtuous womanhood. Pampered by accidental cidental wealth, he had the arrogance of shoddy, without susceptibility for the amenities of life. He was loitering about on deck, indulging in obscene jokes, sometimes venturing a wager for activity, which he fancied he possessed in a remarkable degree, but which was accorded to the high instep, instead of the broad, flat foot of the would-be acrobat. He was enjoying himself, literally, without thought of anything but fun; besides, Glenfield had grown to be quite intimate with him, and however much he might have desired to cut short such an acquaintance, it was politic to be pleasant with those whose friendship was more advantageous than its loss. 
               This was an illustration of the warp and woof of what is called society, where "interest speaks all languages, even disinterestedness itself." 
               It had grown to be quite dark in Lilly's state-room, and she had sobbed until her head was aching. The hour for tea arrived, and her brother, who had always accompanied her to the table, suddenly recurred to the fact that his sister must be looked after. Entering her state-room he found it all dark. Lilly had excused the chambermaid from the trouble of lighting the lamp, upon a pretext of her desire to sleep. 
               "Why, in the dark," said he, scraping a match upon the wall and throwing the light full in her face; then adding, "You look as though you had been crying-What's the matter?" 
                
               "Matter, brother! I'll tell you what it is: I do not wish to see Mr. Glenfield again." 
               "Why? What has he done?" 
               "Well, I believe him to be a villain," said she, with compressed lips. "He has forced himself upon me ever since I came aboard, and I cannot bear him." 
               "Well," said her brother, conciliatingly, "do not treat him roughly. I think he appreciates you, and it is his blunt way. I think he means well." 
               "Well," said Lilly, "I wish he would keep his preferences to himself. I have treated him coldly, but he has not the sensibility to receive either a rebuke or an insult. He has the perseverance and artifice of an inquisitor." 
               "Sister, let me advise you, if you will take a fool's advice, to treat Glenfield kindly as you can. If he talks about love, give him a long rope and worry him out. That is the best way to dispose of an unmanageable haul." 
               "I think you are mistaken, brother. Give that man an inch and he will take an ell. Such a man will not accept distant politeness." 
               Then she whispered something softly into her brother's ear, and he answered: 
               "I know it all; but the best plan still is to take my advice. Will you go to supper now?" 
               "No, I do not wish anything." 
               "Yes, you must eat. I will get the chamber-maid to bring you some toast and tea. To-morrow you will be situated differently. Cheer up, 'variety is the spice of life,'" said he, closing the door as he made his exit, and whistling with a nonchalant air. 
               The tragedy of the past night had put a quietus to the sound of revelry and music, and long before the hour of twelve everything was calm, and each passenger filling his respective berth. 
               "Time and tide wait for no man," and ere the passengers were aware, night had sped stealthily away on the bosom of the waters, and Cairo was in sight. Lilly was awakened by the chambermaid, whose attentions were increasing according to the square of the distance; as at the end of the trip was the promised reward. 
               "Sure and indade, my lady, it would be well for ye to be afther takin' a leetle fresh air. Ould Cairo is jist in sight, and the likes of ye would be plased wath a sate on the deck." 
               She hurried on Lilly's wrapper, and tying a nubia very carefully around her head, assisted her up the steep steps. By this time the majestic Ohio, on the east, was pouring its crystal wealth into the bosom of the Mississippi, whilst the dark, murky stream on the west rushed like an evil spirit to dapple and mar its beauty. Around old Cairo these waters rolled, contesting supremacy, until, like the contagion of vice, the bright and beautiful was lost in the restless, feculent tide. 
               Lilly leaned over the guards, hoping to see the debarkment of her unwelcome admirer; but in this she was disappointed. The vessel stopped only long enough to discharge freight from New Orleans, and to relieve herself of several notable gamblers, who went ashore. 
               "Good riddance," thought Lilly, as they moved off, with carpet-bags in hand, followed by the porters with their trunks. "The boat will not only feel the change, but hearts are lighter." 
               Oh, these moral pest-spots upon society, that communicate gangrene in the healthiest, purest atmospheres of the world! If they could be excised from the body-politic by legislative enactments, more would be effected than can ever be accomplished in the punishment of the many crimes instigated by them. If you would destroy the deadly Upas, cut its tap-root, not its branches. 
               Cairo is a very unpicturesque locality; and Lilly's heart bounded with joy as the boat rang its farewell to the last landing before reaching her destination. 
               She had been for the last three days so deeply absorbed, by incident, accident, and the novelty of river life, that she had scarcely taken time to cast a look behind her; but now her mind assumed more of the exhilarations of hope, and the future perspective seemed brighter. To leave the old boat was to leave a prison, and to emerge into the great world, where her own will would be a law to herself, and where freedom from molestation tion could be enjoyed in the quiet precincts of domestic life. 
               William Byrne was like a fish out of water. Some of his chief companions had left, and he naturally turned to Lilly's company to while away a portion of his time. 
               Mr. Glenfield, however, was still on hand; and although Lilly had been so aroused by his presumption, Mr. Byrne still treated him very civilly, smoking cigars together, and exchanging tobacco; indeed, taking on all the appearances of friendship. This kept Glenfield in good hope; for it was a sure guaranty that from that quarter, at least, there would be no opposition to the prosecution of his suit. 
               Days often comprise those forms whose substance years alone reveal, and life may be measured by events, and not by age. 
               These few days had been like weeks of suspense to Lilly; but, thanks to kind Providence! the boat at last reached its destination, reserving all of its infirmities for the haven of rest. 
               Just as they were making the landing, her sides were splintered by an attempt to wedge her in between two boats that had monopolized too much of her wharf. A few moments of consternation consequent upon the concussion, and confidence was restored, succeeded by fastening her to her moorings. 
               Upon the assurance from the captain that all would be right in a few moments, each passenger awaited the signal to debark. 
               "Sit here a moment until I look after the baggage," said Mr. Byrne to his sister; "I will return very soon." 
               At this juncture, an elegant carriage, with a magnificent span of horses, and servants in livery, stopped near the landing. 
               Mr. Byrne looked after his baggage, and returned with a nice cabriolet. Lilly thrust into the hand of Bridget a parting gift, and soon ensconced herself in the waiting vehicle. 
               "Now, driver, do you know where Mr. E. Glynmore lives? I wish you to drive directly there." 
               "Oh, yars, sir. Jest gib me de street and de number. I bin drivin here considerable, and I almos knows my way in de dark. Can't bodder me." 
               Saying this, he threw back the door with an emphatic click; and was just mounting the dickey with a broad grin on his less lucky compeers, when an elderly-looking gentleman halted him, thrust his head in the window of the cabriolet, and grasped the hand of Mr. Byrne, saying, "This is Mr. Byrne and sister, I presume?" 
               Mr. Byrne cast a furtive glance at his sister, and answered affirmatively. 
               "Glynmore is my name," said the gentleman, "and I am happy to welcome you to St. Louis. Come, my carriage is here; take a seat in it, and I will see to the exchange of your baggage." 
               With all the dispatch of a business man, Mr. G. soon had everything comme il faut, and taking his seat in the carriage, said: "Miss Lilly, your aunt begs you to excuse her inability to meet you this evening. She has been suffering with a very severe headache, and bids me assure you that she is awaiting your arrival with great eagerness and welcome." 
               "Thank you, uncle. I regret to hear of aunt's illness, and hope that I may be of service to her." 
               "Oh, it is nothing serious. Your aunt is one of those nervous bodies that soon rights up. She is wiry, and though often complaining, is seldom seriously sick." 
               "One of those creaking doors, I reckon," said Mr. Byrne. (Meaning no disrespect, but simply fond of a quotation, however inappropriate.) 
               "Hem!" replied Mr. Glynmore, clearing his throat, as if he was a little surprised at the awkward addendum, and evidently feeling it a reflection somewhat on her youth, remarked, that "Mrs. Glynmore would be merry as a cricket on the morrow." 
               Everything was new to Lilly. She was so absorbed in observing the busy throng, the elegantly paved streets, and artistic residences, that before she was aware, the carriage suddenly stopped in front of a handsome stone mansion. 
                
               Mr. Glynmore assisted her out, and drawing her hand in his, said: "Now, come, my little niece, sans crmonie, into the private chamber of your aunt." 
               Mr. Byrne followed with all the familiarity of his nature. Mrs. Glynmore was waiting to receive her, and extended to her all the hearty welcome and endearing caresses that could have been lavished upon a darling pct. William, too, received his share of tender epithets. 
               They expressed many regrets at her indisposition; but she being much excited, chippered away as if there were indeed but little the matter. 
               Mrs. Glynmore had long cherished the idea of making her monotonous home the seat of social pleasure and amusement, by the varied accomplishments of her niece; and now her fond anticipations seemed about to be realized, for Lilly had arrived, and withal was quite as beautiful as she expected. 
               William had outgrown much of that rudeness which made him so repulsive in his boyhood; and his aunt readily construed his brusque manner into foreign eccentricities. 
               "Do you think Lilly and I resemble? aunt." 
               "No, not at all; Lilly is much fairer. I always imagined her a dark brunette; she is quite pale now, but perhaps, when her fatigue is over, she will be more ruddy." 
               "Marie," said Mrs. G., "bring some hot coffee fee for Miss Lilly; I think it will strengthen her. Also, some wine and refreshments." 
               This last command was very potent in arousing the loquacity of William Byrne; for if there was anything he really loved, it was a good drink, and it mattered but little with him whether it was a gin-cocktail or the green-seal. Marie was not long in obeying orders; and whilst Lilly gracefully sipped the aromatic mocha, William imbibed with genuine gusto the eau de vie.
                
               It is very hard to doff the influence of early associations; and on this occasion he fully exemplified the truth of this assertion. After finishing a third glass, he exclaimed: "Aunt, I think you have a fine-looking nephew; do you discern any change in his appearance?" pulling first at his stubby goatee and then at his mustache, whilst he swayed back and forth in a huge rocking-chair. 
               "As you have complimented yourself, William, I must take the other extreme. You are as brown as a nut, and, I reckon, a very hard one to crack." 
               "Oh, no! I am a soft-shell. Am very impressible with the right sort of crackers-a set of pearly teeth with coral lips, would have no difficulty in finding out all the good that is in me." Taking another glass, he said, "I leave it to sis to decide if I am not one of the best boys she ever saw." 
               "Brother, aunt will have to judge for herself. I must not forestall her opinion." 
               "I know she will do me justice in one thing, that is my appreciation of her bounty. This wine is splendiferous! I'll have to join the Washingtonians in self-defence!" 
               "My boy, I will have to take you under my wing; and if you'll follow my advice, I will make a great man of you." 
               "Good," said he, stamping his flat foot square down upon the bargain. 
               "William," she-continued, "I suspect you have had quite a novel career since you were last in St. Louis." 
               "Yes, indeed, aunt; I certainly have seen the elephant, and brought away his horns." 
               Mrs. G., laughing immoderately, said, "Tusks, you mean." 
               "Oh, no; I mean horns-that's musical and drinkable." 
               William Byrne always seemed to feel that he had to act the part of a buffoon in order to appear social. This was his style, and well accorded with his character; for he had the guffaw of a plebeian. 
               Mr. Glynmore stepped out to give some orders to the driver, and consequently did not remain at home but a few moments after the arrival of his young relatives. 
               "Where is Glynmore?" said Mrs. G. to Marie. 
               "Gone, ma'am, to the store again, and will be back to dinner." 
               "That's just like him. He's the busiest man you ever saw, Lilly. He hardly takes time to eat. I don't see why people kill themselves at work, when they have enough and to spare; but I believe the more a person gets the more he wants. This awful rush of business, as your uncle often says, 'to make buckle and tongue meet,' is very disagreeable to one of my genial disposition. Oh, the idea of being tied down to business is horrible! We ought to spend every summer at Saratoga and Newport; it would be so delightful. But whenever I make my arrangements for a tour, I find that I am minus an escort; so here I stay, through hot and cold, with my palace all to myself. But you are with me now; and I shall not only have the pleasure of your company, but I hope you will be delighted with St. Louis. I have an elegant home and handsomely furnished parlors, and as fine a collection of books as you will find in any private library." 
               This was all true; but Mrs. Glynmore, unfortunately, had more of the seeming than the real qualifications to enjoy her lavish wealth. She had been a gay widow until three years past, when she became Mrs. G., with increased opportunities to gratify all the extravagances peculiar to a woman of her style. She made great pretensions to aristocracy; and the height of her ambition was to be considered one of the first families of Virginia. No one dared to question her claims, as that class was so numerous in the Old Dominion. She courted the society of the influential; and no guest of prominence could arrive in the city without becoming the recipient of her gilt-edged attentions. Although not a religious lady, she engaged, for the sake of popularity, in every benevolent enterprise; and felt herself remunerated by the title of Mrs. Vice-President or Mrs. Secretary Glynmore. Had her charity proceeded from a heart sanctified by the Divine Spirit, she might have been justly entitled to canonization as a saint; but even with her unsanctified motives, her benevolence was attractive, and brought around her a large circle of friends. 
               Lilly was favorably impressed with her aunt's genial nature, and felt extremely anxious to see her free from all indisposition, that she might properly estimate her temperament. Mrs. Glynmore sat up in bed and indulged her loquacity until she found her headache returning. 
               "Aunt, suppose you put some mustard to the back of your neck; I think that will relieve you." 
               "Never mind, my dear, I will get over it soon. I frequently have these attacks after exciting physical or mental exertion. The weather is very warm, and I have had a great deal of shopping to do for some of my country friends. You have no idea, my child, how troublesome it is; they depend on me for the fashions; and, as my husband is in the mercantile business, of course I have to use a little policy and be very accommodating. To refuse would be to cut short their friendship and custom. Oh, dear! it is so unpleasant to go on such errands, whether one feels like it or not; but Mrs. A.'s custom is worth having, and her friendship too, for her family is one of the most aristocratic in all this country. 
               "Glynmore has a plenty and to spare; but he will insist that we are on the eve of perilous times, and that politeness costs nothing, but makes many friends." 
               "It seems to cost you considerable, aunt," rejoined her nephew. "I wouldn't have the headache to accommodate anybody. When I get sick you'll bet it comes from self-gratification, and that's all right." 
               This rollicking conversation was kept up for an hour, after which Mrs. G. requested Marie to show Miss Lilly and Mr. Byrne to their respective apartments, where they could enjoy the comfort of rest previous to preparation for the dinner hour. 
               "Now, Marie, do not let the young lady and gentleman want for anything." 
               "Lilly, you will find Marie a smart, handy girl, and very amiable. She dearly loves her native tongue, and is a little broken in her English; but as you are a fine French scholar, you'll have no difficulty, and perhaps may be amused by her foreign brogue. 
               Marie laughed good-humoredly at the passing comment, and turning Mr. Byrne over to a valet de chambre, took Lilly's shawl and other conveniences iences of travel, and led the way, saying, "Venez, Mademoiselle, votre chambre est en haut." They quickly ascended a flight of stairs, and Marie threw open the door of an apartment which looked as if it had been kept sacred for the coming of its new occupant. All the heavy tapestry of winter had been taken down, and the warm tints of the crimson damask had given place to a new satin valance, and from beneath its artistic folds fell a fountain of rich lace, that kissed the fresh buds on the carpet as it swayed back and forth in the breeze which crept through the lattice. 
               Elegant gilt cornices surmounted these, and included in their capacious length a large mirror which occupied the interval between the windows. An armour stood in one end of the room, with a mirror incased in the door, surmounted by a raven, reminding one of Poe's ominous bird, that "perched above the bust of Pallas." A handsome mirror adorned the sculptured mantel, and a bright reflector ornamented the bureau. The bed looked like a turquoise gem in its rich casings, with its blue satin gleaming through the rich lace. The carpet was composed of medallions of bright bouquets, that made one step lightly lest some flow'ret should be crushed, and left one in doubt whether the sweet aroma of the room might not have arisen from the brilliant petals beneath one's feet. 
               Lilly surveyed from her window the streets, imposing spires, and edifices; then seated herself in a large chair that Marie had rolled up for her comfort. She assisted Lilly in relieving herself of the unpleasant travelling suit, and began to untie her gaiters. "Oh, no, Marie; I cannot allow you to do that-the office is too menial." 
               "Oh, toute a fait gale," replied Marie, adding, "j'en suis accoutume." 
               "Marie, you need not speak French; I can understand your English. 
               "How long have you been in this country?" 
               "Since three years," she replied; and gave Lilly to understand that she spent a year in New York on her arrival, but having some friends in the West, she had been induced to seek employment near them. 
               She said "she had only been with Mrs. G. six months; was delighted with her, as she did not employ darkies. She had an antipathy to serving with colored persons." 
               Lilly found that Marie had been a Parisian coiffeuse, and was au fait in des modes nouvelles.
                
               Marie finished disrobing Lilly, and then opened a door leading into a bath-room, which was perfumed with most fragrant exotics. It was the breath of these that floated in the room when Lilly first entered the door of her chamber. She gave herself up to the luxury of a "bain chaud," and revelled for awhile in the pleasing anticipations of living in the midst of so much comfort and elegance. Lilly at times was beautiful, and if "beauty unadorned is adorned the most" is a criterion of the appropriateness of the epithet, she certainly evoked it as she sat en dshabill, with none of the elaborations of art. Her rippling hair dropped on her bosom in wanton ringlets, and the folds of her billowy robe lay in snowy whiteness around her symmetrical figure, making her the impersonation of Venus from the crested wave. 
               After finishing her ablutions, she gave herself up to a short nap, and wandered in dreams back to the dear old hall at N-, and her sweet friends, who made life all of its happiness to her. 
               With her arms clasped in fancy around the form of Carrie May, and whispering in her ear every thought that wildly throbbed since last they met, she awoke to remember the dark background of each bright spot. 
               It was the soft pressure of Marie's hand that awoke the sleeper for the arrangement of her toilet. 
               Mr. G. had already returned to dinner, and was waiting in the parlor below. She attired herself in a muslin of delicate figure, and placed in her bosom a jessamine she had plucked from a handsome bouquet. Marie had twined a few little buds in her luxuriant hair, and exclaimed: "charmant! charmant!" 
               Lilly raised her eyes to the mirror, and could hardly identify herself, so completely was she metamorphosed by the finger of fashion. 
                
               Having adjusted her toilet, she descended the stairs to look after her aunt. 
               William Byrne and Mr. Glynmore were seated in the parlor, and caught a glimpse of her as she passed through the hall. They sprang up simultaneously, and called her to join them in their tte--tte.
                
               "Not until I see aunt," she replied, and hurried to Mrs. Glynmore's room. 
               "Dear me, how beautiful you are this evening!" exclaimed her aunt, raising on her elbow to give her a kiss. 
               Scarcely were these words spoken when dinner was announced; and after a sumptuous meal, Mr. Glynmore, contrary to his usual custom, proposed a walk. A conversation with Mr. Byrne, in which several of his old acquaintances were mentioned, was a clue to this unseasonable promenade. 
               Mrs. Glynmore was much delighted at being all alone with Lilly. One of the great secrets to be communicated to her was the selection of an elegant beau. 
               "To tell you the truth, Lilly, he is crazy to see you," said she. "My plans are all matured, and as soon as he visits you I intend to give you a handsome reception. My elegant friends will soon call, and then I intend to make your dbut a brilliant occasion. With your attractions, my dear, you cannot fail to make a sensation with the belles and beaux. Colonel Mayford is said to be not very susceptible, and the girls are all dying to make an impression upon him. What a triumph for a school-girl, if you should bear off the prize!" 
               Lilly listened with an incredulous yet respectful attention, and replied: 
               "But, aunt, I have no desire in the world to captivate. I never expect to marry." 
               "Why, Lilly, I could not bear to think that I had a maiden niece. Never mind, you will change your purposes when you see the Colonel. He has such a distingu air. He is tall, symmetrical in figure, and a complexion transparent enough for a woman's; but beautifully set off with as fine a suit of whiskers and imperial as you ever saw. His noble forehead, the lofty curve of his manly brow, and his speaking blue eyes, make him perfectly irresistible. He seems so delicate in his attentions, 'so self-securely mailed' that one would think his love platonic; but when he sits beside you, places his arm on your chair with his face full in yours, they say there is an electric current that awakes a thrill in the stoniest heart. The mere announcement of his name at an evening's entertainment is sufficient, of itself, to set each feminine heart aglow with expectation." 
               "Indeed, aunt, your description is quite over-powering; but I am too great a novice to compete for the prize, or discover the weak point of the invulnerable Achilles. No; rather let me live 'in maiden meditation, fancy free,' in the midst of your beautiful home, with the companionship of books and flowers, and above all, your precious, sympathetic love, and I ask no more. If I am ever beloved beyond the sacred precincts of my home-circle, I hope it may be from a consideration of moral and intellectual worth. If I wield no influence whilst I live beyond this limited sphere, the fault will not be mine. I have been ambitious, aunt, and would, if-" 
               "Hut, tut, my child, how crazy you talk; I fear you will become a misanthrope." 
               "Not a misanthrope, for I love the human race too well to perpetuate aught that could blast or blight." 
               Mrs. G. had touched a delicate chord, but it was unavoidable; for by contrast we appreciate that which is comely. 
               "Now, my dear child, cheer up, and quit repining. Your trials are imaginary. Profit by my example-be happy to-day, and let the future take care of itself. To-morrow I shall be up, and what-ever is needed to improve the beauty or style of your wardrobe, shall be attended to immediately." 
               This conversation was continued until an unusual hour, when Lilly, fatigued, sought the repose which her chamber and solitude seldom denied. 
               Mrs. Glynmore was up on the following morning, nervously promenading the verandah, awaiting the appearance of Marie. The parlors and halls were yet to be dusted, fresh flowers to be arranged in the vases, and everything to be done before breakfast that pertained to the regulation of the house, for there was no end to the numerous errands that Marie was expected to perform during the day. 
               "Why don't the girl come along?" ejaculated Mrs. Glynmore. Then turning around, she ran up to Lilly's room to ascertain the cause of delay. Lilly and Marie were leaning out of the window watching the passing throng, while Lilly's arm patronizingly encircled her waist. The sudden opening of the door arrested the attention of both. Marie retired from the room with a withering rebuke, whilst Lilly received an affectionate good-morning kiss. 
               "I am sorry, aunt, I detained Marie so long. She directed my attention to something that was novel to me, and I forgot her numerous duties." 
               "Her time, my dear, is nothing at all, although Marie knows her duties are yet unperformed. The difficulty is, she is so easily spoiled. Never allow a servant, white or colored, to be on intimate terms with you, if you would command their respect. You can be kind, and treat them with politeness, but always let them feel that the measure of your respect is only in proportion to their faithful discharge of duty. Now, there is John, you met at the door, a capital servant, if he could only be kept in his proper sphere; but he is inclined to be very impertinent, and I have been on the eve of dismissing him twice on Marie's account. Don't speak to him at all unless you are positively compelled. With Marie it is quite different, but don't be too familiar with her." 
               "Aunt, I have always felt so much sympathy for the humble, that it is hard for me to refrain from a pleasant chit-chat whenever I meet them. Old Mrs. Dayton used to say that I was a 'servant-spoiler,' because I kept them in conversation so long in my room. Perhaps it is due to my early impressions. I remember, when a child, how I sat in the chimney-corner and listened to their marvellous superstitions; and how my flesh would creep and my blood run cold over the tales of ghosts and jack-o-lanterns; and how a blue blaze would seem to follow my feet, as I ran from the servants' cabin to my father's door; and to this day I am afraid of the dark." 
               "Yes, my child, you had as well have been in a pagan temple. You ought to be so happy that your father's lavish wealth has bestowed upon you such superior advantages, and surrounded you with such elements of success. You are now an accomplished lady. Put on your dignity, and gratify me by attention to every little hint of propriety that can make you attractive in the world of fashion." 
               "Aunt," rejoined Lilly, "I wish I was everything sweet, pretty, and good, for your sake." 
               "Child, you can gratify my greatest ambition." 
               Lilly rested her face on her hand for a while, then exclaimed, "'Ignorance is bliss' sometimes. Whilst education has enlarged my sphere of knowledge, it has correspondingly quickened perception and sensibility, which make impossible the mark of my ambition." 
               "Cease to nurse, my dear, such foolish fancies. Come, there is our breakfast bell. As soon as the meal is over I wish to examine your trunks." Here she twined her arms lovingly about her as they descended the steps. 
               "Marie," observed Mrs. Glynmore, after the breakfast was served, "I see you have everything ready but those stands of flowers. Fill those vases as soon as you can, and don't interrupt me without some one calls, for I am going to Miss Lilly's room." 
               "Aunt," remarked Lilly, as she bent down to unlock a large Saratoga trunk, "I fear that my selections will not agree with your cultivated taste. Carrie May used to call me an 'anomaly.' I always had the greatest aversion to being conspicuous, and yet she said my clothing was 'remarkably gay.' The dress I wore last night was Carrie's selection-but you can come and see. Now here, I think, is a beautiful dress of crimson and blue, and here is a canary color trimmed in black." 
               "Evening dresses, are they not, my dear?" 
               "Oh, no, aunt, I can wear them at any time." 
               "Too gay, my child! They might do for a costume party, where every degree of oddity is admissible missible." Then she chippered away as she glanced at each article, pretending to be absorbed in her explanations of the fashionable styles. 
               "Here, aunt, is something I know you will like. Do accept them from me." 
               "I thank you, my dear; one bottle is enough. I seldom use any perfume. You seem to have an extravagant supply." 
               "Yes, aunt, I have accustomed myself to its use so long that it is a natural necessity with me." 
               "Don't use too much," replied her aunt, "it is considered vulgar and coarse. Soap and water," she continued, "such as you find in your bathroom, will be equally agreeable. It will not injure the sense of smell nor destroy the olfactory nerves." 
               While Mrs. Glynmore was talking, Lilly was replacing some little trinkets that had fallen from their boxes in the jolting of travel. 
               "Ah, a 'charm-string,'" said her aunt, as she glimpsed a queer-looking article. 
               "No, aunt," said Lilly, blushing; "it is an heirloom I have had since childhood. I have kept it on account of those large blue beads, interstrung with the glassy white, which look like beryl and amethyst." 
               "Yes," said Mrs. Glynmore, eying them indifferently. "I have seen them before. Do put them away, my child, and strive to forget the associations that cluster about them. I see that you need a new wardrobe. There are many beautiful shades of color which would be very becoming to you, and I propose to purchase them without subjecting you to any expense." 
               "Just as you like, dear aunt, but I would suggest that the new colors are so easily soiled by perspiration." 
               Marie's rap at the door, with a waiter of cards, interrupted the conversation, and called their attention to visiting friends. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               A WEEK had passed since the arrival of Lilly, during which time Mrs. Glynmore had been entirely occupied in entertaining her numerous visitors. The stone mansion had inaugurated a new rle. The elegant parlors were illuminated every night, and music and mirth reverberated through the spacious corridors. Colonel Mayford had called twice, besides a number of the most popular gentlemen in the city, some of whom were great connoisseurs in music, and not only assisted in making the evenings delightful, but poured out upon the stilly night entrancing serenades. Everything progressed to the entire satisfaction of Mrs. Glynmore's most sanguine desires. But there was an important event to be disposed of-the grand party. It would take considerable time as well as money to arrange everything properly; and Mr. Glynmore had hinted two or three times to her about the propriety of being as economical as possible, on account of the perspective he had of perilous times; also the unpleasant fact of a large note that would be due on the second day of the month. Mrs. Glynmore looked upon this piece of confidence as quite ominous; for her husband seldom communicated to her his pecuniary difficulties. He generally left all his troubles on the door-scraper, and labored assiduously to make home the dearest spot on earth. Whether this was because she could not appreciate anything but propriety, or had none of that sympathy which is the only cement to love, is a question which her own true character must solve. Many a home has been darkened into an abode of poverty through the ambition of a wife, who could not and would not comprehend the embarrassments of her husband. He must be faithful in every other detail, but to communicate such homely truths as credit and debit is looked upon as something without the pale of conjugal consideration. A reciprocity of interests and mutual sympathy never fails to make wedded life what God designed it should be-a blest and sacred tie. To be a helpmeet was Eve given to Adam; not to chase the butterflies over enamelled beds of flowers, but to dress the Garden-the pleasant "task enjoined"-not leaving him to clasp the ivy where it should twine, whilst she in yonder bower of roses whiles away the time. A misapprehension of the first principles of community of interests has been the source of all the unhappy marriages, and the prevalence of divorces that disgrace our enlightened age. The apologists of these may find relief and excuse in "electro-affinity," or some other branch of Satanic philosophy; but there is a code of morals that does not excuse this hardness of heart and reprobacy of mind. It is as immutable as the marriage-vow, and cannot absolve from obligations, though the hand may be heartless. 
               Mr. Glynmore was a very indulgent husband; tried to gratify his wife in all reasonable desires; but she was very exacting in ways and means in the accomplishment of any object. To seem rather than to be was an atmosphere in which every principle of her nature developed itself. Even in her anger she was never irritated as she appeared to be, but used every passion merely as a stepping-stone to any enterprise she might project. 
               "My dear," said she, as Mr. Glynmore arose from the breakfast table, "I wish to see you a few moments in the library." 
               "Well," said he, looking at his watch, "it is now nine o'clock, and I have an engagement. Will not noon do as well?" 
               "No, my dear, I cannot wait. I wish to explain some little matters to you, and must see you now." 
               "Very well, Rachel, I am in a great hurry, and you must talk fast." 
               Mrs. Glynmore followed her husband with a smile, for she knew she could do that very thing to perfection. 
               She often laughed in her sleeve at her adroitness in accomplishing her purposes, and every victory seemed to nerve her for future effort. 
               Mr. Glynmore took his seat, hat in hand, with the restive spirit of a punctual business man, and impatiently waited for what he almost knew. 
               "My dear," said she, smoothing down complacently the folds of her morning wrapper, "I am, as you are aware, getting up Lilly's wardrobe for the summer. She has nothing but a school-girl's apparel, and I've always intended to present her with her first season's outfit. Of course, she is wealthy; but then I feel it my duty to make her this present on the occasion of her dbut into society. I wish to have an elegant reception, which you know will be more expensive at this season of the year, as luxuries are scarce. Besides, I wish to purchase a set of laces for myself, for which I have already bargained, and also money to settle an account that is now due." 
               "Well," said Mr. Glynmore, scratching his head, "what amount, Rachel, will do you? The times are hard, but you know I always gratify you in every particular." 
               "I presume," she replied, "that I could get along on three thousand dollars." 
               "My dear wife, it is impossible to give you that amount. This very day I have a note in bank of five thousand dollars, and know not where the money is to come from to meet it. I cannot bear the idea of its being protested, having always sustained an enviable reputation for promptness. Only think how a failure to meet my obligations would affect my credit! The goods I purchased were bought on time, and it was my uniform punctuality that secured me this indulgence. Would you, for a little gratification of pride, bring a reflection upon your husband's integrity?" 
               Mrs. Glynmore made no reply, and her husband took courage, and proceeded: 
               "Now, my dear, I am perfectly willing to give a nice entertainment to our interesting niece, besides a liberal present consistent with the times; but why do everything upon such an exhaustive scale? Yesterday I paid two hundred dollars on a subscription list which was presented to me with your signature heading the roll." 
               Mrs. Glynmore's pent-up fires began to kindle; and her silence was only the stillness that precedes an earthquake or volcanic eruption. 
               "Don't talk to me, Mr. Glynmore, of exhaustive scales. I'd like to know if I can't do what I please with what belongs to me?" 
               "Yes, my dear," said he. "You have done so much as you pleased, that you have placed nearly everything you had on those 'exhaustive scales.'" 
               "Everything I had!" reiterated Mrs. Glynmore. "I would like to know what has become of the large fortune I placed in bank the day after my marriage?" 
               "I will answer, my dear, by asking you to look over your enormous accounts. Do you recollect that beautiful statuary you insisted on purchasing, those rare exotics, that voluminous library, and those magnificent paintings, all of which you said you preferred to keeping the money; besides, your subscriptions to various enterprises, which you said were your own private and voluntary offerings? These, you must acknowledge, have drawn very heavily upon your deposits." 
               "Do you pretend to say, Mr. Glynmore, that all of these things have actually been paid for out of my property? A pretty tale! a self-supporting wife!!" 
               "No," interposed Mr. Glynmore, "it is not the half, my dear, that you have spent. I will some time bring up my books, just to prove to you how kind I have been, and how many of your expenditures I have met, as a kind husband should do." 
               "Kind, indeed!" she replied; "I have always believed that you married me for convenience." 
               "My dear, I thought you had a better opinion of yourself. Such a remark argues that you place a very low estimate on your qualifications as a wife." 
               She proceeded: "If I were a young girl I would have no difficulty in procuring this paltry sum of money; nor would you spend all your evenings in your counting-room, instead of at home." 
               "My dear, nothing would afford me more pleasure than to be with you, and to see you happy and contented; but the truth is, I have no time for elegant leisure. Just such hauls as this keep my nose to the grindstone." 
               "Mr. Glynmore," said she, looking at him with a threatening glance, "if your sight could be sharpened as well as your nose, you would have penetration enough to see an inch before you. You don't reflect that what you call extravagance in me is the very source of your success. Think of the sphere in which I move. Who are the customers of Glynmore? Consider for a moment, and then tell me if you are not dependent in a great degree upon my popularity." 
               Here she paused, and then resumed: "People have got to seem as well as to be. Don't you advertise your business by saying, 'Everybody buys of Glynmore'? Now I want to put the best foot forward, and I am only following the example of my worthy liege lord." 
               At this sarcasm, Mr. Glynmore's face began to relax into a faint smile, which was reflected on that of his wife, as she felt she was gaining the ascendancy. 
               "Rachel," said he, elevating himself, and striving to look unconquered, "always think before you speak so harshly. I only wished to let you know our situation. Now, here is a check for three thousand dollars. Don't spend it for trifles." 
               Taking it as a matter of course, she said: "Why did you not give it to me at first? Mr. Glynmore, you are to blame for every bit of this talk. I only wanted to explain to you." 
               "Well, my dear, I am in a great hurry, and must go." 
               "Stop," said she, as he was about to step into the hall, and gently brushed a mote or two from the sleeve of his coat, as if she were anxious for her husband to be "known in the gates when he sitteth among the elders." "To-night," she added, "we will have company. Do try to make your arrangements to be with us." 
               "Yes," said he, as he pulled the bolt hurriedly behind him, and muttered to himself, "I do wish I had some firmness. Rachel will have her own way about everything. Why don't I be a man, and the head of my own house?" 
               Mrs. Glynmore ran into her room, and looked in her mirror as she crumpled the check in her bureau drawer, and wondered what it was about her that could bring her husband to such quick reflection. 
               The frown had not left her face when she threw back her head, and laughed heartily at her prowess. 
               A woman loses respect for a man she can thus control; and no amount of kindness can ever inspire her with sentiments of gratitude. She attributes all her gratifications to her own diplomacy and superior tact. 
               As Mr. and Mrs. Glynmore were the only parties to these altercations, it did not so easily leak out how many cross-firings preceded a flag of truce. Not that they actually fought; but figuratively, leaving as many scars as a regular Water-loo. Everybody congratulated Mrs. Glynmore upon having carte blanche to do as she pleased, which reputation she felt dignified in perpetuating, but unwilling for the world to know how she became invested with such rights. She always replied to these congratulations, in her most agreeable manner, that Mr. G. was one of the dearest of husbands, and that they lived delightfully together. 
               Some persons said, in spite of such protestations, that he was a henpecked husband. He had a suaviter in modo that challenged the credulity of those who kept account of his wife's extravagance; but what right had the world to think at all about it? In these days of progress and refinement, a husband is expected to cater to all the whims of the frivolous woman he may have the misfortune to call his wife. In addition to his assiduous labors to supply her numerous wants, he is expected to "sigh like a furnace in woful ballads made to her eyebrows," and continually respond to-"Ah! whisper what thou feelest." Much of his time must be spent in dalliance, lest the venomed serpent creep into the bird's-nest, under the protecting gis of a heart-craving philosophy. 
               When will woman learn her true relation as God's best gift to man, and thrusting aside this sickly sentimentality, be the inspiration of his noblest nature? 
               Mrs. Glynmore, be it said to her credit, was a virtuous woman in the true acceptation of the term; as she never tried to elicit the admiration of the opposite sex as a married woman. She looked upon such things as disreputable; and it was these qualities that made poor Glynmore work himself almost to death to gratify her. He would often say to himself, "Well, Rachel is high-tempered; but then she is prudent, and as such her price is above rubies! It might be a great deal worse." Upon such reflections he was comforted, and not unfrequently congratulated himself on being a fortunate man; especially when his wife would recount the instances of her popularity, and kindly stroke his hair, which generally preceded one of her expensive projects. 
               She was always on qui vive for something to engage her munificence. How pleasantly did she hail her new surroundings! With heart elate she ran into Lilly's room, humming a favorite air with such a cheerful voice that no one would have supposed the modus operandi of her success. 
               Lilly was just rising from addressing a letter to Carrie May-the first sweet confidence since they parted; and was placing away the appurtenances of correspondence, when her aunt threw upon the table several packages of beautiful cards and envelopes. 
                
               "Come, my child, this is your affair, and address these invitations." 
               William Byrne, who had just purchased them for his aunt, entered the room, and squared himself about the table, and began to make flourishing designs with his pen. 
               "See here, aunt, what a noble fist-let me direct them." 
               His aunt looked and laughed. "Why, William," said she, "your P's look like corklegs, and your Q's like setting hens." 
               He looked up coyly, and said: "I'll be on my P's and Q's when I get to those letters." 
               "Never mind, my boy, give the pen to your sister. You may call the names as she writes." 
               William leaned back in a swaggering way, with his feet crumpled under the chair, and opened the list. "Good gracious, aunt, you must be very popular! You don't expect to feed all these folks, do you? Well, if I live, you have begun at the first letter of the alphabet-Mrs. A." 
               Lilly began to direct. 
               "Stop, my dear, I wish to think a little; you see I wish to be very select. Mrs. A. is one of the bon-ton, and a nice lady; but somehow or other she was always very disagreeable to me. I do wish I could get round inviting her; but she gives so many entertainments that I might regret not complimenting her. Direct an invitation, and I will just leave all the objectionable ones in a pile; and when I get through I will select from them to make up the complement of my guests." 
               "Fes so," said William, and he thrust the invitation to one side. 
               Turning again to his list, with a squint of penetration, he exclaimed: 
               "Here is Mrs. B.; can she pass muster?" 
               "Oh, William," she said, "you make everything so ridiculous. Mrs. B. is a very nice lady, or she wouldn't be on that list. She is a very inquisitive woman-sees everything, and never forgets to talk about it. Put her down. I would just as lief tell her anything as to put it in the newspaper. She will give a description of everything." 
               Elevating his brow, he read-"The Misses C." 
               "Oh, now, I am in a quandary-three out of one family! Why don't some of them get married, or go on the old-maids' list? Too bad! One slice out of a loaf is enough." 
               "I don't think so, aunt," replied William, "if it's a good one. The more the merrier." 
               Here quite a chat ensued. 
               "What will you do with them, aunt? Speak now, or forever hold your peace." 
               "Direct to them all, Lilly, and throw them in that contraband pile." 
               Mrs. N.'s name came next. 
               "Mrs. N.," said Mrs. Glynmore, "is a strict member of the church. She don't care a great deal for society. She nursed me so faithfully last spring when I had the measles, although she had little children that might have taken it; and all for the love of doing good. I can't think she would be worldly-minded enough to take an exception, and as she is my next-door neighbor, I'll just let her come without a formal invitation. This will leave it optional with her to come or not." 
               "Well, what will you do with Mrs. L.'s name?" asked William. 
               "Oh, it would be terrible," she replied, "to overlook her. She is a gay, flashy widow, and will be furbelowed to kill." 
               "Put her down for my benefit," said William, interrupting her, before she had finished her comment. "I like the 'Vidders,' in spite of old Father Weller's 'beware.'" 
               "She's deep in love with Lilly's beau," continued Mrs. Glynmore; "and if you'll promise to engage her attention during the evening, she shall be complimented." 
               "I will, with pleasure, madam," he replied. 
               "Do turn for a while from the married list, William. They only go to parties to eat, and do not contribute anything but criticism on young people's fun." 
               Lilly, who had remained silent until now, remarked, "that young people ought not to make themselves obnoxious to criticism. Surely age and experience ought to confer dignity on any assembly." 
                
               "My dear, we must not stop to argue. Here's a long list of Glynmore's customers. By all means they must be invited." 
               Here envelope after envelope was addressed, until a huge pile testified at least to the popularity of the merchant. 
               Glancing her eyes along down the list, she said: "The young people, of course, must be invited. Some of these young men are given to wine, and most all of them sow their wild oats; but if the girls don't discriminate, I won't." 
               Here, however, they sifted and resifted until the party was furnished with guests. 
               Lilly straightened up to rest her wearied form, and then placing her elbows on the table, read as follows: 
               "The pleasure of your company is requested-" 
               "What a libel on sincerity! If all the invitations to parties passed the ordeal of these," said she, laughing, "no wonder at the jarring elements in society." 
               Then she read another form which was discarded: "Mr. and Mrs. G. at home." 
               "I think I should say let them stay at home, and keep their own company." 
               "Ah, well, my dear," replied her aunt, "parties are very thankless affairs. They make but few friends, and many enemies; but they are necessary in keeping up one's position in society. If our neighbors only knew what was said about them daily around our tea-table, a battle royal would come off every day; but you see it seldom transpires. You'll have to learn to be more practical, child. A part of the tuition of fashionable society is to teach one to dissemble; and those who are the most, affable are the most accomplished in the art." 
               Thus speaking, Mrs. Glynmore rose from the table, and said: 
               "William, we have now finished our tedious task; this afternoon we must distribute our invitations." 
               "All right," he replied; "I am at your service." 
               Mrs. Glynmore walked to the window, looked out upon the clear blue sky, and congratulated herself at the propitious weather. 
               "Dear me, Lilly, here is a hack driven up to the door. Who can it be?" 
               "If I live, it is Clair Winston. Dear Clair!" she exclaimed, meeting her in the hall with a deluge of kisses. "I am so glad to see you. What lucky wind blew you this way? You are just in time." 
               "Ah!" said Clair, responding only to the last sentiment. 
               "Come," continued Mrs. Glynmore, "don't go in the parlor, come right up to Lilly's room." 
               "Ah! is Lilly with you?" 
               "Yes, indeed; and my nephew, too. Lilly, here is Clair Winston, that you have heard me talk so much about." 
                
               They both met as old friends whose names were household words. 
               Overflowing with exuberance, Clair threw off her duster and hat, and chatted away like a canary. 
               "What's all the news from home, Clair?" asked Mrs. Glynmore. 
               "Home? why I have not been there since the spring. I have been spending my time in Springfield with the Brentons." 
               "Well, do tell me about them!" 
               "Oh, they all sent a great deal of love to you, and a message for you to meet them at the White Mountains this summer. There will be quite a party of your old friends there." 
               "Oh, I should be so happy to see them! But do tell me, Clair, is Mollie married yet?" 
               "No, but has a great many beaux, and is just as pretty as ever." 
               "Well, what is all the news from Springfield?" 
               "Oh, it would be very dull, except for political excitement. They are having torchlight processions every night. Lincoln will be certain to be elected. No chance for a divided Democracy." 
               "You've not turned politician, have you, Clair?" 
               "Oh, no; but I would be very glad to see our side succeed. I only wish I could vote. I hope I will live to see a Woman's Rights party yet." 
                
               "I don't care anything about politics," replied Mrs. Glynmore. 
               "Well, it is impossible for me not to feel an interest. You know pa is such a strong Radical, that I do believe it would kill him if his party were defeated. You'd be amused if you could see his letters of advice to me: 'Daughter, don't marry one of those hot-headed Southerners.'" 
               "Clair, what have you done with that lackadaisical beau you had last summer?" 
               "Gone," as you Southerners say, "up the spout." 
               "Well, I'm glad of it. I can find you another," replied Mrs. Glynmore. 
               "Lilly, just listen to Aunt Rachel" (Mrs. G. was not a relative of Clair's, but was so addressed by her because of their familiarity). "Your aunt," continued she, "is always getting me into some love-scrape. Not so much love, either; for if it were, I could not extricate myself so freely. I think she ought to charge a commission for her painstaking. Do you not think so?" 
               "Well, she don't seem to be successful. I'd rather pay for value received." 
               "Oh, my part 's all right," rejoined Mrs. Glynmore. "I furnish the beaux, but am not responsible for the disposition Clair makes of them." 
               "Aunt Rachel, what did you mean by saying, 'I was just in time?'" 
                
               "Why, Thursday, Clair, is Lilly's birthday; and I am going to give her a nice party." 
               "Party!" exclaimed Clair. "Dear me, I'm like Flora McFlimsey-'nothing to wear.'" 
               "Nothing, indeed!" reiterated Mrs. Glynmore. "I know you have not been spending your time in Springfield with the Brentons, without a plenty to wear." 
               Clair laughed, and, poising herself before a mirror, began to change her dusty apparel, arrange her hair, etc. 
               Mrs. Glynmore's attention was requested in the library, and she excused herself for a short time. 
               "Oh, they are superb," said she, as she surveyed a magnificent set of diamonds that gleamed from their velvet case like stars on the brow of night. "Where did you purchase them?" 
               "I bought them, aunt, in Paris. I paid five thousand dollars for them." 
               "Oh, you extravagant boy!" 
               "No, not at all extravagant. I bought them for an investment; and should have made the purchase even if I had no one to present them to." 
               "They are for Lilly, are they not?" 
               "Yes; I thought it would be a nice little present on her birthday." 
               "Marie, tell Clair to come into the library," said Mrs. Glynmore. 
               The jewels were open upon the table. Clair came running down, and confronted Mr. Byrne, to whom she was introduced. She went into ecstasies over the jewels. "Oh's" and "Ah's" were profusely indulged, as she gazed first at the gems and then at their possessor. 
               "Aunt has been abusing me, Miss Winston, for my extravagance, and, as she says, spending my money so foolishly." 
               "Well, she hadn't ought'r," returned Clair. "It is the best investment you could have made." 
               "So I think," he rejoined. "These," he continued, "are for Lilly." 
               "Has she seen them, Mr. Byrne?" 
               "No; I wish to give her a surprise." 
               "You are a very generous brother." 
               "Well, I have no particular use for them. I simply bought them because they were beautiful." 
               "Oh, I guess if the truth were known, you thought of some other lady fair when you made the purchase." 
               "No; I have never been fortunate enough to be one of the favored Lords of Creation." 
               "You don't mean to say, Mr. Byrne, that you have never been in love?" 
               "By no means; the trouble has been to get some one to love me." 
               Here Clair cast a furtive glance at the diamonds, and then in an ingratiating tone said, "I don't think that gentlemen have as much vanity in that respect as the ladies." 
                
               Mrs. Glynmore added, "I have been promising to pick him out a wife." 
               "Now, there it is again," returned Clair; "she's always trying to make a match." 
               "There is one of two things true of aunt," rejoined Mr. Byrne: "she is either anxious to make every one happy as herself, or as miserable. You remember the fox in the fable." 
               Clair laughed heartily; and all the formalities of conversation resolved themselves into a familiar tte--tte.
                
               "Clair, I have some special business to look after. You know you are at home, and I'll just get you to excuse me." 
               Mrs. Glynmore then turned her over to Mr. Byrne for mutual entertainment. They strolled to the parlors, where, after a little rest, and a few excuses from Clair concerning fatigue, want of practice, etc., she favored Mr. B. with some sprightly pieces of music, which elicited his pro-foundest admiration. 
               Lilly soon joined them in the parlors, all unconscious of the elegant gems that awaited her reception-a fact which was only known to these two, who enjoyed this first confidence by knowing glances and sympathetic smiles. 
               The pleasure of the evening was protracted until a late hour by additional guests. When the last one had departed, Lilly repaired to her aunt's room to bid her an affectionate good-night. 
                
               "I will wake and call you early, dear; for tomorrow must be the happiest of all your life." 
               The morning came; and the first sound that greeted Lilly was her aunt's voice, humming a favorite ditty as she peered over the opening buds on some new tropical plants that were for the first time expanding beneath her fostering care. 
               "Lilly!" cried Mrs. G., as she stood under her window, "get up, and see my beautiful flowers." 
               Lilly bounded like a young fawn, and essayed to dress herself, whilst Clair lay reluctant to rise. 
               "Look, Lilly, to the east; is it fair?" 
               "Not very. The sun rises in those roseate shells that dissolve into murky clouds. It is a misty dawn." 
               "Oh, we will have rain," returned Clair; "but I trust, for your sake, it will only be a refreshing shower. I could wish it bright and beautiful; but then, you are not superstitious; are you, Lilly?" 
               "We are all more or less so, Clair. Mystery makes us superstitious. As we cannot know our future destiny, imagination tries to solve what reason fails to comprehend." 
               "I do not think that I am superstitious, Lilly; but there is one kind of supernatural knowledge I do firmly believe in." 
               "What is that, Clair?" 
               "Why, that derived from spiritual mediums. Indeed, Lilly, you can write to a medium, and secure a perfect likeness of the man you are to marry; and, in addition, can find out all about your future life." 
               "Have you ever tried it, Clair?" 
               "Oh, mercy, no," replied Clair; "I don't want to see the scarecrow-'sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.'" 
               "I have never seen any manifestations," remarked Lilly; "but if I could see a communication from old Virgil, written in the language in which he conversed, or a communication from Adam and Eve, I think I would believe." 
               "Why, my dear friend, you are behind the times. Frequent communications have been received from Adam and Eve with indubitable evidences of their authenticity. Eve asserts that woman is not only man's equal, but vastly his superior. That the female sex existed long before Adam was ever thought of; and this was proven from the fact that he was made out of 'mother earth.' She says that she is astonished that the people of this enlightened age will believe what has been written about her creation. That Adam confesses that he was fast asleep when the circumstance occurred, and that no man's sleeping testimony is worth a groat in any court of jurisprudence. 
               "I tell you, Lilly, there are a great many things written in the Bible that have to be received with due allowance. Pa says there is a higher law than the Bible furnishes, which is written upon the hearts and consciences of men, and I concur fully with him in that opinion. The grand and progressive ideas of this age were originated by this independence of thought; and in my judgment, it will yet revolutionize this country, and make a hecatomb to freedom, from Maine to the Rio Grande." 
               "Why, Clair, you are a regular 'fire-eater.'" 
               "No, I am not; but yet I confess that I am a 'wide-awake.'" 
               "Dear me!" said Lilly, changing the subject, "I have been dressing so long. Aunt will become impatient;" and throwing a veil over her face, she quickly withdrew from the room, to join Mrs. Glynmore in the green-house. 
               The morning was spent in twining wreaths, filling the vases with flowers, and preparing for her evening toilet. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               MARIE, what did Madame Brondage say was the cost of my rose-colored silk?" 
               "Five hundred dollars, mademoiselle," returned Marie, setting the basket down before Lilly, piled with billows of silk and lace. 
               Mrs. Glynmore received the bill and rejoined: "Very cheap, indeed, my dear. Only look at those volantes of applique lace, and that Parisian bertha to match. It was only the size of my bill in other articles that made the price of this so moderate." 
               "Dear me, aunt, I am ashamed to wear such an expensive dress." 
               "It has cost you nothing, darling; it is your birth-day present." 
               Then she clasped Lilly in her arms, expressing the hope that "she might be the brightest and most beautiful star of the evening." 
               The sky, which had been threatening all day an unpropitious night, relaxed its frown, and the struggling moonbeams peeped out from every thin mist that partially concealed her silvery face. 
                
               How impossible for any one, though possessing none of the poetry of the beautiful, to be insensible to the witching charms of a moonlit night! How it warms our hearts into sympathy and love! 
                
                  The gentle moon! Undivorced from earth, 
                  Though sin hath marred her beauty; 
                  And 'pon all her sacred altars left 
                  A serpent's venomed trail- 
                  Not e'en forsaking when beneath the deluge 
                  Earth rolled a speck of wrath; 
                  Quivering amidst the breaking clouds, her lovelit glance 
                  Looked down upon the vasty deep, 
                  To watch her coming from the awful scourge; 
                  Then kissed her gently as before, 
                  Made her moonlit bowers and glens, 
                  And taught her heart to love. 
                
               Night came with checkered sky of loop-holes and silver tracery, and eagerly did upturned faces watch Hecate's gentle reign. The storm had but purified the atmosphere and extracted the breath of those flowers that would have insensibly perished on the desert air. 
               The stone mansion was brilliantly illuminated. From the large hall lamps a glare shot out far down the avenue, and flooded the street and marble steps like a Drummond light. The gas to the parlors was intercepted; and nothing but the light of myriads of waxen candles cast a soft celestial halo over the richly decorated rooms. From the frescoed ceiling Flora leaned from out her fairy bower and scattered profusive gifts on carpet, vase, and artistic wreaths. Music's enchanting melody floated out upon the humid air, and many a hesitating heart was wooed to this place of mirth by its seductive charms. 
               The hour for the reception arrived. Marie had exhausted her skill on the coiffures of the trio, and had arranged every little bud and curl with all the coquettry of a fairy. 
               Mrs. Glynmore appeared in a pearl-colored silk garnished with magnificent laces. She insisted that "pride was never too cold nor too hot, and this was the most distingu for her." She walked with a queenly step and imperious air before her mirror. Whilst surveying herself with so much satisfaction, William Byrne presented himself at her door. 
               "Aunt, give these jewels to Lilly." 
               "William, I am astonished at you. Do it yourself. She will prize them so much more highly if you will clasp them around her neck and arms." 
               "Ugh! aunt, I haven't a bit of that sort of sentiment. Just take them to her and tell her that William sent them; that's enough." 
               Then throwing the box on a chair, he exclaimed: "You are looking killing pretty for an old woman, this evening." 
               "Hush, William, I'll stand no such compliments." 
               "Aunt, what sort of figure do I cut?" 
                
               "Oh, you look very well," she replied. "You must be a good boy to-night." 
               "See here, aunt, have you got any more of that wine you gave me a few days ago?" 
               "Yes; but wait a little while." 
               William always felt lighter and more active, when he was "dressed up." He stepped off with a polka step, and his great watch-seal flew around like a June bug on a prison string. He was dressed in dove-colored pants, black coat and yellow gloves; in his blue cravat a cluster pin, and upon his bosom three solitaire diamond studs. His hair had defied the barber's skill to comb, and rather than wear it in crispy curls, he had been shorn of his raven locks. On his finger he sported a handsome cluster ring that quarrelled often with his glove, and asserted its right to be seen. 
               Radiant and handsomely attired, Lilly emerged with her friend from the mysteries of the toilet. 
               "Here is your brother's gift, my dear," remarked Mrs. Glynmore, presenting her the jewels. 
               Lilly stood aghast, and exclaimed, "For me, aunt?" 
               "Yes, darling; why not for you?" 
               "Oh, they are too conspicuous." Then reflecting on the giver, she said, "They are beautiful. God's secret! We may counterfeit, but never make a diamond." 
               Why God hath not made all stones equally valuable, is indeed His own secret. But diversity exists, and there is an inherent appreciation of that which is pure and unadulterated. 
               When the formalities of the reception were over, and the hum of social conversation had subsided, Colonel Mayford escorted Lilly Byrne to the piano. Every eye was turned toward her, as she gracefully seated herself at the instrument. The Colonel stood entranced whilst she manipulated the keys, in all the intricacies of harmony and sound. 
               "Do you not sing, Miss Byrne?" he asked, bending over her, and playing the agreeable. Lilly blushed, not being willing to acknowledge her forte, lest it should be called into requisition. 
               "I think," he added, "I have heard you sing as I passed your window. I hope you will not reserve the melody of your voice alone for solitary gratification. I appreciate song more than I am capable of appreciating instrumental music. In instrumental music we think more of the wonderful mechanical effort, especially those gems where the passion and feeling of the artist are portrayed. But the human voice is its own interpreter. I have often been astonished, even in conversation, how its cadence illustrates character. The low and gentle voice, so lovely in woman, is indicative of the refinement of her nature." 
               "I have never thought of the voice in this light, Colonel; and if I were ever so much inclined to sing, I would now fear your criticisms." 
               "I was alluding more to conversational modulation tion, Miss Byrne, and I'm sure I have manifested peculiar delight in your colloquial gifts." 
               Mrs. Glynmore, who was watching with interest everything in the room, and passing with loquacity from place to place, seemed never to be out of hearing of her niece. She caught the last earnest appeal of Colonel Mayford, and reiterated, "Colonel, don't excuse her; make her sing;" then whispered in her ear, "Sing, 'How so Fair.'" Lilly was almost provoked by her aunt with such a selection. 
               Colonel Mayford insisted upon compliance with the request, until it seemed like obstinacy and prudishness to refuse. She accordingly sang the piece proposed. Then song after song was warbled with all the scientific cultivation of which the human voice is susceptible. A good voice was her natural gift, and was cultivated on the sombre timbre that gives so much pathos to language. 
               William Byrne was faithful to his promise. He discoursed the widow L. as they promenaded in the back verandah. Clair was a little in their rear with Mr. Glenfield, and heard Mrs. L. say something to Mr. Byrne about "a worn and withered love." 
               Clair quickened her pace; for she inferred, from a sentiment of that sort, that some soft words were passing. Mr. Glenfield discovered that the conversation on her part was becoming mechanical, and attributed it to fatigue, and proposed to return to the parlor. 
                
               Clair protested that "it was so delightful in the moonlight." 
               Mr. Glenfield then began to give some excuses for not calling at the stone mansion before. His constant application to his profession, made necessary by some very abstruse points in law, had occupied his time too much to allow him any social pleasure. He remarked that he had been engaged in a very interesting case, and referred to the tragedy on the river; stating the acquittal of the young man on the ground of self-defence. He spoke of Lilly-how very beautiful she had become since her recovery from the shock she received on the boat, and added, that now that his labors had subsided, he would have opportunities for paying his respects to Miss Lilly and herself. 
               "How long," he asked, "do you stay in St. Louis, Miss Winston?" 
               "Only a few days," she responded. "My visit, is a very flying one. This party to-night is a very unexpected pleasure to me. I came almost expressly to take Mrs. Glynmore to the White Mountains." 
               "Ah! the White Mountains. I would be so delighted to visit them. I have heard a great deal of their grandeur and sublimity." 
               "Do go with us this summer, Mr. Glenfield. I would be delighted to have you form one of our party." 
               "Thank you, Miss Clair; business first and pleasure next. But if I can make it convenient, I will be happy to go." 
               Mr. Glenfield paced back and forth in a desultory conversation, listening to Lilly's voice, and watching when she should be released from the instrument. As she rose, he turned his steps toward the parlor. Clair willingly obeyed the direction of his movement, as Mr. Byrne had just disposed of his charge. 
               "I hope you have had a pleasant evening, Miss Clair," said Mr. Byrne. 
               "Oh, I have had a delightful evening!" 
               Mr. Glenfield reciprocated her remarks, and held his hand upon the shoulder of Mr. Byrne, giving him the usual signal of young men when anxious to change partners-a custom, we would premise, never practised by truly polite gentlemen. 
               Having liberated himself, he turned quickly to speak with Lilly, but was foiled by some young gentleman who had been eagerly awaiting an introduction. 
               "Colonel Mayford, I think you have lost your heart to-night," exclaimed Mrs. L., banteringly. 
               "Yes, madam, without getting another in exchange. So you see, I am heartless." 
               Colonel Mayford now drew upon all the stores of silly chit-chat he could command, for he had a great deal of discrimination in the calibre of a vis--vis. Mrs. L. followed it up with great volubility, which Mrs. Glynmore observed, and immediately mediately arranged for a game of whist, which would effectually break up any private conversation. Had she known the Colonel better, she might have seen that he was only humoring a silly fast woman. But vaulting ambition frequently overleaps itself, and it was very manifest to Mr. Glenfield, who watched all her manuvres with Argus eyes, how ambitious she was to make a match for her niece. His eyes were riveted upon Lilly, who could not turn without meeting his gaze. 
               Mrs. Glynmore delayed the hour for supper, in order to extricate Colonel Mayford from the widow. The game of whist being ended, she looked toward Lilly, and saw her seated near a marble statuette. She arose, saying, "Colonel, you have not noticed my beautiful piece of statuary." 
               "No, madam," he replied, "how could I stop to admire cold and inanimate marble amid so much ravishing beauty?" 
               "Come," she resumed, advancing to where Lilly was sitting, "Lilly, Colonel Mayford is quite a patron of the fine arts. I am willing to risk his judgment upon my purchase." 
               "Ah, it is very beautiful," he replied. And seating himself by Lilly, he continued the conversation by classical allusions to Greek specimens and kindred subjects. Mrs. Glynmore waited until she had fully tied the knot of conversation; then turned as if she were about to speak to some one, but really went out of the parlor to have supper announced. 
               To dwell with the reader on the luscious fruits, transparent pyramids of confections, the Pelion on Ossa of snowy cakes, the artistic arrangement of bouquets and wreaths, and the shimmering of lights amid glossy evergreens, would be but the oft-told tale of "linked sweetness long drawn out." It was superb; and the flow of sentiment seized every concomitant to make this a memorable evening. 
               The parlors, which had been the place of rendezvous before supper, now yielded the palm to the various rooms and verandahs which favored confidential talk. 
               Lilly and Colonel Mayford seated themselves in a large bay-window of the library contiguous to the green-house. The round, broad, bright moon poured a flood of silvery light upon the warm, palpitating heart, that flashed electric sparks, as the fresh breeze from a bank of violets softly swayed to and fro the rippling curls upon her jewelled neck. Never had Lilly appeared to Colonel May-ford so radiantly beautiful. She had an unobtrusiveness about her demeanor, that seemed to receive every attention as undeserved; and this timid and shrinking manner made her more enticing. 
               The Colonel sat opposite her, with his head thrown back, gazing into her lustrous eyes, which seemed like wandering stars from the great fountain of light. The drapery from the window almost most hid this little recess from the promenaders without. It was an hour meet for love; but the Colonel was a philosophic man, and had none of the precipitancy of a sensuous nature. They sat and talked, not of love, but of those high resolves, noble, generous purposes that made those lives illustrious which adorned the shelves of the library. Colonel Mayford spoke of his home, his boyhood, the fond endearments of maternal love, and the wide world in which fate had now thrown him to practise the precepts he had learned at a mother's knee. 
               Lilly sat absorbed; and now and then a teardrop moistened her bright eye. He observed it, and thought that it was the enthusiasm of a heart whose quick perceptions had unsealed the fountain of feeling. 
               Every one said the Colonel would never marry, and that he was platonic. He insinuated to Lilly that he never would unite his destiny to that of any one, unless he found a woman as ambitious for him as he was for himself. 
               He was a young lawyer to whom fame was opening a flowery avenue-an only son, on whom gray-haired parents had lavished all their worldly goods and centred their cherished hopes. To divert the deep affection he felt for them into another channel would be but a tributary to the one great idea of filial affection. Of him they expected everything that intellect could attain or reputation acquire quire. That he should be slow in contracting an alliance was not singular. In friendship he was unobtrusive; more receptive than confidential. His nice sense of honor was only equalled by his convictions of duty. He would have sacrificed everything that the conventionalities of the world called honor, before he would have violated his own sense of propriety. He had heard so much of Lilly through her aunt, and she so much of him, that it was very natural for them to compare ideas on general subjects. 
               Lilly could not help thinking that he was pleased with her society. A woman has an intuitive sense of a man's appreciation; and although not a word of love had escaped their lips, yet, if a spiritual light could have peered into the telegraphic recesses of each heart, they might have seen the unuttered words, "Charming Lilly Byrne," "Fascinating Colonel Mayford." With a heart pervaded by a sweet sense of delightful intercourse, Colonel Mayford arose, retained for a moment her hand, and almost whispered, in his refined and cultivated tone, the deep pleasure which the evening had afforded him. He also expressed the hope that he might often be permitted such delightful intercourse. 
               With a more earnest pressure of the hand, which gave emphasis to his words, he bade her a happy good-night; then quickly left to return his thanks to the host and hostess. Mrs. Glynmore and husband were chatting together. Her face looked as placid as a lake, whilst she was talking with greatest fluency on little nothings. Mr. Glynmore was trying to laugh, but seemed as though he did not know where to begin, and consequently kept a broad smile upon his face, just to seem agreeable. 
               Colonel Mayford approached, and thanked them for the pleasure their kindness had afforded him. Scarcely had he ceased before Mrs. Glynmore assured him that no one would be more cordially welcomed at their house than himself, and begged that his visits might be sans crmonie.
                
               He reiterated his thanks; and, with the bow of an elegant gentleman, bade them both good-night. Mr. Glenfield, piqued at the monopoly of Colonel Mayford, sat turning over the leaves of an album, and in a short time thereafter left on the plea of indisposition. 
               Mr. Byrne and Clair remained seated in one corner of the parlor, pouring forth tender sentiments in savory kiss verses. Group after group gradually retired, and it was almost three o'clock in the morning before the parlors were vacated. Mrs. Glynmore brought a long breath when the last one said good-night, and dropped down upon a sofa to rest her wearied feet. 
               "Well, Lilly, how do you like the Colonel?" she asked. "I hope you found him very interesting, and that you were very entertaining" 
                
               "I think him an elegant gentleman, aunt. The latter interrogation I cannot answer, since that relates so peculiarly to myself." 
               Mrs. Glynmore continued to catechise; but Lilly ran up to her room, leaving her aunt to her own inferences, and there thought over all the little bon-mots that young people so often remember as oracles from some divinity that shapes their destinies. This was an evening long to be remembered by her. Never before had she occupied such a prominent position. She was now invested with all the responsibilities of choosing her own lot in life as far as she could, unbiassed by circumstances. 
               "Aunt Rachel, this has been a delightful party. I know you have enjoyed it," said Miss Winston. 
               "Yes, Clair, I wish I could always be as happy as I am to-night. It is now three o'clock; but I do not feel at all sleepy. But, child, you must go to rest. Call Marie to assist you." 
               Clair and Marie entered the chamber, and finding Lilly writing at the table, the former exclaimed, "Why, Lilly, I thought you were in the arms of old Morpheus long ago!" Marie did not understand Clair's classical allusion, and laughed very significantly. Clair peeped over Lilly's shoulder, and said, "Mercy, aren't you tired of that school-girl trick!" Lilly quickly shut the lids of her diary. 
               What had she written? Nous verrons.
                
               "Rachel," said Mr. Glynmore, after they had entered their private apartment, "did you notice William to-night?" 
               "Not particularly; I saw him talking to Clair in the latter part of the evening." 
               "Well," replied Mr. Glynmore, "I saw him leave with one of the ladies, and would not be surprised if he is accommodated at Sprawl's, instead of at home." 
               "Where? did you say," ejaculated Mrs. Glynmore. 
               "Why, in the streets." 
               She sighed, "I do hope not. But he is young; and 'boys will be boys.'" 
               "Oh well, my dear, he is old enough to do better. He ought to have more sense now than to expose himself at a strange place." 
               She rejoined, "I hope Clair will not find it out; for I think he has taken quite a fancy to her." 
               "My dear, you ought not to let your great anxiety to make a match for your niece and nephew, lead you into noticeable solicitude. I do not blame your taste, but better not be too hasty. Your very efforts may defeat what I really believe you wish to promote-their happiness." 
               "Mr. Glynmore, if gentlemen would only content themselves with the business of their countinging-rooms, how much more agreeable they would be! This is a family matter; something you know nothing about." 
               "Perhaps that is so," he answered, reflecting upon his own felicity; and adjusting the spectacles upon his nose, proceeded to examine a paper he had not time to examine during the day. 
               The festivities of the past night were too overpowering; and the youthful sleepers were left to undisturbed slumber until twelve o'clock in the day. 
               William Byrne came in about ten A. M., and was doctored with pickles, lemons, soda-water, sweet-milk, and other anti-stimulants. He gave such a jocular account of himself, as to cheat his aunt out of the great scold she had laid up for him. 
               When Clair came to inquire after his health, his aunt said that "William was a little indisposed from sitting up late; but that they were all in the same category." 
               A few days regulated the stone mansion, and all moved on without any other traces of the grand party, than the dbris of bon chose and happy memories. 
               Clair and Mr. Byrne spent most of their time in walking, riding, and games of chess. It was evident from day to day that they were becoming more and more interested with each other. 
               Any one would have liked Clair. She was affable, very sprightly and pretty, well educated, and was born in one of the New England States. Her father was an honest man, and of very moderate means. He was very Puritanical in his notions, and when he took a position was as immovable as the rock of Gibraltar. He had transmitted this indomitable will to his children. He was what was termed a Radical in everything. There was nothing he prided in so much as what he called consistency. He gave the broadest interpretation to freedom of conscience; and thought and built everything of right upon his own standard of reason and rectitude. His family government was like a Procrustean bed, where none dare lie too long nor too short. 
               Clair enjoyed these little sallies from home. She loved gay society, and admired style. A thousand times she wished, when Shoddy passed her, that father could only "strike oil," or become the possessor of a million of non-taxable bonds, or the heir of some foreign estate. Many an air-castle she built, and was as happy as a child blowing the bubbles of prismatic hue from the feculent waters of life. She felt sure she could marry a fortune. She had many admirers; but determined never to marry unless she found the golden fleece. 
               Mrs. Glynmore knew the disposition of Clair, and let no opportunity escape to impress her with the wealth of her nephew. It was not every day that a young man could be found to bestow such princely gifts as William Byrne. She gladly surrendered the pleasure of Clair's company for the exclusive interest of William; and they whiled away their time in efforts to interest each other: Sometimes Clair would sit and listen for hours to his yarns of Europe, or play an almost interminable game of cards. Her taste was very cultivated in music, and she rendered the most difficult pieces with skill. She delighted in operatic gems, and sometimes when she would be absorbed in the rendition of them, he would exclaim, "Ah, fiddlesticks! Clair, give us a jig-something light and lively. Can't you play an Old Virginia reel?" There was something so comical about him, that she loved to divert him just to see him laugh; he would fairly shake the windows. He had a most liberal soul, and hardly knew the value of money; for he had inherited it through accident. Every day he brought some nice little confection to her, and by all his little kindnesses and the influence of his aunt, succeeded in ingratiating himself with his new and lovely acquaintance. 
               One evening they had been engaged for two hours in a game of chess, and he seemed to lose interest in the game, and to play into Clair's hand in such a reckless manner, and with such incoherent remarks, that she became surprised at his lack of concentration. 
               "Why, Mr. Byrne," she exclaimed, "what are you dreaming about? I have checked your king." 
               "Ah, yes; 'dreaming' Clair-dreaming of you. Let's stop this game," said he, placing his hand upon hers, as she was about to make a move. He held it fast upon the table. She tried to withdraw it, but it was too fondly nestled under a jewelled hand. She thought it folly to resist, even if she had the moral strength and inclination. He lifted it up; pressed upon her finger a cluster diamond ring, and said, "Clair, will you wear this for my sake?" 
               Conflicting emotions sealed the fountain of speech, and he placed his own interpretation upon her silence. After a kiss upon her fair hand, she consented to become his wife. 
               A ring, she thought, was an unostentatious jewel. "Why may I not wear it a short time, even though I may never respond to its sentiment? Then, again, it may be the prelude to a costly tiara." She was passionately fond of diamonds, and knew that Mr. Byrne delighted in such investments. 
               His character was a great novelty in human nature. It was something she had to study without any other helps than a pair of gold spectacles, which produced optical illusions; transforming his ruddy face into the glow of a healthy constitution, his rudeness into a foreign air (which some American girls consider the quintessence of aristocracy), and attributing his loud coarse laugh to the exuberance of a genial, generous heart, that had unfolded beneath soft and sunny skies. 
               It is astonishing how gold can galvanize the basest metals into the semblance of genuine coin! Under these influences, she became as oblivious of William Byrne's ugliness as ever "Blind Dea" was of "Gwymplaine's." Had some Camprechio placed his mangling machine upon William Byrne's face, it could not have more effectually destroyed the bridge of his nose. Mammon blinds its victims, and like some great Moloch consumes every object that is abandoned to its bright embrace. 
               Clair felt a secret satisfaction in being engaged: one more trophy, pleasant dalliance, and indispensable excitement. 
               William was so elated at the success of his suit, that he immediately purchased a handsome span of horses and a fine buggy, to make the time pass in pleasant variety. At four o'clock the following evening, he called for Clair to take a ride. 
               "How do you like your ponies?" he asked, as she stood upon the curbstone tying her jaunty hat. 
               "My ponies?" 
               "Yes; why not?" 
               She blushed at her premature lover; but he quickly seated her in his airy chaise, and giving a jockey flourish of the whip, his eager chargers dashed away over the macadamized streets, with dilating nostrils and fiery feet. 
               Scarcely had the door closed behind them, when the bell announced a visitor. Lilly was seated at the piano, singing, "Ah! I have sighed to rest me," when Colonel Mayford entered. 
               "Miss Byrne, I am happy to see you; but you do not sing such doleful songs for your own gratification, do you?" 
                
               She smiled, and replied, "Sometimes by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better." 
               "Ah, then you are doing penance." 
               "Perhaps I ought to," she mischievously answered. 
               "We are both in the same category. I have been doing penance, but not self-imposed, however; for business has prevented me from availing myself for days of the pleasure I now enjoy." 
               She colored deeply, but the compliment was so delicately bestowed, that she was forced to accept it humorously. 
               She arose from the piano, and he conducted her to the sofa, seating himself close beside her. 
               "I hope, Miss Lilly-(will you allow such a liberty with your name?)" 
               "Certainly, sir; it seems more natural." 
               He continued: "I hope you did not suffer any inconvenience from the late hours of the party. I chided myself for keeping you in the moonlight so long." 
               "Not at all, sir. I am accustomed to late hours. I seldom retire as early as twelve o'clock." 
               "Indeed! What in the world, may I ask, can have such an attraction as to rob you of those hours which should be given to repose? You will cheat the roses of their bloom that glow upon your cheeks. Perhaps you have some pet of the brain you are fostering." 
                
               She waived a direct answer, replying that, "since she had been in St. Louis, her whole time had been consumed in social evenings." 
               Colonel Mayford remarked, that since he had been West he had visited but little; for the reason that a gentleman could not be very social without exposing himself to the accusation of being engaged. 
               "Now, you see," he added, "if this were true, I would not have any objection; but when it is false, one gets neither sympathy nor love." 
               "Dame Rumor," returned Lilly, "is not responsible for her reports; and I should not sacrifice my pleasure to her whims." 
               "Oh, thank you; I will take your advice, and hope that you may be generous enough to retain a remembrance of it. I have felt so much the need of some pleasant resort wherein to spend my evenings. After poring all day over dry technicalities of law, it is so delightful to unbend the mind from its tension, in the enjoyment of social pleasures. Then there is nothing so inspiring to me as good music." 
               Lilly's remark was merely made en passant, without reflection, and she did not intend such a construction. But when did love ever fail to find a vehicle for its thoughts; or a loving heart succeed in concealing the irrepressible passion? 
               After much pleasant intercourse, Colonel May-ford took her hand and led her to the piano, suggesting gesting gem after gem, although he had professed to be no connoisseur in music. He watched her features, as she appeared to him the queen of song, even more closely than the melody of her voice. She observed that his eyes were upon her, and that her bosom, which was dcollet, was crimsoned with the soft blushes that also mantled her cheeks. He noticed her embarrassment, and with the quick perception of a refined and cultivated mind, averted his bewildered gaze, and remarked: 
               "I thank you, Miss Lilly, and will not impose upon your kindness longer;" then plucking a rosebud from a vase, he desultorily talked as he twirled it unconsciously in his hand. 
               "Oh, I am spoiling," said he, "my beautiful flower. Accept it, Miss Lilly; it is too beautiful to fade." 
               She received it with a graceful, reticent bow; and he inquired: 
               "What is the emblem?" 
               She feigned to be ignorant, and he answered: 
               "I believe it is confession; but it is certainly sweet enough to be its own interpreter." 
               Clair returned just in time to break in upon this agreeable tte--tte.
                
               "Oh, I believe those ponies will be the death of me!" she exclaimed, as she entered the back parlor, and threw off her mantle. 
               The sound of voices in the adjoining room convinced her that she was not alone. 
                
               Lilly called to her, to give an account of her ride. 
               "You didn't have an accident, Miss Winston, I hope," added Colonel Mayford. 
               "No; but I tell you, Mr. Byrne is a rapid fellow. A swift-winged Pegasus could not have covered ground more fleetly than those animals of his. I really was frightened all the way, but still my ride was delightful, and the ponies are splendid." 
               Mr. Byrne came in about the time she was most extravagant in their praise, and remarked to Colonel Mayford, that "she had expatiated largely on the fine stock, but did not mention her company." 
               "Oh," replied Clair, "that would certainly be out of place. Present company is excepted always. The ponies are oblivious of my opinion; but it would not do to tell each other all we think." 
               William Byrne cast a satisfied glance at Clair, and a significant wink, and they left Colonel May-ford and Lilly to the silent adieus of friendship. 
               Lilly promenaded the two parlors alone. Strange feelings pervaded her bosom; and she could not resist the temptation to look through the folds of the window lace at the receding form that was passing down the marble steps. She rested her hand on her cheek as she poised her steady gaze, and the perfume of the farewell clasp was there. It touched her lips, and she instinctively shuddered at the whisperings of love. 
               The object lost to view, she turned to the centre-table, where lay her album of familiar faces. One by one they called up the past; but the association was suddenly broken. Here was a vacant leaf. Some friend or foe had taken her reluctant face from memory's vault, where it had been lying for weeks by the side of Carrie May's. Who could have taken it? To ask would betray, perhaps, some vanity; or, it might induce her to harbor disgust and hate. She placed her hand to her forehead and then to her heart, as if to still those suspicions which were creeping into her young mind. In suspense she determined to bide her time and await a development of the secret. 
               Clair and Mr. Byrne betook themselves to the green-house, where Marie and Mrs. Glynmore were diligently watering the flowers. 
               "Give me that watering-pot," said Mr. Byrne; "I wish to refresh a drooping plant." 
               Marie handed it to him, and in an instant, like a nosegay dripping and drowned, Clair stood with the spray falling from the ends of her delicate fingers. 
               "Fie! fie! William, how could you be so rude." 
               "Never mind, Aunt Rachel; the young gentleman shall take his turn;" and with this a romp ensued, which called Mr. Glynmore from a brown study to inquire the cause. 
               "Rachel," he said, "you ought to try to control his boisterous mirth." 
               "Oh, let them alone," she replied. "Let them enjoy themselves. You can't put old heads on young shoulders. See here, Mr. Glynmore, how beautifully these tropical plants are growing." 
               "Yes," he returned, with a humorous smile, "you have a knack of forcing the plants you tend." 
               Here she plucked a little bud, and casting a playful glance at Marie, placed in the buttonhole of his coat the little floweret; then coaxingly took his arm, and accompanied him back to his private chamber. 
               "Heigh-ho!" sighed Mrs. Glynmore. "I do wish we were off to the mountains-this weather is so very oppressive. By the way, my dear, I thought I would tell you this morning that our party is all made up for a trip to the White Mountains. Clair, you know, has been with us six weeks. She has remained for my convenience, and it is now left for me to decide the time of our departure. You know, my dear, I'm not a wife to be always spending your money on foolish excursions to summer watering-places, or any of the seductive salons of fashion. I have been exceeding economical, and every purchase I have made shows for itself. The large party I gave, I've no doubt, benefited your trade a hundred-fold more than it cost you. What I have spent for the elegances of life will never be lost; it belongs to the house and name of Glynmore, and the Bible says, 'it is better to have a good name than great riches, and loving favor than silver or gold.' It is necessary for me to leave St. Louis this summer, or be considered a parvenu; and one had as well 'be out of the world as out of the fashion.' Many families with our means would have made a trip to Europe years ago." 
               "How long do you contemplate remaining away from home, Rachel?" was his evasive reply. 
               "Well," she returned, "I will spend but a short time at the Mountains; then make a flying visit to Newport and Saratoga. I will probably go to Niagara Falls, and possibly to Quebec and Montreal; after which, I will return to New York, where Lilly will have an opportunity of arranging her winter wardrobe, and of enjoying the advantages of the Italian Opera." 
               Mr. Glynmore lit a cigar, and drew a long whiff as though it were one of peculiarly delicate flavor, while the volumes of smoke betrayed his serious cogitations. 
               Mrs. Glynmore watched each interval of fragrant fumes as the moment for a happy rejoinder; but her husband continued to smoke in silence, to her great vexation of spirit. 
               "My dear," she observed, "do finish that interminable smoke, and take an interest in that which concerns my pleasure. Throw that cigar away; its odor is very offensive. How foolishly spent the vast sums for such annoying trash!" 
               He reluctantly knocked the white ashes from his cigar and meekly conceded the extravagant habit, but persevered, at intervals, as a kind of relief in the pauses of conversation. 
               "Well, well," said he, with conciliating tone, "how much will your proposed trip be likely to cost?" 
               "I have not made a close calculation, my dear, but it will be only a trifle, I presume. Lilly will defray her own expenses, and you will have nothing to do but attend to my wants. Twenty-five hundred dollars, I'm sure, will be ample to meet my immediate necessities." 
               "Twenty-five hundred, Rachel, would be an insignificant sum for my generous nature to lavish upon you; and if it were not just at this time-and if-" 
               "No ifs, and ands, about it, Mr. Glynmore! My word is out, and I am bound to go. Why, everybody would say you were a miser, and unkind to your wife, not to supply her with this paltry sum." 
               "Rachel," he timidly muttered, "if you will promise me-" 
               "Don't try to make me promise, Mr. Glynmore. I never make rash promises, because I know not 'what a day may bring forth.'" 
                
               "Rachel, you have a singular way of perverting Scripture. I do wish you had reduced your theory to practice, and not have promised Clair before consulting me." 
               "Indeed, to tell you the truth, Mr. Glynmore, I only wanted to inform you that I had made up my mind to go. If you interpose a barrier, I will close up the front door and live in the back part of my house. I will not allow you to board at home, and thereby secure the reputation of being abroad, if I cannot enjoy that pleasure." 
               This was a new wrinkle in her disposition well worthy of his serious consideration, for he knew she would fulfil her threats; he therefore mildly interposed: 
               "My dear, if you are only going to gratify pride, will you impoverish yourself to do it? Had you not rather perpetuate the idea of affluence by a little retrenchment, than to come to absolute want?" 
               "No!" said she, with a flounce and arrogant toss of her head, "I will not consider supposable cases-I am now dealing with facts. You can say yes, or no, to my demands for money, and I will shape my conduct accordingly." 
               He looked hesitatingly at her, but subdued by the flash of her determined eye, dared not refuse her request. "Like a lamb before its shearers," he again meekly surrendered his native rights. 
               Mrs. Glynmore immediately advertised her trip, by announcing to each of her visitors, that "it would be impossible for her to reciprocate their kindnesses until her return from the North;" and with great dispatch and display, everything was arranged accordingly. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               NESTLED in the spurs of the White Mountains, is the lovely little village of Gorham. Lovely, not on account of its stately Gothic structures, Doric columns, or any indications of artistic refinement, but for its romantic locality. All around the village lies a chain of mountains, that look like a retreat for the fabled gods. 
               It was a delightful morning in August, when the party arrived at the commodious hotel, which is only a short distance from the depot. Every one was enthusiastic over the grand and beautiful; and it was with great difficulty they could enjoy the repose of the Sabbath, so anxious were they to climb the rugged heights of Mount Washington; especially, as a celebrated divine was heard to say, "If it was a suitable day to ascend the mountain, he would not preach, but avail himself of that pleasure; but if it was a dull day, little could be seen, and he would therefore fill his appointment." 
               The Sabbath, fortunately, was dull and misty, or Jonah would have been seen turning his face from the commandment. He preached, and the sermon was replete with the beauties of nature, and refulgent with the sparkling light of rhetorical figures. But it was certain the speaker did not believe in the Trinity, and preferred the sight of Mount Washington to the Holy Mount of Transfiguration, where Peter, James, and John longed to abide. 
               Early Monday morning the hacks were ready, and the party set forth on their charming excursion. The woods, glistening with dew and the coral raspberry, formed a combination of sweetness unknown at the South. This beautiful fruit, growing so abundantly in the wilds of New Hampshire, is one of the scarce luxuries of Southern gardens. 
               Mirth rang out on the invigorating air. Some sang, whilst others passed around their practical jokes. It seemed as though they were only a few moments in reaching the point where the coaches were to be exchanged for the well-trained horses that daily ascended the mountain. The party presented a picturesque appearance with their relay of horses. In front was the guide, seated on a sure-footed mule; next were Clair and Mr. Byrne; Mrs. Glynmore and several of the friends formed the middle section, whilst Lilly and Colonel May-ford slowly brought up the rear. 
               When they arrived at the Glen House a great jollification ensued. Their friends from Springfield were there, and old friendships were revived. Here quite a number were added to the party. Through the woods they wended their way, over the partially macadamized road, which, at this elevated point above the valley, presented none of the intricacies of a mountain pass. Each couple lingered behind the guide, according to their own inclination or pleasure. 
               Colonel Mayford was charmed almost as much with Lilly's freshness of thought as with the natural beauties around him. He could drink in the loveliness and sublimity of the scenery; but in her they found a tongue, and ever and anon the scintillations of her genius sparkled in tree, shrub, and flower. 
               "See," said she, "that mountain spout. Let's drink an inspiring draught." 
               Colonel Mayford dismounted, and filling a silver cup, presented it to her, saying, "Drink, fair lady, from this Castalian fount; but I charge you become not a Myth of the Mountain,-substances, not shadows, I pursue;" then laughed at the appositeness of his figure, whilst he repeated some sentimental verses. 
               "Come on!" hallooed a voice far in the distance. 
               Colonel Mayford immediately responded, indicating his whereabouts, and striking a sprightly gait came up with the rest of the party. 
               Much to their chagrin, the lovely mountain foliage had to be left behind, and a narrow, sinuous line, marking the track of the faithful animals, forced them into single file over barren and jagged rocks. Here an opportunity was offered for criticism, which was fully indulged. Some of the young ladies declared that William Byrne "looked like a toad on a tussock;" but they were particular to speak very low. Now and then he would cast a glance behind, and when he caught a smile was made doubly confident that he occupied the post of honor, and was performing its duties in the most approved style. 
               They were several hours in ascending the mountain, and the tiresome poise of the body made it an arduous task. Here and there the guides-pointed to localities associated with the legends of the mountain. Not a few of those who attempted to climb its heights alone, had left the monuments of their rashness piled up in the everlasting rocks, uttering an eternal-Beware! 
               "This," said Colonel Mayford, "is indeed the Mountain of Difficulty; but soon we will reach the top." 
               "Not all reach it," returned Lilly, as she gazed on a huge pile of rocks that marked the spot where a maiden perished within a rod of the Tip-Top House. "Do you not think," continued Lilly, "that she slept as softly and serenely in her shroud of snow, as though she had reached the goal of her hopes?" 
                
               Colonel Mayford interrupted these sad reflections, and replied, "Now we must dismount." 
               Lifting Lilly from her trusty steed, he drew her arm in his, and walked upon the rough heights to survey the valley below. 
               They wandered from point to point, expatiating upon the grandeur of the views, and recurring to all those historical facts that have connected mountain scenery with the sublime revelations of Deity. Enthused by the conversation no less than by the sublimity of the scene, Lilly inadvertently withdrew her hand from the arm of her protector, and stepping upon an elevated rock, gazed steadily into the deep-blue vault of heaven, and whispered, 
               "Are we nearer to God to-day?" 
               "Nearer to me," exclaimed Colonel Mayford, clasping her form as she tottered on the vibrating pedestal. "Oh, be not so rash, my precious friend. One step more, and you might have been like the Maid of the Mist, and I like some disconsolate lover seeking you amid the Dismal Swamp of the Valley." 
               The shock was too great. She blinded her eyes with her hand to shut out the awful chasm below, and to forget the impression of her helplessness and of the arm which had involuntarily encircled her waist. 
               He waited until she recovered from her fright, then took her hand and whispered, as he led her over the rugged heights, "Lilly, would you thus place your hand in mine and walk life's uneven way? See the strong arm that would shield you!" 
               She trembled with emotion, and he tenderly drew her hand within his arm to support her more steadily. 
               Colonel Mayford had just drawn his kerchief and brushed away the loose soil from a rock preparatory to seating themselves for a tte--tte, when the crowd advanced with all the exclamations of enthusiasm. 
               "We have all determined, Colonel, to spend the night here, and see the sun rise on the morrow." 
               "Ah," he replied, "I will cheerfully abide your decision. I have given this mountain a new name." 
               "What is it, Colonel?" demanded several voices. 
               "Delectable Mountain." 
               They cast a quizzical look on Lilly, and laughed at her tale-telling confusion. Colonel Mayford diverted their minds, by directing their attention to an infinitesimal bird that gracefully swooped the valley. Thus they passed the hours of setting day in playful humor, and when night drew over the scene her curtain of stars, they retired to the Tip-Top House for more thoughtful converse. 
               To spend the night upon the mountain was quite an episode in the lives of city denizens. 
                
               It was a subject of great wonder to the party, how a building even as comfortable as the Tip-Top House could have been transported piece by piece to such an immense height, until the whole was constructed. 
               Early the following morning, and whilst yet scarcely day, the happy tourists seated themselves on the rocks, wrapt in their shawls, to watch the phases of Nature as she threw off the slumbers of night. A solemn stillness reigned, and each one seemed to catch the inspiration of the hour. Nature awoke like some lonely virgin, throwing the white covering of mist from her form as she rose from her violet-tinted couch. 
                
                  To her bridal at morn in the soft twilight shade, 
                  They saw her go forth in beauty arrayed; 
                  Her veil flowing back from her night-jewelled locks, 
                  Was floating with grace on the valleys and rocks. 
                  Light clouds were seen fringing the East and the West; 
                  The Day-god was meeting his brightest and best. 
                  She looked to the East where she plighted her vow, 
                  And blushed as he press'd his warm lips to her brow. 
                  Then censers unseen by the wood-nymphs were waved, 
                  Of lily-cups made, which the bright waters laved. 
                  The mountain in grandeur reflected the light, 
                  And each stone found a tongue, proclaiming the might 
                  Of Him who had piled its huge rocks to the skies, 
                  And painted its snows in prismatic dyes. 
                
               Nothing can exceed the sublimity of mountain scenery; and transfixed as by a mysterious spell, they quitted reluctantly the entrancing spot. 
                
               The descent from the mountain affords the best view of its immense height and ethereal grandeur. On their return they looked toward Mount Jefferson, and beheld the snows cradled in its lofty crevices, which an August sun gilded with sparkling hues, but could not melt. 
               Wearied with incessant jolting over rocks, the sight of the Glen House was hailed with almost as much rapture as the summit of the mountain. 
               The whole company halted at this hotel, and made arrangements for the transfer of baggage from Gorham. But little amusement or sociality followed the fatiguing trip at night. The ladies were exhausted, and although some of the more irrepressible gentlemen were ready for a game of cards, yet the ladies protested, and left them to the enjoyment of their good cigars. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               OLAIR," said Richard Brenton, "I have heard that you are to be married to Mr. Byrne. Is it so?" 
               "Now who has been so wise as to communicate such a thing to you?" 
               "Isn't it so?" he reiterated. "I have always felt an interest in your welfare, Clair, and would really like to know." 
               "Do you know anything of Mr. Byrne?" returned Clair evasively. 
               "Nothing much, if you are determined to marry him. But if I thought there was any probability of your discarding him, I might assist your resolution." 
               "Tell me all you know, Richard. It would be unkind in you not to advise me." 
               "Clair, people do not receive much gratitude for meddling in such affairs." 
                
                  "Convince a woman against her will, 
                  And she's of the same opinion still." 
                
               "I pledge you my word, Richard, that I'm not so far complicated as not to be influenced by the judgment of my friends. All that I know about him is that he is the brother of Lilly. He is quite wealthy, and one of the most whole-souled, generous men you ever saw." 
               "That is enough, Clair-'Straws show which way the wind blows!' I know you have made up your mind, and it is the encouragement you have given him that makes him so noticeable in his attentions to you." 
               "Richard, I thought your families were so intimate that I could safely receive his attentions." 
               "I have never been acquainted, Clair, with any of Mrs. Glynmore's family, but herself and husband; but since I have been here I have learned some things I was ignorant of before." 
               "Anything disreputable?" said she, with an earnest, eager look. 
               He made no reply; but looked troubled, as though he regretted having made any allusion to her reputed engagement. 
               "Why, you horrify me, Richard. Do tell me everything." 
               "No, Clair; I'll tell you only this much: he is not your equal, and if you should marry him you'll regret it but once, and that will be all the days of your life." 
               At this juncture, a large basket of fruit was sent to Clair as a present from Mr. Byrne, with a little note beneath the napkin. 
                
               Richard Brenton made his exit. Clair sent the fruit to her private chamber, and placed the note in her bosom, humming with a nonchalant air a little ditty, as she arose to look for Colonel May-ford. 
               "Colonel, we are all going to the woods to-day. We have been here now two weeks, and we wish to gather some wild-flowers as souvenirs of our visit. Lilly is anxious to finish her sketches. The ladies are waiting with their hats on; would the gentlemen like to accompany them?" 
               "Oh, certainly," replied Colonel Mayford; "I will get up our party." 
               He left, and soon returned with several of the company who were ready for a stroll. 
               They repaired to the woods, each pretending to gather wild-flowers; but a sudden halt upon a huge pile of rocks proved that social converse more than floral nature wooed them to the romantic woods. Lilly persisted in choosing her own solitary work; averring that noise would disturb her. 
               Colonel Mayford would not relinquish the pleasure of selecting and arranging for her a nice seat on the fallen trunk of a sturdy oak, where in attempting to seat himself by her side she bade him leave. 
               "Oh, Lilly!" said he, "it is cruel to exile me from this lovely bower." 
               "Go, Colonel, and hunt the wild violets." 
                
               "Ah, what care I for the blue-eyed violets, when the queen of flowers is blushing beside me!" 
               Lilly smiled, and waved her hand for him to be gone. 
               "I obey," he exclaimed; "but my 'going' is lonely. Unlike Adam, I leave my Eve behind;" and kissing his hand to her through the screen of foliage, he disappeared from her sight. 
               She then turned to address herself to her task; and soon became so absorbed in her work, that not even the chirp of the cricket among the dead leaves, nor the huge spider that was entangling in its meshes an innocent fly, could divert her attention. She looked at them unconsciously. These were but evidences of her profound solitude. She had been writing only a half hour, when she thought a shadow immersed her, more palpable than that of the fleeting clouds or swaying foliage. She listened, and hearing a light crackling of the leaves, bounded like a startled fawn from the covert, and was caught in the arms of Glenfield. She was almost fainting with fright, and he sought to soothe her with words of endearment; but Lilly turned from him with cold and disdainful look. 
               "I have sought you," he whispered with patronizing confidence, "but to warn you. You are cherishing one who may deceive you. I have heard those honeyed words which may be to you like the bitter waters of Marah. Why dream of some particular star and think to wed it? Colonel Mayford will never marry you. It is 'love's labor lost' to muse on such delusive hopes." 
               "Avaunt! false friend," she cried. "Your unwelcome presence bodes no good to me." 
               "Ah!" he returned, "it bodes no ill, unless you make me what I would not be." 
               "Leave me! Leave me!" she screamed with almost frantic voice. "They are coming-how will they interpret my tears?" 
               Pressing her reluctant hand to his traitorous lips, he glided like a shadow from her sight. 
               "Do I dream!" she ejaculated. "Are these the visions of a sickened brain, or are they the substance of those shadows that have ever floated before my mental vision?" With uplifted hands and streaming eyes, she prayed: "God keep the helpless, and preserve the innocent; nor let thy stroke fall too heavily upon the guilty head!" She dared not move to catch the sound of voices in the distance; for this were futile. She sank back upon the old gnarled oak and buried her face in her hands. 
               The jocund voices of the violet hunters came nearer and nearer, until laughing echoes floated on the breeze. They were coming with gay trophies-some with heads wreathed in flowers and evergreens; others with palms bearing them aloft through intercepting boughs. 
               "Why, what ails you, Lilly?" said Clair. "You shake like an aspen leaf, and are as pale as death. Speak, Lilly!" exclaimed all simultaneously. "Oh, we ought not to have left her so lonely," added Clair, as she sank down beside her. 
               "I have been frightened by my solitude," moaned Lilly, as she drew nearer to Clair. 
               "Is that all?" inquired Clair, as she entwined her arms firmly around her waist. Then they laughed at Lilly's fright, nor dreamt that a serpent's trail had crossed her path. 
               After resting awhile they turned their faces homeward, lest the meridian sun should beam down too oppressively upon themselves and their flowers. 
               Three days after, Clair was standing in the front door of the hotel. Colonel Mayford approached her with the mail. 
               "Miss Clair, a letter for you." 
               "Me? Ah, I'm so glad. I have not heard from home in six weeks." 
               She broke the seal quickly, saying, "I hope no one is dead or married." 
               "Why, Miss Clair, you do not consider the two conditions synonymous, do you?" 
               She laughed and stood eagerly devouring her letter. 
               "Any bad news?" demanded the Colonel as a perceptible change came over her countenance. She made no reply, but crumpled it in her hands, and ran to her room. 
               "What is the matter, Clair?" asked one of the Brentons as they saw her hurrying to her chamber. 
               "Oh, nothing," she replied, and slammed to her door to prevent further inquiry. 
               She opened her letter again, and read as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "MY DEAR DAUGHTER:-I have understood, "from a reliable source, that you are about to "contract an alliance that will be heart-rending to "your family. I cannot write all I would tell you. "Come home immediately, and relieve the mind "of your agonized father. 
                           
                              "E. J. WINSTON."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               She took her pen to reply, but concluded to have an interview with her lover before writing the letter. She met him in the parlor, where he was sitting alone. He looked up invitingly as she entered, and wheeled a chair into position for her to be seated. 
               She sat down without returning his salutation, and with eyes suffused with tears, placed the ominous epistle in his hands. He read excitedly, and then dropping the missive to the floor, said: "What are you going to do, Clair?" 
               "I don't know what to do. Pa is so violent." 
               Then after a pause he said: 
               "Do you love me, Clair?" 
               "Yes," she exclaimed, losing all her coyness in the fierce conflict that burned in her bosom. 
                
               "Then fly with me, Clair, beyond his reach. Before the sun sets, be my bride." 
               She was startled by this sudden proposition; and her heart instinctively shrank from an occasion that had ever been connected in her anticipations with orange-blossoms, bridal wreaths, and all the paraphernalia of festivity. To make this great occasion in life an ordeal, was too much for her hesitating spirit. 
               "Let's see aunt," said Mr. Byrne. 
               Mrs. Glynmore was quickly summoned. He laid the case before her; and she promptly decided upon the course of action. 
               "Your father, Clair, has written you to return. You can safely leave here in obedience to that command; and William can accompany you to some designated point and there be united." 
               She hesitated for awhile, then hastily arose and would have rushed from the room, but Mr. Byrne quickly arrested her by closing the door. He remonstratingly seized her hand and besought her to end his suspense, whilst warm protestations of love stifled her decision, and weakened her resistance. Scarce had he soothed her agitation, when a telegram was handed her with these laconic lines: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "I will be in Gorham this evening. 
                           
                              "YOUR FATHER."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Merciful God!" she cried: "how can I brave his wrath? No! no, William, it must not be." She writhed under conflicting emotions, and strove to withdraw her hand from his, but he held it firmly, following her to the door of her chamber. 
               Mrs. Glynmore entered, and a short colloquy ensued. 
               "Clair, this is a matter for you to determine. You would have but little preparation to make. I could forward your trunks to you, and the matter could be so secretly consummated as to foil the most suspecting. What you do must be done with dispatch. A moment's delay will frustrate our plans. Don't hesitate, child; when it is all over the old folks will forgive." 
               Clair tacitly consented, and Mrs. Glynmore immediately packed a small valise with necessary articles, the while laughing and talking as though perpetrating a practical joke. 
               "Come, Clair," said she, "make a heroine of yourself;" and then imprinting a kiss upon her thoughtful brow, left her to the persuasive powers of Mr. Byrne, who, emboldened by his aunt's intrepidity, entered the room. 
               The shadows of evening were lengthening, and Mr. Byrne lingered excitedly, as though afraid to leave his fair betrothed to her own reflections. 
               Assuming a cheerful air, he said, "It will be moonlight to-night, and a delightful drive we will have. Fear not to trust to my love. You shall never repent your choice." 
                
               "Oh, it is almost night," she cried, as she gazed sadly around. 
               A rap at the door announced the hour of tea, but Clair was too faint to respond, and too tremulous to eat. 
               "Here is a cup of tea, Clair," said Mr. Byrne. "It will strengthen you against the night air." 
               "No, not a drop," she replied, dismissing the waiter. 
               "Then are you ready to go?" 
               "I guess so," she answered, placing her hat on her head, whilst he folded her mantle around her. 
               "Oh, I hadn't ought to leave without speaking to Lilly," she faltered, as she arose to leave the room, 
               "Don't wait to tell her good-by," returned Mr. Byrne. "We can see her again, and we have no time to lose." 
               "Clair," exclaimed Mrs. Glynmore, entering her room, "everybody is at tea-now is your time." 
               "All right, we are ready," rejoined Mr. Byrne. "Take care of Clair whilst I look after my stock. I'll meet you in the lane in five minutes by my watch." 
               "Be cautious, Clair, and pull that veil over your face. The moonlight streams through the foliage of this tree, and parties are passing." 
               "Aunt Rachel, is it not growing late? I hear the sound of a horse's hoof-may it not be my father approaching?" 
                
               "Hush! Clair, your fears are phantoms." 
               "Hadn't I better go back, and await my father's consent?" 
               "No, Clair, you are compromised now. Have nerve, and prove yourself worthy of the happiness in store for you." 
               "William is kind-your father dictatorial." 
               "There! there is the buggy," ejaculated Clair. 
               William Byrne, scarcely waiting for adieus, hurried her into the vehicle, and through the solitude of the forest they pressed their way, whilst Mrs. Glynmore, elated by her triumph, was vainly courting sleep upon her prayerless pillow. 
               Who can estimate the responsibility of a matchmaker-he or she who claims the prerogative of deciding the affinities of the human heart, upon every consideration of interest, except an assimilation of character! Who knows but that the bark they have freighted with flowers, may not founder near that buoy where innocence and youth have too often perished! 
               We envy not the reputation or complacent reflections of those whose philanthropy seeks such a dangerous subject. 
               Clair shuddered at the step she was taking. The stirring of the leaves above her head, and the breeze which toyed with her veil, sent the warm blood freezing to her heart. A fugitive from parental love and filial obedience, she knew not where to turn for sympathy; and thus closer and closer she drew her delicate form to the side of her lover. 
               "Hark! Clair, I hear the tramp of horses. Pull that veil over your face." 
               She trembled, as she saw some dark object approaching. Nearer and nearer it came, until the hazy moonlight revealed the form of her venerable father. They passed each other with equal speed. It was eleven o'clock at night, and soon the moon went down, and the tearful stars alone were witnesses to this strange and sudden flight. 
               Passing the village of Gorham they halted, being but a short distance from their pursuer, as he turned immediately his course when he learned of their flight, which was communicated to him before reaching his destination. 
               Clair was wet with the dews of night, and tossing her head shook out her golden ringlets as the only preparation for the nuptial ceremony. Standing in the midst of a rustic band, whose peering eyes eagerly scrutinized the face of the agitated bride, they heard those irrevocable words that contained such strange and powerful influences upon the destinies of each other. Scarcely had they heard the words that pronounced them husband and wife, when the keen crack of a pistol threw consternation into the happy group. 
               "Hold! hold!" cried a confusion of voices, whilst they rushed to the infuriated man to learn the cause of the disturbance. 
                
               "Be quiet, they are married now-it can do no good-let them go with your benedictions." 
               "My benedictions!" he reiterated, "upon that unfilial child. No! she may go, but the penalty of her crime and my everlasting displeasure will rest upon her." 
               At this juncture, Clair rushed to her infuriated father, threw her arms about his neck, and cried: "Father, forgive me this deed, the first act of my disobedience." 
               "Never!" he replied, and shaking her off like a viper, exclaimed, "You have married beneath you. Don't contaminate me with your touch." 
               "Father," she faltered, cowering beneath the electric flashes of his anger, "have you not told me that all men were of one blood and were equal? Have you not taught me to honor even the African that eats at our table side by side with your children? Have you not bestowed your sympathy and love upon them, and elevated them to posts of honor by your suffrage? Why will you discard me on a social ground: is not Mr. Byrne as worthy of your respect and confidence?" Gaining courage by his apparent compunction and sullen silence, she again tried to approach him with prayers, but he hastily withdrew from the house, leaving curses and imprecations behind him. 
               Poor Clair stood shivering beside her husband, who thus far, strangely enough, had maintained a respectful silence. They lingered but a short time after the departure of Mr. Winston, and taking the next train, left for their future home in the old North State. One of the gayest of the party having left, Mrs. Glynmore determined to prosecute her contemplated visit, and immediately left with Lilly and Colonel Mayford for their Northern tour. 
               Mr. Glenfield flirted awhile with the pretty Miss Brenton, and returned to St. Louis. 
               Mrs. Glynmore followed the line of travel marked out for herself, but spending most of her time at Saratoga. Here they enjoyed delightful rides and excursions on Saratoga Lake; also attended a fancy ball. She formed the acquaintance of an interesting seorita who was one of a party of thirty Cubans, and had recently returned from Madame Chagari's school. Lilly enjoyed her society much, as she spoke English very well. 
               Time flew swiftly away, and soon the summer was gone, leaving her in the midst of the season of operas. 
               A few weeks spent in New York exhausted the pleasure of sight-seeing, and sufficed to prepare Lilly with all the needful paraphernalia of a woman of fashion. She had but little pleasure in all these appearances of happiness; and but for the continual excitement of Colonel Mayford's company, she would have begged to be excused even from the novelties of travel. 
               Mrs. Glynmore had one of those inexhaustible natures that never succumb while a ray of hope is left. Her transports of pleasure were incessant in the deep interest she took in her niece. 
               It was the last of November before she considered it safe to return to St. Louis, and a letter from Mr. Glynmore urging her to hasten home, settled the time of her departure. They accordingly left, and December found them again ensconced in the red-stone mansion, with increased indications of luxury and style. 
               Colonel Mayford began to feel that Lilly's society was necessary to his happiness, and pressed his suit with all the vigor of an impatient lover. 
               She, on the contrary, seemed to evade the consummation of her engagement. To be beloved was necessary to her existence; but to merge her life into the weal or woe of another's destiny, seemed fraught with overwhelming consequences. She sought every subterfuge to make herself agreeable; and did all she could to feel that she would honor the man she might marry. Night after night she toiled upon manuscripts until her thoughts grew dizzy, and when pressed by the Colonel to fulfil her engagement, she would reply: "Never, until I finish my work." 
               "Ah," said he, "it is a Penelope's Web." 
               One evening as they sat alone, Colonel Mayford plead to see some of the lucubrations that were stealing the roses from her cheeks and the light from her eyes. 
                
               "No," said she; "let me accomplish my task, and make myself worthy of your love." 
               "Worthy!" said he; "are you not all my fancy has painted you? Pure, noble in birth, and cultivated and refined? Ah, if I thought you lacked either of these, my soul would sink in pity rather than disgust. Tell me, Lilly, how long will you keep your precious self from me?"-and as he spoke a faint shudder passed through her frame, and he drew her to him, saying, "The night chills you, dearest; let me close these blinds." He gently dropped the curtain; but her hand still trembled in his clasp, and he felt a rigor send its icy touch along her veins. He watched her face, and soon on her cheek came a rosy flush, like a last bud of summer. "Speak to me, dearest; are you ill? Let there be no worm in the bud of your happiness. If you repent your choice, I'll release you, though it may ruthlessly tear my soul from all its moorings, and I, like a seaweed, be flung from a rock o'er ocean's wave to drift." 
               "Nay," said she, "I do not repent. My heart has grown better and purer, since it learned to love you." 
               "Then, why will you not bless me with that confidence that true love can never withhold? If the voice of fame allures you, be assured that none more than I will watch your progress, or seek to hallow with my smiles the home that gave you birth. It would be my delight to see the pen of the biographer trace your lineage, and place you beside those great authors that have won for themselves a deathless fame. Whatever I may enjoy of public esteem, shall be laid as an humble offering at your shrine." 
               Lilly grew faint as he proceeded: "I cannot believe that you intend to trifle with my love; and if I have said aught, dearest, that would lead you to believe that I doubted you, forgive me." 
               The winter wore away, and spring came again, with its burden of song and flowers, and yet no bridal wreaths had she twined for Lilly Byrne. 
               Colonel Mayford was still unremitting in his attentions, though he was living on hope deferred, which maketh the heart sick. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               EXCITING times in Congress were foreshadowing dark and gloomy days to the Republic. Lincoln had been elected; and the resignation of Southern Members of Congress, together with the secession of many of the States, kept the pulse of the Nation in a frenzied heat. The political combinations that were formed for the preservation of the Union, received a death-knell in the rejection of the Crittenden Compromise; and the shock from Fort Sumter convulsed the nation from centre to circumference. The lurid glare of its flames lit up the fires that had been smouldering for half a century. Gray-haired men looked upon the Stars and Stripes with streaming eyes as they turned from the record of their glory; whilst all the chivalry of the country was aroused in deadly hate. 
               This feeling permeated not only the halls of Congress, but entered the crimson fields of carnage, and threw down the altars of domestic happiness. Wives in many instances forsook their husbands, and sought in the plea of sectional patriotism an excuse for throwing off those bonds which had been galling them for years. 
               About this time Captain Lyon took possession of the arsenal at St. Louis, and many who sided with the South left their homes and plunged in the boody strife. 
               Under these circumstances, Colonel Mayford, almost despairing of the consummation of his long-cherished hopes, sat moody and dejected in his office, debating in his mind the propriety of entering the service. He had just written a note to Lilly announcing his intention to visit her that evening, and had laid aside his pen to resume his reading, when a knock at the door attracted his attention. 
               Mr. Glenfield entered, ostensibly for the purpose of borrowing a book of reference, but his protracted visit and the introduction of subjects irrelevant to his mission, proved that this was no part of his business. He joked Colonel Mayford about the report that coupled his name with that of Miss Byrne. The Colonel did not contradict it, but smiled equivocatingly; and Glenfield embraced the opportunity to warn him of her love. He found, by dint of inquisitiveness and his natural tact at solving a secret, that their marriage had been postponed; indeed, he held a Sword of Damocles over her head that might drop at his commanding touch, for he had threatened to blast her happiness whenever she wedded another. He condemned her to the Colonel, and suggested to him that her disposition to protract their engagement was merely a subterfuge to trifle with his affections. The insinuation was well-timed to challenge her lover's credulity; but he was slow to believe a deception where he had had such indubitable evidences of love. He remonstrated with Glenfield, who assured him that he could prove his estimate correct. At this point he drew the likeness of Lilly from his vest, and declared that it was given to him in an hour of dalliance. 
               The Colonel was furious. He took the likeness in his hand to assure himself that it was her's. Then threw it upon the table, muttering, "False as Fair!" 
               Mr. Glenfield protested that it would have been foreign to his nature to make such a dnoment to him, except from a personal interest he felt in his welfare; and continued, drawing closer to him and casting a glance behind as he was about to unfold a secret: "Do you recollect, Colonel, when you were gathering violets in the woods on Mount Washington, how you found her with tearful eyes on your return? They were pledges of love. I met her by her own appointment; and this [holding her likeness up] was her own free gift." 
               "False-hearted girl!" said Colonel Mayford, and stamped the floor in a rage. Then, pacing the room back and forth until his anger somewhat subsided, he turned upon Glenfield an incredulous look, and faltered: "If this be not true, your life shall pay the forfeit." 
               "Be not so harsh or rash," he returned; "you will find it as I have said." 
               The Colonel tarried not to bid a polite adieu to his guest, but hurried with a frenzied look to the presence of Lilly. 
               She was filling the vases with flowers. She sat in a white morning wrapper; the loose flowing sleeves had fallen back on her dimpled arms, and her fingers were lost in the buds she was twining. 
               A few stray blossoms lay on her robe, whilst a half-blown bud was clasped in her bosom. She was startled with glad surprise; for she had not expected Colonel Mayford until evening. 
               He advanced to her without even extending his hand. She looked upon his pale and deathly face, and shrieked: "My God! what ails you?" He answered only by a wave of his hand. 
               "Colonel Mayford!" she exclaimed, "why is this change?" 
               "Change! Miss Byrne," he articulated; "how have you trifled with the heart that adored you?" 
               "'Trifled!'" she reiterated; "how have I deceived you? What foul tongue has whispered that I am false?" 
               "Did you not give your likeness to Glenfield, and drive me from your presence, to fulfil an appointment with him in the recesses of those mountain woods? Ah! be sure I know it all." 
                
               "'Know it all,'" she repeated; "before you hearken to the hisses of that serpent who abstracted my likeness from the album where it had lain for weeks unsullied. I had missed it, but knew not where it was. He sought me clandestinely, that he might coil around me the tissues of this falsehood. Foul slanderer! God repay him for his perfidy." 
               She could stand no more. She fainted, and Colonel Mayford clasped her in his arms, as she reeled to the floor, and kissed those lips that were parting in articulate innocence. 
               Mrs. Glynmore was raving with anger and excitement, as she vehemently stroked her forehead with eau de cologne, while Colonel Mayford would continually ejaculate, "I know it all now-he shall suffer for his duplicity." 
               Like an innocent babe on a mother's breast, she lay on her aunt's bosom, sobbing as though her heart would break. 
               Colonel Mayford had intended on his next interview to insist upon an immediate union; but Lilly had been having nervous rigors, and was trying the skill of a homopathic physician, in consideration of which the marriage was postponed until fall; and he concluded, with Lilly's consent, to enter the service under the command of General Lee, in his native State. 
               After seeing Lilly fully restored from the consequences of these love dissensions, Colonel Mayford hunted the city for Glenfield to visit upon him the punishment which his perfidy deserved; but he had taken flight, and it was reported that he had left the same night for the Federal Army. 
               Two weeks had elapsed since the exciting interview between Lilly and the Colonel, and daily visits and affectionate intercourse had almost effaced from their minds the doubts and misgivings that for a moment had overshadowed them. But now came an hour fraught with such grief as those alone can fully appreciate who have experienced it. Colonel Mayford was about to bid adieu for a brief time to the idol of his heart; but it was like an age, because their meeting again might be as uncertain as the fortunes of war. 
               He sat in Mrs. Glynmore's parlor all alone with his affianced. The large tears trembled on the silken lashes of her dark eyes. He held her hand in his, whilst his arm rested carelessly on the sofa and nearly encircled her form. 
               "Ah, Lilly!" he faltered, "how can I endure to part with you-you, who have taught my heart to love, and from the inspiration of your being incited those aspirations that were well-nigh dead? Now hope, 'sits brooding like a beauteous dove,' and my heart thrills with joy as the tedious days, one by one, bring the consummation of our vows. I long to clasp you to my heart as my own precious bride. How much dearer are you to me when I reflect that our childhood gazed upon the same blue mountain, and with what pride will I return with you to our Old Virginia home! You will love and pray for me, will you not? dearest! Oh, let our spirits blend at the Mercy Seat, and may God watch between me and thee when absent from one another." 
               Lilly loved Colonel Mayford; but never before had his accents fallen so sweetly upon her ear, as when they came with a spiritual afflatus. 
               Few and short were the words she spoke, but the heart feels most when the lips move least. Whilst her face was almost buried in his bosom, he drew from his side pocket a small Testament, in which lay a book-mark, wrought evidently by the fingers of love. Upon it was inscribed, "Miz-pah." "Here, Lilly, is the dearest token of my love-a Bible presented to me by my precious mother. Will you preserve it and read it? I am unwilling to take so priceless a treasure with me to the doubtful field of war. One that I will value for its own intrinsic worth can supply its place." 
               As she extended her hand, the tears chased each other down her cheeks. She had never before consciously allowed Colonel Mayford to imprint a kiss upon her brow; but this was a moment when the heart surrendered everything to the divinity of its love. He folded her to his bosom; and upon her face there fell a tear so pure that it would not have stained an angel's cheek. 
               Thus, tender and true, he bade her adieu; and gave his parting words to Mrs. Glynmore, in the hall. 
               Lilly repaired to her room. It was already eleven o'clock. She held the sacred volume which he had given her to her heart, and thus soliloquized: 
               "Oh, that I could in this fountain find a Lethe for my soul! What a conflict in my heart! Youth's journey just begun, and yet how darkly flows the tide of life! What has tinged its crystal waters? It winds through flowery meadows, whilst overhanging trees margin its rippling surface; and yet, the murky stream seems born of some pestilential pool. What means it? Is my birthright sorrow? Must I be chained in a dismal cell, and vainly struggle with my chains?" 
               Dropping on her knees, she cried: "Even so, Father, it seemeth good unto Thee; but give me grace to suffer, and be strong. Ambition," said she, turning the leaves of her manuscript, "ah! verily, it opens to the gaze of an inquisitive world the secret inspirations of my heart. Marriage! Ah, can light and darkness mingle without a chequered sky? Gracious God! let me sacrifice all that my heart holds dear, rather than chain the eagle that seeks the sun for its aerie. No, go free! bathe thy wings in the element that gave thee strength. The lone sparrow upon the house-top may command the love of God, but can never hope to cleave the sky to where the eagle builds her nest." 
               She pressed her face to the cold marble table to cool her burning cheeks. 
               Mrs. Glynmore knew that this was a sad hour for her; and, as soon as possible, threw her arms about her, and tried to cheer her, in the prospect of frequent letters and the swift flight of time. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               DEAR reader, if you would follow the fortunes of our heroine, you must come again to the old College grounds, and see how the footprints of time fell upon those pleasant paths, and for awhile trace the history of those we left one year ago. Spring again passed, leaving the breath of her flowers still floating on the breeze, and her fairy bowers only deepened in the color of their soft green leaves, whilst myriads of songsters swelled the chorus of the woods as we passed along. The tender herbs had outgrown the croppings of the bleating folds, and every blade of grass seemed to suspend some bright-hued flower. The dark-green clover was again tipped with its white and rosy blossoms, and the honey-bee rocked herself in their dainty petals. The mock-orange hedge that skirted the beautiful lawn rustled with the mocking-bird's wing, and the chirp of her new-fledged young. The warm June sun had begun to slant, photographing graphing the umbrageous oaks on the verdant sward, and flaming the windows with opal sets. 
               We looked for familiar objects. Old Brindle lay in her wonted shade, chewing her cud. The watchful hen had gathered her brood beneath a woody rose-bush, and was faintly clucking to the restless heads that were peeping out from beneath her breast and wings. Old Tray was dozing on the mat at the large hall-door, and at the sound of feet on the pebbled walk stood up, shook his shaggy mane, and bayed a deep-mouthed welcome. 
               A steep flight of steps, and our hand was upon the door. We grasped it tremulously. What changes might have occurred since we last entered those College walls! We waited a response. It soon came in the familiar voice of Dr. B., who drew us into his studio, and gave us such a cordial greeting that we almost forgot our perturbation, or to ask after those once familiar faces. 
               We learned that old Mrs. Dayton had passed to her reward in the full triumphs of the Christian faith, during a severe illness of pneumonia, the past winter. The lovely and gentle Carrie May had made her home in the Western wilds, whither she had gone as a governess. 
               Old Nancy came in to greet us, and told afresh of the changes that had passed over the family circle, interpolating: "Ole Nancy spec's to go by and by whar ole Missis am gone, and whar all de good folks go to lib for eber and eber." 
                
               Old Uncle Ned came, too, doffing his woolly hat, and "tank'd de Lo'd," with a low bow, "dat we's permitted to meet once mo'." 
               After these family greetings and recitals were over, we inquired after the prosperity of the College. Dr. B. replied: 
               "Indeed, these are troublous times. The attendance is quite small. I fear the educational interests of the whole South must suffer. The war has paralyzed every department of labor, except that which furnishes weapons of warfare or supplies for the maintenance of the army. Many persons have been reduced already to poverty, and have been forced from necessity to withdraw their children from school. The only concern now is to minister as far as possible to absent ones in the army, reserving only a meagre support at home." 
               We asked, "What do you think of the times, and the attitude of the Southern States toward the Federal Government?" 
               "I deeply deplore," he replied, "our condition; and fervently hoped that the ballot-box and not the sword would have been the arbitrament of our trouble. But this safeguard to our Republican Government has been practically overthrown, by the election of a sectional President; and we cannot hope that he will ignore the voice of his constituency, and extend to us that justice which the Constitution demands. 
               "True, he has taken the oath of office to administer ter faithfully and impartially the Government, and declares that he has neither the intention nor right to interfere with the domestic polity of the States, which is a confession that any interference would be a violation of the Constitution and his sworn obligations. 
               "But how often, on a plea of expediency, have truth and justice been dethroned. He who rides upon a chariot harnessed by Fanaticism, must be immolated, or drive to its destination. What would Washington have thought of a sectional President? He would have scorned an imperial crown, purchased by the lives and liberties of his countrymen. He was good as well as great, and wielded a sceptre which no potentate of earth ever attained; and when the hand which held it crumbled in death, like Aaron's rod, it still budded in the ark of every patriotic heart, whilst its fragrance filled the world. 
               "Call us not 'Rebels' whilst the names of a Washington, a Madison, a Jefferson, a Patrick Henry, a Clay, and Calhoun, inspire our devotion to our country! We love the Union as it was when the noble old Thirteen bowed around the sacred shrine of freedom, and pledged their lives, fortunes, and sacred honor for its defence. It was then a clasp of mutual sympathy and affection; a compact of wisdom, justice, and truth. 
               "We love the Stars and Stripes, and never can we relinquish the proud record of their glory. Those Stripes were cemented by as warm and generous blood of our forefathers as ever beat in a Northman's heart. Though like the Ark of God it be borne in a strange cause, and each sovereign star paled in its lustre, yet, with the return of constitutional freedom, it shall again proudly wave 
                     'O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave.'
                  
                
               "I have never advocated Secession as our remedy; although I have never doubted our right to secede. When the Union was formed, each State was a sovereign power. They came forth like Minerva from the brow of Jupiter, full-orbed and panoplied, to dictate the terms of their alliance. The Federal Government was a creation of the States. To have surrendered their inalienable rights to a creature of their own hands, would have been to forge anew the fetters that had been cast off in their first great struggle for liberty. 
               "The Constitution which they ratified, guarded faithfully the rights of the States, and denied to the Union every power that could tend to centralization or consolidation of the government. It was the chartered right of the States, and the inviolable limit of their power delegated to the Federal Government. It might be aptly compared to the sun in the solar system, bestowing its light and glory on every planet that revolved around it. Those planets have their peculiar systems; and whilst they bask in the light of the sun, and are attracted tracted by its gravity, they have revolutions of their own which fulfil the legitimate law of their being. With such harmony, the universe presents to us a spectacle as grand and sublime as when first wheeled into existence by the mighty Law-giver of the World. 
               "The Constitution was the concentrated wisdom of the States; designed to be a central light, diffusing its benign influence on the wellbeing of the whole, and by a faithful balance of power keeping in equipoise the grand orrery of States. Their peculiar functions arising out of geographical position, local circumstances, and domestic institutions, are the subjects of State polity, with which the Federal Government cannot interfere without annulling the sacredness of the compact, and destroying the vital principles of the Union. I am no politician, but am convinced that I owe my allegiance to my State, rather than to that State-created power which has betrayed its trust. I know not what I shall do. To leave the halls of literature for the fields of carnage is to me revolting in the extreme. Not that I would not willingly peril my life for my State, but I have a horror of civil strife. I can only trust in God, and be led by His Spirit; and whenever duty calls, will cheerfully obey. I pray fervently that God will bring both sections of this country out of the crucible, a wiser and better people." 
               If Dr. B. could have foreseen the wrangling for office and power, the prostitution of trust in high places, the demoralization of political aspirants, and the carnival of crime that ensued, he would not have supposed the crucible a refiner's fire, or civil war an alembic of national virtue. 
               The stirring times changed the whole status of the country, and everything was merged in political excitement and active hostilities. 
               The school closed without observation, and the children quietly passed to their homes, to bide the struggle of arms and devastating effects of poverty and famine. The College became a hospital for the wounded Confederates, and subsequently a barracks for Federal soldiery. 
               Dr. B. left his beautiful home, and took charge of several country churches in the Confederate lines. By the fortunes of war they soon fell into the possession of Federal soldiery; but as Dr. B. was not a political speaker, and simply preached the Gospel of Christ, he was allowed to continue his ministrations, unmolested in person. He drove a fine buggy with a splendid horse, that would have enticed the cupidity of many a barefoot soldier; but he moved uninterrupted through Federal as well as Confederate lines. Autumn came, and found him an army pet. Without intending to become a spy, his observations on the positions and strength of the Federal forces were often seized by the Confederate army, and turned to their advantage. 
                
               Frequent successful skirmishes through the fall and winter convinced them that there was some hidden foe, and important information was being transmitted. Strict surveillance was thereafter maintained, and every one passing the lines was eagerly searched. The long, flowing locks of the timid maidens, and the dainty little Southern shoe, were often the bearers of important despatches. The enemy combed out their wavy tresses, searched the hems and linings of their garments, and ungloved their jewelled hands, to find the mediums of communication. 
               Baffled after the strictest scrutiny, Dr. B. began to be the subject of suspicion. His churches were taken for officers' quarters, and no passport was allowed him through the Federal lines. 
               Eliciting the sympathy of a Federal officer, he was allowed to visit a sick relative in the Federal limits, where he remained several days. Whilst there, general orders were issued to allow no passports; but Dr. B. ran the blockade by a dozing sentinel, and reached the Confederate lines. By a singular coincidence, their troops were forced to fly before the Confederate forces, and disaster after disaster fired their revenge. They accordingly offered a reward of five hundred dollars for this supposed notable spy. Feeling that danger beset him on every hand, he determined to leave for more congenial parts. As no time was to be lost, he quickly caparisoned his fleet-footed steed, and determined to go without purse or scrip, accompanied by an intimate friend. 
               They set forth on a cold winter's day, and rode with unremitting speed, until the slanting rays of the sun harbingered a cold and cruel night. Approaching a house of comfortable aspect, they debated the idea of halting. Their chief trouble was the want of money, and the probabilities of being betrayed by Federal sympathizers. 
               "Come," said his friend, "we have started in wisdom and wit; don't let's be foiled by folly-let us go in." The appearance of travellers in the country invariably brings the old man of the house to the door. He met them on their entrance, and conducted them with a generous welcome to a glowing fire. The old wife sat in a corner of the fireplace, and as they entered, hastily knocked the ashes from her pipe in surprise; but seeing the old man's quiet face, she resumed her seat, gathering up the long thread of her knitting yarn, that pussy had rolled under her chair. 
               These were simple-hearted "old folks at home," whose youthful love had never grown cold; and when they looked into the clear mirror of each other's hearts they saw but one image daguerreo-typed there. 
               The old lady listened with an anxious heart, for she knew not but that the strangers were only the heralds of an unfriendly raid. The old man talked with an assumed geniality; but never alluded to the army. The crops, and "matters and things in general," formed the topics of conversation. 
               A servant was ordered to put up their horses, and give them a plenty to eat. Each party was trying to play the agreeable, and doubting the sincerity of the other. 
               Finally supper was announced, and the old lady was profuse in her apologies, and the guests in their compliments, of the finely served meal. 
               "Well, wife," said the husband, "you needn't apologize. If Aunt Judy had been well we could have had a better supper. But she ha'nt been out of the bed for three weeks. It puts us to abundance of trouble to do without her. We've tried a good many doctors, but it 'pears like we can't find out what ails her." 
               Here the old lady began to tell some of the symptoms, which the old man thought more suitable for a diagnosis in a hospital than a supper-table, and remarked, 
               "Never mind; I'll get the Doctor here to look after her, if he will, when he gets through supper." 
               The travelling companion looked at Dr. B. with a significant glance, and he replied, "With pleasure, sir; I'll see Aunt Judy after tea." 
               Dr. B. was as ignorant of the practice of medicine as the Man in the Moon; but the title of Doctor not unfrequently subjected him to the importunities of the suffering, who could not distinguish an M. D. from the D. D.'s of the clerical school. 
                
               Supper was over, and a nudge from his companion reminded him that he must make his wits now pay, or be unable to meet his morning bill. 
               "Get a candle, old 'oman," said the good old man, "and let the Doctor see Aunt Judy." 
               Dr. B. was so conscious that his friend was dying to explode with laughter, that he dared not cast a glance behind; but followed on by the light of a tallow candle, with all the dignity of Esculapius himself. 
               On a neat-looking bed the old servant lay, with her yellow mug beside her, which sat on a huge chest, where the treasures of her life were stored. The walls of her room had been whitewashed, and coral strings of pepper were looped in festoons above her bed. The floor was clean, and a nice fire was burning on the hearth, and a savory supper was awaiting the appetite of the sick. Everything looked comfortable and tidy. 
               "Here's the Doctor, Aunt Judy, come to cure you." 
               "Tank you, massa; de Lo'd bless you!" turning to survey him from head to foot. 
               "What is the matter, Auntie?" said the Doctor, in a kind and gentle voice. 
               "Massa, de Lo'd only knows. I'se a pain in dis right foot dat strike me all along up de back, den run round in de front of my head, and fotch me sometimes right straight up a settin. I'se a misery in my chist, and reach clean down to the eens of my fingers and toes. Sometimes 'pears like Old Judy's gwine straight off." 
               "Let me see your tongue, Aunt Judy," said Dr. B., with an assumed gravity. 
               Old Judy put out her tongue, which looked as clean as a cat's, and the Doctor shook his head, and drew out his watch, as if to count the beats of her pulse. A mystical silence for the space of a minute ensued. 
               She looked up to the joists of the house, as if invoking the spirit of health, while Dr. B. was searching his limited vocabulary for something upon which to hang a hope. He needs must explain the cause of the disease, to be satisfactory to the patient or the mistress. 
               "I suspect, Auntie," said he, "that all your ailments proceed from cold." 
               She protested against such a common source of disease. 
               "No, massa; de Lo'd bless you. I'se not subjec to colds. It been done gwine away long ago, if it had ha' been dat." 
               "Well, haven't you been lifting something heavy?" 
               "No, massa, it ain't dat, neder." 
               "Now think good," said the Doctor. 
               She searched her mind, and at last exclaimed: 
               "Da, now-dat's so! I lift dat big pot you seed in de kitchen. I hope Ike liff it off de fire las' week." 
                
               "Ah, that's it," said Dr. B. Then turning to the anxious mistress, he asked, "Have you any camphor?" 
               "Not a bit, sir," she replied. 
               "Have you any painkiller?" 
               "No, sir; our painkiller all got wasted out when Aunt Judy cut her hand." 
               "Have you any mustang liniment?" said Dr. B., almost despairing of a prescription, as he had exhausted the nomenclature of his medical knowledge. 
               "Not a single box, Doctor. Before the war we used to have a plenty of sich; but now we do without." 
               "I'll tell you what you have got," said Dr. B., brightening up, with "Eureka" upon every feature of his face. "You have hog's lard." 
               "Yes, sir; a plenty of that." 
               "You have red pepper, I see." 
               "Yes, sar," answered Old Judy; "I always saves a plenty ob dat. It's mouty good for eberyting." 
               "Well, now," said he, turning to the mistress, "just take one pod of that pepper, rub it in about a pint of hog's lard, and bathe the parts until they are red." Dr. B. recurred to the fact, that another cuticle would have to be exposed, before that desirable effect could be obtained, and corrected himself by substituting, "Let it burn considerably." Then turning to the old negress, he feelingly said: 
                
               "Aunt Judy, good-by; trust in God, and use my prescription, and I think you'll soon be well." 
               She held his hand while she prayed in her own peculiar dialect, "De blessin' ob de Lo'd upon him, wharebber he mout go." 
               Dr. B. was anxious to be off. Scouts were all about the country, and he had become too valuable in their estimation to loiter away his time. The old people begged that he would stay all night, and as he was very tired, he concluded to run the risk. 
               Morning came. A nice breakfast was prepared by sunrise, and after enjoying it to their hearts' content, they solemnly recurred to their empty pockets. 
               As Dr. B. was clearing his throat, preparatory to asking for his bill, the old gentleman inquired: 
               "Doctor, how much do you charge on Aunt Judy's account?" 
               "Nothing at all, sir," rejoined the Doctor. "What is my bill with you?" 
               "Sir, that you will call whenever you pass this way. You and your friend are welcome guests." 
               His young friend drew forth his pocketbook with an air of affluence, and remonstrated at his kindness. 
               The old man said, "Put up your purse; you are welcome." 
               With a show of reluctance, he slipped his empty purse in his side-pocket, and soon Dr. B. and himself self were in the saddle again, and on their way rejoicing. 
               After a few hours' ride their destinations divided them; and Dr. B. had to go through a section of country which was dangerous for a Southerner to pass. Travelling alone in the capacity of a colporteur, he had opportunities for doing much service to the Confederate cause. He was always treated kindly on this account, and at the same time his mission furnished him with the means of travel. 
               In the beautiful city of L. he arrived, feeling that here was a place secure from raids, and where he could quietly distribute to the hospital soldiers the Testaments that he had brought with him. 
               There was a sale at the Court House, and quite an assemblage of persons were bidding for property knocked off by the sheriff. Dr. B. concluded to see how property was going on the block, and what the effect of the times. 
               In a moment all was consternation. Federal cavalry dashed in and took possession of the place. He ran to the most convenient residence, and meeting a lady in the hall, exclaimed, "Madam, I am pursued by the Yankees! Will you give me a secure place?" 
               Quick as thought she comprehended the situation, and opening the door of her private chamber, pointed to a bed, and ordered him to lift the cover and glide into it at once. Then placing the pillows around him so as to disguise his form, she slipped a lady's nightcap on his head, and bade him lie perfectly still. 
               Scarcely had he ensconced himself in the yielding feathers, when thundering sounds were heard at the front door, accompanied by the threat to break it down if not opened immediately. 
               "What is the matter?" the lady tremblingly asked, as she obeyed the startling summons. 
               "We are in search of Dr. B. We know he is here, for we saw him turn in at your gate. The clerical scoundrel can't dodge us this time." 
               With an assumed calmness, truly wonderful under the circumstances, she replied, sotto voce:
                
               "I know not the party of whom you speak, gentlemen, but yet am entirely willing to open my house for your inspection; only let me beg" (and here her eyes were suffused with tears-from fright, of course) "that you will walk lightly, for my mother lies dangerously ill of fever in an adjoining room." 
               As they entered, she tripped back noiselessly to her room, and lowered the curtains to a twilight shade. Then taking a bowl of water in her lap, she sat in the attitude of wringing a cloth to cool a fevered brow. Whenever the sound of footsteps approached, she would gently open the door, and beg them for the sake of a dying mother to refrain from making a noise. 
               Baffled in their search in various rooms, they insisted on searching her private chamber. She avowed her willingness; but remonstrated concerning cerning the excitement it would occasion. They finally agreed to walk softly, and to conduct their search gently as possible-but search they would. They glanced at a huge pile of bed-clothing; then underneath the bed; in the wardrobe; in the closet; up the chimney, and in fact, into every nook and crevice. Then, standing in the midst of the room, they cast a look of vengeful defeat at the lone watcher, and withdrew, muttering foul imprecations. 
               When the last echo of their retreating footsteps on the verandah had died away, she turned to her new-made mother, and said: "Now up and off; fly for your life and mine!" In twenty minutes Dr. B. was making rapid advances toward the Confederate lines. 
               Day and night he rode, stopping only long enough to attend to his horse, which was his only hope of escape. He had been riding all night, sick, worn, and weary, when morning's early dawn discovered the curl of a thin smoke in a thicket of pines, which proved that a dwelling was near. 
               It was a half-ruined hut, and he dismounted and entered to warm his almost frozen feet. A woman was stirring a skillet of corn, and as he approached, she rose up with a shriek of horror; for her house had several times been within the lines of brutal soldiery, who had insulted her, and taken the last morsel of food from her cupboard, whilst her distracted little ones were crying for bread. 
               "My God!" she exclaimed, "what brings you here? I have nothing." 
               "Dear madam," he replied, "calm your fears. I am not an enemy. I would rather shield you if I could. I am a minister of Christ, pursued by Federal bayonets. The cold dews of night have fallen heavily upon me. I am chilled and sick. Can I not warm at your fire?" 
               "Forgive me, good man," she said, as her hollow eyes stared from their sockets. "Come, sit close to the fire, and take some of this parched corn: it is all the breakfast I have to offer you." Then pouring a few grains into the soiled aprons of three little starvelings, she started to divide her store with him. 
               "No, madam, I thank you," he replied. "God has fed my soul the few moments I have been under your roof; and the bare sight of the widow's mite has made me strong to endure whatever I may be called to suffer." 
               "Ah!" said she, "I once had more;" and bowing her head upon her almost skeleton hands, sobbed, "the faithful cow that furnished my children with milk was taken for beef. Every chicken I had was killed; the fence around my garden was burned; and even my bed was set on fire. This corn was left from their horses, and that pallet of straw I gathered from beneath their troughs. Where I am to get the next morsel, God only can tell." 
               "Here, madam," said he, placing a five-dollar bill, his all, in her hands, "Take this, and may the God of Elijah feed and protect you." 
               Scarcely had he uttered these words, when he cast his eyes toward the door, and saw a company of cavalry dismount. They were Federal troops. Lest the woman and children should be alarmed, he bravely went out to meet his fate. 
               The Colonel approached him, ejaculating, "You are my prisoner; are you not Dr. Bond?" 
               "No," he exclaimed; "I am Dr. Beaumont." 
               "Then come along with me, and we will soon find out the truth of this matter." 
               After exchanging his worn-out animal for the splendid charger of Dr. B., he remounted, and conducted him, after a two days' ride, to the General's head-quarters. 
               He entered the Federal camps amid the shouts of an infuriated soldiery. Some vociferated, "Why didn't you kill him?" Others exclaimed, "Hang him up." 
               The Doctor passed through the scene unmoved, and gazed quietly round, whilst his thoughts were finding repose in a higher atmosphere than the dusty din of worldly strife. 
               He was soon bound with iron wristlets, and a ball and chain attached to his foot. A heavy guard was stationed about him, and no communication allowed, except with one chaplain, appointed for the purpose, and those who attended his physical wants. 
               Several days had elapsed since his imprisonment, and the visits of the chaplain became more and more frequent. He had been attracted by his Christian fortitude and his deep erudition, and had a great desire to hear him preach. He was supposed to be an impostor, and the veritable man for whose head a price had been offered. He told them, "he was distributing the Word of God" when he was arrested; that he was a minister of Christ; and whilst he owned he was a Confederate, that he had ever followed his convictions of duty, and would die in that faith. 
               The character of the prisoner was reported to the General, with a petition to hear him preach. He gave his consent for him to speak on the following Sabbath. Accordingly quite a stir was in the camp on Sabbath morning. 
               Some of the men turned a wagon body upside down, and thereby made a stand, which, with chair and dry-goods box, made a passable pulpit. The auspicious hour arrived, and each man was seen carrying his camp-stool to a position as near the novel pulpit as possible. 
               The clerical prisoner was brought forth, rather pale and haggard from the untoward circumstances surrounding him; but thinking of his God, and knowing in whom he trusted. With a firm and unfaltering step he ascended the wagon-body pulpit-impeded only by the ball and chain attached to his ankle. Every eye was upon him; and although thus fettered, he looked every inch a man of God. 
               He arose, and said: 
                      
                        "Jesus, lover of my soul, 
                        Let me to Thy bosom fly," etc. 
                     
                  
                
               The deep intonations of his voice, the unaffected humility and placid expression of his countenance, fastened the attention of the soldiery, as much as the novelty of the scene. 
               He selected as his text: "Then Paul stretched forth the hand, and answered for himself." Acts of the Apostles, chap. xxvi., verse I. 
               He reviewed the history of Paul as a scholar, sitting at the feet of Gamaliel; traced him through all the vicissitudes of his life, and the infatuations of a false religion, until by the Divine Spirit he was arrested; when the scales fell from his eyes, and false philosophy dissolved like a mist, and he became a minister of Christ. He dwelt upon the sacredness of the ministry, affirming that they were the ambassadors of God; not sent by the appointment of man, or the imposition of his hands, but sealed by the everlasting God, and commissioned by His mighty Spirit. 
               He referred to the case of Matthias, who was chosen by the casting of lots. No Holy Spirit sealed this appointment, or signified its approval, and it perished from the bishopric, and his name was lost in the Holy Record from the day of his appointment. But lo! Paul, the persecutor, without the intervention of man, was called to fill the place of Judas, and became the twelfth apostle. 
               He followed him through all his journeyings in the establishment of the religion he had once defied, and magnified the grace of God in him who had breathed threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of Christ. He exhibited him on Mars' Hill, amidst the idols of superstition, and the false theology of Grecian refinement, preaching to them of the "Unknown God," Jesus, and the Resurrection. 
               He portrayed his matchless courage, as he stood before the Jewish Sanhedrim, and declared his allegiance to God in his native country. Before Agrippa he placed him with the ensigns of Jewish cruelty, when he stretched forth the fettered hand, and answered for himself. He contemplated him through all his persecutions, and graphically depicted him when he exclaimed: "The time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight; I have finished my course; I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the Righteous Judge, shall give me at that day; and not to me only, but" (and here the eloquent speaker waved his hand, as if in token of Christian triumph) "unto all them also that love His appearing." 
               Here the audience were melted to tears. The bitter drops fell down upon the sod between their knees, as they bent their heads upon their hands to shut out the halo of his face. 
               The General sat bewildered at the wonderful power of grace. It broke the prisoner's chains, and set the captive free. 
               A solemn stillness reigned, and the closing prayer was not the ejaculation of one heart only, but the united voice of penitence and contrition. 
               After prayer, he was immediately relieved of his chains, and then made an invited guest at the General's table; and after a few hours' conversation, his noble horse was restored to him, and he was escorted through the lines. 
               Events were accumulating fast. Sectional hate was becoming more and more intense; and it was of little use to protest one's innocence, for an oath could not exonerate where there was the slightest suspicion. 
               Dr. B. concluded to leave those parts, and accordingly took his departure for North Carolina. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               IT was now September, 1863. Three long years of mortal conflict had poured down a rain of fire and blood, witnessing such an exhibition of valor, resistance, and fortitude in the army of the South, as has never been recorded in the annals of the world. The North, commanding one of the largest navies of the world, drew not only upon her vast, populous districts for aid, but, laying under contribution the wealth and military skill of foreign nations, found it necessary to emancipate four millions of slaves to insure the defeat of the South. Sixty thousand were said by Northern historians to have joined them in 1863, and thousands more prior to the surrender. Up to this time it was supposed that much of the flower of Southern chivalry had fallen; but, lo! an army of beardless youths reinforced their ranks, and furiously contested every inch of ground won by the superior numbers of the Federal army. Many women of the South, whose tiny feet "ne'er from the heath-flower dashed the dew," toiled in the open field for bread and clothing for their ragged boys, who were standing as a bulwark between home and the graves of their sires. 
               Notwithstanding the starvation of the garrison of Vicksburg, and the consequent fall of Fort Hudson, thereby opening the flood-tide of ruthless invasion, yet the South met the concentrated prowess and numbers of the Federal army behind the strongest intrenchments which Nature, military skill, art, and science could project. They rushed over the strong abattis and fortifications at Chancellorsville, and though falling like leaves in the autumn wind, triumphantly waved their flag on the fiery battery of the retreating foe. Here the immortal Jackson fell, drawing with him a galaxy of lesser stars that light up the pages of history, and brighten the ranks of the blood-washed throng who passed over the River of Death, and now rest under the shade of the Tree of Life. The smoke of this battle passed; but not without leaving the heaps of dead like lava rattling from the crater of some fiery mountain; a monument to the imbecility of human skill against the eternal principles of right. 
               Amidst this vanishing smoke a lonely sentinel might have been seen pacing to and fro, guarding the weary men that had thrown themselves down beneath their blanket tent, for a little rest after the terrific conflict. The cool winds of heaven swept fresh from the valley, and ever and anon he stopped to listen to the hoarse murmur of the waters beneath his feet, or the rustle of autumn leaves above his head. He grasped his musket as though he heard the sound of a coming foe. 
               "Halt! who comes there?" 
               "The grand round." 
               "Advance, and give the countersign." 
               In a low voice he spoke, whilst the sound of cavalry hurrying up on the flank of the foe told that some important move was near. Silently the guard was drawn off, and the drowsy men folded their tattered blankets beneath their knapsacks, and took up their line of march across the Rappahannock. As the last column of the brigade passed a beautiful forest home, the white pennant was waved, wet with briny tears; and fair young hands, loaded with baskets of fruit, rations of bread and meat, and pitchers of luscious milk, handed their gifts to the brave men with mingled pride and grief. When the last guard was gone they retreated, with lonely steps, back to their gloomy home. 
               The fires of autumn were kindled; and around the blazing hearth the old man and his fair young daughters gathered, to talk of the brave young heart that had gone out with a father's blessing and his sisters' prayers to fight for home and country. A letter trembled in the old man's hands as he read of the prison life of that tender boy. 
                
               "I send," said a Baltimore friend, "a lock of his hair; he died from his dreadful wounds, but he fell with his face to the foe, and his head pillowed on Jesus." 
               Alas, no golden lock of hair was there! Some ruthless hand had scattered the golden threads that might have bound up those bleeding hearts. Tears fell fast, but a deathless pallor soon spread on each weeping face. The Yankee raiders had come. With glittering swords and gayly caparisoned steeds they dashed up the pebbled walk and rode into the house with thundering noise. 
               "Come on, boys," said a star-gemmed officer. "This is the place for rations." Alighting in the centre of the hall, he carried his horse to a hat-rack, and ordered his men to distribute themselves between the tender maidens and aged father. 
               "Your watch," said one; and gathering the silver hairs of the old man in his clenched fist, he demanded his household treasures. 
               "No treasures I have," he said, "but these, my dutiful daughters. These are my jewels; spare them your indignities." 
               "Hand out your money," he said, with a pistol placed to his breast. The gray-haired sire rose up from his seat, and seeing the futility of resistance, bade them take whatever they wanted. 
               "We will take you, then," they cried, tying his hands behind him, and leading him out to a large forest oak that stood in the rear of the house. The old man prayed for mercy; they heeded him not, but tied him fast to the tree, and returned to harass his daughters. 
               "Give me those diamond rings," said an officer, clutching the crystal drops in her ears, whilst the blood streamed down on her flaxen hair. 
               "Those rings I'll have," he continued, "or by Jove I'll take your finger off." She started to run with those pledges of love; but he grasped her hand and twisted them off, leaving her fingers swollen and bruised. "Now go and get my dinner quickly," he ejaculated, "or I'll teach you a Rebel's fate." 
               Another led her frightened sister from room to room, and demanded the treasures secreted there, whilst the Captain of the squad dragged the eldest to the piano, and thrusting her ruthlessly upon the stool, commanded her to play "Hail, Columbia!" 
               "No, not that," said a drunken soldier, who was dancing in the centre of the floor; make her play "The Bonnie Blue Flag." Here he threw his arms in the air, exclaiming, "Long may it wave!" whilst he pelted the whitened walls with his offensive quids of tobacco. 
               Whilst the officer thus tortured his victim, the drunken man gathered a bushel of shattered corn, and pouring it into the piano, exclaimed, "These Southern girls can't play." Whereupon the officer, taking advantage of her consternation, snatched a jewelled watch from her bosom, which until now was secreted there. She attempted to run, leaving the booty in his hand, but he caught her, and was in the act of dragging her back by the hair, when a rush of feet and a clash of arms were heard in the hall.
                     The author has not drawn upon her imagination, for hundreds survive who have witnessed similar scenes and can testify to them.
                  
                
               In a moment all was consternation. "The Rebels have come!" they cried; and attempted to rush from the windows into the yard, but the flying bullets brought them to a sudden halt, and they stood panic-stricken, praying for quarter. 
               "Colonel," said the girl with dishevelled hair, "this is the villain that has insulted me and stolen my jewelled watch, and made my piano a trough for his stock. He allowed his men to tie my father, and they have plundered the house of our most sacred household treasures." 
               At this moment a smoke began to issue from an adjoining room; but the excitement of fire did not divert the Confederate Colonel's revengeful gaze. Scanning him from head to foot, he exclaimed: "Foul miscreant! We have met at last! you have lived too long;" and levelling his pistol at the breast of the treacherous Glenfield, Colonel Mayford fired, and the traitor fell dead at his feet. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               IT was in a small village of North Carolina, that Dr. Beaumont found his field of usefulness changed from the immediate vicinity of the army, to a connection with those "Relief Societies" that were so numerous throughout the Southern States. 
               The destitute wives and children of the soldiery were the objects of his peculiar interest and care. Whilst engaged in these ministrations, he received a note from a member of one of those benevolent associations, requesting him to visit a woman in destitute circumstances. Accompanied by a few ladies, he immediately proceeded to accomplish the charitable mission. The woman had been sick several weeks, and although every attention had been given her consistent with the excitement of the times, it was impossible, with the insubordinate colored population, to force them to the menial services she so much needed. Every heart, too, had enough of its own bitterness to fill the cup of life full to the brim. 
               But for these circumstances, the hand of sympathy might have dealt more tenderly. 
               They cautiously entered the abode of poverty. The woman lay on a pallet of straw, her auburn tresses were matted about her forehead, and her pale, white hands lay upon the brown face and crispy hair of a new-born babe. Some other kind hands had dressed the infant and laid it in her bosom, where it was striving to draw nourishment from the cold stream of death, instead of the warm, loving breast of its mother. 
               "Merciful God?" exclaimed the Doctor. "Is there no clue to this sad history? Search," he continued, "the tattered clothes, and see if there be nothing to explain this horrid mystery." 
               Aid was immediately procured, the woman decently dressed, and the child wrapped up in the rags of its poverty, until developments should be made. 
               A careful search was instituted amongst all the rubbish that occupied the room. An old dress hung on a nail beside her, in the pocket of which a letter was found, sent by flag of truce, and written as follows: 
               
                  "MY DAUGHTER,-Leave the man you have married. Cast his name from you forever, and come back to your father's roof."
                
                
               This letter contained not even the name of her father. The child was taken by the society, and sent to an Orphan's Home, but they refused to keep it, as day by day the evidence grew stronger that it was not of the Anglo-Saxon race. It was accordingly sent to an old negro mama in the city, who adopted it as her own. 
               Dr. B. left North Carolina soon after this occurrence, and proceeded to Nashville, Tenn., where he remained until the surrender. He found himself like all the rest of the noble patriots of the South, poor and penniless. He had been in independent circumstances; but when he left his flourishing institution of learning, that was given up as a hospital, and dismantled of its furniture by the Federal soldiery, and all his effects strewn to the winds, he found himself greatly embarrassed by pecuniary obligations. He had made large additions to his elegant home; and his school closed upon his hands with thousands of dollars due, which he never expected to collect. In fact, no one thought of paying his debts; for they were all predicated upon the property that had been taken without compensation in the freeing of the negroes. To attempt to liquidate such debts was sheer folly, or even compromise them. 
               That which had not been taken from the South by sword and flame had been consumed in the support of the army, and thousands were left houseless and homeless who had been reared in the lap of affluence and luxury. 
               The Doctor managed to get an agency from a publishing house, and with this commission he left for New Orleans. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               A FEW hours of travel and the Doctor was under the towering sublimity of Lookout Mountain. He sojourned several days in its vicinity, visiting many sad spots that marked the resting-place of the chivalric brave. He also spent some time soliciting orders for the house for which he was operating. 
               On the morning before his departure, he was standing at the clerk's desk in Chattanooga settling his bill, when he observed a gray-haired man tracing with careful finger the register of arrivals. He cast at him a casual glance when he was interrupted by a news carrier, who held under his arm the morning papers. "A paper, sir, this morning?" To which he responded affirmatively, and sat on the front piazza to await the hour for departure, and cull Congressional items. 
               Whilst thus engaged, he felt an equivocal tap on his shoulder, and turning around met the gaze of the old man he saw at the desk of the clerk. 
                
               "Sir," said he, "are you Dr. B.? I suppose you are the former President of the College of N--." 
               "Yes, sir, I am he. What is your pleasure?" 
               Leaning upon his cane, as he stood with folded hands, he replied in a tremulous, feeble voice: 
               "The clerk tells me you are going to Memphis, Tenn., and I have been anxious to find some one under whose protection I could place my daughter. She is now aboard the train, and is making a trip to the West. If you can take her without inconvenience under your protection I will be very much obliged to you, Her uncle will meet her in Memphis." 
               "Certainly, sir. It will afford me great pleasure; and I feel complimented by your confidence. May I ask the name? if you please." 
               "Cachet," he replied, and continued: "I will accompany you as far as Stevenson, and then leave for Virginia. I am very old and feeble, and feel quite used up by my recent travel." 
               The whistle blew a warning blast, and the Doctor gazed around and saw that attentive porters had conveyed his baggage to the train and procured his checks, and he leisurely walked with the old gentlemen to the depot, and assisted him into the car." 
               "My daughter, I have the honor of introducing you to Dr. B., formerly of the College of N--, of whom you have heard, who is going through to Memphis, and will greatly relieve your father of the fatigue of the trip." 
               Dr. B. bowed politely, and assured her that it would afford him great pleasure to accompany her; and then retired a few seats in the rear, leaving father and daughter to their parting interview. 
               Soon the smoke and cinders blew with suffocating effect, and their seats were exchanged for those near the Doctor. 
               "I am truly glad I met with you, Dr. B. I do not feel that I could hold out as far as Memphis, and then prosecute my trip homeward. Business, too, demands my attention at home; and I must needs return soon as practicable. I am a farmer, and in the present condition of the country it is unfortunate for me to be absent. I hope you will not be troubled much with Eloise. You will find her lively enough to give you a pleasant time." 
               "Oh, sir," replied Dr. B., "I doubt not Miss Eloise will assist me in playing the agreeable, and that we shall have a delightful trip. I have been in so many straits myself recently, that it is to me a real pleasure to render any assistance I can to my friends." 
               The war, crops, etc., formed topics of conversation until Stevenson was reached. 
               Here, Dr. B., seeing the feebleness of the old man, gathered up his umbrella and valise and held them in his hands, whilst the father pressed to his heart his child with a tearful and affectionate farewell. Then turning to the Doctor, commended him to God, and bade him take care of his priceless charge. 
               Eloise rested her tearful face against the window to watch his receding steps, and sobbed at intervals after the train moved off. 
               At first Dr. B. would not obtrude upon her grief, but soon ventured to approach her with words of comfort. 
               "This is a beautiful day, Miss Eloise. Cheer up! I doubt not your father will reach his home in safety. You seem to be the chief subject of his concern; and now that he has transferred his charge to me, I feel solicitous that you should have a pleasant trip." 
               "Thank you, Doctor; but father is so fragile; and constitutional sickness, together with his advanced age, I fear, has placed him almost beyond recovery. A sense of duty alone impelled me to leave him. He would not hear to my remaining; and seemed unhappy until I consented to go West." 
               "Do not despair, Miss Eloise; not a sparrow falls to the ground without the knowledge of your Heavenly Father." 
               "I feel all that," she rejoined, and looked out on the passing panorama to give to the winds her tears; but "the heart knoweth his own bitterness; and a stranger intermeddleth not with his joy." 
                
               As she grew more calm, the Doctor began to dissipate her sadness by his sallies of humor. 
               "How would you feel, Miss Eloise, if you were like my old bachelor self? 'No one to love, none to caress.'" 
               A faint smile played upon her face; its gloomy shadows soon fled, and she grew talkative and vivacious. 
               Her's was a singular beauty. Her eyes were Cuban, of almond shape, dark and lustrous, and her complexion a deep olive. Her form was graceful, yet inclined to embonpoint. Her manner was exceedingly cultivated, and betrayed much of a foreign education. 
               Dr. B. had been a long time out of female society, and had been peculiarly tenacious of the tender recollections of the past; but his innate benevolence and natural affability made him assiduous in all the little attentions that a true gentleman will ever render a lady placed in his charge. 
               The kindness of the Doctor made her feel that she was with a friend, and that she could enjoy a social tte--tte without any suspicion of too much familiarity. 
               The day wore away in genial conversation, and as they became better acquainted, Eloise betrayed a wonderful penchant for practical jokes. 
               Catching her image in the mirror before her, she discovered the eyes of the passengers bent inquisitively upon her. 
                
               "Doctor," she whispered, "we seem to attract a great deal of attention. I do not know whether it is you or myself." 
               "You, of course, Miss Eloise. You could not pass anywhere without observation." 
               "Thank you, Doctor. Since I am so attractive, let me pass myself off for your daughter. 
               "You do not think I look venerable enough for that, do you?" 
               "Why, Doctor, that is quite a reflection upon my age." 
               "Pardon, pardon, Miss Eloise! Call me 'Father.' You look to be only sweet sixteen; but it would not do for me to tell my age. An old widower must leave the ladies to guess, and forestall their judgment by his vivacity." 
               She accepted this opportunity for a practical joke; and it was really amusing to see the extravagant politeness of some of the passengers to the Doctor, on account of his daughter. She played off the joke to perfection; and Dr. B., with all his sobriety, could not resist unbending his equanimity before the laughter-provoking mirth of his vis--vis. He sat watching the lights and shadows of feeling, as they played hide-and-seek in her dimpled cheeks, until he was almost spell-bound by her bewitching face. Ever and anon, through the pauses of conversation, he tried to solve the mystery: Why a complete stranger like her father should bestow such a confidence? Then, too, when he critically fastened his gaze upon her, the familiar voice and striking features seemed like a dream of other days. Such are the powers of association, that a look, a tone, a gentle breeze, or even a sunbeam, may waft us back to other days with indefinable impressions. Her voice seemed like an echo in memory's hall, and at times reminded him of the pensive face of some favorite child. 
               Whilst the Doctor was thus cogitating, he perceived that he was already in the vicinity of Memphis, and inquired: 
               "Which hotel, Miss Eloise, do you prefer?" 
               "I am not posted, Doctor; I leave that matter with your discretion. I generally make it a rule to stop at the best." 
               "That is my habit, also," rejoined the Doctor; "and an intimate acquaintance with the proprietor will insure us pleasant quarters." Then, smiling, he said, "I must whisper to you my regrets at having to part with my venerable title. The proprietor of the 'Gayoso,' Colonel C., knows me too well to further humor the joke." 
               "Ah, well," she replied, "I have enjoyed it so much that I am willing now to desist. It has been only a pastime for the tedium of travel." 
               "Yes," he rejoined; "'a little fun, now and then, is relished by the best of men.'" 
               "Memphis!" vociferated the conductor; and after a little pulling and hauling of baggage, they found themselves in the reception room of the hotel. 
                
               "Doctor, do procure me a room adjacent to yours. I feel so isolated in this strange hotel." 
               "I will if I can, Miss Eloise. But you are so accustomed to travelling, you ought to be very brave." 
               "Oh, you mistake me. I am only self-reliant from a repugnance to putting others to trouble." 
               Dr. B. left, and returned immediately with a servant, who opened the door of a tidy room and stored away a quantity of baggage. 
               "You will meet me in the parlor, Miss Eloise, when you are ready for tea. You now have two hours for rest." 
               The Doctor proceeded to procure the manipulations of a fashionable barber, and in two hours was seated in the pleasant parlor awaiting the appearance of his elegant friend. 
               She seemed to delay, and accordingly he stepped to her door and gave it a gentle rap. She emerged from her chamber dressed in the elegance of Parisian style. The long train of her rich silk, garnished with magnificent lace, was more in keeping with a court reception than the worn-out Confederate status of the times. 
               Dr. B. could not refrain a low bow, as 
                      
                        "She beamed on his sight, 
                        Graceful and fair as a being of light." 
                     
                  
                
               "You look charmingly beautiful, Miss Eloise. You will certainly bewilder your envious sisters, whose greatest aspirations for years have been a calico dress." 
               "I thank you, Doctor, although your generous compliment is a little equivocal. I am conscious that much more is due to my dress than to personal charms." 
               "You remember the adage, Miss Eloise, 'Fine feathers make fine birds.'" 
               "I accept your compliment, Doctor, without further expletives." 
               With this running conversation, he conducted her to the table. Every eye was turned upon them. The ladies stared at the fashions as they would have done at an apparition in Dixie, whilst the gentlemen feasted their eyes on her attractive person. 
               "Who can she be?" inquired many curious eyes, as they seated themselves at the table. 
               "A Yankee General's wife!" said one, with various degrees of criticism. 
               "A bride," whispered another. 
               She stemmed the tide of observation with as much grace as though she had anticipated and prepared for the effect. 
               After tea, she declined a seat in the parlor, and preferred a short promenade in the hall. She had been "confined in the car," she remarked, "until exercise was necessary to her health." 
               The door of her room was ajar, and a pleasant breeze swayed the lace curtains back and forth, making an irresistible impression of delicious coolness. 
               "Doctor," she exclaimed, "I know you are weary. Do come into my pleasant room and have prayer with me before you retire." 
               The Doctor protested the lateness of the hour and the need she had of rest; but she enforced her invitation so pathetically, that he yielded to her request. 
               She remarked that her "father for a year past had been in the habit of holding family prayer, and when away from him she missed its hallowing influence. This, Doctor, is our family Bible. Pa gave it to me, and begged I would take care of it, and read it; and his last injunction was, to obey the noblest impulses of my heart, and make it the guide of my life." 
               The Doctor held it in his hand, and unconsciously turned the pages in embarrassment, on account of his novel situation. 
               "Yes; it is the helm of youth, as well as the anchor of age. But for its precious promises," continued he, "my soul had dwelt in silence, and I should have perished in mine affliction. The loss of my loved ones, and my present impoverished condition, have enabled me to test the sufficiency of God's grace in all the ills of life. I believe I have suffered everything but disgrace. Thank God for a noble mother's prayers! My poverty is no crime, but a great inconvenience; especially when my heart yearns to fulfil the obligations I owe my fellow-men. I came out of the war deeply involved; and I would be to-night a happy man if I was due no man anything but love." Here he spoke of his many pecuniary difficulties. 
               She sympathized, and inquired why he did not take the benefit of the bankrupt law, and spoke of its benign intention. 
               "Ah! I know all that," he said. "It is made for just such helpless cases as mine; but there are so many who have made it a refuge for dishonesty, that I cannot bear to be in that category. I have noticed them preserve the same style and habits, as when they floated in ease and affluence. This has driven me in disgust from the portals of bankruptcy. Whilst a man has his faculties unimpaired, his mind is his richest kingdom; and with health and strength, he is a knave who does not employ it in fulfilling his obligations. Law shall never make me unjust, nor poverty drive me to anything associated with dishonor." 
               Glancing at the Bible, again he said: "I see you have no Family Record." 
               "No," she replied, "Pa has neglected it. I will see to it sometime myself." 
               
                  En passant, he turned to the CIVth Psalm, discoursing upon it as the most figuratively beautiful portion of Scripture. Then with a short, fervent prayer, he bade her good-night, and retired to the loneliness of his own chamber. He extinguished the gas that was burning brightly, to cool the atmosphere of his room; and naught but stray pencillings of moonlight gilded his floor. He wheeled his chair toward the evening breeze, and carelessly elevated his feet upon the window, in calm contemplation. What a mystery, he thought, was life; as he quietly turned his face toward the stars. How often he tried to mingle his pious reflections with the strange providences that surrounded him; but too much mystery staggered even his elevated faith. His mind dwelt on Eloise. Her devotion to fashion and her pious fluency, seemed two incompatible elements of character. But her unsophisticated, childlike confidence, and her freedom from worldly suspicion, made his thoughts hover like a dove around her innocent heart. The late midnight hour was fanning his cheek, when he relit, for a few moments, the gas, and turned to his Bible and read, "In my Father's house are many mansions." 
               But this seemed to him only the appointments of an earthly Eden, and his air-castles vied with the amethyst and topaz of the Holy City. He bowed himself in prayer, and over and over he repeated his petition to assure himself that it was a prayer of faith; but no sweet, heavenly communion attested the acceptance of his evening sacrifice. He was bewildered and arose, whispering wandering thoughts, like "Birds fly over my head, but must not build their nests in my hair." He dropped on his knees again and commended his abstractions to God; then fell asleep with a spirit of prayer. 
               Morning came. The bright apparition was again before him. She made her appearance in a beautiful morning wrapper, giving a neglige to her toilet which disarmed design, and made the most elaborate effort appear like unaffected simplicity. 
               The Doctor spent some time in a tte--tte after breakfast, and then excused himself to look after his business in the city. 
               The hour for dinner arrived, and he found her more elegantly attired than before; more voluble; more bewitchingly interesting. He was naturally a timid, shrinking man, and was beginning to feel how conspicuous his association was making him; but it was like a Circean spell. After dinner he repaired to the parlor, and as she gracefully sunk down in a large arm-chair, the billows of roseate silk alternating with the foamy lace half hid her dimpled arms, whilst from her jewelled hand a rose-bud drooped with exquisite grace. An unseen censer wafted its ethereal mist around him until his senses ached with the burden of fragrance. He sat near her, intoxicated with he knew not what; but his eyes were riveted upon her. His smiles were involuntary, and his words few and far between; for his thoughts were voiceless. Ah, when a pretty woman displays her charms, what can a poor man do? 
                
               She conversed with that fascinating power that leaves even a sensible man no time to reason or reply; but hurries him to conclusions on the most debatable points, as irresistibly as the profoundest logic could deduce. He spent almost the whole afternoon with her; and when he arose to go, he was astonished at the fleetness of the hours. It was now too late to look after business, and he took a quiet stroll through the city, and walked alone, like Isaac did when he was meditating in the fields. The fair Rebecca had risen on his mental vision, and his path seemed to be re-lit by a new star of destiny. Twilight drove him home, and he repaired to the parlor, where he found Eloise awaiting his tardy step. To him she looked like an angel of light; yet no fulsome compliments had ever been bestowed, nor had a solitary word escaped him but that which courtesy and his obligations demanded. 
               After tea, the Doctor observed to her, that he supposed a lady of her taste had not neglected the accomplishment of music, and that he was very fond of the divine art, and would be delighted to hear her perform. 
               She replied, that she was passionately fond of music; that she performed on the harp, and also the piano. She expressed her preference for the harp, as it allowed the performer a more graceful attitude. 
               Seating herself at the piano, she cast her hands tremblingly over some of the minor chords, as if disposed to recur to sad recollections. Then lifting her eyes to the Doctor, she exclaimed: "Oh, how much my father will miss me! How often I have sat 'at the close of silent eve, with my harp's responsive sound,' and soothed his feelings when worn and weary! Ah! music is a passion with me. I cannot live without it. It is an echo that laughs when I am joyous, and weeps when I am sad." 
               "Then, Miss Eloise, let your gentle fingers fling its melting murmurs o'er mine ear." 
               She began with a voice as sweet and low as a maiden's prayer, and every note seemed like murmuring waters trickling on the heart. With the mocking-bird's varied trill, she embraced every phase of expression by the intonations of her voice. Not a word was spoken by any of the occupants of the parlor during the performance, but they listened with breathless appreciation and sometimes with tearful eyes when she sung in the sombre timbre. 
               Seeing her power, she played a very comical piece, and snatching her mouchoir, from the piano where she had laid it, she iterated: "That is enough-that is enough!" 
               "Thank you, thank you," the Doctor returned, and conducted her to a sofa, expressing his delight. 
               "Doctor," she observed, "I have been regretting that you should delay the prosecution of your journey on my account; and I cannot consent for you to remain longer with me. I know my uncle will come, and am looking for him every day. It is too great a tax upon your kindness; and Pa never expected it. I do not know," she continued, "how I shall interest myself in your absence; but I am not selfish enough to wish you to sacrifice your time and interest." 
               "I scarcely know how to leave you in a strange place, Miss Eloise, and much regret that business may force me to do so. I expect it will really be necessary for me to leave on Monday. But as tomorrow is Sabbath, I shall remain over, and if you would like to attend church, will accompany you." 
               She thanked him and arose, remarking, "Doctor, I have something to show you. You must walk with me to my room, and examine some of my beautiful books. I know you will appreciate them." 
               "Excuse me to-night, Miss Eloise. It is already nine o'clock. You must retire early and be ready for church to-morrow." 
               But she insisted so, he accompanied her. Opening the door, he was amazed to see the contents of a large "Saratoga," which lay in elegant volumes around it. 
               "See," she remarked, "I have had occasion to get a volume which unfortunately was at the bottom, and will have to repack them." 
               He stood over the large collection, and glanced over book after book of standard German and English literature. 
               "Why, you have quite a library of choice works." 
               "Yes," she returned; "and here is one I wish you to accept-'M. Saiset's Translation of Spinoza.'" 
               He accepted it with thanks, and directed his attention to a number of metaphysical works. 
               "Miss Eloise, let me advise you, as an old educator, to read nothing athcistical. Read such works as will stimulate your faith: Bunyan, Baxter, and old Carvosso, rather than Spinoza, Goethe, and Comte. These latter are a recreation to a speculative mind; but the tendency of the mind to scepticism should be checked in its incipiency, rather than cultivated." 
               "Yes, sir; I am aware of that; but I am taking these West particularly for a relative, who is devoted to works of this caste. I collected them on my sojourn in Europe." 
               Dr. B. attempted several times to say "Goodnight;" but she preserved so well the thread of conversation, that it was almost impossible to reach a pause. 
               After he had made a general survey of the books, she turned to him, and feelingly said: 
               "Pray with me before you leave." 
               They knelt together in prayer, and after wishing her rosy dreams, he retired to his own apartment. 
                
               When he reached his room he could scarcely realize that a few days had made him such a creature of circumstances that he was reluctant to obey even the imperious calls of business. He secretly wished that his stay could be protracted, and that he might have opportunity to test the reciprocity of that affection he craved to enjoy. 
               One day more, and the opportunity would be lost; and she, too, who like some bright meteor had streamed athwart his path, leaving the gloom more intense by its disappearance. He weighed the subject as deliberately as his feelings would permit, determined to be controlled by circumstances. 
               A bright and beautiful Sabbath dawned on the morrow, and found them at church. In the afternoon Eloise spent the hours in her room, whilst the Doctor sat reading some of Dr. Chalmers' works, who was one of his favorite authors. 
               "I am going to hear you preach to-night!" exclaimed Eloise, as she accompanied the Doctor to tea. "I have a presentiment that you will preach." 
               He laughed at the idea, and replied that he had been invited to preach by one of his old pastors; but he had declined, as there was no good reason why he should not be edified by listening to him. It was this presentiment that induced her to attend church. 
               He rejoined that nothing would afford him more pleasure than to accompany her; and, moreover, he would see whether or not she was a false prophetess. 
               Soon after tea she withdrew to her room, attired herself very plainly, and reappeared. 
               "What in the world, Miss Eloise," asked the Doctor critically, "induces you to feel that I will fill the pulpit to-night?" 
               "Well, only a woman's reason. I have rather an intuitive perception of what is to happen." 
               Scarcely had he seated himself in the pew beside her, before a gray-haired deacon advanced, and notified him of the sudden calling away of the pastor, and the anxiety of all parties to hear him preach. 
               After a short conversation with the deacon, he arose and ascended the pulpit. He preached a very edifying sermon, and at its conclusion raised a collection in behalf of the Bible cause. 
               At this time "Green-backs" were scarce in the South, and gold still more uncommon. This made a doubloon which was cast into the treasury a very noticeable incident, and Dr. B. immediately suspected its source. After leaving church, he asked remonstratingly: 
               "Why did you cast in such a liberal contribution, Miss Eloise? You are travelling, and may need that money." 
               "No, indeed," she replied; "I have not impoverished myself, Doctor. I have given out of my abundance, and would give more if it were necessary sary. Father is very generous to me, and I know not what it is to want anything that will gratify." 
               He thanked and commended her for her generosity in so noble a cause, and then dismissed the subject. 
               They wended their way slowly from church, which seemed all too short for this last interview. 
               As they entered the parlor, Eloise looked at her watch, exclaiming, "It is yet very early; take a seat, Doctor." Then, with a mysterious pause, she said: "I feel really sad that this will be our last interview. You have contributed so much to my pleasure." 
               "I am only going," he replied, "because you protest against my staying. I will willingly remain until your uncle arrives." 
               "No; I cannot agree for you to consume your precious time in that way. I am somewhat self-reliant, and feel assured that my relatives will soon come." Then, smiling evasively, she added, with rather an assumed gayety, "Doctor, can you keep a secret?" 
               "I have never had the test, Miss Eloise; but I think if you would confide one to my keeping, I would treasure it as something sacred. Will you grant me your confidence?" he faltered, gently taking the hand he never before had the courage to touch. 
               She blushed, and replied, "I will communicate it to you by letter, if you will promise to keep it sacred." 
               "I pledge my honor and my life," he said, with a firm clasp of the hand. 
               Then rising from the sofa, she added, "I will now bid you adieu to-night. You will leave too early for me to see you in the morning. You will find the letter at the office when you settle your bill. The conditions upon which I impart my secret are these: you are to read the letter I mark No. I immediately upon the boat's leaving the wharf; the other, which I shall mark No. 2, must not be perused until you arrive at New Orleans." 
               "I promise you faithfully," he replied, "to observe these conditions." 
               A tear moistened her eye, and she spoke in a half-choked accent the word, "Good-by!" and quickly vanished, as if to conceal the emotion of her bosom. 
               Dr. B. retired to his room, walked back and forth; then seated himself as if in a trance. What can all this mean-her tender adieu; the confusion of her parting moments; the confidence she was about to bestow? He was all excitement. He could not sleep, though an early departure demanded his repose. 
               He was dressed and at the office some moments before the clerk arrived, with feverish anxiety to solve the mystery that had haunted him through the long hours of night. A child never longed to see into the mystery of a dumb-watch more eagerly than he craved to look into the secrets of those letters. 
               "The omnibus-driver is very slow, is he not?" said Dr. B. to a burly-looking man, who was taking his comforting smoke on the piazza, unmindful of the hour of departure. 
               "No, sir; plenty of time," he replied, drawing his watch from his fob. 
               The Doctor tried to look reassured; but in spite of himself, he thought the driver a lazy man, and ten chances to one, himself to be left. 
               Finally, "All aboard!" and the crack of the driver's whip soon relieved his anxiety, and he found himself seated on the steamer, with the promised conditions fulfilled. He sought a quiet place, and drawing from his side pocket nearest his heart the mysterious missive, read as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "REV. DR. B.:-MY DEAR FRIEND:-How often are the conventionalities of taste opposed to reason? Following its tyrannical rule, many of the purest and most generous impulses of human nature die with the inspiration that gave them birth. Had I consulted its mandates, the sentiments of my heart would now have been voiceless, and you, perhaps, would have thought of me merely as a wayside friend, rather than one in whose bosom flows the purest sentiments of friendship and gratitude. Need I tell you that the happiest moments of my life have passed in your society-moments hallowed by an intercourse which, I trust, will not only eventuate in my ideal of earthly happiness, but be the brightest reminiscence in a blissful eternity. May I not hope for a place in your memory wherever you may rove, and the benisons of your prayers upon a heart that has never been sullied by an emotion that might not fill an angel's soul? 
                           "In writing thus, I arrogate nothing that human nature may not attain; and deprecate all that is not comely, chaste, and lovely in female character. 
                           "If you cannot look upon this page as an emanation as pure as a snowflake, drop it into the reservoir of forgetfulness, and open not the contents of No. 2. 
                           
                              "Yours, with sincerest friendship, 
                              "E. C--."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Dr. B.'s first impulse was to step ashore and return to the spot which was drawing him with electric cord; but he remembered the conditions upon which the letters were given, and he sat like a martyr to his vow. "Am I deceived?" he thought within himself, as he unfolded the letter time and again, to assure himself that they were visible words and characters, and not the impressions of an over-stimulated brain. 
               "No! no!" he exclaimed, folding the letter to his bosom. "It is the artless, guileless love of woman; such as has been matured in the cruel war, and defies every barrier to prove its consecration to a sacred cause. Yes; in her heart glows a spirit as pure as the driven 'snowflake,' and I would wrong my own soul to think that she could not be all that my fancy has painted her. Cruel waters!" ejaculated Dr. B., as he saw himself floating away from the wharf. 
               He cast his eyes in the direction of the city, but no love-token could he descry. The tender adieu might have been waved in the snowy folds of a kerchief, but he did not observe it. He lost himself in the contemplations of the future, whilst he nervously clasped the tender missive. He sat nursing his pensiveness, and rearing air-castles and adjusting their proportions. The port of New Orleans seemed like some distant haven from which he was separated by seas, instead of the swift-rolling waters of the Mississippi. He longed to reach his destination that he might solve the mystery which perplexed him. 
               When he arrived in New Orleans he immediately sought his chamber, and without ever seating himself, he drew from a side-pocket No. 2. The scent of roses still lingered about it, and filled the air with its perfume. 
               A tiny piece of cedar supported a geranium leaf, and a blue-eyed violet peeped out, as he broke the mystic seal. He gently lifted the little treasure from its secret recess, and devouringly read as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "REV. DR. B.:-MY DEAR FRIEND:-Your matchless kindness to me, your high-toned and chivalric character, irrespective of your fervent piety as a Christian minister, have elicited my profoundest admiration and my most sincere affection. I have learned to love you as a father, and have a consuming desire to be an humble instrument in the hands of Providence of restoring to you those faded flowers that have fallen, leaf by leaf, in your lonely path. Believe me, I would crave no higher destiny than to bestow bloom and beauty on those withered wreaths. 
                           "Would you wear the chaplet less proudly or happily because a loving hand extended it, all unsought? If not, let me place it on your brow. My hand and fortune go with it. Nor could you again repine at the reverses of a cruel war. Every debt you owe can be liquidated, and still leave you with a hundred thousand at your disposal. If you consider the offering worthy of your acceptance, meet me on July 4th next, at -- Hotel, Richmond, Va. I will be there to consummate my vows. 
                           
                              "Yours, most devotedly, 
                              E. C."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               He folded the letter in amazement. What does it mean? Then with rapturous joy he exclaimed, "I may be happy yet. Yes, I will see her again, not for gold or paltry gain, but because her generous heart embraces my adversity, and loves me for myself alone. Some might have repressed the genial current of their souls, and bowed to Fate's stern decree in this separation; but Eloise, thou art none the less prized, that all unsought I won thee. I will haste to Richmond, and the sultry summer's sun, nor the thoughts of my adversity, shall longer form a barrier 'twixt myself and happiness." 
               With this soliloquy he pressed the mute messenger of love to his heart, and Hope, like a rainbow, set its glowing seal upon his brow. He longed to tell her of his reciprocal affection; and how she had, like some fair enchantress, waved her wand over the "dead leaves," and brought to light every withered thing. But she had not asked a reply to her letters. Perhaps she had forgotten to demand any other assurance of his affection than that which would be tested by absence, and his promptness in accepting the proposition in person. Then, too, he knew not how often her locality might be changed, or even when she would leave the city of Memphis. 
               In this dilemma he sat, ever and anon lifting his pen, in unavoidable indecision; until it occurred to him that his toilet was yet unmade, and that a card from some of his friends might at any moment demand his presence. He walked and talked almost mechanically, so bewildered was he by the sudden dnoment he had longed to know, and with such assurances of happiness. 
               The Doctor was not a mercenary man. He had been crushed by the war, and his beautiful home destroyed, and his income of promises from patrons literally strewn to the breeze. 
               Lonely, sad, and impoverished, the bare hope of a restoration to love, home, wealth, and happiness, would have almost rejuvenated a much grayer head than his. It was not strange that he looked forward with impatience to the perspective of months, weeks, and days. His occupation detained him for some time in the city, and he lost no time in making preparations for the happy event. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               FOR Miss Cachet," said a little boy, holding in his hand a dispatch, which she hastily seized and read: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "SAINT LOUIS, Mo. -- 18-.
                            
                           "Do not wait for me; come on immediately 
                           
                              "Your Uncle, 
                              "G--."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               This decided her. She left in the next boat, and soon arrived in St. Louis. 
               She had expected to stop at the elegant "stone mansion;" but the ravages of war, and the extravagance of its inmates, had made it necessary to exchange it for an humble residence in the country. 
               This was a sore disappointment to one whose whole paraphernalia was prepared for the fashionable circles of society; but she anxiously continued her drive to where her relatives lived. 
               It was now the sombre hour of sunset. The shadows of the forest, which had been so distinct, were blending with the gloom of purple twilight. The dying day left its impress on a clump of foliage age, that made still fainter the outlines of the little weather-beaten cottage on the hill. 
               "You mistake, driver," she said, as they approached the house. "This cannot be the residence of my aunt." 
               "Yes, ma'am, this is the very place. I helped to move them out a short time ago." 
               Eloise perceived a form in the doorway, with a hand lifted above his brow, as if lengthening his vision to ascertain the character of the traveller. 
               Presently he came to meet her. She joyously extended her hand to her uncle; but his faltering voice spoke more fully than words could tell of the deep pall of sorrow that was hanging over that house. 
               She instantly screamed with that wild despair which none but those who have experienced it can fathom. He assisted her to the house. Mrs. Glynmore threw her arms about her with a wild wail of sorrow, which spoke too well of what death had done. 
               No sister's fond endearing clasp was there! She whom she had looked upon as a rosy-faced little girl had grown into the loveliness of maiden-hood, and perished like the flowers. She rushed to the little lounge where her sister was lying, and folded the cold, stiff form to her bosom, as if to call back the spirit. She lifted it with lamentations that rent the air, but the dark, massy curls fell back again over the pillow, unmindful of love's soft pressure or the shrieks of sorrow. She fell on her knees beside her sister, took her cold hand in hers, and flooded it with warm tears of agony. 
               Ah! it was too sad to contemplate! There lay one whom Fate had marked for an early grave;. Life had been to her a fitful fever of high aspirations and blighted hopes. She lay like a wilted flower in her snowy shroud. On her head rested a chaplet of flowers that might have been to her as a queenly coronet, but for the cross that lay far beneath the flowery emblem that rested so significantly on her innocent bosom. One cold hand still clung to her heart as if to press out of sight, even in death, her consuming secret. Here lay, in a little drawer, her manuscripts all ready for publication: but to expose herself to the criticism elicited by authorship meant more to her than a review of her literary merit. This "froze the genial current of her soul," and death kindly set its seal of silence on her brow. Here, too, lay her diary, in it written the significant words: "Hath not the potter power over the clay, to make of the same lump one vessel to honor and another to dishonor?" "I may propose, but thou, God, disposest." 
               Mrs. Glynmore raised her niece gently up, and laid her head on her bosom. She could not tell her all, for her cup was already overflowing with bitterness. 
                
                
                  "O, when the heart is full- 
                  When bitter thoughts come crowding thickly up for utterance, 
                  And the poor common words of courtesy 
                  Are such a very mockery, how much 
                  The bursting heart may pour itself in prayer." 
                
               Mrs. Glynmore's proud and haughty heart now bowed itself in true penitence. She sadly surveyed her past career with astonishment and deep regret; then chided herself for all those ambitious schemes that had occupied the best days of her life, and for all that vain love of the world which had eaten like a canker into the jewels of her soul. Her self-reproach was heightened by the calm Christian fortitude with which her meek husband bore the reverses she had occasioned. He never said, "I told you so!" for his former remonstrances were the arrows of conviction which were now levelling the strong bulwarks of her self-will. The idol of her heart was crushed and broken, and the tendrils of her affection must now climb where God and Nature designed-lovingly around the husband she had so often defied. She poured her griefs into his bosom with ejaculatory prayer; then looking around upon the few friends that clustered about her to extend their sympathy, she said: 
                      
                        "The friends who in our sunshine live, 
                        When winter comes, are flown; 
                        And they who have but tears to give 
                        Must weep those tears alone." 
                     
                  
                
               "Yes," she continued, 
                  
                      
                        "I once had friends-a thousand friends, 
                        And I might have them yet; 
                        But now I have a chosen few, 
                        Whom I can ne'er forget. 
                     
                      
                        "The thousands-let them come and go, 
                        Like swallows to the lake; 
                        But, oh! to lose this chosen few, 
                        Methinks my heart would break." 
                     
                  
                
               After this outbreak of feeling, the lonely vigils of the night were passed in death-like silence. 
               Morning came with its gloom, but Eloise was more calm, and her aunt more composed; and she gave some hints to her of Lilly's past history, which only made her more eager for full details. 
               "Aunt, do give me the particulars of dear sister's death." 
               "My child, I scarcely know where to begin. Her sickness was more mental than physical. Lilly was never of that hopeful and cheerful disposition which her youth and accomplishments were calculated to inspire. I did everything I could to dispel her despondency, but it was of no avail. A settled melancholy took possession of her from the date of her engagement with Colonel Mayford. She loved him devotedly, and when he went into the army, it was impossible for them to communicate regularly with each other. Strange apprehensions seized her. She oftentimes construed his silence into coldness, if not positive neglect. Then, again, assurances of his love would revive her drooping spirits. 
               "Thus vibrating between hope and fear, her nervous system became almost a wreck. The engagement was to have been consummated in the following autumn, but it was impossible for him to obtain a furlough, and nearly two years elapsed before he returned. 
               "I never shall forget their last interview. Perhaps I did wrong to have witnessed it in the manner I did, but my deep anxiety for her happiness impelled me. We were at that time in my beautiful home in the city. Lilly had received a letter from the Colonel, announcing the time of his visit, and we were eagerly expecting his arrival. We sat in my private chamber one morning talking of the anticipated pleasure, when we heard a gentleman's footfall on the verandah, a gentle opening of the door, and then the sound of an officer's regimentals, as he laid them on the rack in the hall." 
               "'It is he! It is he!' exclaimed Lilly, and rising, hastened to meet him. I quickly pursued her, and we met in the hall. 
               "'Oh!' said the Colonel, with an affectionate grasp of our hands. 'I was trying to give you a surprise.'" 
               "Not so easily done," said I. 
               "'We were on the qui vive,' added Lilly." 
               "I lingered only a moment to welcome him back, and as I retired, his arm stole lovingly around her waist as he conducted her to a seat on the sofa. 
               "During his stay, which was for only the space of three days, Lilly seemed bowed as with the weight of a secret burden. Don't postpone this affair again, I remonstratingly said to her-Colonel Mayford is too noble a man to brook another delay." 
               "'No, no,' aunt, she replied; 'the hour has come, when I must decide between principle and selfish love. I have too long wronged his ingenuous confidence by withholding my own.'" 
               "What, is he not your beau-ideal of noble manhood? Do you not love him with all the idolatry of woman?" 
               "'Yes, aunt,' she rejoined; 'it is the pure and noble that has involved me in this awful dilemma. I can no longer cling to one whom my love may blight. Were I to marry Colonel Mayford, it would thwart the purposes of the marriage vow. It would blight my own life still more, by blasting his. No, I must rise superior to selfishness, and prove my love, not the wild passion of my race, but such devotion as makes a martyr to innocence and truth.'" 
               "Lilly! I ejaculated, you frighten me by such sentiments. You know not what you are doing." 
               "'Yes, aunt,' she returned, 'I have counted the cost of this sacrifice, and I have wept over it until nature is exhausted. It is now the 'silent sorrow that breathes no prayer, sheds no tear, but consumes my heart.' 'Yes,'" she continued, 
                      
                        "One fatal remembrance-one sorrow that throws 
                        Its bleak shade alike o'er our joys and our woes, 
                        To which Life nothing darker nor brighter can bring, 
                        For which joy hath no balm, and affliction no sting." 
                     
                  
                
               "Lilly," I resumed, "Colonel Mayford and yourself seem born for each other-you know he adores you." 
               "'Aunt,' she faltered, 'we may seem to be assimilated, but we would be like two parallel lines associated forever but never to meet. Here is that mountain barrier which the purest love of the loftiest nature finds most difficulty in surmounting.'" 
               "When Colonel Mayford called again, I heard the sound of earnest persuasion, and I softly crept to the door to listen. I saw him pleadingly take her hand whilst her face wore inexpressible sorrow. A pause ensued, as if he awaited an answer." 
               "'Lilly,' he exclaimed, 'now or never.'" 
               "She firmly held his hand as if to detain him, whilst his whole frame quivered with excitement." 
               "She dropped her head upon their clasped hands as though it had been a martyr's block, and her raven curls fell over her face like a great black veil, hiding the contortions of her agony." 
               "'Stay! oh, stay,' she cried, 'and hear my Secret Sorrow. Forgive the love that has so long clung hopelessly to its idol!'" 
               "'Oh, Lilly,' interrupted Colonel Mayford, 'how can I brook this inexplicable grief? Speak! Oh, speak; your tears unman me!'" 
               "Then she faltered forth the words that, like live lightning, threw a ghastly glare upon his cheeks as her voice reverberated through his heart. 
               "'Merciful God!' he cried; 'can this be true?'" 
               "'I release you! I release you!'" she interpolated, whilst her trembling hand fell from his paralyzed grasp." 
               "He then sank beside her and burst into a convulsive flood of tears, whilst, with streaming eyes and hands raised toward heaven she articulated: 
                      
                        "Had we ne'er met, we ne'er had parted; 
                        Ne'er loved, ne'er been broken-hearted." 
                     
                  
                
               "Then, with a crushed heart and head bowed down she sat in silent agony." 
               "'Lilly,' said Colonel Mayford, tenderly smoothing back her hair from her tear-stained cheeks, 'can I see your aunt?'" 
               "'Oh, no,' she replied; 'I can tell her all.'" 
               "At the sound of my name I hurried excitedly back to my room, and, heart-sick, threw myself across my lounge. I listened nervously for his exit. I heard sobs and tears; then a hasty retreat through the hall. I arose and ran quickly to my precious Lilly, and found she had swooned." 
                
               Here Mrs. Glynmore was interrupted by the entrance of her pastor, whom she introduced to Eloise, and begged that he would give her some account of Lilly's mental states during her sickness. 
               He said that it was with feelings of deep regret he had watched her decline. He spoke of the character of her religious views, and remarked that he found her somewhat sceptical, and fond of reading controversial literature, particularly theological discussions on such subjects as the Origin of Evil, the Universality of the Deluge, and the Unity of the Human Race. This latter subject she seemed, for some reasons, to dwell upon particularly. She said she could not believe any doctrine that was contrary to all the demonstrations of science. 
               The Unity of the Human Race she believed contrary to Monumental Iconography, Philology, and Experimental Acclimatization; and was also disproved by Anatomy, Physiology, and Cranioscopy. 
               "I told her that this was not at all irreconcilable with the simple statement of the Bible. That God did not intend to give us an encyclopdia of science, but merely a revelation of His will to man. That because the vast planetary systems that compose the globe were not mentioned in Genesis, it was no proof that they were not created when God called light out of darkness; and thus, perhaps, with the indigenous races of mankind. 
               "I tried to convince her that the antagonisms of science, falsely so called, were but the great reflectors tors throwing their parallel rays of light received from the radiating centre of infinite wisdom; and that it was the ignorance of the Materialist that distorted the harmony between nature and revelation. 
               "Seeing her reflective turn of mind, I adroitly tried to seize upon her familiar topics of thought, to direct her mind to those everlasting truths that pertained to her eternal interest. 
               "Do you believe," I asked, "a principle in chemistry which asserts that there is no such thing as annihilation?-that every atom of the globe on which we live has continued to exist in some modified form since the creation of the world?" 
               "She answered, 'That it was a rational supposition, since death were but the issues of life.'" 
               "Then," said I, "may not these bodies, fashioned with such wonderful adaptation to mind and spirit, obey the same law of resuscitation? and if the body, much more that spirit which is the breath of the infinite eternal God? I exhorted her to look away from God's inscrutable councils, which were only known in the cabinet of Trinity, to those revelations of His will written in the blood of Christ. I begged her to cease to think of the 'origin of evil,' and to survey the plenitude of God's goodness and mercy in the wonderful plan of man's redemption; a plan, which 'angels desire to look into' and cannot comprehend, 'yet a way so plain that a wayfaring man, though a fool, may not err therein.' I told her it would reveal to her 'a friend that sticketh closer than a brother,' on whom she might cast her every care, nor be betrayed in the confidence of her most secret sentiments. I counselled her to tell Him all that weighed upon her heart. He would bear her burdens; and make the darkest dispensations of His providence like golden steps, where angels would descend to minister to her. 
               "When I met her again, I found her earnestly inquiring after the truth. She held her Bible in her hand, and exclaimed: 'If this be not truth, what is truth?'-then added: 'Yes, sir, I believe we shall all live again, and that these vile bodies shall be fashioned like unto His Glorious Body.'" 
               The pastor was called out by Mr. Glynmore for some direction as to the funeral services, and Mrs. Glynmore resumed the painful narrative. 
               "Eloise, that is such a dear good man. He was such a comfort to our Lilly. When circumstances precluded his visits, and her exhaustion made it unadvisable for her to receive even his kind ministrations, she would beg to see him." 
               "Aunt, how long was Lilly in this condition?" 
               "She lingered for two years in just such paroxysms of grief. 
               "A year ago, when our pecuniary circumstances forced us to this secluded spot, we found it necessary to curtail our expenditures as much as possible. Marie, our valuable house-servant, was opposed to living in the country, and sought employment ployment elsewhere. We feared that being deprived of her kind attentions would seriously retard Lilly's recovery, but she seemed fully repaid for the sacrifice by the quietude of our country-home. We thought she was being greatly benefited by the change, until a few weeks ago, an unfortunate exposure to the night air gave her a severe chill, the effects of which lasted until her death." 
               "Aunt, do you really think sister was resigned to death?" 
               "Oh, perfectly. She spoke of the grave; often as a place of rest. Yesterday morning when I entered her room she said: 'Throw open the windows, aunt, and let me look once more upon the sunlight; ere it rises again, I shall not need the light of earth's sun, moon, or stars!' As I threw open the shutter, she exclaimed: 'Oh, sunbeam, what gift hath the world like thee!' Then she paused and said: 
                      
                        "One thing is like unto thee to mortals given, 
                        Faith touching all things with the hues of heaven." 
                     
                  
                
               "When I bent over her to kiss her, she said: 'Oh, aunt, I wandered in dreams last night to every loved form which memory knew. I thought I was twining flowers with Carrie May, at dear Old N--, and that I saw her place the chaplet on the brow of Dr. Beaumont. 'God bless them both,' she cried; 'they pointed me often to the fountain of life.' Then she spoke of you, saying, 'Give her my Diary and Manuscripts, they are portraits of myself. Tell her I once craved to die, because life was drear and blighted, but now because Jesus bids me come. Oh, tell her, I may not meet her here, but to meet me in that beautiful world above!' Then lifting her hands, she murmured, 'I long for the wings of the dove, to fly away and be at rest.' Yesterday at four o'clock she took an affectionate leave of our pastor, then asked to see uncle and aunt alone. We gave her a little stimulus, and after a few moments of quiet, she beckoned us to her. She reached out her arms to embrace us both, and whispered, 'Dear good uncle and precious aunt, you are both so dear to me, that it is hard to say farewell, but may we meet again- 
                      
                        "'Meet, ne'er to sever, 
                        Where peace shall wreathe her chain 
                        Around us forever.' 
                     
                  
                
               "'You will find,' she continued, 'the directions for my funeral in my portfolio; please follow implicitly. I wish to conceal nothing from God or my fellow-man. If I could do nothing by living, may my death be a useful admonition. 
               "'Tell my dear father that I thought of him in my last dying moments; and that he has the sincerest prayer of a broken heart that God would forgive and bless him.' Here she seemed overcome, and her mind wandered; but rallying again, she gasped: 'Bring me that blessed Bible, given to me by my precious friend. Tell Colonel Mayford I return it to him, and that its precepts have led me to Christ. Oh, tell him to make it "the man of his counsel," and never to forget the "Secret Sorrow." Tell him that 
                      
                        "Jesus can make a dying bed 
                        Feel soft as downy pillows are."' 
                     
                  
                
               "After she had delivered these messages, her mind began again to wander, and she gave utterance to incoherent expressions, such as, 'I released him! I released him!' 
               "Eloise, Colonel Mayford was blameless. He loved her like his own life; and Lilly could not bear to divulge that fact which she knew, with one of his noble and sensitive nature, would raise an insuperable barrier between them. Colonel Mayford would not be satisfied with her reluctance, except upon the most cogent reasons; and when she found she had to choose between her own love and his happiness, she determined to unbosom all, and release him forever. 
               "Oh, it was the most heartrending day that ever dawned upon them both. This sorrow crushed her heart, and made him a wanderer in foreign lands. 
               "Poor child," said Mrs. Glynmore, amid sobs and tears; "her last words were, 'Has he come?' 
               "Colonel Mayford's family were unrelenting in their opposition to the match; and he said that the path of filial duty and self-respect left him no alternative but to forswear his celibacy. He was the only man she had ever loved; and her whole being seemed absorbed in trying to make herself worthy of his affection. 
               "After his return to the army, he notified us of the death of William. Poor boy! he was a brave soldier, and had as generous a heart as ever beat in human body. He joined the Confederate Army, as you know, and at the severe charge of Gettysburg, he fell whilst trying to assist in carrying back some artillery that was captured. All of the men were wounded, or fell into the enemy's hands. He was carried to a temporary hospital in the field, and might have been relieved; but secondary bleeding ensued, and he would have nothing done to arrest it. Let it alone!' he cried, while the dark stream was flowing. 'Let the last drop ooze out of my body. It has cursed me in life; let it perish in death.' 
               "You heard of his marriage, Eloise?" 
               "None of the particulars, aunt, for I scarcely reached my home before father compelled me to make this trip." 
               "Poor boy!" continued Mrs. Glynmore; "he ran away with a New England girl. I loved her dearly, and perhaps promoted the match; but this I did because I knew that if any one on earth ought to rejoice in such a union it was her Radical father, for she followed, in her selection, his life-long teaching. Our families were intimate friends; but I got no thanks for making this affluent match. I dislike such strange inconsistency. A man ought always to practise what he believes and advocates. Her father's opposition caused them to live very unhappily together; but it was no fault of mine. He had nobody to blame but himself. Poor child! she perished far from her home in a miserable hut in Carolina. They had one child; but I don't know whether it is living or not. I hope fervently he has left none behind him to chafe over irremediable ills." 
               Then subdued sobs checked the utterance of these unhappy reflections, and in silent grief they reclined on a couch in the adjacent room, awaiting the hour of the funeral. A low murmur of conversation and cautions, and audible steps bespoke the sad office of the undertaker. 
               Carefully they deposited the withered Lilly in the coffin. Ten o'clock sounded its solemn knell, and the sorrowing ones stood around the bier to take the farewell kiss, and gaze for the last time on the pet of the household. Death's realm was closed to mortal eye by the creaking screws that made fast the coffin-lid. On a silver plate was neatly chased the name of "ANTOINETTE CACHET," by the request of the dead. 
               Ah! those mystic words that had fallen only from the lips of him who would have betrayed her honor, were the demon-like phantoms that had ever haunted her since the first hours of her acquaintance with Glenfield. But death is a revealer of secrets! Stern and inflexible, he challenges all the ghosts of departed life, and makes even the vilest miscreants sincere. Those who had in friendship so fondly uttered the euphonious name of "Lilly Byrne," stared when they read the inscription; but sympathy and charity heaped the white blossoms on the bier, and followed her to the quiet grave; where she had long craved to lie. 
               Sleep sweetly, lone slumberer! Not thine the guilt that thy head pillows so lowly. Inheritor of pain and woe, and not the arbiter of thine own sorrows, thy innocence is avenged! He who would have despoiled thee of thy virtue, died a traitor to his own Sunny South; the name of Glenfield has perished. The chivalric heart that once adored thee, released by thine own will, will drop a tear of sympathy to thy memory. Thy sad fate shall be like the Mariners' Monument in Greenwood Cemetery, ever pointing to the dark gulf where innocence perished. 
               The mourners stood around the grave; until the last stone was laid that sealed the dead from the sight of the living. Eloise fell upon a grassy mound and fainted away. A few friends bathed her face until consciousness began to return. Then they lifted her in the carriage and bore her home in motionless grief. She lay for days inconsolable; begging, ever and anon, to be carried to the spot where her hopes were buried. Her aunt persistently refused; for she knew that her strength was already exhausted. Slowly she recovered from the first effects of the stunning blow, and seemed to move listlessly about through the flower-garden. She was watching some beautiful buds that would soon unfold. Early one morning she wandered forth to pluck those cherished flowers, and returning, sat in the window to twine a beautiful wreath. "What are these for, Eloise?" asked her aunt, as she held one end of the garland in her hand and surveyed the loving task. 
               "These are to deck my sister's grave;," she replied. 
               "Oh, Eloise, I cannot trust your grief in that lonely spot. You must not go." 
               "Yes, aunt; this may be the last offering that I may ever lay on that lowly pillow." 
               Thus saying, the scalding drops fell like burning crystals down her cheeks. Her task completed, she moved about in preparation for the ride, searching mechanically for-she knew not what. At last, Mrs. Glynmore, seeing her persistence, concluded to gratify her desire. She stepped into a carriage with a burden of flowers, and sadly rolled toward the city of the dead. She found the gate open. 
               Alas! the gate of death ever stands ajar, and as frequent as the fleeting seconds, the sons of men enter that bourne. 
                
               Perhaps some other hearts were dropping tears on the new-turned sod. Slowly they wended their way beneath a grassy knoll. A single pine-tree stood at the head of the grave;. The hand of love had not yet smoothed the rugged covering, or planted a tree or flower. 
               Eloise knelt to lay her offering on the grave;, and to kiss the spot that she hallowed with almost divine affection. Her lips seemed cemented to the cold earth; and throwing her arms upon the grave;, she exclaimed in bitterness: 
               "Oh, my sister! How can I give you up?-how can I leave you here, who wert so dear to me? Alone, alone!" she cried; "no sister's love to greet me, and perhaps a decrepit father buried ere I reach my home." 
               Mrs. Glynmore feared the effects of this excitement. She lifted her up, and carried her a little way from the spot, and seated her upon a grassy mound beneath a weeping-willow. The cool, pleasant breeze of morning was still stirring in its pendent branches, and the soft cadence seemed like some olian harp strung to grief. 
               "Come, dear Eloise," said Mrs. Glynmore, "try to bear with fortitude this sorrow, lest melancholy settle on your heart as upon your sister's. Arouse yourself. Death must come to all. You have great reason to believe that she is now enjoying that happiness to which she was a stranger here. In God's providence we may meet her. Let us try to emulate her kind-heartedness and her virtues. It will be a more loving tribute than our tears. Come, now," she continued, "let us return." She started back to the grave;, but her aunt held her hand, and beckoned to the driver to approach. She was assisted in the carriage; and as the massive gate turned upon its doleful hinges, she breathed "a long-drawn sigh, and wept a last adieu." It was like returning to a sepulchre, when she reached home. However lonely the grave; may appear, the house is still lonelier from whence the loved ones have been borne. A few days of rest, and Mrs. Glynmore had observed that Eloise was becoming impatient to depart. 
               "Why such haste, my dear?" she said, as she saw her gathering up all of her gay clothing, that was stored in a wardrobe of her own. "You have no idea of travelling so soon; your health is too feeble." 
               "Aunt, I fear that father is ill. He has been a long time decrepit; and I know when these sad tidings shall reach him, he will sink in despair. I must go home and try to comfort him, if possible. Then I have an engagement, aunt, and it would be wronging your generous heart, and an evidence of ingratitude, not to tell you of the ray of hope that is supporting my almost fainting soul." 
               Here she buried her face in the folds of her kerchief, as if to hide the grief which was struggling with her diffidence. The hope that she was fondly cherishing was nurtured by the remembrance of the precious hours in which she had formed the beau-ideal of her heart's adoration; and her sanguine temperament had appropriated in advance all the tender endearments of love. 
               Dr. B. had never reciprocated in writing the fervor of her affection; but her heart still clung to him, as the embodiment of all her earthly happiness. 
               "The heart that thus truly loves, never forgets," but will break sooner than yield its idol. No daily fanning of the flame is required, or fresh fuel to brighten its glow. It is unselfish and self-abandoned-can give no higher test of its strength than the sacrifice of life itself. 
               Eloise tried to express the deep emotions of her heart, but tears checked her utterance. 
               "Speak on, my child," said Mrs. Glynmore. "Keep nothing from me; I know you and sympathize deeply with you. If there be a hope in your heart that is dear, be assured none will more fervently pray for its full fruition than myself." 
               "I cannot tell you all, aunt; but I hope to meet ere long one in whom I know I may safely repose my life, happiness, and fortune." 
               "God grant it, my child," returned Mrs. Glynmore. "I hope he is all you imagine, and that the poignancy of your present grief may be blunted ed by some new joy springing up in your path. And is this why you are so restless, my dear, and so anxious to leave my lonely home?" 
               "Yes, aunt; I wish that I could stay to contribute to your pleasure; but there is an appointed time, and I must not fail to fulfil my engagement." 
               "Go, then, my child, whenever you deem it necessary; I am not selfish enough to detain you under such circumstances. I only fear you are not strong enough to endure such a long and tedious ride. Your nervous system has been severely tried, and you are more feeble than you imagine. I think if you could remain two weeks at least in this country air, you might recuperate. A little porter, three times a day, would be of great service to you. You would, of course, prefer to look fresh and beautiful, instead of careworn, when you reach your father." 
               "My father!" she reiterated. "Oh, I fear these cruel tidings have already bowed him down like an aged bulrush, and that he is no longer able to sustain the blast of adversity that is sweeping over him." 
               After much persuasion, she was induced to spend a few days longer, in which she seemed to gain more of her usual spirits. She was somewhat diverted from her sombre broodings by anticipations in which every fibre of her heart was interwoven. 
               After a sad and painful adieu, and a wearisome journey, she arrived at home and found her father extremely ill with brain-fever. As she entered the room, a servant was applying cold cloths to his head wrung from a basin of ice-water. She threw off her hat, and seated herself at his head and fanned his burning cheeks. He knew her not, and it was for days that he lay in this listless state. After a long and painful night, he lay one morning quietly sleeping. The little clock ticked over the mantel-piece, fast counting the time to arouse him for the doctor's prescription. Eloise sat at his head, gently passing the breezy fan over his eyelids that had been such strangers to sleep. He slept so soundly she did not awake him, believing that many a patient is hurried out of life by pouring poisonous drugs into his feeble system, when rest would recuperate the powers of nature much faster and more certainly. Ah! it was rest he needed! His heart was as sick as his brain. As she sat counting the seconds, presently a longdrawn sigh escaped him; then he opened his eyes and gazed wildly around; then rolled his sunken orbs upward, and whispered, "Eloise, my Eloise!" She bent her head, and softly imprinted a kiss on his silver hair. 
               For two weeks he demanded her entire personal attention; and it was only by slow degrees that he awoke to the fact of her return, and became conscious of the great shock he had sustained. 
               She did not dare to mention aught that had occurred curred. One day, as he sat in his invalid's chair, apparently meditating on the past, he inquired: 
               "Were you kindly treated, my child, by Doctor B., under whose protection I placed you?" 
               "Yes, father; we owe him a debt of gratitude a lifetime can only repay. Father-" she faltered, then suddenly stopped. 
               "Speak on, my child, let me know it all." 
               "Father," she exclaimed, "I love him, and it will not be long ere he comes to claim me as his bride." 
               The old man stared, and reached out his arms for her to approach him. "Eloise," he said, folding her to his bosom, "leave me not. Your poor old father holds you to his heart, and death alone must part us. None can ever love you like your father." 
               "I'll not leave you, father; and the love of another may restore to you some of these associations that have been sundered. He will love you as a son. Father, he is so noble!" she said, raising her dark eyes to his, and passing a tender hand through his silver locks; "he is one of God's chosen ministers; you could but love him. The homestead we will take, and you shall be our constant care. Your life, that has been all too lonely, may yet be calm and peaceful." 
               The old man lifted his feeble arm, and laid his hand piteously on her head, whilst he muttered a low prayer. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               THE first of July found Dr. B. hastening, with all the impulses of his ardent nature, and all the expectancy of a devoted lover, to meet the object of his attachment. Long, weary months had passed away since she beamed on his pathway; and imagination and memory kept the image of her loveliness, like a well-spring bubbling up, refreshing the dearth of his lonely life. It was like the polar star, around which every emotion of his heart, every plan of his future life, made their concentric circles. It was a shrine where daily and nightly vigils burned their vestal flames. Absence had sublimated his passion, and etherealized his emotions. Every breeze that fanned his cheek, every star in the quiet sky, every pearly drop of dew, every graceful, nodding flower, every warbling bird, whispered the name of "Eloise," and seemed to be a synonym of her loveliness. 
               With these tender emotions he prosecuted his journey to Richmond. Conscious of the importance tance of his mission, and exuberant with hope and happiness, he lost his reticent, grave; demeanor, and by his volubility formed many acquaintances on the route. Although he had never told his business, he secretly wondered if all the world did not know that he was going to be married. He arrived at his destination on the evening of the third of July. One day more, and a few words would speak him the happiest of men! 
               He stepped from the car, wearied and dusty, and entering the hotel, ordered one of the nicest rooms in the house. 
               The clerk handed the key to the waiter, who, seizing his baggage, mounted the stairs to a pleasant apartment, and opened the door with apparent pride. He unstrapped his trunks, filled the pitchers with ice-water, then bowed and scraped his exit, leaving the Doctor to survey the appointments of taste that surrounded him. 
               His ablutions being over, he dressed himself in a handsome cloth suit. He drew from his hatbox a stylish beaver with a surface as polished as a mirror. His immaculate handkerchief absorbed just enough of Lubin's extracts to make the atmosphere redolent of orange-blossoms and bridal bouquet. Hardly had he completed his exquisite toilet, when a servant entered with a gentleman's card. 
               "Ah, it is my friend! Bring him right to my room, waiter." 
                
               "Why, bless my life, Doctor, I did not expect to see you in Richmond;" and he shook his hand for the space of a minute, as he ejaculated his pleasure at greeting him. 
               The Doctor handed him a chair, cordially reciprocating his kind expressions. 
               "Thank you, Doctor; I am glad to see you looking so well. How have you been through all these dark, dark days?" 
               "Well, my friend, I have not lived, but merely existed." 
               "Yes, yes," said his friend, sympathetically; "these are times that try men's souls. When you saw me last, I was reposing in 'otium cum dignitate;' but now it is different. I have been literally ruined by the war. Everything I had was funded in Confederate bonds, or invested in stocks, and when the surrender came, it left me without a dollar of current money. But I am at work again, trying to rise by dint of labor and integrity. It is hard for an old man to be compelled to devote the evening of his days to toil which youth can alone endure; but, sir, I had rather die poor and penniless, than to reflect that I did not do all in my power to sustain my unhappy country in her late struggle. The time is coming when the principles for which we fought will no longer be identified with the 'Lost Cause,' but will be emblazoned on the proudest monuments of our country's glory. They were the principles, sir, that were laid with the corner-stone of this Republic; and its loftiest towers of strength will crumble in the dust if they are not built on this arch. It is one that could have supported a republican world, much less our galaxy of States; but without it the structure must succumb from its own weight. This Government was laid in the consent of the governed, and its perpetuity rests upon the respect of its citizens. Law that violates their rights finds no principle in human nature to defend or support it. Failing to recognize this fact in political economy, thrones have crumbled, and despotisms have passed away. 
               "We must go back to the old landmarks; and if the time ever comes when the mists of prejudice shall be dissipated, and when the North and the South shall see face to face, we will be no longer the 'rebel South,' but the best supporters of a Constitutional Union. Poor Virginia suffered terribly; but I believe she conducts herself with the same becoming dignity with which she moved in the mighty struggle." 
               "Yes," replied the Doctor, "she has indeed been baptized with blood; but her adversity may be the stepping-stone of her future greatness; and the clouds which still hang so portentous may electrify her, and spread bloom and beauty on her sacred sod. I often think," he continued, "of those beautiful lines: 
                  
                      
                        'Who dies in vain 
                        Upon his country's war-fields, and within 
                        The shadow of her altars? Feeble heart! 
                        I tell thee that the voice of noble blood, 
                        Thus poured for faith and freedom, hath a tone, 
                        Which, from the night of ages, from the gulf 
                        Of death, shall burst, and make its high appeal 
                        Sound unto earth and heaven! Ah, let the land, 
                        Whose sons through centuries of woe have striven 
                        And perished by her temples, sink awhile, 
                        Borne down in conflict! But immortal seed 
                        Deep by heroic suffering hath been sown 
                        On all the ancient hills, and generous hope 
                        Knows that the soil, in its good time, shall yet 
                        Bring forth a glorious harvest! Earth receives 
                        Not one red drop from faithful hearts in vain.' 
                     
                  
                
               "We may well cherish the chivalry of the past, and in order to do this we must labor in our respective fields to enhance the prosperity of the land that gave us birth." 
               "Yes, sir," said his friend. "I have an honest pride in a Virginia truck-patch. I feel I am making an honest living, and at the same time helping to develop the resources of my State; and if my precious boys were living to-day, I'd rather see the pearly drops of honest toil upon their brows, than to see them possessors of all the wealth from the confiscated lands and diamonds of the South." 
               "You are right," rejoined the Doctor; "too many persons are paralyzed by adversity. This is no time to repine. We ought to remember that they who climb the highest mountains breath the purest air. As for myself, I have seen so much suffering, that it is a subject of gratulation that I am not demented. I am still laboring where God has called me, in His vineyard." 
               "Your visit to Richmond," interrupted his friend, "is connected with your ministerial work, I suppose?" 
               At this sudden change of the subject, Dr. B. blushed and smiled evasively. 
               Here his friend drew a cigar from his case and proposed a smoke, perhaps to evoke in its fragrant fumes that exhilaration which so generally disposes to communicative confidence, adding: "Doctor, I hope I did not appear too inquisitive. If you had not blushed, I should not have inferred what I now do." 
               Then eying him critically, he jocularly remarked: "Doctor, you look very young; but I really believe yon are nearly as old as I am." Here he stroked his temples, and exposed the silver covering of his almost denuded cranium. "But I am not quite as fixy," he said, just beginning to notice how very nicely the Doctor was dressed. "Why, you could not be finer if you were on a courting expedition." 
               "No," replied Dr. B., "for I have on my best." 
               "Come," said his friend, "you are too old to be bashful; tell me what brought you to Richmond." 
                
               "Well, you are a Yankee at guessing, and I 'reckon' I had as well own up." 
               "Going to be married, eh?" said his friend, with a sparkle of his merry eye. "And all the way to Virginia for her?" 
               "Well, you know, I am a Virginian myself," responded the Doctor. 
               "That's clever; and now tell me, is she a widow? and what is her age?" 
               "No, my friend; she is a beautiful young lady of only twenty-one years." 
               "Is it possible you have gone back to your childish days, and that you are actually nursing the phantasies of love's young dream?" 
               "No, I think I have waited long enough to exercise good judgment; although there is something very romantic in this affair." 
               "How? Well, I would like to hear it." 
               Dr. B. cleared his throat, preparatory to the recital, and his friend drew up his chair and leaned over in an attitude of eager attention. 
               He was very insinuating and affable; and when the Doctor would seem to check himself in revealing his secret, he would exclaim-"Is it possible?"-"Is that so?" until the Doctor became thoroughly enthused with the subject, and dilated on the ecstasies of the past, and expressed the pleasing suspense connected with such an affair. 
               "To be married on the Fourth of July, you say? A pretty way to celebrate Independence Day! Come, now, tell me who she is; for it is so soon to come off, that it is no secret." 
               The Doctor hesitated; but the ringing laugh of his friend extorted the name of "ELOISE CACHET." 
               Dr. B. watched the face of his friend as he made this revelation, and saw his countenance change to a grave; and mysterious phase. 
               "You know her," added the Doctor. 
               "Not personally, but from character. Her father is very wealthy, and has educated his children in Europe. I think he is of French origin, as his name indicates. The lady of whom you speak recently returned from some foreign country, and they say she is highly accomplished. One of his daughters was educated at a Southern college, and is said to have been a very beautiful girl. She was known there under the assumed name of Lilly Byrne." 
               "Lilly Byrne! Is it possible the girl I educated was the sister of Eloise?" 
               "Yes, sir; she was her sister." 
               "They were half-sisters, were they not?" returned Dr. B. 
               "No, sir; own sisters." 
               "This, indeed, is mysterious." 
               "Not at all, sir. Eloise assumed that name after she went to the West." 
               "Why did she go in this disguise?" 
               "Doctor, I am sorry I mentioned this fact-do not interrogate me further." 
                
               "Go on, my dear sir; I must hear it all. This information is too intimately connected with my happiness, to spare you the recital. If you value my friendship, keep nothing secret from me." 
               "Well, Doctor, to be brief, the family here have never moved in the first circles. On some occasions they attended balls, where their money admitted them; but I have never seen one of them in lite associations. Lewis, I understand, called himself William Byrne, and gave the same family name to his sister. He returned from Europe, where he had been for several years, and tried to force himself into society; but frequent rebuffs disgusted him, and he left for the West. 
               He married the daughter of a Radical, and after splurging for a time, lost all he had in dissipation and cards. He joined the Confederate Army, and during his absence his wife died in a miserable hovel in North Carolina, leaving him a scion like the father, too much of a negro for good society. It was adopted by an old negress. 
               "Merciful God! Did I educate one, bury another, and am I about to wed the other! Can it be possible that the poor creature I found on a pallet of straw, with her auburn locks dishevelled, in squalid poverty, was the wife of William Byrne? and that the girl that I educated was a descendant of the colored race? and that I am about to destroy myself in a disgraceful union?" 
               "Doctor, I am sorry that I have said so much. I have dashed the cup from your lips that was brimming with joy." 
               "Oh, tell me not of joy!" he replied, and pressed his temples as if they were bursting, and paced the floor like a madman. "Ah, I see it all!" The first sound of her voice to me seemed like a familiar tone. It was her sister's voice, and it sank in my heart like a tender note from Auld Lang Syne." 
               "Doctor, there were none of them trained at home; and although their mother was a mulatto, they seemed to inherit but little of their father's complexion and qualities. They had all the advantages of foreign accomplishment, and the father spared no money to make them the equals of his own race." 
               "That makes no difference to me. I would as soon wed the veriest African on the burning sands of Lybia, as mingle my blood at all with such a race. Nothing could atone, in my estimation, for such a crime. It is treason against the God of Nature and the Bible; and I pray God every statute-book in this land will enforce its direst penalty upon such a confusion of races. They are free. Let them work out their destiny by every appliance that can benefit their moral natures, and rise as high in the scale of being as God has designed them; but in mercy, let not the Anglo-Saxon race forget the pure blood of their ancestry, their distinctive physiology, and sell the birthright of God's image-the symbol of whiteness and purity-for the most grovelling elements of human nature! No, not all the gems of Golconda, nor the pearls of Omar, can buy my birthright! I am poor and crushed by the war; but, thank God! my escutcheon is pure; and if I live a life of celibacy, it shall be an honorable life." 
               "You are right, Doctor, and I am glad you have such nerve in your disappointment. I think you take a right view of this subject. There are times in every one's experience when principle and not inclination should guide them. It is the only true and strong helm to our boat. The sacrifice you have made of your feelings may be one of the noblest offerings you have ever laid on the altar of humanity. You vindicate in it God's righteous and unalterable laws of diversity in the human race, and your deprecation of that fanatical zeal which would reverse the order of God for political purposes. Fanaticism may boast of its philanthropy; but when it reduces its philosophy to practice, it often descends into a slough so corrupting as to recoil with instinctive disgust." 
               "Yes, yes, I remember," replied Dr. B., "a letter I read from the father of Byrne's poor wife-'Cast off the name of the man you have married.' It was an enigma to me then; but it is plainly interpreted now, and it proves to me that the advocates of negro equality are the most uncompromising compromising enemies of the doctrine they promulgate." 
               "Come, take a cigar, Doctor," said his friend; "just blow it all away in a single puff. It is not worth thinking about any longer. You are not compromised in anything. You fell in love with a pretty woman, and you were naturally backward and undemonstrative, whilst she was very engaging in manner and aggressive. You have done nothing but assert your manliness and nobility of soul. Don't grieve over it at all; nobody will be the wiser, and the circumstances will never be known, unless you tell them yourself." 
               The Doctor hung his head in silence, and soliloquized: "Poor girl, she will be here to-morrow, and I can but sympathize with her disappointment. I cannot meet her and tell her what I have learned. Shall I write it? Oh, that would be heartrending to a girl of her ambition." 
               "Just write her a few lines, Doctor, and tell her you do not feel like accepting a proposal of marriage just at this time." 
               This suggestion was made with such a comical expression of countenance that the Doctor could scarcely refrain from a smile, although his heart was rent with disappointment and chagrin. 
               "I believe, Doctor," he added, "on a sober second thought, that I would leave without any explanation. She will think you came to your appointment, but not finding her, you left." 
                
               "But, oh, the suspense, my friend, she would still feel at such a procedure. I must write to end the suspense we have both felt for long months." 
               "Well, do as you think best; but let's go now and take a walk. The cool air will help your feelings, and assist to divert your mind. After supper you can write at your leisure." 
               He placed his arm in that of his friend, and took a long stroll in the city. The Doctor lost his spirit of communicativeness and fell into moody silence, except when aroused by the remarks of his friend, who was making great efforts to divert his thoughts into a pleasing channel. They walked to the Capitol Square, and seated themselves under a pleasant shade. Although the Doctor felt deeply troubled and disappointed, yet it was no little matter to convince himself that the end had come to this protracted dream of bliss. 
               "I feel," said he to his friend, "just as I felt when we surrendered. I was opposed to the war; but when I did enter it, I wanted to succeed. I have been a long time without any aim in life, so far as my efforts were concerned in the management of my personal affairs; and it was a long time before I could make up my mind to embark in my present enterprise; and now to have to encounter such a disappointment, and bear, too, the effects of another's anguish, is almost unendurable. Well," said he, with a deep sigh, "I know not how she will bear it; but I am well satisfied that I have been a passive party in the whole affair." 
               "Oh, yes, Doctor. I should just dismiss the subject. 'There are as good fish in the sea as have been caught out.' God has his purposes in all our trials, and may restore to you a hundredfold more than this sacrifice has cost you." 
               They sat beneath the trees until the gas was being lighted, and then returned to the hotel. The hour of tea had arrived, but Dr. B. had no inclination to accept the invitation of his friend to take a genial cup; and his friend, being a man of family, declined the Doctor's invitation to sup with him, stating that he always liked for his wife to know when he would be absent, as she watched so anxiously for his return. 
               "Doctor, you will leave, I suppose, before I can see you in the morning. I will, therefore, bid you good-by. And now," he continued, with all the fervor of confidential friendship, "let me beseech you not to trouble any more about this matter; hope for better luck next time." 
               "My friend," returned the Doctor, with a little confusion and apparent mortification, "I shall not forget your kindness; and be assured that every day I live I shall remember you as my benefactor." 
               "Then I'm glad that I met you so soon, and feel proud of your moral courage, as one of the noble sons of our old Commonwealth. Good-by! God bless and go with you. When you feel happy write to me. I will be so glad to hear from you." 
               Here Dr. B. unloosed the clasp of his friend and walked into tea, and afterward repaired to his room to write the most painful letter of his life, to one who had seemed to only live for him. He sat meditating some time as to what should be the caption of his letter and what its contents; but, seeming all at once to catch the true inspiration of the subject, he wrote with a steady nerve and decided will a short and unequivocal letter, to be left at the office for delivery. It read as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "DEAR ELOISE:-In compliance with your kind missives, as well as my own grateful emotions, I am here, as I had hoped, to claim you as my bride. But I must still the throbbing of my fervent love, and break the spell of this protracted dream. 
                           "Gentle Eloise, pity rather than upbraid me. Heaven only is witness to the deep agony of my soul. It is a struggle between love and duty, based upon my heart's best blood. Yes, the noble, gentle blood of my mother; the birthright of my father; Nature's divine gift; I dare not touch this God-created legacy. 
                           "I do not censure you for withholding those facts that might have averted this blow. Oh, no; you were too pure to reveal them. Nor would I add one drop of bitterness to the golden chalice of your buoyant hopes. 
                            
                           "I go, and leave that shrine, where for many weeks and months I had hoped to worship. 
                           "'Tis hard to part; but, 
                                  
                                    "'Farewell! a word that must be, and hath been- 
                                    A sound which makes us linger;-yet-farewell.' 
                                 
                              
                            
                           
                              "With sorrow, 
                              "L. BEAUMONT."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               He sealed the letter, and painfully contemplated the sad coincidences in the unhappy affair. 
               A few months ago the hand of woman had traced loving lines and left them at a hotel office for delivery; and with what rapture and joy he devoured their contents! Now, he had traced lines to the same being that might break her heart; but there was no alternative. 
               He passed a troubled night; not so much on account of himself, but of his once interesting Eloise. He left early next morning, the fourth of July, on a southern train, and celebrated the day by his devotion to right and truth. 
               In contempt for the circumstances of wealth, he vindicated the true chivalry of the South, and those principles which will preserve the purity of the Anglo-Saxon race, and transmit to future generations the richest legacy worthy of their acceptance. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               IT was a hot and sultry day. The long-looked-for Fourth of July came to Eloise at last, and the early caparisoned steeds showed that a tedious drive was before the lonely occupant of the carriage, that pressed its solitary way over the broad, woody road to Richmond. 
               The carriage arrived at the hotel at one o'clock, and Eloise ascended to the parlor with hopeful but agitated heart. She did not wait to seat herself, but hailing a waiter, sought an interview with the clerk. He met her standing in the parlor-door awaiting his appearance, and approaching her with a polite bow, inquired her pleasure. 
               "Will you be kind enough, sir, to see if Dr. Beaumont is a guest in your house?" 
               "Yes, miss," and he hurried with dispatch to the office. 
               She sank upon a sofa near to await his return. 
               Presently his approaching footsteps were heard, and she excitedly arose to receive the intelligence. 
               "His name, miss, was registered on last evening ing, but the proprietor informs me that he left this morning." 
               "Are you sure you are not mistaken?" 
               "No, miss, it is the name of the person you are inquiring about. 
               She clasped her hands convulsively, and said: "Please ask the proprietor to let me see him a moment." 
               He soon came, and she interrogated him closely; inquiring as to the appearance of the man, whom her memory confirmed too unmistakably as being the veritable Dr. B. 
               "What is your name, miss?" asked the proprietor. 
               "Miss E. Cachet," she replied. 
               "Ah, I have a letter to that address, which was left by Dr. Beaumont." 
               She started with sudden surprise, as he drew the letter from a side-pocket and handed it to her. She tried to conceal her excitement, and received it with many thanks, but turned away with trembling hand to break the seal. She looked at its caption, and then at the signature, and clutched it with a nervous grasp to steady the quivering missive, whilst she gazed wildly around as if fearful of observation. The publicity of her position forbade her giving full vent to those feelings that were scalding, with almost effacing tears, the words that were traced on its pages. Hastily drawing her veil over her face, and hurrying through the crowd at the private entrance, she stepped into the carriage, saying to the driver, "Take me home;" and as he closed the door, she added, "to die!" 
               Her face was not raised during the long and tedious hours that she was returning home; and so great was her agony that she had scarcely strength to get out of her carriage when she arrived at her own gate. 
               When she entered the hall, two burning crimson spots were on her cheeks where she had pressed her face to the cushions, and chafed it by her briny tears. 
               Her father lay in a quiet doze, resting in the cool breeze, where he was accustomed to lie on a sultry afternoon. 
               She tried to enter unobserved, but his nap was almost finished, and the light sound of her foot-steps awoke him. He reached out his arms to embrace her, but she fell across his chair and fainted. 
               "My child! My child! Oh, my daughter! My darling! What ails you?" 
               His groans of agony rent the air, whilst she lay in a swoon at his feet. A servant came, and quickly conveyed her to her own chamber, scarcely knowing which to assist first, the child or the parent. The physician was summoned, every effort was used to restore her to warmth and feeling, but life seemed flickering in its socket. She lay almost unconscious of her surroundings. 
                
               The old man had been so shocked at the scene, and so overcome by his agony, that he had not even thought to look at the fatal missive that fell from her grasp as she sank to the floor; but now he held it in his feeble hands, and perusing its contents, cried: 
               "Oh, my children! my children! I have planted these thorns in your path! It is I who have cursed your lives, and brought your innocent hearts to grief! My own precious Antoinette was stricken by this cruel blow, and withered beneath the conscious guilt of her ignoble father! My boy, that I might have been proud to number with the noblest of my race, drowned his purest impulses in the intoxicating cup, and scorning the blood of his mother, prayed that the earth might drink it up rather than it should longer fester in his veins. O my darling Eloise! I cannot restore to you what I would crave. God forgive me! oh, forgive me!" and he shook with cries of despair, until his exhausted frame was seized with a terrible spasm. 
               What a spectacle! There he lay, with remorse depicted in each lineament of his skeleton face, and his gray hairs, that should have sunk in honor to the grave;, attesting a life of error and shame. 
               What would he not have given for an honorable name-a legacy more precious than all the wealth of the Indies! Ah, verily, it is "more to be chosen than silver or gold." 
                
               Triumph not, ye champions of Miscegenation! these are your trophies-these the fruits of your polemics on Social Equality with the sons and daughters of Ham! 
               A dim taper was burning in the chamber of Eloise. An old negress, who had been in the employ of the family for years, sat at the foot of the bed to watch and administer the medicine. She nodded for awhile, till overcome by drowsiness, which is ever peculiar to her race; then stretching her arms across the bed, fell fast asleep. A shrill snore awoke Eloise from a troubled dream, and she lay with distracting thoughts of dark and deep intent. The night passed in anguish of spirit and convulsive sobs. The gray dawn peeped through the window blinds, when the old negress began to stir, for it was her accustomed hour to arouse. 
               "Missus," said she, opening her eyes with a bleared expression, while she yawned with almost interminable breath, "you'se had a good nap, ain't you, honey? Aunt Phillis been watchin' you de whole night. Bress de Lo'd. I hopes you'se better dis mornin'." 
               Old Phillis had forgotten all about the morphine that had been left by her physician, and suddenly recurred to the necessity of administering a dose, as that important personage was expected back at three o'clock in the afternoon. Reflecting upon her delinquency, she conceived the idea of administering two doses at once. The draught was meekly accepted. At first the patient would nervously scream out, and then relapse into passiveness and deep slumber. 
               The old negress passed through the chamber of the father, and he started up and asked the condition of his daughter. 
               "Doin' well, old massa. I was wide awake de whole night, and she slep' berry soun'. I've jist gin her de medicine what de doctor lef', an' she's fas' asleep." 
               "Thank God!" said the old man. "Take good care of her, Phillis." 
               "Bress you, massa, Phillis don't need no 'mindin' of dat. Miss Eloise am safe in dese hands. How you feel yerself, dis mornin', massa?" 
               "Oh, Phillis! I'm not long for this world. I had a terrible dream, and am well-nigh exhausted." 
               "Didn't Uncle Tom nurse you good las' night?" 
               "Oh, Phillis, don't talk about Tom's nursing. He sank down to sleep, and if the house had been burning over his head, I don't think it would have aroused him." 
               "Some niggars, massa, am mouty sleepy-headed. De spirit is willin', but de flesh am weak. Den agin, dey ain't like white folks, no how." 
               "That is so, Aunt Phillis. I feel the force of your remark!" 
               "To-night, massa, I'll hope watch you mysef sef. When I'se got 'sponsibility on me, I neber sleeps." 
               When breakfast was ready, Eloise refused her tea and toast, and all day seemed in a stupor. Her father had his chair rolled to her bedside to inquire after her condition; but she turned her face to the wall, and seemed not to recognize his voice. 
               The physician came, examined her condition, and tried every possible means to get a clue to her situation. She was evidently too much affected by the medicine he had left, but her tongue did not indicate diseased action of the liver; and yet her pulse, at times, was so tremendously excited, that it seemed to call for such sedatives alone. He sat watching her brow as she contracted it at intervals, and inquired if a pain was piercing her head. She simply answered by moving her head from side to side, as she lay on the masses of her black and wavy hair. 
                
                  "Canst thou not minister to a mind diseas'd, 
                  Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow, 
                  Raze out the written troubles of the brain, 
                  And with some sweet, oblivious antidote 
                  Cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuff, 
                  Which weighs upon the heart?" 
                
               The old man heaved a deep sigh as he saw the doctor turn away from her pale, swollen face. 
               "What would you advise, doctor?" he faltered, in a voice almost drowned in sorrow." 
                
               "Well, sir, it is hard for me to prescribe in such a case. Opiates seem to affect her unfavorably. If I knew the cause of this arterial excitement, I would be better satisfied. Her trouble seems to be mental, and assumes somewhat the phases of hysteria. I think if she could go to the Springs, keep very quiet, use the mineral waters, such as the Rockbridge Alum, or Greenbriar White Sulphur, she might be much benefited. I generally prescribe such treatment for mental disorders; and to tell you the truth, I have but little faith in physic anyway, and sometimes think my own practice a humbug, and would rather give my patients bread pills than to experiment on them. I believe where the system has recuperative powers, that pure air, proper diet and exercise, with intervals of repose, are often more restorative than physic. 
               "Nature has provided her streams of health throughout the Blue Mountains; and I would candidly advise Miss Eloise to resort to some one of these. Such a trip would be highly beneficial to you, and your presence might facilitate her recovery." 
               The afflicted old man gave his assent to all the suggestions of the doctor; but secretly knew that they could not remedy the cause of her illness. He was fearful it would only aggravate matters, and give them publicity. Unwilling, however, to leave undone anything that had the slightest semblance of hope, he only waited a few days for preliminary liminary preparations. With private conveyances they prosecuted their journey, hoping in this way to elude observation, and at the same time enjoy the pure air and exercise which a slow progress would insure. 
               After a few days' travel, they stopped in the vicinity of a Chalybeate spring, where everything was equally comfortable without the gayety of a public hotel. 
               Here two weeks elapsed with but little perceptible change in the condition of Eloise. The old gentleman exerted himself to appear convalescent, and in every way tried to rally her spirits. As soon as she was able to take a walk, she was attended by her maid, and passed an hour or two each day under the broad forest oaks that skirted the domains of this pleasant resort. Whilst Eloise reclined under their shade, her maid clambered up the rocky crevices to hunt mosses and wild flowers to amuse her. It was almost impossible to resist for any length of time the influences of this salubrious and invigorating climate. 
               Thus Eloise began after a time to show some symptoms of returning health. 
               This was very gratifying to the fond heart of her father, as well as encouraging to her maid, who was delighted to see her once more able to help herself. 
               Month after month expired, and their stay was still protracted, with a fond hope of restoration to perfect health. But the cold atmosphere of winter cut short the diversions of outdoor exercise, and Eloise was left to the contemplation of her father's feebleness, and the painful reminiscences of the past. 
               Feverish anxieties and unhappy reflections combined to fasten upon her the unfortunate habit of imbibing sedatives, and before the spring returned she found herself a slave to morphine. This drug had long since been her father's panacea for his numerous sufferings, and it entirely escaped him that she was following his example. 
               Little by little this insidious poison, like a serpent, coils around its victims, and destroys while it lulls them to repose. 
               "Come, darling," said the anxious father, "spring has returned; take your morning walk; it will do you good." 
               Yielding to his request, she wended her way to her favorite resort, anon stopping to pluck some tempting flowers that bloomed in her path. On the rocky margin of a soft, murmuring stream she seated herself, and filled her shining hair with the bright-hued flowers. Whilst gazing in the mirror below her she felt mysterious fingers untwine the blossoms from her hair, and dash her treasures in the tide. She looked around and above, but naught save the playful breeze was stirring her jetty curls. 
               Then to the depth she called, "My flowers! bring back my flowers, relentless tide!" But the brook sang on, and in each ripple of its smiling face the gay blossoms nodded a despairing adieu. 
               To the voice of the wind she answered, "Never can I doubt his love. My heart leans upon his faith. We will meet again." 
               "Never! never! never!" sighed the willows as they lashed the swift-gliding waters. 
               Wildly she gazed around. Then tearing her tresses from their silken band, she clutched her hair and held it like raven wings from her temples, as if the spirit sought to take its flight from the care-crazed brain. 
               Screams echoed back the "Nevermore!" until exhausted she sank, unconscious of what had passed. 
               "Come, Miss Eloise," said the voice of old Phillis. "Come, go to de house, honey; you been stay here too long." 
               As she recovered, she pressed her hands to her temples, gave a long-drawn sigh, and then relaxed into alternate smiles and tears. 
               It was inexpressibly painful to the father to know that her sickness was assuming such an unfortunate type. 
               "Phillis," said he, "don't let Eloise go out of your sight again. Poor child, she is far from being well. Amuse her in every possible way. 
               "Massa," returned old Phillis, "I think we better go home. 'Pears like Miss Eloise gits worse." 
               "What is she doing now, Phillis?" 
               "Cutting bits of paper, massa, in all sorts of shapes, and laffin fit to kill hersef." 
               "Give her some valerian, Phillis, and quiet her nerves. Maybe she will then sink to sleep." 
               The inmates of the house adroitly coaxed her to receive the draught, and when quieted, she took a dose of morphine of her own accord, and fell into a tranquil sleep, 
               Several days elapsed, during which time she was free from any paroxysm; and though she had a listless manner, she seemed calm and passive. 
               It was in this condition that she arranged the articles in her wardrobe, and dictated a few lines which she placed in her portfolio. Then casting aside her writing utensils, she threw herself upon a bed as if weary for sleep and rest. 
               The sound of hoarse breathing was heard from an adjoining room, and with hurried steps the household proceeded to examine into the cause. Eloise had taken the fatal potion that ever eventuates in death. 
               "She is dying!" screamed old Phillis, as she ran to the stricken father. 
               He started from his chair, exclaiming, "I have blighted-I have killed them all! Vile miscreant I am!" and fell dead upon the floor. 
               Old Phillis was the only being who had an inkling ling of the sad cause of this overwhelming calamity. 
               Poor Eloise was shrouded in the beautiful morning wrapper she wore the second day after her arrival in Memphis; but no tasteful hands were there to weave a wreath of blossoms for the early dead. 
               Side by side, father and daughter were laid in their coffins, and strangers performed those rites that friendship would have essayed to do. 
               Phillis sat weeping outside the door, when one of the household approached her, and said, "We must see some of the private papers of these parties before they are taken away. Such a sad coincidence as two sudden deaths in one household, cannot elude the vigilance of public inquiry, and we dare not let suspicions of foul play rest upon our family." 
               "Come with your keys and unlock that portfolio containing Miss Cachet's private papers." 
               Old Phillis arose, and reluctantly obeyed the command. 
               A short manipulation discovered a letter unsealed and blurred as if with briny tears. The singular superscription augmented their eagerness to peruse it. These were the identical words: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN."
                            
                           "I die a sacrifice to shame. Farewell, world, in which no type of the human race can appropriate priate me, and no circumstances of wealth or education can elevate me. Life is a failure, and death the only Lethe to my soul! Farewell!
                            
                           
                              "E. C."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Surely, surely, if accomplishments could have bridged the wide chasm between the white and the colored races, here was an instance where sthetical philosophy might have compromised its preferences. Educated in a foreign school, taken in childhood away from every untoward influence, except that which moulded the plastic clay and gave the spirit its stamp; trained in all the amenities of good society, and enjoying the prestige of wealth, which often confers in the lowest parvenu a passport to respectable circles, yet none of these atoned for the sad circumstances of her birth. 
               Poor Eloise was the victim of another's wrong, and lengthened out the long category of those who are driven to the portals of death by the sorrows of life. "It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God," and to thrust one's self unbidden into the majesty of His wrath. 
               We turn from this sad household to follow with sympathetic heart and thoughtful step the unfortunate parent and child, back to the old graveyard in the vicinity of their homestead, where had slept for many long years the wife and mother, unconscious of the heart-sorrows to which she had given birth. 
                
               The intelligence of the sad occurrence had preceded the deceased to Richmond, and their remains were met by a few neighbors, and subsequently by a large number of negroes, the former slaves of Mr. Cachet. 
               It was an impressive spectacle when the procession reached the wide lane which led to the family residence. The sun shone with a sickly glare, such as precedes and follows an eclipse. The tall poplar-trees, which stood on either side of the broad avenue, looked like trembling sentinels, as they quivered in the sighing breeze. 
               Slowly the motley multitude approached the mansion, whose massive proportions cast its shadow far down upon the greensward, thereby adding an unspeakably sombre tinge to the already thrilling scene. 
               Through some unknown agency, suitable preparations had been made, and the massive hall-door, so long closed, stood open to receive the returning master, now silent and still in the embrace of death! 
               The funeral ceremony was performed in that elegant parlor which had been the delight and pride of Eloise. 
               In her moments of pleasurable suspense, how often had she chosen the very figure in that gorgeous carpet upon which she would stand to consummate her vows; but alas! the bier rested over the devoted spot, and instead of the festive song there arose a melancholy dirge. 
               It was almost twilight when the procession moved toward the grave;, and ere the burial was over, the whippoorwill and the night-owl were pouring forth their lugubrious notes. 
               "De Mortuis nil nisi bonum." 
               Who shall be heir of this great estate? was the absorbing topic of surviving friends; and in the process of legal investigation, it was found that Mrs. Glynmore was the nearest relative to the deceased, and accordingly the sole heir. 
               Poor woman! she had suffered in a terrible crucible, but in it she had learned to be and not to seem; and walking in the vale of humility, had found those perennial fruits and flowers which bud near the borders of the Better Land. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               AFTER leaving Virginia, Dr. B. returned to the city of New Orleans, disappointed and chagrined at the result of his affaire du cur, resolved to steer clear of all female influences. 
               He had to undo all his future plans of life, and it was by slow degrees that matters adjusted themselves to his circumstances. The hopes that he had of ease and happiness were abandoned, and he gave himself up implicitly to the leadings of that Providence which had guided him through so many checkered scenes in the past. He was childless, and had nothing to incite his efforts more than a desire to discharge his obligations to his fellow-men, and to do and get good, and resolved that this should be the guiding-star of his life. He spent some time in the city, devoting himself exclusively to business. The elements of social life were deprived of their charm; for many of his warmest friends were absent, having left for parts unknown when the Federals took possession of the city. Thus isolated, his office and his books became his chief companions. 
               After several months he received a communication from the house for which he was operating, begging him to proceed to Texas, in order to establish a branch of their business. But few preliminary preparations were necessary, and he left directly for St. Louis, preferring the Pacific route to that of the Gulf. He arrived there on Sabbath morning; and after attending the religious exercises at Grace Episcopal Church, he concluded to pay a visit to Belfontaine Cemetery in the afternoon. 
               Many persons shun a visit to the city of the dead, until they are called to be citizens of that sequestered spot; but Dr. B. was naturally of a contemplative mind, and took peculiar interest in such lonely strolls. 
               There is nothing that indicates the refinement or rudeness of a people like the care they bestow on the resting-place of their dead. This cemetery exhibits a degree of artistic taste and cultivation at once complimentary to the minds and hearts of the citizens of St. Louis. The massive monuments of the rich, and the humble, moss-crowned hillocks of the poor, are alike garlanded with beautiful flowers. 
               It was four o'clock P. M., when Dr. B. arrived at the cemetery gate. 
               A long train of carriages was passing out of the inclosure. Some one's darling had been laid to sleep, and the procession was hurrying by, with the usual haste that attends a returning cortge. "Another warning," thought Dr. B., as he passed along in a sad and pensive mood. Through the broad avenue he walked, surveying the emblems of affection, stopping ever and anon beside some polished shaft to read the epitaph of the great, or by some lowly mound dressed in fresh and fragrant flowers. 
               His surroundings called up in his ready mind the touching reminiscences of the past, and from a heart overburdened with sorrow he exclaimed, in tones loud enough to be heard by the passers-by, "Where have they laid her?" 
               These significant words very naturally attracted the attention of a sympathetic stranger who was leaning upon the iron railing of an enclosure hard by, and who, with a bland and gentle voice, responded, "Can I assist you, my good sir? You seem to be a stranger." 
               "Yes, sir. I have an old pupil sleeping somewhere here, and it would be a melancholy pleasure to find her grave;." 
               The stranger brushed a tear from his cheek, and started along the sequestered path, when, suddenly stopping, he asked, "What is the name you seek?" 
               "Lilly Byrne," the Doctor replied. 
               "Lilly Byrne!" ejaculated the stranger, as he sank upon a grassy terrace, and added, "What do you know of her?" 
               The Doctor, seeing the embarrassment he had occasioned, began to apologize, hoping that he had not intruded upon any tender recollections of the past. 
               Colonel Mayford grasped his hand, and pressed him to take a seat, remarking in tremulous tone of voice, "Forgive me! I was gazing upon the sacred spot for which you seek, when your voice first attracted my attention. The sound of her name, when uttered by other lips than mine, never fails to startle me." 
               "You knew her, then," rejoined the Doctor. 
               "Ah! too well." 
               Dr. B. sat in silence for a few moments, and then alluded to the relations he had borne to the deceased as her teacher. 
               Reminiscence after reminiscence was awakened, until there, in the city of the dead, two strangers became confiding friends. 
               The Colonel accompanied Dr. B. to the simple but substantial enclosure he had himself visited but a few moments before, and left him to gaze all alone and in silence upon the beautiful floral offering he (Colonel M.) had laid upon the grave;. 
               After a pause, and when turning to leave, he whispered, "Requiescat in pace." 
               Rejoining his new acquaintance, they walked in company to the hotel, and promised to meet on the morrow. 
               Early the following morning, Colonel Mayford called for Dr. B. to enjoy a ride through the city. The Doctor was ready to avail himself of his friend's kindness, but remarked, as he seated himself in the buggy, that "he hoped his engagement with him would not interfere with his office duties." 
               "Oh, no," he replied, "my business must sometimes wait on my pleasure. I have no incentive to hurry through life. While application to business is necessary to success, do you not think, Doctor, that this constant reaching after the 'Almighty dollar' makes as many knaves as gentlemen?" 
               "I do, indeed. When money is considered the summum bonum of life, it closes up all the generous impulses of human nature, stultifies the intellect, and makes man a bundle of selfishness. It leads to all the trickery that springs from covetousness. Recognizing this fact, the Saviour would have the moral young man 'sell all his goods and give to the poor.' Perhaps, though he had given tithes of all he possessed and half of his goods to the poor, yet, he had never reached the point of sacrifice that controlled his covetousness and constituted true charity. 
               "I have had much to do with the training of the young, both male and female; and have seen the evil influences of a grasping disposition. If a child is taught to work merely to make money, he will ever be solving the question, Will it pay? not only in his apparent charities, but in the amenities of life. 
               "Money is a great convenience, but it is only a blessing as it humanizes and expands benevolent influences. I could have been immensely wealthy since the war, if I had have sacrificed principle for it." 
               "Yes," rejoined the Colonel, "I could have quadrupled my estate but for my adherence to principle. My firmness in this regard made me a wanderer in foreign lands, and perhaps consigned me to a life of celibacy." 
               "How so? Colonel, you surprise me." 
               Here the Colonel, as if laboring under deep emotion, paused for a time, and then in an excited tone of voice remarked: "Pardon me, dear sir, but you remember my perturbation when I first met you. Your name to me was a familiar sound. I had often heard it from lips that I loved. Poor Lilly!" he exclaimed, and sighed heavily as he continued, "we loved once, 'not wisely, but too well.' We were engaged, and soon to be married; but she communicated some facts in her history of which you may be cognizant." 
               "Oh, yes, I know it all," replied the Doctor. 
               "Well, to be brief," continued the Colonel, "I can never contemplate the subject without almost a shudder. I loved her, and felt that I could have sacrificed everything to have made her my wife; but I had not been fully tested until she imparted to me the secrets of her life, and nobly released me from all obligation which I had contracted in ignorance of facts. At the dnouement, my love, which had been the consuming passion of my heart, resolved itself into pity; and she, at whose shrine I once worshipped, became to me an object of commiseration-a feeling, you know, incompatible with that abandon of love, which flows from two hearts whose transparent motives and confidential sympathy make a spiritual union. I felt that I owed to my race a paramount obligation to perpetuate its purity, that was as binding as filial affection. 
               "When I beheld my mother's grief, and heard her exclaim, in the language of Rebecca of old: 'I am weary of my life because of this daughter of Heth. If he take a wife of such a daughter of the land, what good will my life do me?" I felt it were better to burst every fibre of my own heart, rather than stultify my existence, and break the heart of her who had given me the birthright of nobility." 
               "Yes, Colonel, aside from the moral fitness of the subject, the curse of God seems to rest upon it. The most diseased and delicate of the human species are the offspring of the black and white. These are two incompatible conditions, and until men 'love darkness rather than light,' in a physical sense, never can this repugnance be overcome. 
               "It is implanted by the Creator in the human breast; maintained in Nature and revelation, and enforced in our Republic by all the former relations that have providentially obtained between master and slave. All our ideas of beauty and comeliness seem to be the association of inward emotions which are themselves intuitive, and can neither be accounted for nor denied. Why does white associate in our minds with the pure and beautiful, and black with that which is uncomely? If we say we have derived it from education, we must confess that our earliest intellectual emotions have perceived this specific difference. The infant, with scarce a development but instinct, will wake from its slumbers and scream for light. Darkness is repulsive; and so universal is this sentiment that we might as well try to preserve the beauty of the human body when the soul has fled, as to attempt to extirpate those prejudices that are founded in nature." 
               Dr. B. secretly congratulated himself in discovering such a coincidence between Colonel Mayford's history and that of his own. It enabled him to banish those regrets that ever and anon forced themselves upon his mind, when contemplating the fate of Eloise. 
               The confidence and friendship which had sprung up between these singularly formed acquaintances, became a source of great pleasure to both; but Dr. B. preserved a perfect reticence as to his own experience on this subject, and reciprocated the confidence of his friend by wholesome advice derived from personal observations. 
               Several days passed, in which Dr. B. spent many pleasant hours of conversation in Colonel Mayford's office; but the time arrived when he must hurry on, for business was calling him West. With many regrets, he left the beautiful city of St. Louis, and turned his face toward the Lone Star of Texas. 
               His way lay through a wild, picturesque Indian territory. It was in the latter part of the spring, when the old mud-wagons which had been traversing the miry prairies were exchanged for the nice, comfortable coaches. The country through which he passed was one of singular phase, giving indubitable evidence of an ancient population. The broken surface of the country never fails to invite the speculation of the curious. Broad table-lands are to be seen falling precipitately into towering precipices, underneath which may be seen a long vista of pebbled road, covered by umbrageous foliage. Here and there steep mounds of earth rise from the level surface of the land, stirring the heart with legendary tales of chieftains. There mighty dead, perhaps, repose, with the walls of their sepulchres garnished with the spear, the toma-hawk, bow and arrow, and even their pottery, as a panoply for the hunting-grounds of the Great Spirit. The fat cattle amidst the voluptuous, wavy grass, the prairie birds, as they whirr from their coverts beneath your feet, and for miles hurry away like a speck in the dim distance fleeting, the gay ephemerals floating from flower to flower, sporting their little lives away in sunshine and bloom, enthuse the most unromantic spirit with a wild delight and love of Nature. To one given to the sports of dog and gun, to say nothing of gastronomy, here is the widest scope for physical enjoyment. 
               One cannot contemplate the history of the Aborigines or the land they inhabit without a curious interest. The strange Providence which has driven them before the pale-faced pioneers of civilization to the very borders of the Pacific, make it problematic whether any other than the white race will long be the inheritors of this Western World. They have a territory containing vast mineral wealth and great fertility of soil; but will the peaceful arts and sciences develop the resources of that country? and will their thirst for bloody revenge ever be subordinated to the doctrines of Christ? Living from Nature's hand, they are an improvident people, and their implacable hate is the legacy of their forefathers. 
               The Cherokees are assimilating themselves somewhat to the habits of the white race, and are the most civilized of those savage people. Some of their sons and daughters are annually educated in the States at an aggregate expense of eighteen thousand dollars per annum; and many missionaries are among them, preaching the unsearchable riches of Christ. But many of the other tribes still cling to the wampum belt, wear the grotesque garb of the savage, and consider the scalp of the white man their proudest trophy. 
               The picturesque beauty of this wild prairie country, with its heaps of latent wealth, may attract the cupidity of American adventurers, but should never compromise the integrity of those promises which bequeathed to their forefathers the unmolested occupation of these wild hunting-grounds. They can appreciate the integrity of the white man's promise better than the filibustering, progressive ideas of the age, that make even vice an honorable expedient. Example accompanied by precept is the most powerful agency in moral suasion. 
               It would be vain to preach to them the unsearchable and intangible riches of Christ, whilst they have ocular demonstration of our inordinate appreciation of the poor Indian's pelf. It is by kindness and integrity alone that their intractable minds can be taught the true and living way in which the Great Spirit would lead them. 
               A few days of novelty and fatigue brought Dr. B. to his destination, which was in one of the most populous cities of Texas. Here he distributed the many letters of introduction which he had gathered from New Orleans to St. Louis, and occupied the first week after his arrival in delivering them, and selecting a suitable position for his office. He was fortunate in securing an eligible locality in the second story of a large granite block, on one of the most popular business streets of the city. 
               He found his office in juxtaposition with those of some of the most prominent members of the bar, with only the space of an elegant hall separating them. These circumstances admitted him at once to the lite circles, and at the same time made him many valued friends. His business led him to an acquaintance with the prominent literary and religious personages, with whom he became quite a favorite. His occupation gave him every opportunity of literary enjoyment and correspondence of business and friendship; but he was not a man to spend his time in selfish gratifications, and made it the end and aim of life to live usefully. 
               One evening, after a busy day was over, he gathered up the dbris of paper that lay in scattered heaps about his table, and placing a paper-weight upon them to protect from the capricious breeze, he threw himself upon his lounge to rest. 
               Soon the approaching sound of music, merry voices, and the pattering of feet beneath his window, aroused his curiosity. A brass band was en route for the beautiful park, situated in the vicinity of one of the most fashionable squares. Hastily seizing his hat, he followed the stream of life, and entered this enchanting spot. 
               The park was adorned by huge forest-trees, underneath which were iron and rustic seats. In the centre was a magnificent fountain, which arose in a crystal lake, where gold and silver fish sported in wanton loveliness. The smooth pebbled walks, contrasting with the greensward, gave it a lively, luxuriant tint, making it delightful for the eye to rest upon. The musicians' stand was erected on a grassy terrace, ornamented by large vases of natural flowers. 
               Dr. B. sat under a wide-spreading elm to watch the children at play. Some were trundling their hoops, others amusing themselves at croquet, whilst others were engaged in a lively game of base-ball. Some were too small to play, and were tripping along with dainty feet beside careful mammas, who ever and anon lifted them from a stumbling fall. Whilst others, smaller still, rode in their queenly little carriages, sitting up in the folds of embroidered afghans, whilst they peered out from medallions of needle-work and loops of satin and lace, like angel faces in silvery clouds. Here, too, were children of larger growth-the beautiful belle was there, displaying her charms as she leaned on the manly arm of some devoted admirer. The lady of fashion was taking a promenade, the centre of attraction to curious eyes. Old and young, rich and poor, sought these beautiful tiful grounds as a safety-valve from the pressure of worldly care or monotony of city life. 
               The Doctor was in his element. He loved to watch the sports of childhood. Whilst thus amused, a tall and graceful woman, clad in the habiliments of mourning, passed near him. With half-averted look she glanced into his face, then passed quickly by, leading a rosy, chubby child with flaxen hair. He immediately proceeded to the extremity of the park, to ascertain her destination; but a sudden turn in the street effectually shut out all further sight. He quickly resumed his seat and lingered until the last playful group had left. He returned to his 'office delighted with his evening's recreation, determining to feel at home even out in the far West. As his social opportunities increased, his former tastes for society returned. New scenes were opening before him, which inspirited his energy; and he began to feel as if he could, in some measure, trace the hand of Providence in his reverses of fortune; they had tested his faith; and enduring the trial with Christian fortitude, he had gained corresponding moral strength. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               THE door of Dr. B.'s office stood ajar, and a servant entered with a note from an intimate ministerial friend. One of his flock, who had been absent from home during the spring and summer, had returned to fall a victim to disease of the heart. Sickness precluded the pastor's kind ministrations, and he earnestly requested Dr. B. to officiate for him. The unexpected call to a strange household suggested to the Doctor the propriety of immediately repairing to the house of mourning. 
               In an elegant parlor lay the remains of a beautiful female. A drapery of lace fell over her placid features, and she seemed to slumber with all of life's thrill through heart and brain. On her breast lay some fresh white flowers, speaking of innocence and love. 
               "Wake, mamma!" said a bird-like voice, whilst dimpled hands softly patted the pulseless breast, and smoothed the brown hair on her still lovely face. 
                
               "Wake, mamma!" she said again; then climbed on the snowy pillow, and laid a fresh, sweet bud in her shining hair. 
               Dr. B. entered, and she slid down from the couch of death, and embracing his knees, whispered, "My mamma is asleep." 
               "God bless the little darling!" he said, pressing her for a moment to his bosom. Whilst he thus caressed her, a tall and graceful lady clad in mourning entered the room, and with sad surprise he grasped the hand of Carrie May! 
               "Ah, my child," he faltered, "why did you not let me know? What extremes of joy and woe have met! She fell on his bosom, and wept like a child." 
               "Is my mamma dead?" said little Bessie. 
               Carrie only laid her hand on her flaxen curls, and answered in sobs and tears. One by one, she had seen the loved ones taken away, and this sweet little bud, broken from the parent stem, was left to claim her care-as she had herself been left-a helpless orphan. 
               We will not linger on the spectacle of "dust to dust;" but suffice it that Dr. B. became a daily visitor to that house of mourning, and his words of tenderness and Christian comfort fell like dew on a fainting flower. 
               Three weeks after this sad event, Dr. B. visited Carrie May, and the days of Auld Lang Syne passed in touching review before them. 
                
               "Here," said she, at one of these interviews, "is the very flower she gave me, pressed in my album, of which she said, 'Read my fate in the withered flower.' Poor Lilly! I cannot think of her without weeping; and dearly as I loved her, she was often a mystery to me." 
               At this juncture Bessie ran into the parlor with a roguish smile; climbed up on Carrie's chair, and throwing her arms about her neck almost stifled her with kisses. Carrie tried to disengage her loving clasp, when Dr. B. playfully said, "Come, and love me too." She coyly dropped her head on Carrie's shoulder, and whispered, "Do you love my aunty?" Carrie playfully placed her hand on her rosy lip to arrest her childish question, when Dr. B. remarked, "'Out of the mouths of babes'-children ask very sensible questions sometimes." 
               Bessie felt her aunt's soft reproof, and glided down at the back of the sofa, and played with the tufted roses of the carpet until she fell fast asleep. 
               "Come, Carrie," said Dr. B., "sing me one of those dear old songs you used to sing long ago." 
               He accompanied her; and when the last note died away, exclaimed, "Oh, I live over those happy times again! Dear Carrie, could you ever be near me to perpetuate their memory, how happy I should be! You do not know how it thrills my heart to feel that there is still one link left in those bright associations, and that I meet you the same sweet, guileless child as when we parted. But come," said he, lifting her hand from the instrument where it was resting, "how is it you have never married?." 
               "Doctor," she returned, "I have found so many dear friends in the West, that I needed nothing more to make me blest. True, I have had a great many afflictions, but my hands have been too busy to repine, and I have been too grateful to be unhappy." 
               "Oh, Carrie, your sunny face reflects so much of heaven, that it drives away the shadows where-ever you turn. How supremely happy you could make some lonely heart." 
               "Doctor, I have never contemplated marriage in my life. I never felt as though it were my destiny." 
               "Ah, my child, marriage is a divine institution, and intended to perfect the happiness of mankind. You should never let those warm affections of your nature waste on idealities. True, you have many warm and devoted friends; and I trust that you number me among them. 
               "Yes, I believe you love me as a father. 
               "But, Carrie dear, could you not be to me something more than a foster-daughter-even a precious, loving wife?" 
               He paused to hear the tender response; but she bent her head upon the piano, whilst he still tenderly held her hand. In her confusion she attempted tempted to withdraw it from him, and he mournfully murmured, "You do not love me then!" A soft pressure of her hand reinstated his confidence; and he gently lifted her tiny hand to his lips, exclaiming, "Now I am the happiest of men! I thank God for all that is past and present, and trust him for all that is to come!" 
               The soft mellow light of October streamed through the windows of a magnificent church. The altar was wreathed with flowers, and the craped pall that had so lately hung over the vacant seat of the pastor was exchanged for the olive and cedar. Happy children had twined those wreaths for her who had led them beside the still waters and in the green pastures of God's love. 
               Arrayed in white, and bearing their votive gifts of Christian affection, they passed up the velvetcarpeted aisle, and stood around that consecrated altar, whilst the solemn anthem pealed out the hallelujahs of the blest. A pause; then the Wedding March poured out its joyous notes, and a low rustle of bridal robes told that the hour of earthly bliss was near. A few short words and prayers, and the beautiful and lovely Carrie May became the loving wife of Dr. Beaumont. 
               "Darling little Bessie," said Dr. B., as he trotted and balanced her upon his knee; "how happy, Carrie, we shall be in our little cottage home, with our darling little pet." 
               "Cottage home! where?" said Carrie, lifting her mild blue eyes to his. "Why, Mrs. Winthrop may not desire to board us longer." 
               Carrie left her seat, and throwing her arms about his neck, with a ringing laugh, exclaimed, "Ah, I have not told you all. Bessie and I are the only heirs to my uncle's great estate. This elegant mansion, and the splendid equipage in which you rode is ours. Darling husband, it is equally yours," she said, as she imprinted a warm kiss upon his heavenly face. 
               "Carrie," said Dr. B., folding her in his warm embrace, "you are my dearest treasure, my darling, precious wife." 
               Three years had flown of wedded bliss when poor little Bessie passed down the silvery tide in her angel robe; but another precious bud is there to exhale its sweetness in the garden of the Lord. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
       
          
             
             
            C. W. CARLETON & CO. 
            NEW BOOKS AND NEW EDITIONS, RECENTLY ISSUED BY 
            G. W. CARLETON & CO., Publishers, 
            Madison Square, New York. 
            1873. 
            The Publishers, upon receipt of the price in advance, will send any book on this Catalogue by mail, postage free, to any part of the United States. 
            All books in this list [unless otherwise specified] are handsomely bound in cloth board binding, with gilt backs, suitable for libraries. 
             
               Mary J. Holmes' Works. 
               TEMPEST AND SUNSHINE $1 50 
               ENGLISH ORPHANS 1 50 
               HOMESTEAD ON THE HILLSIDE 1 50 
               'LENA RIVERS 1 50 
               MEADOW BROOK 1 50 
               DORA DEANE 1 50 
               COUSIN MAUDE 1 50 
               MARIAN GRAY 1 50 
               DARKNESS AND DAYLIGHT $1 50 
               HUGH WORTHINGTON 1 50 
               CAMERON PRIDE 1 50 
               ROSE MATHER 1 50 
               ETHELYN'S MISTAKE 1 50 
               MILLBANK 1 50 
               EDNA BROWNING (new) 1 50 
             
             
               Marion Harland's Works. 
               ALONE $1 50 
               HIDDEN PATH 1 50 
               MOSS SIDE 1 50 
               NEMESIS 1 50 
               MIRIAM 1 50 
               AT LAST 1 50 
               HELEN GARDNER 1 50 
               SUNNYBANK $1 50 
               HUSBANDS AND HOMES 1 50 
               RUBY'S HUSBAND 1 50 
               PHEMIE'S TEMPTATION 1 50 
               THE EMPTY HEART 1 50 
               TRUE AS STEEL (new) 1 50 
             
             
               Charles Dickens' Works. 
               "Carleton's New Illustrated Edition." 
               THE PICKWICK PAPERS $1 50 
               OLIVER TWIST 1 50 
               DAVID COPPERFIELD 1 50 
               GREAT EXPECTATIONS 1 50 
               DOMBEY AND SON 1 50 
               BARNABY RUDGE 1 50 
               NICHOLAS NICKLEBY 1 50 
               OLD CURIOSITY SHOP 1 50 
               BLEAK HOUSE 1 50 
               LITTLE DORRIT 1 50 
               MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT $1 50 
               OUR MUTUAL FRIEND 1 50 
               TALE OF TWO CITIES 1 50 
               CHRISTMAS BOOKS 1 50 
               SKETCHES BY "BOZ" 1 50 
               HARD TIMES, etc. 1 50 
               PICTURES OF ITALY, etc 1 50 
               UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER 1 50 
               EDWIN DROOD, etc 1 50 
               MISCELLANIES 1 50 
             
             
               Augusta J. Evans' Novels. 
               BEULAH $1 75 
               MACARIA 1 75 
               INEZ 1 75 
               ST. ELMO $2 00 
               VASHTI (new) 2 00 
             
             
             
               Captain Mayne Reid-Illustrated. 
               SCALP HUNTERS $1 50 
               WAR TRAIL 1 50 
               HUNTER'S FEAST 1 50 
               TIGER HUNTER 1 50 
               OSCEOLA, THE SEMINOLE 1 50 
               THE QUADROON 1 50 
               RANGERS AND REGULATORS 1 50 
               WHITE GAUNTLET 1 50 
               WHITE CHIEF $1 50 
               HEADLESS HORSEMAN 1 50 
               LOST LENORE 1 50 
               WOOD RANGERS 1 50 
               WILD HUNTRESS 1 50 
               THE MAROON 1 50 
               RIFLE RANGERS 1 50 
               WILD LIFE 1 50 
             
             
               A. S. Roe's Works. 
               A LONG LOOK AHEAD $1 50 
               TO LOVE AND TO BE LOVED 1 50 
               TIME AND TIDE 1 50 
               I'VE BEEN THINKING 1 50 
               THE STAR AND THE CLOUD 1 50 
               HOW COULD HE HELP IT 1 50 
               TRUE TO THE LAST $1 50 
               LIKE AND UNLIKE 1 50 
               LOOKING AROUND 1 50 
               WOMAN OUR ANGEL 1 50 
               THE CLOUD ON THE HEART 1 50 
               RESOLUTION (new) 1 50 
             
             
               Hand-Books of Society. 
               THE HABITS OF GOOD SOCIETY. The nice points of taste and good manners, and the art of making oneself agreeable $1 75 
               THE ART OF CONVERSATION.-A sensible work, for every one who wishes to be either an agreeable talker or listener 1 50 
               THE ARTS OF WRITING, READING, AND SPEAKING.-An excellent book for self-instruction and improvement 1 50 
               A NEW DIAMOND EDITION of the above three popular books.-Small size, elegantly bound, and put in a box 3 00 
             
             
               Mrs. Hill's Cook Book. 
               MRS. A. P. HILL'S NEW COOKERY BOOK, and family domestic receipts $2 00 
             
             
               Miss Muloch's Novels. 
               JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN $1 75 
               A LIFE FOR A LIFE $1 75 
             
             
               Charlotte Bronte [Currer Bell]. 
               JANE EYRE-a novel $1 75 
               SHIRLEY-a novel $1 75 
             
             
               Louisa M. Alcott. 
               MORNING GLORIES-A beautiful juvenile, by the author of "Little Women" 1 50 
             
             
               The Crusoe Books-Famous "Star Edition." 
               ROBINSON CRUSOE.-New illustrated edition $1 50 
               SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON. New illustrated edition 1 50 
               THE ARABIAN NIGHTS. New illustrated edition 1 50 
             
             
               Julie P. Smith's Novels. 
               WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER $1 75 
               CHRIS AND OTHO 1 75 
               TEN OLD MAIDS [in press] 1 75 
               THE WIDOWER. $1 75 
               THE MARRIED BELLE 1 75 
             
             
               Artemus Ward's Comic Works. 
               ARTEMUS WARD-HIS BOOK $1 50 
               ARTEMUS WARD-HIS TRAVELS 1 50 
               ARTEMUS WARD-IN LONDON $1 50 
               ARTEMUS WARD-HIS PANORAMA 1 50 
             
             
               Fanny Fern's Works. 
               FOLLY AS IT FLIES $1 50 
               GINGERSNAPS 1 50 
               CAPER-SAUCE (new) $1 50 
             
             
               Josh Billings' Comic Works. 
               JOSH BILLINGS' PROVERBS $1 50 
               JOSH BILLINGS ON ICE 1 50 
               JOSH BILLINGS FARMER'S ALMINAX, (In paper covers.) 25 cts. 
             
             
               Verdant Green. 
               A racy English college story-with numerous comic illustrations $1 50 
             
             
               Popular Italian Novels. 
               DOCTOR ANTONIO.-A love story of Italy. By Ruffini $1 75 
               BEATRICE CENCI.-By Guerrazzi. With a steel Portrait 1 75 
             
             
               M. Michelet's Remarkable Works. 
               LOVE (L'AMOUR).-English translation from the original French $1 50 
               WOMAN (LA FEMME).-English translation from the original French 1 50 
             
             
             
               Ernest Renan's French Works. 
               THE LIFE OF JESUS $1 75 
               LIVES OF THE APOSTLES 1 75 
               LIFE OF SAINT PAUL $1 75 
               BIBLE IN INDIA. By Jacolliot 2 00 
             
             
               Geo. W. Carleton. 
               OUR ARTIST IN CUBA.-With 50 comic illustrations of life and customs $1 50 
               OUR ARTIST IN PERU.-With 50 comic illustrations of life and customs 1 50 
               OUR ARTIST IN AFRICA. (In press)-With 50 comic illustrations of life and customs 1 50 
             
             
               May Agnes Fleming's Novels. 
               GUY EARLESCOURT'S WIFE $1 75 
               A WONDERFUL WOMAN. (In press) $1 75 
             
             
               Maria J. Westmoreland's Novels. 
               HEART HUNGRY $1 75 
               CLIFFORD TROUP (new) $1 75 
             
             
               Sallie A. Brock's Novels. 
               KENNETH, MY KING $1 75 
               A NEW BOOK (in press) 
             
             
               Author of "Rutledge." 
               RUTLEDGE.-A novel. $1 50 
               LOUIE.-A novel $1 50 
             
             
               Victor Hugo. 
               LES MISERABLES.-English translation from the French. Octavo $2 50 
               LES MISERABLES.-In the Spanish language 5 00 
             
             
               Algernon Charles Swinburne. 
               LAUS VENERIS, AND OTHER POEMS.-An elegant new edition. $1 50 
               FRENCH LOVE-SONGS.-Selected from the best French authors 1 50 
             
             
               Robert Dale Owen. 
               THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE NEXT $2 00 
             
             
               Guide for New York City. 
               WOOD'S ILLUSTRATED HAND-BOOK.-A beautiful pocket volume 
             
             
               The Game of Whist. 
               POLE ON WHIST.-The late English standard work $1 00 
             
             
               Mansfield T. Walworth's Novels. 
               WARWICK $1 75 
               LULU 1 75 
               HOTSPUR 1 75 
               A NEW NOVEL (in press) 
               STORMCLIFF $1 75 
               DELAPLAINE 1 75 
               BEVERLY (new) 1 75 
             
             
               Mother Goose Set to Music. 
               MOTHER GOOSE MELODIES.-With music for singing, and illustrations $1 50 
             
             
               Tales from the Operas. 
               THE PLOTS OF POPULAR OPERAS in the form of stories $1 50 
             
             
               M. M. Pomeroy "Brick." 
               SENSE-(a serious book) $1 50 
               GOLD-DUST-(a serious book) 1 50 
               OUR SATURDAY NIGHTS 1 50 
               NONSENSE-(a comic book) $1 50 
               BRICK-DUST-(a comic book) 1 50 
               LIFE OF M. M POMEROY 1 50 
             
             
               John Esten Cooke's Works. 
               FAIRFAX $1 50 
               HILT TO HILT 1 50 
               A NEW BOOK (in press) 
               HAMMER AND RAPIER $1 50 
               OUT OF THE FOAM 1 50 
               A NEW BOOK (in press) 
             
             
               Joseph Rodman Drake. 
               THE CULPRIT FAY.-The well-known faery poem, with 100 illustrations $2 00 
               THE CULPRIT FAY.-The well-known faery poem, with 100 illustrations superbly bound in turkey morocco 5 00 
             
             
               Richard B. Kimball's Works. 
               WAS HE SUCCESSFUL? $1 75 
               UNDERCURRENTS OF WALL STREET. 1 75 
               SAINT LEGER 1 75 
               ROMANCE OF STUDENT LIFE 1 75 
               LIFE IN SAN DOMINGO $1 50 
               HENRY POWERS, BANKER 1 75 
               TO-DAY 1 75 
               EMILIE (in press) 
             
             
               Author "New Gospel of Peace." 
               CHRONICLES OF GOTHAM.-A rich modern satire (paper covers) 25 cts. 
               THE FALL OF MAN.-A satire on the Darwin theory (paper covers) 50 cts. 
             
             
               Celia E. Gardner's Novels. 
               STOLEN WATERS $1 50 
               BROKEN DREAMS $1 50 
             
             
             
               Edmund Kirke's Works. 
               AMONG THE PINES $1 50 
               MY SOUTHERN FRIENDS 1 50 
               DOWN IN TENNESSEE 1 50 
               ADRIFT IN DIXIE $1 50 
               AMONG THE GUERILLAS 1 50 
             
             
               Dr. Cumming's Works. 
               THE GREAT TRIBULATION $2 00 
               THE GREAT PREPARATION 2 00 
               THE GREAT CONSUMMATION 2 00 
               TEACH US TO PRAY $2 00 
               LAST WARNING CRY 2 00 
               THE SEVENTH VIAL 2 00 
             
             
               Stephe Smith. 
               ROMANCE AND HUMOR OF THE RAILROAD.-Illustrated $1 50 
             
             
               Plymouth Church,-Brooklyn. 
               A HISTORY OF THIS CHURCH; from 1847 to 1873.-Illustrated $2 00 
             
             
               Orpheus C. Kerr. 
               O. C. KERR PAPERS.-4 vols. in I $2 00 
               THE CLOVEN FOOT.-A novel $1 50 
               AVERY GLIBUN.-A novel 2 00 
               SMOKED GLASS.-A novel 1 50 
             
             
               Miscellaneous Works. 
               BRAZEN GATES.-A juvenile $1 50 
               ANTIDOTE TO GATES AJAR 25 cts 
               THE RUSSIAN BALL (paper) 25 cts 
               THE SNOBLACE BALL(paper) 25 cts 
               DEAFNESS.-Dr. E. B. Lighthill 1 00 
               A BOOK ABOUT LAWYERS 2 00 
               A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS 2 00 
               GOLDEN CROSS.-Irving Van Wart 1 50 
               PRISON-LIFE OF JEFFERSON DAVIS 2 00 
               RAMBLES IN CUBA 1 50 
               SQUIBOB PAPERS.-John Phnix 1 50 
               WIDOW SPRIGGINS.-Widow Bedott 1 75 
               CHRISTMAS HOLLY.-Marion Harland $1 50 
               DREAM MUSIC.-F. R. Marvin 1 50 
               POEMS.-By L. G. Thomas 1 50 
               VICTOR HUGO.-His life 2 00 
               BEAUTY IS POWER 1 50 
               PASTIMES, with little friends 1 50 
               WOMAN, LOVE, AND MARRIAGE 1 50 
               WILL-'O-THE-WISP.-A juvenile 1 50 
               WICKEDEST WOMAN in New York 25 cts 
               COUNSEL FOR GIRLS 1 50 
               SANDWICHES.-Artemus Ward (pa'r) 25 cts 
             
             
               Miscellaneous Novels. 
               MARK GILDERSLEEVE.-J. S. Sauzade $1 75 
               FERNANDO DE LEMOS 2 00 
               CROWN JEWELS.-Mrs. Moffatt 1 75 
               A LOST LIFE.-Emily Moore 1 50 
               ROBERT GREATHOUSE.-J. F. Swift 2 00 
               ATHALIAH.-J. H. Greene, Jr 1 75 
               FOUR OAKS.-Kamba Thorpe 1 75 
               PROMETHEUS IN ATLANTIS 2 00 
               TITAN 2 00 
               COUSIN PAUL 1 75 
               VANQUISHED.-Agnes Leonard 1 75 
               MERQUEM.-George Sand 1 75 
               FAUSTINA.-From the German $1 50 
               MAURICE.-From the French 1 50 
               GUSTAVE ADOLF.-From the Swedish 1 50 
               ADRIFT WITH A VENGEANCE 1 50 
               UP BROADWAY.-Eleanor Kirk 1 50 
               MONTALBAN 1 75 
               LIFE AND DEATH 1 50 
               JARGAL.-By Victor Hugo 1 50 
               CLAUDE GNEUX.-By Victor Hugo 1 50 
               THE HONEYMOON.-A love story 1 50 
               MARY BRANDEGEE.-Cuyler Pine 1 75 
               RENSHAWE.-Cuyler Pine 1 75 
             
             
               Miscellaneous Works. 
               A BOOK OF EPITAPHS.-Amusing, quaint, and curious (new) $1 50 
               WOMEN AND THEATRES.-A sketchy book by Olive Logan 1 50 
               SOUVENIRS OF TRAVEL.-By Madame Octavia Walton LeVert 2 00 
               THE ART OF AMUSING.-A book of home amusements, with numerous illustrations, 1 50 
               HOW TO MAKE MONEY; and how to keep it.-T. A. Davies 1 50 
               ITALIAN LIFE; and Legend.-Anna Cora Mowatt. Illustrated 1 50 
               BALLAD OF LORD BATEMAN.-Illustrations by Cruikshank (paper) 25 cts 
               ANGELINA GUSHINGTON.-Thoughts on men and things 1 50 
               BEHIND THE SCENES; at the "White House."-By Elizabeth Keckley 2 00 
               THE YACHTMAN'S PRIMER.-For amateur sailors. T. R. Warren (paper) 50 cts 
               RURAL ARCHITECTURE.-By M. Field. With plans and illustrations 2 00 
               LIFE OF HORACE GREELEY.-By L. U. Reavis. With Portrait 2 00 
               WHAT I KNOW OF FARMING.-By Horace Greeley 1 50 
               THE FRANCO-PRUSSIAN WAR IN 1870.-By M. D. Landon. With maps 2 00 
               PRACTICAL TREATISE ON LABOR.-By Hendrick B. Wright 2 00 
               TWELVE VIEWS OF HEAVEN.-By Distinguished Divines 1 50 
               HOUSES NOT MADE WITH HANDS.-An illustrated juvenile, illustrated by Hoppin 1 00 
               LIVING WRITERS OF THE SOUTH.-By Professor J. W. Davidson 2 00 
               CRUISE OF THE ALABAMA AND SUMTER.-By Captain Semmes 1 50 
               NOJOQUE.-A question for a continent. By H. R. Helper 2 00 
               IMPENDING CRISIS OF THE SOUTH. By H. R. Helper 2 00 
               NEGROES IN NEGROLAND. By H. R. Helper (paper) 1 00 
             
          
          
             
            CHARLES DICKENS' WORKS. 
            A New Edition. 
            Among the numerous editions of the works of this greatest of English Novelists, there has not been until now one that entirely satisfies the public demand. Without exception, they each have some strong distinctive objection, either the shape and dimensions of the volumes are unhandy-or, the type is small and indistinct-or, the paper is thin and poor-or, the illustrations [if they have any] are unsatisfactory-or, the binding is bad-or, the price is too high. 
            A new edition is now, however, published by G. W. Carleton & Co. of New York, which, it is believed, will, in every respect, completely satisfy the popular demand. It is known as "Carleton's New Illustrated Edition." 
            The size and form is most convenient for holding, the type is entirely new, and of a clear and open character that has received the approval of the reading community in other popular works. 
            The illustrations are by the original artists chosen by Charles Dickens himself and the paper, printing, and binding are of the most attractive and substantial character. 
            The publication of this beautiful new edition was commenced in April, 1873, and will be completed in 20 volumes-one novel each month-at the extremely reasonable price of $1.50 per volume, as follows:- 
             
               1-THE PICKWICK PAPERS. 
               2-OLIVER TWIST. 
               3-DAVID COPPERFIELD. 
               4-GREAT EXPECTATIONS. 
               5-DOMBEY AND SON. 
               6-BARNABY RUDGE. 
               7-NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. 
               8-OLD CURIOSITY SHOP. 
               9-BLEAK HOUSE. 
               10-LITTLE DORRIT. 
               11-MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. 
               12-OUR MUTUAL FRIEND. 
               13-TALE OF TWO CITIES. 
               14-CHRISTMAS BOOKS. 
               15-SKETCHES BY "BOZ." 
               16-HARD TIMES, ETC. 
               17-PICTURES OF ITALY, ETC. 
               18-UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER. 
               19-EDWIN DROOD, ETC. 
               20-MISCELLANIES. 
             
            Being issued, month by month, at so reasonable a price, those who begin by subscribing for this work, will imperceptibly soon find themselves fortunate owners of an entire set of this best edition of Dickens' Works, almost without having paid for it. 
            A Prospectus furnishing specimen of type, sized-page, and illustrations, will be sent to any one free on application-and specimen copies of the bound books will be forwarded by mail, postage free, on receipt of price, $1.50, by 
            G. W. CARLETON & Co., Publishers, 
            Madison Square, New York. 
          
       
   
