
    ----CITATION----
        Ex-member of Congress.. Ella Cameron, or, The Maid, Wife, & Widow of a Day .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6384
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               ELLA CAMERON, 
               OR THE MAID, WIFE & WIDOW OF A DAY. 
               AN EXTRAORDINARY REVELATION, BEING A True Picture of High Life in Washington, AND ITS CONNECTION WITH THE CITY OF NEW YORK, AT THE TIME OF THE PLOTTING OF THE GREAT SOUTHERN REBELLION. 
             
            BY AN EX-MEMBER OF CONGRESS. 
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               PUBLISHED BY BARCLAY & CO., NO. 56 NORTH SIXTH STREET.
             
            1861. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1861, by BARCLAY & CO. In the Clerk's Office of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
          
       
      
         
            Ella Cameron, or, The maid, wife, & widow of a day 
             
            ELLA CAMERON. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               Brilliant indeed was the assemblage of fair women and brave men that graced the drawing rooms of the Secretary of the Navy on a bright starlight evening in the month of January, 185-. It was by far the most magnificent reception of the season, and had been a most prominent topic of conversation for many weeks previous; consequently when the evening came, and the glittering throng assembled, a scene presented itself altogether too gorgeous to comport with the plain notions of the multitude which composed what has often been termed the "City of Magnificent Distances," the Capital of our glorious Republic. It was seemingly the object of each lady to surpass all others in the richness and elegance of attire and ornament. All political differences were apparently forgotten, lovely daughters of the sunny South might be seen leaning upon the arms of gallant representatives of the North, and fair haired northern belles were politely escorted through the gay assemblage by courteous and chivalric Southerners. But little notice was taken of the numerous arrivals, and none seemed to receive more than ordinary attention; but after the company had been some time assembled, the announcement of "the Honorable Mr. Cameron and daughter of South Carolina," created a sensation which extended throughout the saloon; all were anxious to behold the lady who was about to make her entre; for although rumor had spread far and wide the reputation of Miss Cameron, for beauty both of mind and person, no one present had yet seen this reputed paragon of loveliness; for since her arrival in the city she had immueds herself in her private apartments at "Willards," in order that she might recover from the fatigue of travel. 
               Mr. Cameron, the father of our heroine, was one of the wealthiest land proprietors in the South, and had formerly filled the Gubernatorial chair of the Old Palmetto State; he was a kind and indulgent father, but his bearing was proud and haughty toward those whom he considered his inferiors in either wealth or social standing. His only child, Ella, was indeed a magnificent type of a southern woman, reared in luxury and free from every restraint, educated beneath her paternal roof by the best of tutors, regardless of expense, she was well fitted for the career which her fond father, in his bright dreams of the future, had marked out for her. 
               In statue Ella Cameron was a trifle above the medium height, the crowning ornament of woman hung in raven tresses about her snowy bosom, her figure was symetrical and full of grace, cheeks so clear that one might fancy that the soul was shining through them, tinging with its beauty their rich hues, her large black eyes bright and fiery as the eagle's glance, piercing and flashing as sparkling gems when roused by passion; but when lit up by love, soft and gentle as a seraph's gaze; and when she turned a melting look upon you, then you would ask if aught that dwelt on earth could be so lovely? A single diamond of immense value glitters upon her small and dimpled hand, and in her hair she wore a small white rosebud; with these exceptions the tout ensemble of her attire was perfectly plain, for "loveliness needs not the foreign aid of ornament, but is, when unadorned, adorned the most." 
               We have as yet said nothing of the various groups of gay and fashionable young gentlemen, who stood in different parts of the rooms, engaged in arranging their matters of etiquette for the evening, and occasionally glancing with admiring eyes upon the blaze of feminine beauty arrayed before them. The gentlemen, it must be confessed, were far behind the ladies in the costliness of their apparel, but they were as richly and as showily dressed as the extremity of the Parisian modes would allow. 
               Among the most distinguished guests present was Colonel Leonard. He had been acquainted with the father of Ella for a number of years, and although Mr. Cameron had never hinted or insinuated such a thing, yet it was a thought always uppermost in his mind, that Colonel Leonard was precisely such an individual as upon whom he would gladly bestow his lovely daughter. 
               Colonel Leonard had used every endeavor to ingratiate himself into the favor of Ella, and, if possible, to win a smile of love from her sweet lips; but his joyful anticipations, seemingly, were not destined to be realized. The very means which he used to secure her favor, only rendered her the more averse to the contemplated match; still, as he was her father's friend, she knew not how to avoid his attentions. 
               Standing apart in the embrazure of a window, intently gazing upon the beautiful form of Ella, was Walter Moreland, a young Texan of high birth but reduced fortune. The southerner was handsome and of gentlemanly appearance; he was a person whose character was fully imbued with those notions of honor peculiar to southern "bloods;" he could not brook an insult without demanding immediate satisfaction of the offender. Once the possessor of a noble estate which he had squandered at the gambling table, he was now forced to live upon his wits. By means of letters of introduction serruptitiously obtained to some of the most prominent and influential men at the seat of government, he had gained admittance into that circle of society in which we find him at the time our story opens. Having received a collegiate education, and possessing talents of a high order, and superior conversational powers, together with a pleasing exterior and plausible manner, he had thus far found no difficulty in supplying himself with means sufficient to enable him to indulge in all the luxury to which he had in early life been accustomed. 
               "By heaven! she is beautiful, nay sublime!" soliloquised Moreland as he gazed admiringly upon our heroine, "and come what may, I must and will possess her. But how? No matter, "faint heart ne'er won fair lady yet." My plan is not yet matured; however ever, there's time enough for that hereafter; first let me procure an introduction and then trust to my own ingenuity and unblushing effrontery for the result." 
               "Caught by Jove!" exclaimed a voice close to him, and turning he recognized in the speaker an old friend. 
               "Charly Lovell, by all that's wonderful! the very man of all others I most desire to see," exclaimed Moreland, "when did you arrive? where are you from? and how long do you intend to stay?" 
               "One question at a time, one at a time, Walter," replied Lovell, 
               "I arrived this morning from Norfolk, and it depends entirely upon our host how long I shall remain. I observe you gazing intently upon Miss Cameron; are you acquainted with her?" 
               "Only by reputation," replied Moreland, "but as she is from your native state you doubtless have that honor." 
               "She is an old friend and playmate of mine and I shall be happy to introduce you; come, she now seems to be disengaged." And arm in arm they proceeded to where Ella was standing beside her father, who was busily engaged in conversation with their host and hostess. 
               "Miss Cameron, permit me to introduce to you my esteemed friend and former classmate, Mr. Walter Moreland, of Texas," said Lovell: and then excusing himself he left them together. 
               They had been some time engaged in conversation when Moreland suddenly said; "Who is that distinguished looking gentleman who is staring so frowningly upon me?" 
               It was Leonard, who had for some time stood upon the opposite side of the room, viewing with disdainful! looks the apparent happiness of Ella and Walter. 
               She turned her eyes, and met the angry gaze of the Colonel. 
               "Do you allude to the man with the moustache?" asked Ella. 
               "The same. Who is he?" 
               "He is-that is-he is an acquaintance of our family, and my father's particular friend;" replied Ella hesitatingly. 
               The expression of Moreland's face changed from complacency to doubt and apprehension. That this man was a rival seemed probable. 
               "May I presume to inquire his name?" asked he. 
               The gentleman of whom they were speaking now approached Ella, and saluted her. 
               "My friend, Colonel Leonard, Mr. Moreland" said Ella, introducing them. 
               The gentlemen nodded coldly to each other. 
               The music now began and Moreland was about to lead Ella to the floor: but at the moment he extended his hand he was rudely crowded aside by Leonard, on observing the intention of the young Texan. 
               "Sir, I have a prior claim to this lady's hand," said Leonard: "she is engaged to me for the next dance." 
               "I appeal to the lady herself!" replied Moreland. 
               "I have assumed the responsibility of engaging myself to Mr. Moreland, for this and three other dances, as my card will show," said Ella with dignity, as she and Moreland took their places in the dance. 
                
               Leonard, who looked abashed at being thwarted so decisively, turned upon his heel and walked away, muttering curses upon the stranger. 
               All eyes were concentrated upon the graceful couple as they moved through the figures of the dance; and there was not among that assemblage of beauty and fashion a gentleman or lady who attracted such marked attention as did Walter and Ella. She seemed the personification of modesty, grace and loveliness; while his well proportioned and manly figure, his handsome features, intelligent expression and polished manners, denoted him a man of no ordinary stamp. 
               It is unnecessary for us to detail the many trifling incidents which followed throughout the evening after the meeting of Ella and Walter; suffice it here to remark, that the evening passed off pleasantly to all present, and particularly so to our hero and heroine. 
               During Ella's last dance with Walter he had offered to escort her home. 
               "I gladly accept your company," said she. 
               The hours flitted speedily by, and three o'clock had arrived before any indication was made by the company to separate. Ella now expressed a desire to leave, and leaning upon the arm of Moreland, she was escorted to her carriage. 
               Moreland had assisted Ella into the vehicle and was about getting in himself, when Leonard leaped forward, pushed Moreland aside with the intention of usurping his place, but as he placed one foot upon the step, he was seized by the strong arm of the young Texan, who, with scarcely a perceptible effort, hurled him to the sidewalk. As the carriage drove off, Leonard, who had regained his feet, with a malignant emphasis, exclaimed: "We shall meet again!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               As Moreland was being shaved the next morning by his body servant, Pomp, a note was handed to him, the contents of which were as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              No. 328 G. St., Washington City, January-, 185-.
                            
                           SIR:-Your conduct toward me, last evening, was of a character too gross and aggravating for me to pass lightly over; therefore, if you style yourself a gentleman, which your standing in society leads me to suppose, I doubt not you will give me a meeting as early as possible, thereby saving yourself the mortification of being posted as a poltroon and a puppy. 
                           I decline receiving any apology that can be made either written or verbal. 
                           
                               
                                 TO WALTER MORELAND, ESQ., 
                                 Willard's Hotel. 
                               
                              WILLIAM LEONARD.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
                
               When Moreland finished reading this, he smiled, and then wrote the following note to his friend Lovell: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "DEAR CHARLEY:-Congratulate me. I have the happiness to inform you that I have at length succeeded in getting myself into a d--l of a scrape. Nothing less, my dear fellow, then an affair of honor. I am one of the principals and the challenged party. Knowing that you, above all things else, delight in sport of this nature, I appoint you my second. Come to my room at Willard's immediately, where we can discuss the matter fully over a bottle of "Heidseck." 
                           
                              Yours, faithfully, 
                              MORELAND."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "There, Pomp," said Moreland, "take this note to Mr. Lovell's lodgings as speedily as your long heels can carry you." 
               "I'll be dar, Massa, in de twinklum ob a 'possum's eye," said Pomp, as he bounded out of the room and hastened to Lovell's lodgings. 
               Pomp possessed considerable shrewdness and cunning, which caused his young master to make quite a pet of him. He soon reached the house where Lovell resided, rang the bell, inquired for that gentleman, and was conducted directly to his apartment, where, in a large armed rocking chair, sat, or rather reclined Charley Lovell, with his legs placed upon two common chairs. 
               "Ah, Pomp, it's you, is it?" 
               "Yah, I rather think it is dis chile," said Pomp, scratching his wool and langhing. 
               "I should like to know what in the devil you're grinning at." 
               "Nuffin, Massa Lovell, I's only studyin' 'rifmetic a little." 
               What do you mean, you young imp of darkness?" 
               "Why I wur jis calkylatin, if it take free chairs for little man to set in, how many would it take fur de Kentucky Giant? He, he, haw, haw, yah! yah! whew!" 
               "Well, well, Pomp, now that you've done laughing, let me know what you want." 
               "Wall, Massa Walter's goin to fight a Jewell." 
               "Duel, you mean. 
               "Yes, saah! He told me to gib you dis note, it'll splain ebery ting." 
               Lovell read the note, kicked over the two chairs on which his legs rested, and exclaimed: 
               "Good! glorious! now vanish, you quint-essence of charcoal, you." 
               "Yes, saah! I com'd up here like a slowcomotive bullgine, and I'll wanish back like a Massisppy mud-scow." 
               "Begone! instantly!" commanded Lovell, throwing a shoe brush at the negro's woolly head, which it fortunately missed. 
               "You didn't quite come it dat time, massa," said Pomp, as he left the room, singing, 
                      
                        "'Possum up de gum stump, 
                        Cooney in de holler," & c. 
                     
                  
                
               The sun was just rising above the eastern horizon, when Moreland and Lovell descended, from their carriage in a secluded and lonely spot, a short distance from the turnpike leading from Washington City to the village of Biadensburg. 
               "It seems to me that Leonard is rather tardy, especially when we consider that this invitation is from him," remarked Moreland, as he glanced toward the road. 
               "The hour was to be sunrise," answered the other, "he will be here in time." 
               "It is well; you have a full knowledge of my wishes, and to your judgment and action I entrust myself and my honor. I will retire to you little hillock, until you settle the preliminaries with his second," said Moreland; and proceeding to the spot which he had designated, he calmly and carelessly reclined upon the sod. 
               "It is near the time, Mr. Lovell," said the second of Leonard, "and we had better at once settle the preliminaries." 
               The two seconds now retired a short distance to measure off the ground. 
               Meantime Colonel Leonard paced nervously to and fro, casting frequent glances toward him who reclined so calmly on the knoll beyond. At last the ground was measured and a pistol placed in the hand of each of the principals. 
               "We are ready now," said Lovell, approaching Moreland, "do you intend to kill him?" 
               "No, but I will wing him, it will teach him a lesson and at the same time do him no serious injury." 
               "Then the two foes walked steadily to the place selected, and each stood on the spot marked by his second, and then the usual inquiry was made: 
               "Gentlemen, are you ready?" 
               "I am," was the low, firm reply of Moreland. 
               "Yes!" was the short reply of Leonard. 
               Then came the fearful words-"Fire! one, two, three!" And almost at the same instant followed the reports of the two pistols. 
               Leonard's right arm fell to his side and the pistol dropped from his hand. The ball from Moreland's pistol had taken effect in his adversary's shoulder, inflicting a severe and painful but by no means dangerous wound. Moreland was untouched. 
               Lovell now advanced to the second of Leonard, and said: "Is your friend satisfied?" 
               "Perfectly; and he requests me to say that he intends to remain at the house of a friend in this neighborhood until he recovers from the wound he has received in this affair, and he hopes that you and Mr. Moreland will use your utmost endeavors to keep the meeting from gaining publicity." 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               Weeks passed away. Moreland had been a daily visitor at "Willards." His growing intimacy with the beautiful Ella was observed with jealous eyes by her numerous admirers, and many were the rumors circulated in regard to her growing affection for the young southerner. But Ella was either too proud or too indifferent different to heed these reports, and Moreland visited her when he pleased, leaving the world to say what it listed. 
               Seated in a private box at the opera was Ella Cameron. Walter Moreland leaning against one of the pillars of the box, half in the light and half in the shadow, holding his lorgnette of pearl and silver in one hand, and his hat in the other, was not a bad object to contemplate. His face was dignified and expressive, and his eyes consummately handsome. His costume was inexpressibly elegant from head to foot and worn with that case and grace which those only acquire who are always well dressed. 
               Mario had just finished that celebrated Aria which is so unequivocally charming, (the redeeming point in "II Trouvitore.") Every body knows the scene in the Aria-the vacant stage, without a personage visible-the gloomy stone tower with its barred door and grated windows-the clang of the guitar accompaniment, and the passionate voice of the Troubador rising and falling in breezy cadences, with its intense love and sorrow, its despairing cry of "Addio Leonore!" 
               The great admiration which the music aroused in the heart of Ella overflowed at a glance from Moreland. His hand touched hers on the arm of the chair as he leaned over her to catch her half uttered words, a magnetic thrill seemed to pass from one to the other, and innocently enough she pressed the tips of his fingers with her own, uttering some extravagance concerning the opera. 
               "It delights you," said Moreland, and drawing a chair near her he resumed: "if I were only Mario to give such pleasure, or better, if I were only Maurice, to live and love, suffer and sing for some fair Leonore, Oh! what a wretched world we live in; no more romance, we do not love, we are engaged instead. Why cannot we live in the poetical and beautiful as of old, instead of in the actual and commonplace?" 
               "Are there not poetical and beautiful experiences still?" asked Ella. 
               "Our habits and manners conventionalize every thing so," replied he. 
               "But love still exists." 
               An electric flash is not brighter nor more significant than the glances they exchanged. 
               "It does-you are indeed right," answered the young man, "and love beautifies, poetizes every thing." 
               With this scene-perhaps with these few last sentences-began the real romance of Ella Cameron's life. 
               After the intense emotions, excited in the heart of Ella by the music and the well turned speeches of Moreland, she desired to return home. In the carriage the chat became more personal, and Moreland had determined, upon their arrival, should a favorable opportunity present itself, to declare his passion for the lovely Ella. 
               After their return home, and some time spent in discussing the merits of the opera, Moreland arose to take his leave, and abruptly said: "My delay here is already a most unjustifiable one, and although it pains me deeply, I must, to-night, take leave of you." 
               Ella heard him with a strange mixture of relief and dread. How could she live without him? And yet it was madness to think of life with him." 
               "And must you go? Well! well!" she sighed, "ten years from now you will look back, and smile, as you remember how you dreamed you spent the winter of 185-." 
               "I do not think it has been all a dream," he said, fixing his eyes on her half averted face. 
               You mean you think you were not the only one who dreamed. I confess that I, too, have dreamed." 
               Moreland's brow contracted. 
               "Will you never be serious," said he half angrily, "away with jesting," he continued excitedly, seizing her hand, "I will know my fate at once. Ella, Ella, you know-you must have known, since the first time we met, how madly, almost foolishly I have loved you. Answer me then-you have had ample time to consider-is it life or death?-Shall I go or stay? 
               Ella had buried her face in her handkerchief, but he could hear her agonizing sobs. 
               "Ella," he said, gently, "if you love me, you have no cause to weep; if I am indifferent, you have still less reason." 
               Still she wept-she was utterly powerless to reply to him. For a moment pride and love seemed to contend for the mastery. At length the former gained the ascendency, but still she was silent. 
               "Ella," he said, "answer me, or am I to construe your silence into consent? Look up, I know that you love me, we are akin in every thought and feeling, my soul claimed you from our first meeting, Ella, my bride, my darling." 
               Instinctively she shrank from his proffered embrace, and drawing herself up proudly she said, "Mr. Moreland, this declaration is totally unexpected, I surely have given you no encouragement to speak thus; although I esteem you highly as a friend, I can never be aught else to you, and as you value my friendship, never again revert to this subject. 
               He stood erect before her, his fine face clouded with anger and mortification. 
               "This, then, is your final answer," he said coldly. 
               "It is; forgive me if I have caused you pain. Believe me, it has grieved me deeply to be obliged to speak thus," she said, laying her hand upon his arm, "you must forget this interview and not let it destroy your peace." (Moreland's lip curled.) 
               "Destroy my peace? No! Miss Cameron; you need not trouble yourself about grieving me, fair lady," he said scornfully, "the veil has fallen from my eyes, that is all. I fancied you little less than an angel. I was such a fool as to believe you loved me well enough to brave even the opinion of the world for my sake, but I find you are only a woman after all, with more pride and ambition than love for me. Well, be it so; I have never sued for the favor of any one yet, and cannot begin now. Farewell, Miss Cameron; forgive me for trespassing thus long upon your time, but it will be long before it happens again." 
                
               He turned away with a haughty bow. She saw he was angry, disappointed, and deeply mortified, and tears sprang to her eyes. 
               "Let us not part in anger," she said, "we may still be friends." 
               He turned and stood gazing coldly upon her. 
               "I am not angry, only a little disappointed. You have a perfect right to scorn my love if it so please you. I regret that I have troubled you so long. I have the honor to bid you good evening." And with these last bitter words he left the room. 
               All Ella's fortitude then gave way, and sinking on a seat she hid her face in her hands, and wept the bitterest tears she had ever shed. 
               "He is gone and in anger, believing that I love him not. Oh! if he but knew all, how fondly, devotedly I have loved him since the night we first met, he would not leave me thus;" and throwing herself upon the sofa, her bosom heaved with convulsive sobs. As thus she lay unconscious of aught save her own wretchedness, a knock was heard at the door. Arising, she wiped the tears from her face, and bade the applicant for admission to enter. 
               "My daughter," said Mr. Cameron, (for it was he), "why do I find you in tears, what has grieved you?" 
               "Father! Father!!" she cried, "I have obeyed your commands. I have this night told Walter Moreland that I can never be his, that I loved him not, and he is gone never to return." 
               "You should not let this grieve you so," replied her father, "remember that Moreland, though a man of polished manners, and for aught I know to the contrary, of unexceptionable character, is nevertheless a mere adventurer, without name or fortune, and as such is not worthy of my daughter. You will soon forget this foolish passion and its object." 
               "Forget him" Forget Walter Moreland!! No, my father, I cannot forget him. Is it not enough that I have made him and myself miserable by what I have done to-night, but you must ask me to forget him? I cannot, I will not. Oh! my heart is breaking." She threw herself into her father's arms, where, overcome by grief, she gave vent to her emotions in a flood of tears. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               In one of the magnificent gambling saloons which abound in the political metropolis, were assembled twenty or thirty persons of different stations in life. Grave senators were seen in conversation with the well dressed roue and gambler, and there was nothing by which a stranger, entering those elegantly furnished rooms, could distinguish the talented statesman from the accomplished sharper. 
               This saloon far surpassed all others in the city, both in elegance of furniture and the class of its patrons; and its proprietors having gained a reputation of possessing a larger capital, and being able to sustain greater losses than others, it was visited by those only who were able and willing to hazard large amounts. Few, therefore, had the entre of this elegant and capatious saloon, but members of congress, foreign ministers and their attaches, and wealthy strangers, who might be sojourning in the city, transacting business with the Government, or in pursuit of pleasure; in fact no citizen or clerk was over admitted. 
               Young Moreland, when he left Ella, entered a carriage at the door of the hotel. 
               "Wha shall I dribe you to, Massa Moreland?" asked coachee. 
               "To Prindle's; and look, you, Sam, drive as if the d-I were after you;" said Moreland, excitedly. 
               "Wonder what's matter wid Massa Moreland dis ebenin, he seems kinder 'cited; I 'specks dat purty gal he was sparkin' been gone and done, and said somfin to rile him," said Sambo, mounting the box; "dribe as if de debil was arter me; I calklates his 'fernal majistum will hab to git up and git to cotch dis heah team, yah! yah!!" 
               "Unfortunate at love, fortunate at play," said Moreland, as he threw himself back in the carriage; "I shall test the truth of this time honored saying. "I've lost, to-night, where hearts were trumps, and at another game should win." 
               When the carriage stopped at the saloon of which we have spoken above, Moreland leaped out and entered the street door which alway stood open. 
               "Golly gosh, I guess if Massa Moreland hab any luck to-night dem gamblums won't hab money 'nuff to pay for a 'cocktail' in de mornin'. I tell you when he does gamblum he puts his money down in big chunks;" soliloquised Sambo as he drove off. 
               Let us follow Moreland and enter with him the rooms where ('dem gamblums', as Sambo called them), were entertaining the numerous guests. 
               After entering from the street, he proceeded up stairs, where a heavy door impeded his farther progress; pulling the bell rope, which hung near the door, his summons was answered by an antiquated specimen of the Virginia negro, familiarly known to the frequenters of Prindle, Wilkinson & Co's establishment, as "Uncle Charley," who, after ascertaining that the applicant was entitled to admission, pushed back the heavy bolt, and allowed our hero to pass in. 
               "Good evening, Mr. Moreland," said the General, (the name or title by which Wilkinson, one of the proprietors, was familiarly known,) "you appear excited; has any thing unusual occurred?" 
               "No!-That is-nothing of importance, I-I have just been defeated in a game at which I thought I had no superior. But let it pass, another time I shall be more successful;" replied Moreland, significantly, as he proceeded into the front room and engaged in play. 
               The rooms, into which we have introduced our reader, well deserved the reputation for elegance they had gained. Entering from the dimly lighted hall, a scene presents itself almost blinding in its dazzling brilliancy. The floors are covered with carpets of the finest texture and most costly patterns, and so soft and pliable that no sound reverberates as the guests pass to and fro; on the walls hang numerous paintings, executed by the most renowned artists both ancient and modern. To the right hand, as you enter, stands a sideboard of rosewood inlaid with pearl, in the centre of which is an immense punch bowl of solid silver, ornamented with finely executed frost work; around this are placed a dozen or more goblets of the same material, and similarly ornamented; near these stand several cut glass decanters, containing the best of imported and domestic wines and liquors; also stands filled with the best brands of cigars. The contents of this costly piece of furniture are for the use of the patrons of the saloon free of charge. Pendant from the centre of the frescoed ceiling of each room is a finely wrought chandelier, from which eminates a blaze of light which rivals the noon-day sun in its brilliancy. In the front room, against the wall, behind the "dealer," hangs a large gilt frame, containing the representation of an immense Bengal tiger, executed in worsted work by the daughter of the "General." Around the table in front of the "dealer" are numerous "betters," some of whose countenances betray, to the most casual observer, the emotions which agitate them when the fickle Goddess smiles or frowns upon their ventures. Not one of these tell tale faces has our here; there he stands, unmoved by the effects of a large loss, or large gain, although his all is sometimes staked upon the fall of a single card; if he feels emotion his features do not betray him, as "turn" after "turn" decides for or against him for thousand' of dollars. Fortune seems to have chosen him from out the many as one deserving of her favors; the "Bank" has lost a large amount, and he seems to be the only person who has won any considerable sum. 
               "Had we not better close?" said the General, who was considerably alarmed, "Moreland seems desperate to-night, and if his luck continues he will ruin us. 
               "No, we're only loosers to the amount of some ten or twelve thousand, and we can stand five times that amount without feeling it," replied Prince Prindle to whom the "General" had spoken; 
               "I know," he continued, "Moreland alwas plays high, and to-night seems to play more desperately than usual, and even if he should ruin us, as you say, "General," I know of no one who I would so willingly see have my money, for he is a "trump," and plays his money like a sport." 
               "Mr. Moreland, you have more on the "five" than we like to turn for," said the "dealer," as Walter placed about twelve thousand dollars in "checks" upon that card. 
               "Well, sir, if you are afraid to turn for that amount, I will take it down;" said Moreland with a perceptible sneer. 
               "I am not afraid, but we are not accustomed to allow gentlemen to bet such large amounts." 
               "I suppose half of it will not be too much?" replied Walter, as he took down one 'stack of checks,' and placed them 'coppered on the Jack,' placing a small round piece of bone called 'a copper' on his money, thus indicating that he bet the 'Jack' would loose, Moreland said, addressing the 'dealer:' 
               "You have no objection to turn for it now, Mr. Singleton?" 
               "No, sir." 
               "Then I am ready, and you may proceed." 
                
               
                   
                     "Ella, Ella, you know-you must have known since the first time we met, how madly I have loved you. Answer me, then-you have had simple time to consider-is it life or death? Shall I go or stay?-Page 20. 
                  
                
                
               It was near the middle of the deal when this conversation took place, and when the dealer proceeded to draw the cards slowly from the box, those who were present exhibited signs of intense excitement. Our hero and the dealer appeared as calm as though they had nothing at stake, and yet they were the two persons present most interested. 
               "It is now down to the last turn," said a gentleman who was keeping the 'cases.' 
               The excitement now increased, for the bets must, one or both, be decided upon this the last turn. The dealer hesitated, perhaps hoping our hero might take part of his money down; but no, there he stood as composed as an uninterested spectator. 
               "Why do you hesitate?" said he. 
               The dealer drew the cards from the box with a mere jerk, and announced the result; 
               "Jack, 'five,' and seven in 'hock.'" 
               Moreland had won both his ventures, and the deal was ended. 
               "Curse the luck," muttered the "General" between his teeth, as the dealer paid over to Moreland twenty-four $1000 bills, with which thrusting the same into his pocket, Moreland left the room. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               At a late hour on the morning following the incidents related in the preceding chapter, Ella Cameron arose. Her colorless lips and inflamed eyelids, and her cheeks upon which still remained the traces of many bitter tears, were all evidences of the conflicting emotions which had kept her in a fever of excitement during the restless and almost sleepless night just passed. 
               "Another such a night I could not survive. Hence, false pride, thou destroyer of my happiness, and blighter of my fondly cherished hopes, no longer shalt thou usurp the throne: henceforth love alone shall reign in the heart of Ella Cameron." Thus spoke our heroine as she procured materials and seated herself at her writing desk. "He shall know all, and if he will pardon my conduct last night, I may yet be happy, loving, and beloved;" she continued as she proceeded to indite the following letter: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              MY DEAREST WALTER,-
                            
                           I am anxious to see you once again, to explain my conduct last evening, and to ask forgiveness for the pain I unwillingly caused you. 
                           "My father, alarmed by the many rumors concerning our increasing affection and growing intimacy, and suspecting that these rumors were not altogether without foundation, in fact yesterday morning solicited a private interview with me. Having by every argument that could be brought to bear upon the subject, in vain endeavoured to convince me that you were not worthy of my love; he then resorted to threats, declaring that, should I persist in refusing to discourage your attentions, he would discard, disown, disinherit, and never see me more. Finding that I would neither be convinced by argument, or intimidated by threats, he finally appealed to my gratitude and filial affection. My feelings being thus wrought upon, and being overcome by emotion, is it strange that, under these circumstances, I should forget my love for you, and think only of the obedience I owed my only surviving parent? Having promised that in the event of your declaring your affection, I would tell you that it was not returned, and that I could never be yours, I could but redeem my word though it cost us both much pain. After a night of anxiety and reflection I am convinced I did wrong, and am desirous of seeing you that I may know from your own lips that all is forgiven. 
                           Come to me immediately upon receipt of this, for until I see you once more I shall know no peace of mind. 
                           
                              ELLA.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               That the delivery of this note might meet with as little delay as possible she summoned a servant and directed him to hand it to the clerk of the hotel, to be placed in Walter Moreland's box. When the servant laid it upon the desk the clerk's attention was attracted in another direction, and Mr. Cameron, who was standing near, observing that the superscription was in the handwriting of his daughter, immediately took up the note, and putting it in his pocket, retired to his room. When Mr. Cameron entered his room he first fastened the door, and then opened the letter, (the seal of which was not yet perfectly dry); having acquainted himself with its contents, he carefully resealed it, and placing it in another envelope, he directed it in a disguised handwriting to Ella through the Post Office. 
               "She is unacquainted with Moreland's handwriting, and will think he has returned her note unopened," said he, "this will arouse her pride," he continued, "by working upon which I can induce her to marry with whomsoever I think proper." He then walked to the Post Office, and with his own hands mailed the letter, thus insuring its delivery to its proper address. 
               While Ella was writing the letter which we have given above, Moreland was seated in his room at the same hotel. Upon a table in front of him was the money he had won the previous night. 
               "Nearly twenty five thousand dollars! Well, Walter Moreland, you are in luck. I have heard it said that in New York City money will purchase anything, and that there are men to be found there who will not hesitate to undertake any "job," provided they are well paid for their time and trouble. I know not if this be true; at all events I shall try it. I have a plan which, if successful, will accomplish my purpose and at the same time remove all evidence which may implicate me in the affair. Never yet did a man or woman scorn Walter Moreland but they did live to rue it; so my proud beauty, you and your vast wealth shall both be mine yet." 
               Thus soliloquised Moreland as he gathered up his money. 
               "Did you ring, sir?" said a servant, who answered the bell which Moreland had rung a moment before. 
               "Yes; tell the clerk to send up my bill, as I start for New York in the evening train." 
               Though Ella was dressed and ready to come down to dinner, she felt so ill and depressed that she lay down again, telling her maid to close the shutters and leave her to herself. 
               "What's this, Ella? What's the matter, my daughter?" said Mr. Cameron, entering and taking a seat at her bedside, "your hand is feverish." 
               "I slept badly-scarcely at all," said she faintly, "and my head feels as if it would split with pain." 
               "Poor child!" said he, as he kissed her burning forehead. "But," continued he, "I came to speak to you of a matter of the utmost importance, and which will not admit of delay; Col. Leonard, who has been appointed Minister to the Court of Madrid, this morning made to me a formal proposal for your hand. What answer shall I give him? Shall I say to him that we accept his offer?" 
               "But, father-" 
               "Think well before you reply. When you are the wife of the Colonel you will have a station in society, so accredited, that every word you speak, every act you do, goes forth with its own authority." 
               "I respect Col. Leonard highly, but I do not love him," she replied, "and I would a thousand times rather bestow my hand upon him who already has my heart, be his station ever so lowly and his fortune but small, than wed the proudest millionaire in the land whom I did not love. I would not make trafic of my affections nor buy success by that which makes it valueless." 
               "These are the wild romances of girlish fancy," said Mr. Cameron; before a twelvemonth was over you would be unable to say whether you had married for love or interest, except that poverty might remind you of the one, and affluence suggest the other." 
               "But, if I am not able to bring myself to this?" 
               "Do you feel, Ella, as if you could, by marrying that nameless young Texan, Moreland, repay my long life, sacrifice and struggle by what would undo them all?" 
               "Oh! do not tempt me this way," cried she bitterly. 
               "But I will-I will leave no argument unused that will induce you to save yourself from misery, and me from disgrace. Tell me, he continued after a pause, "will you follow my advice?" 
               I cannot reply to you now. Leave me, I will reflect upon what you have said, I need rest, and will send for you when I have decided what course to pursue." 
               Mr. Cameron threw his arm around her, and pressing her to him said: "Very well, my child, lie still and get some sleep." And with this he turned away and left her. 
               Some hours later Ella's maid entered with a letter, which she received with emotion, and dismissing the servant that she might peruse its contents in privacy-for she doubted not it was from Walter in reply to her note of that morning. Hastily tearing open the envelope, she found her own letter enclosed. She staggered back as if suddenly stricken by an unseen hand-her face changed to the ghastly hue of death-the light dying out in her eyes; her very life seemed passing away from the blue, quivering lips, from which no sound came; a thousand ages of suffering seemed concentrated in that one single moment of intense anguish. 
                
               "My own letter returned and unopened!" she at length exclaimed, and clasping her hands over her face, she wept. "These," she continued, "are the last tears I shall ever shed. Now, my father, do with me as you will; I have neither the power of the desire to resist. I will marry Col. Leonard, and leave the scene of my love, my disappointment and despair, and may I in some foreign land find an early grave." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               But few cities in the world can vie with New York in the number of its low and infamous dens-in its dark and dangerous corners, where burglars, pickpockets, murderers and thieves most do congregate. 
               In one of the many smoky kennels of the "Points," a dark and dreary tap room, redolent of the smell of bad gin and worse tobacco, and lighted miserably-some half dozen rough looking persons were seated by a greasy table in front of the bar, playing cards. Long pipes were in their mouths and glasses before them, which were filled, when emptied, from a black bottle which stood near at hand. 
               "I'm three times, Cap'n, low, jack, and the game!" said a one-eyed, red-haired giant, whose face looked as if it had been traveled over by rough shod horses, it was so full of cuts and slashes. 
               The man he addressed as Captain, looked a trifle more decent than the rest, so far as dress was concerned, but yet he was a ruffian as well as the rest. That could be plainly seen. 
               "So you are! that puts you out, and I'm stuck for the lush!" cried the Captain. 
               Another "hand" was being dealt out, when a noise of approaching footsteps caused every one to raise their eyes in the direction of the door. 
               Two persons entered. One of them had the rough, hang-dog look, which generally betokens the low villain-the face of the other was partially concealed by a slouched hat, and his figure muffled in a rough overcoat. But the glitter of a jewelled breastpin and gold chain, as well as a finger-ring, told that, disguised though he was, it was not likely that he belonged to the gang who made the "boozing ken," (or drinking place) their headquarters. 
               "Who've you got with you, Jack!" asked the one known as Captain. "Arn't you breakin' the rules?" 
               "Not without reason, Cap'n! This here cove wanted to see you, and tipped the blunt, so I brought him!" 
               "Who is he? A spy of the coppers?" 
               "No. But show your figure head, sir, and do your own pattering." 
               The stranger took off his hat and threw open his coat, revealing the face and form of Walter Moreland. Though fierce eyes were glaring upon him, and he was surrounded by rough men, who were, as he well knew, so steeped in crime that to commit one was a pleasure-to avoid one a difficulty, he was perfectly calm and collected. 
                
               "What do you want with Captain Harrell?" asked the Captain. 
               "Your services in a matter of importance!" said Moreland after he had measured the Captain's calibre with a single searching glance. 
               "You know who I am?" 
               "Yes, the terror of-" 
               "Enough, sir!" said the Captain roughly. "If you know, that is sufficient, without telling of it." 
               "Have you plenty of 'blunt' to pay me for my work? I don't do jobs for nothing," he continued. 
               "I have plenty of it. There's a specimen!" and Moreland tossed a purse of gold down within reach of the Captain, who took it up, weighed it with an air that showed considerable practice in such matters, and then put it in his pocket. 
               "That's talking to the p'int. Sit down and have a glass of lush and let's know what's wanted-whose wizzen is to be cut, or what crib cracked." 
               "These people here?" said Moreland, looking around the room. 
               "They all belong to me. You needn't be afeard of them. Look out there, youngster, let the gentleman's wiper alone, or I'll maul your cocoa-nut for you." 
               This last remark was addressed to a ragged little urchin not over twelve years old, who had very dexterously removed Moreland's handkerchief from his pocket, and as in obedience to the Captain's order, he handed it back to the owner, sniveled out: "I only done it to keep my hand in." 
               "Well, there's no harm done, younker, so you needn't get briny about it, but keep your hands out of the pockets of our friends. And pickin' pockets is a low business for a cracksman. You ought to be above it if you are but a kid. Your dad would have walloped you if he'd caught you doin' such a small business." 
               "Dad's logged, and gone up, and can't wallop me any more," said the young hopeful. 
               "As the twig is bent so is the tree inclined," said Moreland. 
               "Bring up a child in the way he should go, and when he gets old he w-" 
               "He'll do just as he d-d pleases," interrupted the young scapegrace. 
               "If you'd rather make your business known to me alone, there's an inner room in the house where we can be private," said the Captain. 
               "I should prefer it; and, in the meantime, I wish to send for my servant who is waiting outside. You need have no fear of him," continued Moreland, as Harrell hesitated, "he is a negro, and I defy any one to make him speak if I bid him hold his peace." 
               "Well, let him come in if you wish it," said the Captain. "Here, younker, here's my pipe for you to finish, go out in the street and bring in the gentleman's servant." 
               "I've got one of my own, old on'," replied the precious youth, as he went out in obedience to Harrell's commands. 
               "He's a game on', if he is little;" said the burglar chief, as he led the way into the inner room of which he had spoken. "He'll make a tip-top crossman, if he grows up as he's begun. If he don't get too fond of lush, he'll be an invaluable-he will." 
               "I should think he was in a fair way for distinction in his line," said Moreland as he followed Harrell in. 
               The room into which Moreland was introduced was far better furnished, and had more the appearance of a poor lawyer's office than any thing else; for various law books were scattered about it; there was a desk, with writing materials in abundance; and quite a variety of old clothes hung here and there. 
               "Now you can make known your business without fear of interruption," said the Captain motioning Moreland to a seat, and taking one himself. 
               "I want you to place some of the most daring members of your band under my control for a short time. I have a job to work which requires strong hands and a clear head, the nature of which I must decline making known. If you are willing to furnish me with the men I shall choose from your band, you shall be well paid." 
               "But,"- 
               "Don't interrupt me. Such information as it will be necessary for you to have, I will give you now without your asking any questions, and I shall require you to promise that you will not attempt to gain other information touching me or my business, than I shall think proper voluntarily to impart. Is it a bargain?" 
               "Yes. When will you be ready to choose your men?" 
               "To-morrow night let your band be here assembled at an early hour, and I will then choose such as I may require for the contemplated work." 
               "All shall be ready for you by nine o'clock, and let me ask you to be punctual, as those whom you won't want will have other job on hand." 
               "I shall not keep you waiting," said Moreland, rising preparatory to leaving. 
               "And let me," continued he, "give you fair warning that if you or any of your band attempt to follow me to-night or at any future time, to play the spy upon my action, it will be the worse for him who undertakes it. I do not utter this as a threat, but merely to place you upon your guard. And this, above all things, bear in mind, that I am not to be trifled with, and that you are by no means the first of your profession with whom I have had dealings, and I am fully prepared to reward or punish those who serve me according to their deserts." 
               Thus saying he followed Harrell into the front room, and thence, followed by his servant, Pomp, he went out into the street. 
               Walter Moreland, with his back turned upon the "Points," and his face set towards his hotel, fell into a train of deep thought. 
               While the master walked on, the man, whose gift was not silence, followed with an ill-used look. For every time that honest Pomp had ventured to offer an observation, he had been put down by a surly "Hold your tongue, sir!" from his master. 
               They had walked on for some time without conversation, and poor Pomp was growing desperate, when at last he burst out with this wailing cry: "Marster!" 
               "Well," growled the young man, arrested by the misery of his tone. 
               "I'm tired to death, sar, with holding my tongue." 
               "Humph!" 
               "And my heart's ready to burst, sar, with having nothing to say!" 
               "Talk, then!" 
               "Yes, sar! Thanky, sar!" then with a sudden merry change of tone, he said-" 'Fore de Lord, sar, I's berry glad as how we's done got away from down yonder!" 
               "Humph!" 
               "'Deed is I! 'cause you see, sar, how I does belieb how as ef we'd staid longer we'd come to grief." 
               "Pshaw!" 
               "'Deed does I! 'Sides which I wouldn't hab been answ'rable for de quincequonces!" 
               "Chut!" 
               "Young marsa, chile, you needn't be scornful nor likewise incredible in your mind. For if ebber dis nigga saw de debel in disguise, dat fierce one-eyed, red-headed man was him; which it's my full belief, as ef you'd a-staid longer, he'd 'complished your ebberlastin' ruination!" 
               "Sirrah!"-burst forth the young man, wheeling around upon the negro with a suddenness and fury that caused the latter to fall back and retreat into the middle of the street, where, with wildly rolling eyes, chattering teeth and quavering voice, he exclaimed: 
               "He's 'witched a'ready! I know'd it! Oh, marster! for hebbens sake, sar, don't look at me dat ar way, and I'll nebber do so no more." 
               "Fool! look to yourself, or you will be run over by some passing vehicle." 
               Pomp, still dreadfully frightened, slowly regained the sidewalk. 
               "There, idiot! that will do; now follow me, and whatever else you may do, never again to me or to any one else venture to mention this subject; if you do, I shall hear of it and deal with you accordingly." 
               "Wall, I 'clare to de Lord, I might be the greatest 'plomatist as ebber plotted, widout gittin' any 'preciation from my young marsa," soliloquised Pomp as he followed his master. 
               The next evening, about nine o'clock, Harrell sat in his private room, with his feet upon the fender, before a cheerful fire, holding in one hand a glass of hot brandy and water, and in the other the morning paper. 
               A peculiar signal given by one heavy and two very light knocks upon the door took his attention from the paper, and rising and opening the door he demanded what was wanted. 
               "Capt'n," said the man who was at the door, "the cove what was here last night's outside and wants for to see you." 
               "Bring him in. You are punctual," he continued, addressing Moreland, who now entered the room. 
                
               
                   
                     Desperate encounter between the rival lovers on the verge of a precipice. 
                  
                
                
               "Yes! Are your men ready for inspection?" 
               "They're in the next room." 
               "Let me see them." 
               "Follow me, and you'll see as fine a lot of fellows as ever 'cracked a crib' or 'cut a wizzen.'" 
               Thus saying the Captain preceded Moreland into the adjoining apartment. After an absence of full an hour Harrell returned with Moreland into the private room. 
               "How d'you like them?" said the former, "Aren't they a fine lot?" 
               "They'll do," answered Moreland, and lighting a cigar, he walked up and down the room for some time, evidently revolving in his mind some deep project; at length he stopped suddenly before the Captain, and handing him a roll of bank notes, he said: 
               "Here is the money I promised you; if your men do their work faithfully, this shall be doubled. You have your instructions, follow them and all will be well." 
               "My eyes, but you're a rum on' and a little the coolest cove I've run foul of this many a day," said Harrell as Moreland left the house. 
               "I must be present at the wedding," said Moreland to himself as he entered Broadway, out of a dark narrow street through which he had passed on his way from the Points. "My presence there will disarm suspicion. I am playing a desperate game and cannot be too careful." 
               A few hours later Walter Moreland was on his way to Washington. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               A short time after Ella had given her consent to the marriage with Col. Leonard, she received an invitation from her friend, Mrs. Farnsworth, to make her house her home during her stay in Washington and to be married there. This invitation Ella accepted. 
               During the afternoon of the day appointed for the celebration of the wedding, Ella and her friend were seated in the parlor, gazing out of the window; neither had spoken for some time. At length a bitter, mocking, scornful laugh, burst from the lips of Ella. 
               "My dearest friend, pray, forgive me;" was the answer to the beseeching glance of Mrs. Farnsworth; and then, with an easy, graceful motion, she floated out of the room. 
               Slowly Ella Cameron stepped up the broad staircase; and when she had reached the head of it, she turned to the right, and entered her own well-furnished, handsome room. 
               The sunlight was streaming in through the rose-colored curtains, tinging the whole interior with its own rose-hue, and Ella walked across the Brussel's carpet and stood before the polished mirror upon her marble top toilet table; and, with her small and exquisitely shaped hand, she raised the bands of raven hair from her white and polished temples, and smiled as she saw the thread-like blue veins traced beneath the transparent skin, and then an expression of pain swept every trace of color from her face; she staggered back with something like weakness, and pressing her two hands upon her brow, she sank into a cushioned arm-chair. 
               "Unloved-unloved by the man who once professed an affection bordering upon idolatry for me-unloved by the only man who ever had power to awaken love in my heart, and he dreams not-none dream of the love hidden within my bosom-the deepest and most abiding love that was ever felt for a human being, and he all unworthy of my thoughts. And yet I love him, Oh! Walter, in spite of all, I love you, dearly love you, still!" 
               She was like a marble statue, now, as purely white and cold as snow. Her hands were clasped so tightly over her heaving bosom they seemed as if knotted together, and the expression upon her beautiful features gave her a look of majestic sorrow so calmly and so proudly was her grief borne. She sat there silent and sad for nearly an hour, and then she roused herself with a start, and a burst of that low, silvery, but still mocking laughter, that had lately been so habitual to her, and then she exclaimed: 
               "Ah! what now? I have been dreaming, and sighing, and grieving; but it is passed." 
               And, rising, she began humming a gay tune, and summoning her maid she began preparing her bridal toilet. 
               Lovely as a poet's dream was Ella Cameron upon the night of her bridal. A murmur of admiration ran through the crowded apartments, as she entered, leaning upon the arm of him who was to be her guide and protector through life. Her robe was of white moire antique; her snowy bridal veil nearly swept the floor; her glossy hair was plainly banded back; and the wreath of orange blossoms, which encircled her head, formed a lovely contrast to its jetty hue; her finely moulded arms were bare, but she wore no bracelets or ornaments of any kind. As the solemn words were spoken, which should never be lightly uttered, the flush deepened upon her cheeks, and the long eyelashes almost rested upon their glowing surface. Once, only, as the ceremony was ended, she raised her dark, lustrous eyes; but as they encountered an earnest glance they were quickly cast down. A momentary paleness overspread her face, and her little gloved hand trembled upon the arm of her husband. He, ascribing this to timidity, pressed it fondly in his own, as if to reassure her, and led her to a seat. 
               "She is wondrous beautiful! What grace in every movement! How queenly she is looking now, as she acknowledges the congratulations showered upon her! What a superb head! I wonder if that grim husband of hers appreciates her," said a young naval officer to a friend at his side in a low tone. 
               "A truce to your jesting," replied the one addressed. "You young middies are so perfectly wild. As to her grim husband, a nobler heart was never won. He worships her, and it will be the aim of his life to make her happy. I fear she will not appreciate him; for while he is the soul of honor and highly intellectual, she is wavering as the sea, and fickle as the wind." 
               "Impossible! such a soul could not dwell under an angel's guise. I would stake my life that she is as good as beautiful," said the young officer. 
                
               "Listen," rejoined his friend. They had withdrawn into the shadow of a deep window, where they had a view of the whole moving throng, while they were unobserved. "Listen to me a moment: do you see that young man leaning against the marble statue, just opposite us? Mark his flashing eye, his palid cheek, his compressed lips. The rejoicing of this night is to him the knell of hopes buried forever. I wonder that he is here. It must be agony to him to witness the ceremony that unites her to another." 
               "He certainly does look desperate," said the officer; and judging by the fiery gleam of his eye, I should think his love changed to hatred." 
               "It is reported they were once betrothed and that he has loved her with all the passionate ferver of a child of the sunny South," replied his friend; "I say has loved, for I doubt not you have seen the truth at a glance-his love may be changed to hatred; and I fear that his revenge will be a fearful one." 
               "The saints forbid. I would have no evil befall that blushing rose. Despite her faithlessness, I can forgive all for the sake of her rare beauty. But you have not told me why 'a change came o'er the spirit of her dream.'" 
               "Well, thus the story runs: Walter Moreland, the son of a southern gentleman, who, dying, left his son Walter a fine fortune; but he being careless, in some wild speculation, lost his all. This was not known to Miss Cameron or her proud father until lately; but when it came to their knowledge the match was broken off. She could not become the bride of a poor man, and she heartlessly gave up Moreland's love for the wealthy position and splendid establishment of Col. Leonard." 
               Beauty and grace were combined in many a fair figure which flitted through the mazes of the dance. Smiles on every lip, and over all flashed the brilliant light from many a chandelier; while in the polished mirrors the bright scene was reflected again and again. No one would have dreamed that amid the glittering pageant were aching hearts; or that dark revengeful thoughts were lurking beneath the smiling lip and courteous manner of at least one in that fair assembly.-Hours passed, guest after guest was departing, and but few yet remained. Thus reminded of the lapse of time, Harry Courtley hastily bid Mrs. Farnsworth good night and left the house. About an hour later a tall, powerful man, apparently about forty or forty-five years old, emerged from a small frame house in the outskirts of the city. He was dressed in a garb of black cloth, cut into a frock, or shirt, which was secured at the waist by a broad pistol belt; he wore a heavy pair of riding boots, the tops of which reached above the knees; his eyes were dark and gleaming, and deeply set beneath the heavy brows; his mouth and chin were almost wholly concealed by the thick grizzly beard which covered them, and which hung down upon his breast; his hair hung knotted and tangled about his broad shoulders. A horse was fastened near, which had the appearance of being strong of limb and swift of foot. 
               "Time presses, and I must be off, lest I arrive too late," said the stranger, springing into the saddle at a single bound, and sinking the sharp rowels deep into the flanks of his horse, and holding the reins with a nervous grip, he dashed away at a headlong rate. 
               On! on! good Casper!" he cried, speaking eagerly to his horse. A thousand minutes seem crowded into one. Pardon the spur, pardon the whip! Thou shalt rest after this!-On! On!" 
               On they went, over rocks and over sand, till they came to a point where the path swept over the hill into the wood. Here they turned and sped on faster than before. Like the wind the noble beast leaped through the dark forest, never faltering, never swerving, till the face of a great black ledge of rock appeared directly across the path ahead. Here drawing rein, the stranger dismounted and closely examined the earth thereabout. 
               Ha!" cried he, they have not yet arrived, but it will not be long before they are here." 
               He was engaged in fastening his horse to a neighboring tree, when he was startled by the report of a pistol; but it broke upon the ear with so many echoes that it was impossible to tell in what quarter the sound originated. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               The carriage containing Col. Leonard and his bride, which was to convey them to the railroad depot, was driven at a rapid pace down the street, and having left the city the horses were urged to their utmost speed. The blinds of the carriage being closed its occupants did not observe that they had left the city far behind and were now dashing rapidly through a dark forest. 
               At length, alarmed at the delay in arriving at the depot notwithstanding the rapid pace at which they had been driven, Leonard opened the door of the carriage, and looking out, comprehended their situation, at a glance. They were now ascending a long hill, upon the one side of the road was a steep ascent, and on the other a deep chasm yawned, along the bottom of which a mountain torrent rushed boiling and surging over its rocky bed. Leaping out, Leonard rushed to the front of the horses, and seizing them by the head brought them to a sudden stop. 
               "Villains! what is the meaning of this?" cried he to the men upon the box. 
               One of the men jumped down, and with a tiger-like leap sprang upon Leonard and bore him to the earth. The other ruffian was about going to the assistance of his companion, when the horses, being frightened, became almost entirely unruly, and it was with great difficulty that the man who had hold of the reins could keep them from rushing over the cliff dragging the carriage after them. In the mean time Leonard struggled manfully with his opponent. If the ruffian was agile and powerful, the Colonel was no less so; and though taken by surprise, as he fell he drew a pistol, and instantly discharged it at the head of his assailant. The ball whistled harmlessly by, and the surer weapon of the ruffian's grasp was employed to as deadly a purpose. The Colonel felt that he was being dragged to the edge of the precipice. The desperation of intense fear lent him strength to resist, but in vain for his own preservation. Slowly the struggling twain neared the horrid brink, till they stood upon its direct verge, when despairing of future attempts to save himself, Leonard fastened with vice-like grip upon the belt of his adversary, whose last reckless effort precipitated both into the dreaded gulf together! 
               Ella, who was a horrified witness of the death of her husband, fell back insensible as the last sharp cry of the murdered man reached her ear as his body fell a mangled mass upon the icy rocks a hundred fathoms down. After some time the remaining ruffian succeeded in quieting the horses, and descending from his seat, walked to the edge of the precipice and gazed into the pitchy darkness. He listened, but he could hear nothing except the roaring of the wind and the rush of waters. 
               "Well, they're both done for, that's certing," said he, "poor Jack, he's gone up. Well, he died game. My eyes, but won't the Cap'n cuss some when he hears tell of this night's work? I wouldn't like to be that cove what hired us to do this job. When Cap'n Harrell hears of this he'll make him come down heavy with the blunt or he'll know the reason why.-But while I stand pattering here that gal might cut her lucky, and then I'd be in for it with a vengeance." Thus saying, he stepped into the carriage, and taking the inanimate form of Ella in his powerful arms, he lifted her out as easily as if she had been a child. Taking a bottle from his pocket he moistened her lips and bathed her forehead with its contents, which soon restored her to consciousness. Unfastening one of the horses from the carriage, the man took her again in his arms, and mounting the horse rode into the woods. It had now become sufficiently light to enable the ruffian to see a considerable distance ahead, and he urged the horse onward with as much speed as practicable. As soon as Ella was sufficiently recovered to realize her situation and remember the past, she began struggling to free herself, but as well might the lamb strive to escape the claws of the lion, or the hare the eagle's tallons. 
               "Unhand me, wretch!" she cried, "will not the death of my husband satisfy your thirst for blood, but you must seek the life of a defenceless woman! Fiend! Monster!! COWARD!!! 
               "Easy, easy, my lady bird, I don't intend to do you no particular harm; but don't call me ugly names, I can't stand that; it riles me, and when my blood's up I might be rough with you." 
               At this moment their further progress was impeded by the strange horseman whom we described in the last chapter. 
               "Stop!" said he, "whither are you carrying that lady against her will?" 
               "Move out of my way, Mister, or I'll put an ounce of cold lead in your bread-basket;" said the ruffian, continuing to advance. 
               "Oh! save me, sir, whoever you are, and heaven will reward you! Oh! save me from a fate worse than death!" cried Ella, frantically. 
               The villain now produced a pistol and presented it at the breast of the stranger, who, before he could fire, sent a bullet crashing through the ruffian's brain. As soon as he knew that his shot had done its work, the stranger caught Ella in his arms as she fell from the madly plunging horse. 
               "Oh! how shall I thank and reward you, generous sir!" exclaimed Ella. 
               "Let your own heart answer that question." Thus saying he threw aside the false hair and whiskers, and Walter Moreland stood before the astonished Ella. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               After the adjournment of Congress, the term for which her husband was elected having expired, Mrs. Farnsworth removed to New York City, and Ella Cameron, or rather Mrs. Leonard, was her guest. 
               In the splendidly furnished parlors of Mrs. Farnsworth's large and handsome house, two persons were sitting together late one night. They were youthful, of opposite sexes, and evidently lovers. Both were elegantly dressed, and handsome, the lady especially so. The lady was Ella, and the gentleman Walter Moreland. After he had rescued Ella from the ruffian who was bearing her off upon the night of her wedding, Walter had conducted her safely to her father, and as a reward for his timely aid Mr. Cameron had consented to bestow upon him his lovely daughter; he also explained to them how he had intercepted her letter and returned it to her. All had been forgiven, and the young lovers were to be married early in the following autumn. 
               The dainty clock upon the mantlepiece indicated the hour of midnight, when, with many tender caresses, many soft endearments, the lovers separated, and the young man departed from the house. 
               Upon the disappearance of her lover, the lady cast herself upon a lounge and fell to musing, and that her thoughts were of a pleasant character, the smile that wreathed her bright red lips fully indicated. 
               Suddenly the door of the room was very silently opened, and a man entered the apartment, and without disturbing the lady, glided softly up to her side. (This was a new servant-one John Weston, as he called himself-who had been engaged by Mrs. Farnsworth, on his own application but a few days previous.) 
               After regarding the beautiful Ella for a few moments, John made a scraping bow that at once aroused the lady from her abstraction. With a start she turned around and exclaimed: 
               "What's the matter, John? I did not ring." 
               "I thought I heard the bell, Miss." 
               "You were mistaken." 
               John stood still and made no offer to retire. After a few moments the lady added:- 
               "You can go, John?" 
               Yes, Miss." 
               Still John remained motionless upon the spot, intently regarding Ella-she noticing the direction of his eyes, said: 
               "Why do you look at me so particularly, John?" 
                
               "I was thinking how handsome you are, Miss; and wondering which I should rather have, you or your diamonds." 
               At first Ella flashed up angrily, but the next moment she seemed to take another view of the speech and laughed heartily. 
               "And which do you think you would prefer?" she inquired with a smile. 
               Drawing up his figure to its full height, and instantly changing his whole appearance, John responded in an entirely altered tone of voice: 
               "The jewels!" 
               The lady gazed at the servant in utter amazement. He was an altered being, no longer the humble menial, but a bright, quick, firm, resolute man. 
               "What is the meaning of this?" she demanded in tones of alarm. 
               Quick as a flash the man stepped close up beside her and grasped her arm. 
               "I want them jewels, and everything else of value you have about!" he exclaimed in tones that were not to be mistaken. 
               "Would you rob me?" 
               "Yes, robbery is my business!" 
               Ella would have screamed out with the terror of her emotions, but Harrell-for it was he-quickly clapped his hand over her mouth and smothered the sound. Then drawing a pistol from his pocket with his other hand, he said: 
               "If you value your life, keep quiet, and do what I tell you"-Then removing his hand from the lady's mouth, he continued: 
               "As I told you afore, Ma'am, I'll take them jewels and whatever else you've got of value." 
               Silently Ella divested herself of her valuable diamonds, and emptied her purse of its glittering contents; and as she laid down each article Harrell picked it up and dropped it into his pocket. At length the robber seemed satisfied. 
               "I believe, Ma'am, that the diamonds are the most valuable things in the house, and I'll not look any further," said Harrell, as with a quick, catlike, movement, he glided out of the room. 
               When Moreland was told of what had happened, he determined to capture the robber; but how could Walter hope to entrap this daring and cunning man, when all the police of New York could not accomplish that result? Well informed as the young man certainly was, he had undertaken a difficult task. How he prospered we shall see. 
               The next day an article appeared in the papers stating that if John Weston would call at Mrs. Farnsworth's at such a time on such an evening an offer would be made him for certain articles in his possession that would fully compensate him for returning them. 
               This was Walter Moreland's first move, and simple enough it seemed; and yet its transparency was just the thing to provoke the reckless and defiant spirit of Harrell. 
               The night indicated in the advertisement arrived and everything was prepared for the robber's capture in case he should make his appearance. At the hour named Harrell mounted the steps, rang the bell loudly and boldly, and was ushered, in to the house. Fifteen minutes later, with a wildly beating heart, Ella descended to the parlor for the purpose of recognizing the thief. 
               "I see you know me," said Harrell, "and I know why you advertised for me to come here. You thought you'd trap me and get your diamonds. I'll bet what you dare the police are not far off! But you don't know the man you have to deal with. Now listen!" the robber drew a pair of pistols from his pockets-"If you say a word or make a sign to bring the police down on me, you're a dead woman; I came here to show you that I'm not afeared and I don't mean to be taken if sacrifice a dozen lives in saving my own!" 
               Ella was trembling violently, and from the bottom of her heart she now regretted having had any hand in the matter. To the fullest she realized her perilous situation. 
               With his keen eyes fixed intently on her pale face, and his deadly weapons leveled at her swelling bosom, the robber-chief stood before her the very incarnation of a desperate, unrelenting resolution. 
               With an impulse of the wildest fear, she turned and fled toward the door. A single, quick bound placed Harrell beside her. Catching her by the shoulder he exclaimed: 
               "Another step, and I'll blow your brains out! Ha! ha! ha!" he laughed, "What a fool you must have taken me for!" 
               "The next moment Walter Moreland and a dozen police entered the room. As quick as thought Ella rushed for the door, and as she reached it, she turned and cried: 
               "Gentlemen, that is the man!" 
               Instantly the robber's soul was in arms. Upon uttering the words just recorded, Ella made an effort to retreat; but before she had disappeared from sight, Harrell sent a bullet after her. With a loud scream she fell to the floor wounded and bleeding. A cry of rage and terror went up, and the next moment Moreland and the police rushed at the robber. With remarkable rapidity Harrell leveled his remaining pistol at Moreland and shot him down; then dashing the empty weapon at the head of the foremost officer, and just as a volley was fired at him, he leaped from the window and fell dead on the pavement below, with a dozen bullets in his body. 
               Ella and Moreland were conveyed into other apartments, and a physician summoned to attend them. Their wounds were found to be quite serious but not necessary mortal, and careful nursing ultimately restored them to health and strength. 
               Immediately upon their recovery they were married, and everything being in readiness beforehand, they took their departure for the home of the bride in the sunny South, where winter comes not with its icy blasts to chill the heart's young affections, but genial summer ever reigns supreme, and where lovely woman, heaven's choicest gift to man, blooms and ripens to perfection. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
