
    ----CITATION----
        Herbert, Sarah A. F.. Trust, or, A Peep at Eaton Parsonage .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6707
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Trust, or, A peep at Eaton parsonage
             
                Trust-pge 89. HOME, SWEET HOME.   TRUST: OR, A PEEP AT EATON PARSONAGE. BY SARAH A. F. HERBERT.  NEW YORK: ANSON D. F. RANDOLPH. No. 770 BROADWAY. 1866.     Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1866, BY ANSON D. F. RANDOLPH, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York,  EDWARD O. JENKINS, PRINTER 20 NORTH WILLIAM ST,   PREFACE. IF my pen has obeyed the desire of my heart, this little book will be found true to Jesus, and the soul's highest life. It has been my purpose to exemplify in its pages those things which are true, honest, just, pure, lovely, and of good report, hoping that many, by thinking on these things, may-become wiser, happier and holier. Dedicating my work to no earthly friend, but to Jesus, the nearest and dearest, I submit it to the public, praying that it go not forth, except His presence go with it. S. A. F. H.       CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. EIGHT O'CLOCK, A. M., AT EATON PARSONAGE. 7 CHAPTER II. THE SORROWFUL GUEST ............................. 12 CHAPTER III. How THEY LIVED ON THE SALARY .................. 20 CHAPTER IV. MART'S FIRST DINNER ............... ............. 28 CHAPTER V. MNISTERS' WIVES AND MARTYRDOM  .............. e88 CHAPTER VI. PERFECT UNION .......... ....  ..........   47 CHAPTER VII. ELEMENTS OF SUCCESS. . .................. 7... 7 CHAPTER VIII. THE END OF THE BEGINNING; BEING THE LAST OF THE FIRST QUARTER........... ..........67 (5)     6          CONTENTS. CHAPTER IX. HOME, SWEET HOME.............................. 84 CHAPTER   X. RESULTS OF PENNIES AND MOMENTS SAVED .......... 103 CHAPTER XI. BUCEPHALUS ...................................... 115 CHAPTER XII. MNISTERIAL INTERCOURSE .  ...................... . 125 CHAPTER XIII. HAPPY HEARTS AT EATON PARSONAGE............... 14 CHAPTER XIV. THE NEW PARSONAGE ...........   ................ 151 CHAPTER XV. Music.-A STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL .................. 171 CHAPTER XVI, AN AUTHOR'S PENANCE AND REWARD.............. 178   X]Jor at E at on Parsonage. S 4CHAPTER I. EIGHT O'CLOCK A. M. AT EATON PARSONAGE. "Early to bed, and early to rise, Makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise." THE little mantel clock in the sunny par- lor at Eaton Parsonage, and the gold watch on the minister's study table, said "Eight o'clock." Eight o'clock of a January morning. The minister looks calmly from the face of his faithful watch to the text freshly written on the pure first page of his next Sabbath's sermon.  He reads it over thoughtfully: (7)     8     EATON PARSONAGE. "Not slothful in business, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord." His face lights up with a joyful, loving smile. "My Mary's life each day," breathes he, "is a better sermon on that text than I, or any man, can write. To her I owe it that I am in my study every morning at eight. What a sinner I shall be if I don't write good sermons, with such a wife! "This is not my sermon, I know, but to think of Mary will help me to it. She is 'not slothful in business'; she is 'fer- vent in spirit'; thus she 'serves the Lord.' "I have it! The best possible plan for my sermon! A textual division. I will model my sermon on the plan of Mary's life; may as great a blessing attend it." And the minister addresses himself to his work, courageous in thb consciousness of three good study hours, the freshest and   I %    'EIGHT O'CLOCK, A. M.    9 best in the day, before the time for his mid- i  day exercise. In the sunny parlor sits the fair-browed, clear-eyed, sweet-lipped "Mary," singing in her heart a cheerful accompaniment to the music of her sewing-machine, as she rapidly lowers the pile of work fitted the previous evening. "Little Mary," seven years old, and Willy, two years younger, study their easy lessons in the recess where the monthly roses blossom, and the pet bird sings ; while Etta, the three-years-old baby, plays ot the carpet with Neptune. The little clock chimes eight.  The pretty wife looks the pretty clock joyfully in the face. "Eight o'clock," she thinks, "my husband is a student. That eight o'clock bell finds him ever about his ' Father's business.' May Jesus be his companion and helper this morning."     10     EATON PARSONAGE. What vitality-physi6al, mental, spiritual -brings a morning at Eaton parsonage. Up at five-wly not in winter as in sum- mer?--into the bathroom  a-shiver, out again aglow; then, clad in warmest garb, away upon the snow and ice-husband, wife, and children-sliding, skating, coasting; drinking in life and health with the first blush of dawn, and fullness of joy with the glory of the perfect sunrise. Home again they come, glowing with the happiness of quickened physical and intellectual life, and eager with healthful hunger for the simple breakfast of boiled wheat, and fresh, delicious milk. After breakfast comes family worship. A short passage of scripture is read, and clearly explained; a hymn is sung by all, with Mary at the piano; and a prayer, not long, but "fervent, effectual," is offered. Then follows a short season of happy, helpful converse, till the clock " gives warn-   EIGHT O'CLOCK, A. M.   " ing" of eight o'clock, when the minister speeds to his study, the children to their books, and Mary to a mother's ever-abiding, happy cares. Such is eight o'clock A. M. at Eaton Par- sonage. ,     CHAPTER   II. THE SORROWFUL GUEST. "A merry heart doeth good like a medicine; but a broken spirit drieth the bones." THE little mantel clock in the sunny parlor at Eaton Parsonage chimed nine o'clock. "Little Mary" and Willy were at school; Bridget had taken baby Etta into the kitchen "for company," and Mrs. Mellen (our Mary) was still busy at the sewing- machine, stitching and fitting by turns. It was fine sleighing, and Mary heard with joy the music of many sleighs, which she was far too busy to watch. At length, however, a merry jingle suddenly ceased, and one of the prettiest sleighs stood at the gate. (12)   THE SORROWFUL GUEST.    13 Mary's attention was arrested, and glanc- ing from the window, she recognized in her guests Mr. Burton, the minister of the neighboring town of Harding, and his wife, who was a dear friend of her school days. Without waiting for them to ring, Mary met them with joyful welcome at the door, and her husband, too, came down from the study with cordial greetings. But Mr. Burton said: "I must away to Auburn to-day myself, but will leave my Ellen with you till even- ing ;" and without even entering the parlor he was gone. Mr. Mellen went in with the ladies, speaking a few words of hearty welcome to Mrs. Burton, and then, courteously excusing himself, retired to his study. Mrs. Burton sat in the easy chair, before- the pleasant, open fire. Mary was pained, as she took off her bonnet, to see how pare and care-worn her dear friend Ellen had 2     "    EATON PARSONAGE. grown; for although her dark eyes lighted up with pleasure, and her thin cheek flushed with joy, on meeting Mary, the settled look of overburdening care came quickly back to quench out all the brightness. As Mary knelt by her side to take off her rubbers, Ellen threw her arms about her neck, sobbing out: "Oh, Mary, my heart rejoices to see you blooming with youth, and health, and joy; but oh, for dear Arthur's sake, I am so sorry my youth, health, beauty, energy, all - all - are gone, forever gone! ' "Oh, Ellen," cried Mary; " you must not say so. You are- not well; returning health will bring back all you bewail as lost." And with her soft little hand Mary smoothed Ellen's fine dark hair, and soothed and caressed her as she would a child. Ellen grew calm, but the settled look of pain lingered on lip and brow.   THE SORROWFUL GUEST.    15 Poor Ellen!  Eight years at Harding Parsonage had indeed made sad havoc of health and beauty.  She was very I  nearly Mary's age (now twenty-eight), and to many eyes had been as kandsome, though never as lovely, as her friend. Yes, at twenty Ellen possessed the boon of beauty.   Her tall, symmetrical figure, and dignified manners, her fine black eyes and hair; her clear, dark complexion, and regular features, gave her just claim to the title, so often vainly coveted- beautiful. Now, she said truly, her charms had fled. N; ot forever," said hopeful, indefatigable Mary; she must have health, and hope, and joy again; they will bring back life to her eyes, bloom to her cheek, and energy and grace to her lifeless figure. :!  Sweet, bright Mary  She was as fresh and lovely now as when, eight years ago, she became the happy bride of Ernest :ilj     16     EATON PARSONAGE. Mellen. Her beauty seemed ever new and young, and burst upon you in a constant succession of surprises. Nothing ever marred or hurt it. She cut her hair short because she could not braid it, and would not wear its wealth of long ringlets; so it took its revenge by ringing itself into a thousand child-like curls, clustering lovingly on neck and brow. Yes, beauty nestled for you in every dark, yet golden, ring of hair; it lurked in the merry dimples which played with every smile about her mouth; it flickered and gleamed like rosy light in the changeful glow of her cheek; it beamed out upon you, and yet waited for you, in the deep, dark wells of her blue eyes; it rippled before you, like sunlit waves, in the perfect grace of every motion, and floated to you in the sweet music of every word. Others might be beautiful, but never like Mary; for her loveliness, as we have said,   THE SORROWFUL GUEST.    17 came to you each day, fresh and glowing as the morning light. Her beauty, too, like that of the sunlight and the waves, the birds and the flowers, seemed made for others, and not for herself to enjoy. She was as natural, and unconscious of her charms, as her baby or her kitten. Mary soothed her friend into calmness; then very gently, but with, a touch of play- fulness, she said: "I am to be your nurse to-day, dear Ellen, and first of all, you need a second breakfast after your ride." Ellen protested, but Mary, only answer- ing with a smile, glided into the kitchen, whence she returned in a few minutes, fol- lowed by Bridget, bearing a tray, upon which was arranged a tempting breakfast. Mary drew a little table up before the fire, and covered it with a snowy cloth. Bridget set the tray upon it and left the     18     EATON PARSONAGE. How bright and nice was everything  Mary poured the fragrant tea into the pure, transparent cup, and set it, with a plate of perfect toast, and a saucer of delicious canned strawherries and cream, before her friend, who ate and was refreshed. When the tray was removed, Mary took a pair of Willy's pants from the sewing- machine, and sitting down by Ellen began making the first of the thirteen required button-holes. "Now, dear Ellen," said she; "we can talk; and you must tell me all your troubles, especially the little ones, such as you never mention to other people. We have helped each other out of many a difficulty in the pleasant school days." "Oh, Mary," cried Ellen " you know you never needed help, but I was always draw- ing on your surplus revenue of energy. And I have come here to-day expressly to tell you our troubles, and to ask your advice, and   THE SORROWFUL GUEST.    19 instruction." Here Mrs. Burton blushed a V   little,and forced herself abruptly to ask: "Do you live on your salary Mary, and if so, how do you do it?" !     CHAPTER III. HOW THEY LIVED ON THE SALARY. "Well begun is half done." MRS. BURTON blushed a little, and forced herself abruptly to say : "  Do you live on your salary Mary, and, if you do, how do you do it " "Oh yes," replied Mary, " we have never overrun the salary; we started with the deter- mination that we must not, and would not be in debt. No minister can live under an incubus of debt. Knowing this, -we have practised a sufficiently rigid economy to keep decidedly within our means." "The salary is the same here and at Hard- ing," said Ellen, "and your family is larger than ours; I lave tried to be very economi- cal, yet we are deeply in debt. Oh Mary, (20)   HOW THEY LIVED.     21 can you, will you, answer my second question; how have you done it? how have you lived within your means? Mary threw aside her work, and seating herself on a low ottoman at Ellen's feet, look- ed up into her face, with a countenance ex- pressive of the deepest sympathy. "will try, dear Ellen " said she, "to tell you how it has been done, but I fear you will think some of the details trivial, and others perhaps mean; you will need constantly to call to mind the many true proverbs on this subject, such as 'Take care of the pennies and the pounds will take care of themselves, it - &C." " I shall hardly need to remember proverbs, dear Mary," said Ellen," when I have before me those blessed results of your economy, which are your amplest justification, and no- blest praise." Smiling her thanks, for this well deserved praise, Mary brought thoughtfully, from a     22     EATON PARSONAGE. drawer of her secretary, a pile of little mem- orandum books, and laid them fn her friend's lap, saying: "There are our accounts for the last eight years. No one, but Ernest and myself, has ever seen the contents. I think every cent we have spent is here put down, and I will look them over with you, and try to tell you how we have lived. This is the first." "It is your writing,Mary," said Ellen," have you kept all the accounts?" "Yes Ellen, and managed everything re- lative to the housekeeping myself. My hus- band keeps a memorandum of whatever he spends and requests me to copy it into the family account book; so that everything is down here.  t has been a great relief to Ernest, not to have his mind diverted by these cares. I have of course in all things obeyed his wishes. Now, let us look at the first account book." "I am sure, Mary," said Ellen, "I could   HOW THEY LIVED.     23 never learn anything from the dry figures. Can't you put it into a story for me? Tell me how you began, how you got along the first quarter, and the first year, just how you managed-what you bought, and what you didn't buy-what you had for dinner, and everything. You know how to do it, Mary, and I will try very hard to profit by all you tell me." And Ellen, closing her eyes, leaned back wearily in her chair, with the troubled, yet confiding and expectant look with which a grieved child goes to a mother to be interest- ed, helped and comforted. As Mary looked up into that sorrowful face, her own eyes filled with tears and she breath- ed a prayer, which Jesus heard, that she might be permitted to bring aid and blessing to her friend. Though Mary's eyes smiled through a mist of sympathizing tears, she commenced her story cheerfully:     24    EATON PARSONAGE. Yes Ellen, I will tell you how we began ; how we managed the first quarter, and the first year; and even about my first dinner, too, ifyou wish. "We were alone, Ernest and I, when we be- gan housekeeping; we kept no help. We were not in debt. My parents had fitted me out handsomely for housekeeping : my ward- robe, too, was complete, as was my husband's also, and I felt that, although we had no money in store for the future, we were be- ginning very prosperously. I was very anx- ious-now that' our expenses were compar- atively small-to economize, and lay up some- thing from the salary for future emergencies ; well knowing how much our happiness and usefulness might depend upon it. "So one morning, about a week after we commenced housekeeping, I had a conversa- tion with my husband on this subject. He had never given much thought to these mat- ters, but expressed himself willing and de-   HOW THEY LIVED.     25 sirous to practice the most rigid economy. Still I saw that his high and sensitive spirit was chafed by the contact of these things, and at once resolved to keep the burden from him as much as possible. He said to me: "'Mary, my last quarter's salary was paid me yesterday, but, as you know, I had spent it before I received it, and this twenty-five dollars is all the money I have in the world, after settling the bills which I have noted down here in my memorandum book; but you know the salary is going on, and it will be more convenient to keep bills at the stores, and we will pay quarterly, when the salary, comes in.' ' Oh Ernest,' cried I, eagerly, 'we must not have bills, and be always a quarter in debt; it will ruin us ' "Looking up into my husband's face, as I spoke, I saw that my words gave him pain. " Oh my husband, pleaded I, forgive me. I did not think how my words might sound,     26     EATON PARSONAGE. or seem to you. I am far too eager, but it is only to see you placed above debasing anxiety about filthy lucre. It is not to such cares you should devote your life-energies. God has given you noble gifts, for a nobler end.' "Ernest looked tenderly and thoughtfully into my eyes, then pressing me suddenly to his heart, he exclaimed: "'Mary, you must not burden yourself with these cares; God forbid that your young, bright life, should be thus overshadowed ' "'It will not overshadow my life,' I said, but make it very bright to save you from care. I will show you what wonders I can do with a little. Let us have as few- bills as possible this quarter, and when the salary next comes in, perhaps we can make it last through the three months following; then eO shall be independent!' "' Little Hopeful ' cried Ernest, 'may you be rewarded according to your faith. You accepted my hand and heart, please accept S   :    .HOW TtIEY LIVED.     27 my fortune also,' laying the twenty-five dol- lars in my lap. 'I commend all my financial concerns to your keeping Indeed,' said he seriously,' I shall breathe a new and inspir- ing atmosphere, if you can release me from pecuniary care.' "I resolved then, that, with God's blessing I would do it." I'     CHAPTER IV. MARY'S FIRST DINNER. "Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith."' "T was a bright June morning, when the conversation with my husband occurred, and he went to his study saying that he felt rich with his new bank, and banker. The bank was the little private drawer of the secretary there, and in it Ernest had deposited twenty dollars, putting the remaining five in his purse for personal expenses. I resolved to keep the credit of our bank good, if possible. "I went to my work in the kitchen. The cooked provisions, which our people had kindly sent in at our coming, were quite gone, but they had also provided us with other stores. (28)   MARY'S FIRST DINNER.    29 "There were, in the pantry, a barrel of flour, and a bag of Indian meal, a bucket of sugar, a can of molasses, some beans, peas, and dried apples, some boxes also, containing rice, tap- ioca, spices, &c. In the cellar, too, were a tub  of salt pork, a jar of butter, and plenty of potatoes. "These stores did not seem much to Ernest, but to me they were a mine of wealth, and my thanks to the people, chming from my heart, were so warm that my husband feared they would seem overstrained. But the people were pleased, thinking that I was practical and appreciated their gifts. "As I was washing my breakfast dishes, the baker called, and I was tempted to take "a loaf for dinner, but did not. 'As long as possible,' thought I, 'the twenty dollar bill must remain unbroken.' "I had just found, on consulting my purse, that I had fifty-three cents in change, when tthe butcher called. (His name was Brown; 3*     30     EATON PARSONAGE. I knew him to be a good man, and a member of our church.) "I put on my sun-hat, and went out to the cart. It was well filled; there were fine roasts, and steaks of beef and veal, and quart- ers of fat lamb, all temptingly displayed. I looked a little embarrassed I suppose, for the man said good-naturedly: "'I suppose you're not much used to mar- keting ; if you would like a nice steak, here is a fine tender sirloin, fifteen cents a pound* ---and here is lamb or veal, if you pre- fer.' "I shook my head and threw off my re- serve. 'Mr. Brown,' said I, 'you must help me to be economical; at present we can't afford first cuts of meat, but I know how to cook all sorts of nice dishes from the cheap pieces, and I doubt not you will furnish them to me with pleasure.' * The reader will bear in mind that "Mary ' speaks of prices as they were some years before the war.   MARY'S FIRST DINNER.   31 "'Certainly' he replied, 'I will always take pains to reserve you anything you wish; and, if it isn't bein' too bold, your economy is greatly to your credit.' "'I am sure, Mr. Brown,' said I, smiling, 'you are very kind, and I thank you both for your compliment and your promise. For to- day I would like that leg of veal-from which you have been cutting steaks-for a soup, but you have not taken all the steaks yet,I see.' "'They can just as well be cut now,' he replied; so he cut the steaks, leaving,I ob- served, a liberal quantity of meat, for me. While he was sawing the bone, I ran in and was ready with my purse and pan when he entered. "' It comes to eighteen cents,' said he. "' Why, Mr. Brown,' I exclaimed, ' that is very cheap ; you must be one ofthose, I think, who take pleasure in being kind to your minister.' His honest eyes smiled into mine,     32     EATON PARSONAGE. as gratefully as if it were I who had confer- red a kindness. "'It is true,' he replied,' I always meant to favor my minister's family, but I hav'nt, always found it so pleasant as I do to-day.' A shadow came over his face, which I did not then understand. Afterwards, his wife told me, that her husband sold meat a year on credit to our predecessor, Mr. S., at re- duced prices, eight cents for roasting pieces, I which were twelve cents to others, and sir- loin steaks for twelve, for which others paid fifteen, &c., and at the end of the year, iwhen they settled, Mr. S., said: 'Well, meat is enormously dear, Isuppose your bill is all right; but I should not have i thought it possible, that it could be so much for our little family I' "I surveyed my eighteen cents' worth of veal and bones with great complacency. 'This,' I reasoned, 'will be all the meat we ! shall want for a week. First for to-day, I    MARY'S FIRST DINNER.     33 can cut some nice little slices here, which with a bit of salt pork will make an excel- lent'pot-pie' for dinner; then to-morrow I will boil the rest, which will make a deli- cious soup, enough for two or three dinners, and the tough meat, when boiled perfectly tender, will make another good meal, hashed  and served on buttered toast. But I must not have veal all the time lest we get tired of it; I will have some nicely browned salt fi fish balls, and some of those fine early beets I   from the garden, boiled for greens, with a  nice piece of pork; the asparagus, too, is just coming on, and I can have some stewed peas, or baked beans, if I please; there is no trouble about making a variety, even at this worst season of the year.' "But I did not spend much time in rea- soning, I had far too much to do in the fleet- ing morning hours. One of our neighbors, who kept ten cows, had said to me,' If you have any use for sour milk, or buttermilk, let     34     EATON PARSONAGE. mee know, for we have plenty, mWhich we should be glad to give you.' The time had come, when I wanted it. So, taking Mrs. W. at her word, I went over for some. "Mrs. W., and her daughters, seemed very much pleased, when I made known my er- rand. They took me into the dairy to see its wealth of butter, cream, and cheese ; then they filled a large pail of their own with the top of the buttermilk-as rich almost as cream-and called 'Johnny' to carry it home for me; and insisted that he should take the pail which I had brought also. They detained me a few minutes in pleasant conversation, so that, when I got home, I found Johnny waiting on the steps, with the pails. In mine was a ball of golden butter, and a piece of new cheese, the first of the season. I was as pleased as a child, and the little boy, who witnessed my joy with evident surprise, remarked very innocently  "'You wouldn't have got the butter and   MARY'S PIRST DINNER.   35 cheese, if you hadn't come over for the but- termilk. Mother says it's something like to have the minister's wife run in neighborly, with a pail, in the forenoon, instead of being stuck-up, like Mrs. S.' I heated my stove oven, and baked some gingerbread, made without butter or eggs. The rich creamy buttermilk made it suffi- ciently short, and its acidity,. combining with the soda, which I added the minute it went into the oven, insured lightness. The gingerbread was followed by an oven full of flour biscuits made on the same principle, which came out, marvelous puffs, of snowy whiteness, to give place to an Indian cake for dinner. "In the mean time I had stewed my slices of veal, and making a crust, sure to be light tender and healthful, of mashed potatoes and a little flour, buttermilk add soda, I had my 'pot-pie ' very carefully cooking on the back part of the stove.     36     EATON PARSONAGE. "I ran out to the garden (it had been Er- nest's care and pride, all the spring, to get a fine garden ready for my coming) and got a nice head of lettuce, and some radishes, and in due time, my dinner was served in fine style! "Ernest was astonished, for he thought we had nothing in the house to eat I The veaL pie was 'excellent,' he said, 'the best he ever tasted,' and yet he was not afraid to eat it, it was so simple and healthful; and the Indian bread as light and delicate as sponge cake, he thought so much better than any pudding. "' After our talk this morning,' said Ernest, 'I had resigned myself to hard fare, Mary, and you call me to a most perfect dinner; you must not overdo, my love, I am not given to caring for appetite.' "I almost shed tears of joy, as he said this to me after dinner. "' It is the first dinner I ever cooked for   MARY'S FIRST DINNER.    37 you,' said I,' and I am so pleased to have you truly like it. It was a very cheap dinner, Ernest.' "'I don't understand how that can be, Mary,' he replied ; 'but, if it is so, give me cheap dinners forever; for I never want a better I'     CHAPTER V. MNISTERS' WIVES, AND MARTYRDOM. "He that taketh not his cross, and followeth after me, Is not worthy of me." "ERNEST was going to walk two miles away, to attend a funeral, that afternoon; so he quickly bade me good-bye, and was leaving me. "There had been a cloud over my heart all the morning-a cloud bright indeed with the sunshine of his undoubted love-still a mist -a shadow-which I did not want there, and I called him back: "'Ernest-dear husband!' He came back, and drew me to a seat by his side upon the sofa, saying tenderly: "'What is it, my own dear wife?' (s8)   MNISTER'S WIVES.    39 'Oh, Ernest, if there was any shadow of wrong in what I said and did this morning about the salary, and the money, and the mlanagement of things, I want to beg your forgiveness. Indeed I did not mean-' "Why, Mary,' exclaimed Ernest, ' you meant and did all that is noblest, truest, best! I am grieved indeed to have left a shadowy on your heart; and I am afraid that, even now, I do not quite understand your trou- ble-your fear.' "'Since you do not see it, how can I tell you?' replied I, with hot blushes upon my cheeks. 'I feared I might seem to be assuming your place or duties.' "'My dear little wife ' cried Ernest, 'had Satan leave to vex you with such a thought? What saith the Scripture?"It is not reason that we" (the ministers) "should leave the word of God and serve tables." "Full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom," you appoint yourself over this business, that I     40     EATON PARSONAGE. may give myself to prayer and to the ministry of the word.' "I jumped up joyfully. 'It is all clear to me now,' I exclaimed ' I am assuming, not your duties, but those of the "seven dea- cons"-or others appointed by the people- who should see that the minister is exempted from all need of narrow and debasing pecu- niary care! No, my husband, you shall pil  nver leave thb word of God to serve tables! "I caught sight of my image in the mirror, glowing with enthusiasm. Ernest cast a ra- diant look upon me, but it died away into unutterable sadness, as he said: "Oh Mary, my pearl, my life! must this martyrdom of care and toil be yours?' "'No, my husband,' breathed I, 'to anoth- er, for another, it might be death ; but to me, for your sake and our Lord's, fullness of life.' "The radiance came back to his face again,    MNISTERS WIVES.    41 and so we parted, at the tolling of the bell- an hour before the funeral. "The tolling of the bell always makes me thoughtful, sometimes joyous, thinking of heaven, sometimes sad, thinking of earth. At that time I thought of ministers' wives and martyrdom." ' Dear Mary" said Mrs. Burton-who by this time had aroused herself from her list- less sadness, and was listening eagerly to her friend's story--"it has not been death to you, but 'fullness of life,' as you told your husband but to me, it has proved a living mar- tyrdom. Nor to me alone, Mary ; it is true that ministers' wives do die young. Only think of the widowers, and ministers with their second, or third wives, in this associa- tion! Read the notices of death, too, how often does a ' twenty' or 'thirty' help to tell us the age and history of the departed minister's wife? ' Minister's wife,' the very words suggest to my mind a pale and care- 4*     42    EATON PARSONAGE. worn being, surrounded by an ever-revolving circle of hungry demands-the pulpit, the Sabbath-school, the prayer meeting, the sew- ing society, the parish, the study, the parlor, the nursery, the kitchen-all, like hungry beasts, drinking up the springs of her life, till she sinks into an early and welcome grave." Ellen's dark eyes flashed with indignant fire, then softened, and welled over with tears, as she went on: "I love my husband (by your own heart, Mary, you can tell how much), and I love my Saviour-and our people, for whom He died; my heart yearns over them ; but how much more might we do for them, were we not bound hand and foot by the shackles of pov- erty? "Why should the Lord's ambassador, who comes to a people laden with the only true riches, the heavenly gift, be thus bereft of his strength, for the want of a hundred or   MNISTERS' WIVES.    43 two of dollars more per year? Surely it is grievous wrong. "But Mary, you have borne all this burden for yourself, and your husband also; yet you are neither bowed nor broken beneath the weight. Please go on with your story, and tell me whence distilled the dew of Hermon, which has kept all the bright buds and blos- soms of your physical and spiritual life so fresh." "You know I was telling you," continued Mary, "that, as the bell tolled, I sat and thought of these subjects; and,as I thought, God only knows how hard it was not to feel unreconciled to things as they were. All you have suggested, and much more, came to my mind. My thoughts were firstly and mostly of my husband, and then of my- self, for his sake. I thought of his rare gifts, and the needful time and suitable atmo- sphere for his intellectual, and spiritual devel- opment-so essential to his people's good.     "    EATON PARSONAGE. "I thought how much his nobler nature would suffer, in coming down to those con- temptible four-pence-ha'penny calculations, which I felt must be rigidly and unremitting- ly, made, if we would keep clear of the fa- tal incubus of debt. I reiterated my resolve, that I would shield him from the contact of all petty and debasing cares. "Then I thought that it would take all my time, and energy to meet these demands. That I must give up my dearly loved intel- lectual pursuits-my writing, my books, my music even-(you know Ellen how dear they were to me) that, failing to grow intellectu- ally, perhaps I should become less and less the companion of my husband's inner, truer, self, and less and less worthy of the love and devotion of his inmost heart. That thought was agony. "Then I remembered, that two hundred dollars more a year, would render all this sacrifice unnecessary, and enable us to devote i   MNISTERS' WIVES.    45 our united energies to the highest good to our people. "I wrought myself into an agony with these, and kindred thoughts, and shed bitter, bitter tears. "My husband was gone; I had no refuge but Jesus. Oh! what other was ever needed? I fled to Him with my burden. Lying low at those feet, wounded for my transgressions, all the suffering ministry of our perfect Lord passed before me-from his birth in a man- ger, to His martyrdom of untold agony. "Then I heard Him say, in gentlest tones, to every disciple, ' The servant is not greater than his Lord,' and I wept that I had mur- mured at following in His footsteps of suf- fering; and I bowed my head penitently to His yoke. Then, how sweetly was verified to me His blessed promise to te laboring and heavy laden. How easy was His yoke, how light His burden, what rest did I find unto my soul.     Gf   46     EATON PARSONAGE. "O01 tie refreslhment of that perfect resting in the will of Jesus ;-like the water which flowed from the smitten rock in the wilder- ness, it has followed me through all my jour- ney.' "This then, dear Mary," said Ellen, "is the dew-not of Hermon but of Heaven- which has distilled daily upon your path, and kept all the buds and blossoms of your being fresh." "Yes," replied Mary, "I have wrought and suffered, not in my own strength, but in that of Jesus, and He has turned my sigh- ings into songs, and my sufferings into joys, and made the darkest paths radiant with light and love."  '    CHAPTER VI. PERFECT UNION. "Abide in me." MARY paused thoughtfully a few minutes, and then resumed her narrative : "I had no callers that afternoon. Jesus, infinite in condescension, was my guest, and he permitted no interruption. Never, in time or eternity, shall I forget those hours. I took no note of time, and Ernest, who had a ride home from the funeral, came in to find me on the sofa where he left me, still wearing my morning wrapper. "He came, and seating himself beside me, said: "'Mary, you have been here all the after- noon, and, though you look peaceful and (47)     EATON PARSONAGE.   happy, you have yet been weeping. I know you will wish to tell me your inmost heart.' "How his words pierced me; had I not feared our 'inmost hearts' might be estranged. Could I tell him this, and all the bitter thoughts of that hour of suffer- ing? My heart beat against his, and my words were whispered on his bosom, as he bent down to catch them from my lips. "'My thoughts have been wrong, so very wicked and wrong, dear husband, and they would pain you; ought I to tell you that which will give you pain?' "'My dear wife,' he replied, 'have you learned, since I left you, to trust Jesus per- fectly  Do you know for the first time the fullness of His meaning, when He says, Abide in me ' "' Yes,' breathed I, astonished that he had so quickly read my heart. "',You will pardon me, dear Mary, for   asking you that question before I answered yours, as to whether you ought to confide to me thoughts which would give me pain. Your own heait, I doubt not, will answer your question aright, since you have to-day learned to trust. The Bible teaches us that our union should be as nearly as possible like that which exists between Jesus and his chosen ones. I am to love you as Christ does His church, and it shall be the labor of my life to deserve, in return, your per- fect trust.' "I hid my face on his shoulder, thrilled through with a new happiness, even the blessed consciousness of our perfect union of heart. "'I cannot tell you how the fullness of your love blesses me,' I murmured; ' there is nothing in my heart which I am not willing to confide to you.' "Then I told him of the struggle through which I had passed, even of my agonizing 5   48   PERFECT UNION.     50   EATON PARSONAGE. r   -51.   PERFECT UNION.   fears that, being separated in our pursuits, we might 'be separated also in our inner and truer life. "He listened to me with that profound quietude of attention, which is so character- istic of the perfect gentleman; then, when I had finished, he said, very gently: "' Will you confide to me, also, why you shrunk from letting me know these thouglits? ' "I told him that, too, though it was hard- est of all ; how I had not wished to suggest that I had ever thought such an estrange- ment possible, because I desired to devote -myself to the work in question, even if it cost me this greatest sacrifice. "' But now, dear husband,' I said, raising my eyes for the first time to his,' I am most happy in being permitted to confide all to you. I know also that any such estrange- ment is impossible, and I beg your forgive- ness for having thought it so. Oh, Ernest I   how much my heart blesses you for winning me to you in this fullness of trst!' "; Rather,' he replied, 'let my heart bless you for trusting me, who a'm so unworthy. Let us never forget that we are one; and what God hath joined together, surely noth- ing shall put asunder.' "After a few  moments of thoughtful silence, my husband said: "'Mary, you liave been sorely tempted to-day, and nobly have you triumphed; not in yourself, indeed, but in Jesus. Now, my love, "you must count it all joy," as the apostle James says, since these "divers temp- tations" were for the trial of your faith; which trial another apostle pronounces "more precious than that of gold, which perisheth." Have you ever thought much, Mary, about temptations?' "'No,' I replied, ' I never am conscious of being tempted; indeed, I always fear to think I am, lest, like my mother Eve, I be   I     I1$i {4   52     EATON PARSONAGE.  found casting my sins on Satan's shoulders, saying, "The serpent beguiled me and I did eat. " "' All that is very honorable in you,' said Ernest, smiling; 'and yet I must tell you, seriously, that it will not do for us thus to ignore the " devices" of our great adversary, "Lest Satan should get an advantage of usq, through our ignorance. The Bible teaches us that God does suffer His dearest ones to be tempted of Satan; only think of the many, many instances recorded; even our blessed Saviour, how long, and how sorely was he tried? Surely of this, as of His other sufferings, He says to us, "The servant- is not greater than his Lord." His prayer teaches us daily to plead, "Lead us not into temptation." "' I believe, dear Mary, that Satan never sees us happy, in any pure and holy love or service, but he longs and tries to destroy our peace, by leading us into sin.     PERFECT UNION.     53 "'Thus, this morning, when you so nobly undertook to relieve me of a great hind- rance in the work of saving souls, he tempted you to think you were assuming your husband's place. When, instead of brooding over the thought, you came con- fidingly to me with it, Satan was foiled; He could never more vex you with that thought. "'But, no sooner was I gone, than he rolled a far deeper flood of temptation over your soul. "'At first you yielded, or resisted in your own strength, and all the waves anj billows went over you. When you fled to Jesus, and, confiding all to Him, trusted Him for pardon and help, Satan was again foiled,4 for the river of your peace flowed broader and deeper than ever.  "'Failing to plant seeds of spiritual re- bellion and repining, Satan had yet another little noxious germ, which, if it could find 5*     li if54     EATON PARSONAGE. lodgment in your heart, mightt grow into our estrangement. If he could make you believe you ought to hide yogr thoughts from me, and bring the shadow of ever so little a cloud of concealment between us, it might, by'his constant vigilance, be made to overspread and blacken the whole heaven of our love. "' I thank God, and I thank you, too, dearest, that, with your heart throbbing here against my own, I may sayv these things to you, and beg you, as Christ's ambassador, to keep the most unclouded openness be- tween your soul and your Saviour. Jesus has this day poured into your heart the balm of a perfect trust. Satan, baffled but not destroyed, gnashes his teeth in rage, and still lurks to vex and destroy. Ifoubt not that he will try many devices to overshadow this trust, which is his deadliest enemy. "'From them all there is a sure refuge at the feet of Jesus. Fly ever to Him, con- I    PERFECT UNION.     55 fiding all, every evil and rebellious thought, every murmur of discontent, every hard thought of His government or discipline, every doubt and fear-every sin, however heinous, however small. So shall you find constant pardon, peace, and safety, as you bring all your heart, with utmost openness, to be pardoned, purified, and kept by Jesus.' "'And, dear husband,' said I, looking up into his face through happy tears, which he wiped, away, 'you said this perfect union with Jesus was the model for our own.' "'Yes, dearest; and therefore we must have no secrets from each other, not even in our innmost thoughts. Let us pledge our- selves to each other now, ever to maintain this perfect transparency of heart inter- course.' "And the pledge was then given, which, I can say with joy, has ever been faithfully kept.     i  -56      EATON PARSONAGE. "After a few moments of perfect quiet, Ernest said, in tones so sweet and low that they seemed the voice of that silence: "' Mary, our perfect union must not only ennoble and elevate us, but help us in yield- ing to Jesus also a perfect trust. Let us go to Him.' "And we breathed our united prayers at the feet of our Saviour."   CHAPTER   VII. ELEMENTS OF. SUCCESS. "Every good tree bringeth forth good fruit." MR. MELLEN came down from his study, just as the little clock had struck eleven, and finding Mrs. Burton alone (Mary had just gone into the kitchen to give some needful directions about dinner), sat down for a few minutes' conversation with her, before going out for his horseback ride, as was his daily custom at that hour. Mrs. Burton's thoughts were busy over the facts of Mary's narrative, and she said, somewhat abruptly, as if she feared some other topic of conversation would be intro- duced: "Mr. Mellen, your wife has been giving me the history of a certain day, some years (57)     Idi  \ 58     EATON PARSONAGE. ago, when you and she mutually promised to have no secrets from each other. Mav I ask you if you remember it?" "Assuredly, I do, Mrs. Burton; for the fruit of that day's experie ce has been very sweet and precious to us, in all these follow- ing years." "Do you think, Mr. Mellen, that the suc- cess and happiness which have attended you, resulted from that day's experience?" "I believe," said NMr. Mellen, "i that some of the most important elements of success were then revealed to us, and made our own." "Will you tell me, Mr. Mellen, what are these most important elements of success, in a minister's family?" "That is not an easy question to answer," said Mr. Mellen; " but I will do my best. "I think here, as everywhere-but espe- cially here, in the minister's family--the first, and vital element of success, is abiding union with Jesus. The spiritual horizon   ELEMENTS OF SUCCESS.    59 must be clear, if we would walk in the light. The fountain must be pure, or the stream will not flow with sweet and refreshing waters. If we exemplify, in our own lives, that union with our Saviour, so perfectly described in its nature and results iAi the fifteenth chapter of John, we shall feel safe, as well as happy, in His love; and shall not waste our spiritual strength in torturing anxieties about the safety of our own souls, but shall have it to expend for the salvation of others. Then the daily cares, and vex- ations, and burdens of life, wil not wear or overwhelm us, for they will be laid in loving submission at His feet. Daily we shall say, with Doddridge: 'I'll drop my burden at His feet, And bear a song away."' "I advise you," said Mrs. Burton, "to write a sermon on that subject, it would be a fruitful theme."      : 'i  60     EATON PARSONAGE. "Why, Mrs. Burton, that is the one tacme I am always preaching upon! It is the cor- ner-stone on which all else rests. But I must hasten to tell you what I think is the second element of success in a minister's, or, indeed, in any family. It is unclouded do- mestic peace and happiness." ("Mr. Mellen, do you think absolutely un- clouded domestic happiness is attainable?" "Assuredly I do, Mrs. .Burton. I agree with Cowper, that it is ' The only bliss of Paradise, which has survived the fall.' Just as I believe that we may have an ever-abid- ing, unclouded union with Jesus, so do I believe that a similar union may, and should exist between husband and wife. The key of a heaven-born trust, alike unlocks to us both these treasures." "I should like to hear a sermon from you on this subject, too, Mr. Mellen," said Mrs. Burton. "This is a case where practice does far    ELEMSENTS OR SUCCESS.   61 more good than preaching," was the smiling reply " though I would not deny the utility of the latter." '"If I may not hope for any further re- marksounder that head," said Mrs. Burton, "allow me to ask you for the next element of ministerial success and happiness." ' Perhaps it is the observance of the laws of mental and physical health," replied Mr. Mellen. "It would take a volume to tell you what I think these laws are, and how they are to be observed; but my candid opinion is, that nine-tenths of the sickness among us is caused by I unnecessary disregard of the most simple/aws of health and life." "Until you write this volume," said Mrs. Burton, " how am I to know and observe these laws?" "Pardon me, Mrs. Burton, but a lady of your education and intelligence need wait for no new publication before she learns and observes the laws of life and health. You 6      HBe62        EATON PARSONAGE. -lave only to think, and, perhaps, read a little, for yourself, in order to know and act. For instance, if our blood passes- through the lungs, at every heart-beat, to be oxygen- ated, we do not need instruction or argu- ment to teach us the absolute need- of breath-- ing positively pure air-air which has its full element of oxygen. Then, again, we know that what is taken into the stomach forms this blood, which is to supply us with bone, muscle, nerve, and, indeed. with all physical and mental vigor. Itow foolish, then, how idiotic, I had almost said, to allow ourselves and our children to eat indiscrimi- nately, guided by the palate, instead of by our best knowledge and judgment of what will afford nourishment, strength, and vi- tality. How foolish, also, to derange and embarrass the whole digestive functions, by taking--under the name luncheon--the most unhealthful food, at the most improper hours. The health of young children, whose tender    ELEMENTS OF SUCCESS.    63 organs are least able to bear such abuse, is most likely to be subjected to this ordeal. The baby, who frets from an already over- loaded stomach, is quieted with a 'seed- cake; and the boy who comes in, half an hour before dinner, ravening with healthful hunger for the approaching meal, receives a supply of do"hnuts and cheese, for the sake of peace, after which, of course, he has no appetite for the substantial dinner, which should have furnished the growth .and strength which he needs. Then, long before the next meal, if he has not been made sick by the indigestible luncheon, he cries for cake, or pie, and gets it as before, just in time to prevent his eating a healthful and nourishing supper of bread and but- ter." "Why, Mr. Mellen," said Mrs. Burton, laughing and blushing, " that is just the way I have always been managing my children, and never stopped to think there was any     "    EATON PARSONAGE. essential harm in it. They are always ail- ing, and taking medicine, and having the doctor." "Medicine can do them nothing but hatm, dear Mrs. Burton, if their sickness is caused by injudicious eating. If a child has nausea, or headache, or feverishness, from such a cause, fasting, not physic, is the needed remedy. Whenever a child is ill, the parents should diligently inquire if the cause does not lie in some violation of the laws of health; and if it does, they must be wiser for the future. In matters of health, 'an ounce of prevention is worth' tons 'of cure.'  "But, Mrs. Burton, the clock warns me that I must away for my horse-back, ride ; and my need of that ride reminds me of another element of health, too often disre- garded, namely, the due relations of exer- cise and rest. None of our powers, mental or physical, must be overwrought; the ap-   ELEMENTS OF SUCCESS.    65- propriate recreation, or rest, must follow effort. Thus alone can we have our powers in daily and vigorous exercise. This rule, of course, includes the taking of a sufficient amount of sleep. For although Solonft    I says,' Love not sleep lest thou come to pov-  erty,' it is nevertheless true, that he who  denies himself the needful amount, will come to sickness and the grave." "I must not detain you by any more ques- ' tions," said Mrs. Burton, as Mr. Mellen rose  to go, " though I have many, which I should like to ask you.' "Here comes Mary," said Mr. Mellen; "she will tell you of the only other element of success, which I was designing to men- tion, namely, the observance of the laws of domestic economy. She has studied that science to perfection, being able to put her knowledge of it to the severest possible  practical test--that of keeping a minister out of debt!"      "    EATON PARSONAGE. And with a beaming smile upon Mary, and a kiss for baby Etta, who had come in with her, and good morning to all, Mr. Mellen was gone. -   CHAPTER VIII. THE END OF THE BEGINNING ; BEING THE LAST OF THE FIRST QUARTER. / U For who hath despised the day of small things?" "WE will go up into the study, if you please, Ellen," said Mary, " while Mr. Mel- len is out; you must see his study, and we  shall have a little while longer to converse before dinner, if you are not weary." "Indeed I am not weary, Mary," said Mrs. Burton, as they went up. "You are very kind to devote so much time to me, and I cannot tell you how anxious I am to improve every moment." "Oh I what a pleasant room!" cried she, /" as Mary threw open the study-door; "I (67)     68     EATON PARSONAGE. thought a minister's study must always needs be a scene of confusion!" "I was determined," replied Mary, " that Mr. Mellen's should be the pleasantest room in the house. See how fine the views are from the windows." Mrs. Burton admired the views, but soon turned from them to notice the beautiful in- terior. The soft, harmonious blending of colors in the carpet, hangings, curtains, and furniture; the admirable arrangement of library and pictures; 'the perfect taste and refinement of everything. "I must not look, but listen, Mary," said Mrs. Burton; turning away from some beau- tiful plants, which bloomed on a graceful little flower-stand in the southern window. "Tell me about the remainder of that first quarter. How did you make out with your twenty dollars?" "It did wonders, as I meant it should," replied Mary. "Twenty dollars is a very   END OF THE BEGINNING.    69 trifle, generally, in paying family expenses; but we had comparatively little to buylthat three months. Let me see, here in thu ac- count-book, I find no article of clothing whatever; no fuel or lights, no wages paid for any domestic service. The first item is for the meat I told you about; then one dollar for a bushel of unbolted wheat meal, so essential to health; then comes thirty-two cents for the next meat (a 'hock,' the butcher calls it)-and I must tell you about it. A hock is a leg of beef cut below the round. That one weighed eight pounds ,Tpaid, therefore, as you see, four cents a pound for it;, and there seemed to be no end Cfothe nice dinners it made. The butcher iave me a generous cut, up onto the round, which made a fine dish of a lamode beef. The remainder, al- though tough and gristly, when stewed sev- eral hours, till perfectly tender, is excellent, served in various ways. When the liquid      70     EATON PARSONAGE. in which the meat has been cooked is cold, the rich marrow from the top, which is ex- cellent for gravies, etc., can be removed; and the remainder, which will be a beautiful jelly, makes fine soups. As it was warm weather, I had to take pains to scald and keep it; but like bean-porridge, it was best 'when nine days' old. Ernest praised my dinners very much, but laughingly asked me if' I wasn't extravagant to have d la mode beef.' So the next day I served some cold slices,with baked potatoes, and some canned tomatoes, which'I had brought from mother's. Then I told Ernest, as he had been good, and found no fault, he should have a hot dinner the next day; so I got up an original savory stew, which was excellent. Some of the gristly meat, boiled perfectly tender, I served another day, without gravy, to be eaten- liko oysters with pepper and vinegar. This is still a favorite dish with us, and we call it 'Eaton Oysters.'   END OF THE BEGINNING.   71 Then the soups, no two alike, were excel- lent. I fear you are tired-of my beef story, but I shall never forget the interest I took in getting up so many acceptable dinners from thirty two cents' worth of meat." "I am sure," said Mrs. Burton, "your account needs no apology. I shall be very glad to avail myself of the information you have given me." "In this and other ways,' continued Mary, "thanks in part to the kindness of good Mr. Brown, the butcher, I got along- with very little expense for meat. As the warm weather advanced, and the fine garden vegetables and fruits came in plenty, we did not wish for much fresh meat. Ernest had taken great pains in preparing he soil, and planting the garden, befo. ca e in- the spring; and he worked i it early every   i morning, for exerciseand it richly rewarded his toil. "Then my hens were a great source of ;     72     EATON PARSONAGE. wealth. In respect to them, Mr. Brown was  again my faithful helper. I asked him if he could tell me where I could buy some, as we had every convenience for keeping them, and he said he would see about it and let me know. "In a few days he brought me a dozen fine hens, a present from the farmers of the parish. Mr. Brown said: "'They were so pleased to know that the n'rw minister's wife h d sense enough to want hens, that they w re glad to give them,  two or three at a place.' "He produced also some choice eggs, care- fully packed in cotton, for hatching; and,  last of all, a big bag of corn, saying: "'I told them it stood to reason the crea- tures must have something to eat I' "What a treasure they seemed to me! I took out my tablets 'and pencil, and wrote down the names of the donors, that I might thank them in person. This act I after-   END OF THE BEGINNING.    73 wards learned was duly reported by good  Mr. Brown, who added: "' You'd better believe she 'preciated them hens, for I actu'ly see tears in her eyes as she was writing down your names with a gold pencil in that ivory caankum of her's, as we stood out on the barn floor.' "It was true, I did appreciate the hens, who laid me golden eggs every day (thanks, in part, to the meat which the butcher threw to them so frequently), at least they were as good as gold at the stores, and replenished the sugar box, and molasses jug, and meal chest, when they were empty.. We used 'domestic coffee,' which I pre- pared from peas and barley, mixed, and no tea. After calling on the farmers who sent me the hens, and rendering a truthful report of their value to us, and of the successful hatching of the chickens, I re- ceived from these and other families several valuable presents of butter, cream, milk, 7     74     EATON PARSONAGE. fruit, etc., through Mr. Brown, who of course called frequently at their houses with meat. "You can see here, Ellen, in the account book, how the money was spent, slowly and carefully. I used, if possible, such things as we had, buying nothing which was not absolutely needed.       "Ernest's five dollars, thougcarefully ex- pended, was gone at last, and Another from the drawer took its place; this was most  cheerfully given one Sabbath at a collection for home missions. "'Ernest,' said I, on Monday morning, 'why don't you go to the bank and replenish your funds; you must not have an empty purse.' "' Why, Mary,' he exclaimed, is n't the bank broken yet?' He went quietly and opened the drawer, where lay a five dollar bill, and also a one. "'Take the five dollars, Ernest,' said I,   END OF THE BEGINNING.   75 'or you may be embarrassed by, some un- expected call for money. If I should need it, you know, it would be quite natural for me to go to you for funds.' "'You are always right, Mary,' replied Ernest, as he put the five dollars in his purse. "There now remained a month of the quarter, and only one dollar in the bank. It was perhaps foolish, but I was determined not to have any bills at the end of the quar- ter, unless Providence should make it indis- pensable. So I planned not to expend any- thing more for the table. We had such delicious vegetables and fruit now, in the garden, that this was not very difficult while the stores in pantry and cellar held out. "There was one thing, however, that wor- ried me; our fist quarter's rent was nearly due, and we had no means of paying it. Mr. Eastman, our landlord, who had the     76     EATON PARSONAGE. name of being a very eccentric man, had said to Ernest: "' You will find it for your interest to pfty me the rent quarterly, and promptly. "A word to the wise," you know, Mr. Mellen. Some of your predecessors have been very delinquent.' "Ernest was a little hurt by his words, yet there seemed to be something good and hearty about the man, and we tried to put the best construction on his bluntness. Still, I found it hard to be reconciled to being a month behindhand with the rent to such a man. I comforted myself, however, with the hope that this would be the last time we should be 'delinquent,' and tried to be resigned. As I was thinking this matter over one evening, my husband came in from the post-office, and handed me the ever wel- come letter, bearing my fatheras well-known superscription. As I opened it, two bills,   II END OF THE BEGINNING.    " a twenty and a five, fell uponthe table before me!              , 'Ernest, said I, taking up the money "' the wishes of good men are prayers ;" have you not been wishing for twenty-five dollars with which to pay the rent, now due, to that strange Mr. Eastman?' "'No, my love,' replied he, smiling,' I am ashamed to say that I forgot that it came due before the salary. I think it must be your wishes and prayers which have brought the money.' "'I did wish very hard for the money,' said I, 'but I only prayed for resigna- tion.' "' You trusted God, and this is his answer, my love; but we have not yet read the letter.' "I was so eager to know if we might use the money for the rent, that, after ascertain- ing from the first sentences that all were well, I ran my eye hastily over the full 7- *     78     EATON PARSONAGE. pages to a 'P. S.' at the close, in which father said: "' My dear Mary will find, a good use for the enclosed twenty-five dollars, and will gladly accept it from  her affectionate father.' "How rejoiced I was that I was free to use it! Then Ernest and I read together the precious letter-far, far more precious  to us than gold. When we had finished it, I said: "(Ernest, I need to make some calls at that end of the village to-morrow; may I *call and pay Mr. Eastman the rent?' "'Certainly, if you wish; but, dear Mary, he is so rough, are you not afraid of him?' "   Oh, no indeed!' I replied; 'and then again, if lie is going to bite and devour, I would rather have him take me than you.' "So, the next afternoon, I rang at Mr. Eastman's door, and was shown by a servant   END OF THE BEGINNING.   79 into his presence. He sat at his desk, in one of those circular whirl-about chairs, in which, without speaking or rising, he turned himself round so as to face me, as I stood by the door, and, pushing his spectacles up to the top of his head, fixed upon me a look so emphatically interrogative that I at once made known my business, by saying : ' Mr. Eastman, I think our rent is due to-morrow, and, being out this afternoon, I have called to pay it, to save my husband's time, he is so busy in his study this week.' "' That's the talk!' cried Mr. Eastman; 'that metal has the right ring for a min4 ister's wife I Walk right up here and. we will settle the business in a jiffy.' "I walked up to his big desk accordingly, blushing crimson, and feeling as if I wanted to laugh and cry, both at once. "I do not know what it was in my coun- tenance that moved him, but, as he wa2 deliberately adjusting his spectacles upf J     80     EATON PARSONAGE. his nose, his eyej rested a moment on my face, and hejumped up, suddenly exclaim- ing, as he placed a chair for me: "' I am a rough man, Mrs. Mellen, but I did not mean to hurt your feelings. Please be seated, and pardon my rudeness, if you can.' "'I should be very naughty,' said I, smiling, 'to be offended at so high a com- pliment as you just now paid me. Let us be friends;' and I held out my hand to him. He grasped it with a great, hearty shake, which was to me the pledge of abiding friendship. "I laid the money on the desk, and lhe saA down and wrote a receipt, as follows: ($20.)       EATON, Aug. 7, 185-. Received, of Mrs. Mary Mellen, Twenty Dol- lars, in full, for rent of dvelling-louse to this date.          JOHN EASTMAN. "This receipt he handed me, with the five- dollar bill.   END OF THE BEGINNING.    81 "'But, Mr. Eastman,' said I, after read-  ing the receipt, 'Mr. Mellen understood'i that the rent was to be one hundred dollars a year.'                   i "'So it is,' lie replied, 'if you pay as former tenants have done, six months or more after the year's rent becomes due; but it is only twenty dollars a quarter. That . was what I meant when I made that churl- ish remark to your husband about paying  promptly and quarterly.'  "Thanking him warmly, I went my way with a light heart; far more on account of the assurance of our landlord's friendship, than of his welcome liberality about thei rent. "Parish quarter-day came at last, and with  it (thanks to our ever-efficient treasurer)  i the two hundred dollars which were due. "Ernest/ came down from the study as soon  as th etreasurer was gone, and laid the money before me, saying:            , \/*i ' ' *     82    EATON PARSONAGE. "There is the salary, prom tly paid, dear Mary; would you like to cast up accounts, and see where we stand?' "I brought the account book and put it into his hand, saying: "' Here are all the accounts, Ernest, but I don't know that I understand just what you propose to do;' "'Why, simply to see,' replied Ernest, 'whether any of the money is ours, or whether we owe it all.' "' (Did you think I had debts to pay out of it?' I asked. "Certainly, Mary, we have been living on it, mostly, for three months, and of course you must have bills; at the stores, and the butcher's, and for milk, etc., etc. These expenses'run up very rapidly, I know.' "'No, dear husband,' cried I, joyfully, 'every one is paid. I supposed you under- stood it all the time. Even the milk bill I settled this morning, and there remained   j  END OF THE BEGINNING.   83 yet one dollar in the bank. Now are we not independent, as I hoped?" "How happy I was at his astonishment and pleasure! I explained to him how I had managed to expend so little, as we looked over the account book together, and Ernest said it was the best treatise on domestic economy he had ever met."     CHAPTER IX. "HOME, SWEET HOME." "Here woman reigns; the mother, daughter, wife, Strews with fresh flowers the narrow way of life; In the clear heaven of her delightful eye An angel guard of loves and graces lie; Around her knees domestic duties meet, And fireside pleasures gambol at her feet." MRS. MELLEN was interrupted in her nar- rative by the cheerful sound of voices, and of the  horse's hioofs, in the yard below. Mary exclaimed: "Mr. Mellen has come, and has brought the children with him from   school.  Come, let us go down, Ellen." Etta, who had  been  all this time very happily amusing herself on the carpet, with a basket of " bunnies," and other playthings, which her mamma had brought up for her benefit, ran hastily to the stairs, and backed (84)   "HOME, SWEET HOME."    85 herself down with such marvelons dispatch, that she was in the hall, trying to huddle herself into her cloak, before her mammta, who stopped to gather up the playthings, appeared at the top of the stairs. The little one was cloaked and hooded, and the ladies, hastily throwing on their shawls, all went out upon the back piazza. "What a magnificent horse!" exclaimed Mrs. Burton, with enthusiasm; and she added in a lower tone, smiling, "what a magnificent rider!" Both horse and rider deserved the praise. Mr. Mellen had a noble form, and rode his horse as royally as any prince of the blood. And the horse was " magnificent." He was coal black, glossy, and perfectly formed; and perfectly trained, too, yet, in high con- sciousness of untold power, carrying his head loftily, and spurning the ground which beasts of baser mould had trampled. Just now, obedient to some talismanic ex- 8     86     EATON PARSONAGE.  pression of his master's will, he pranced proudly before his mistress, as if conscious that her heart's best treasures were en- trusted to his keeping. Little Mary sat on the saddle before her father, and Willy behind, proudly erect, scarcely deigning to touch his father for support. Mr. Mellen reined up his horse before the group on the piazza, and, bowing, said: "Won't either of the ladies take a few minutes' canter before dinner?" "Yes, itta will, papa; Etta go!" shouted ' baby, dancing up and down with delight. "Well done, my little lady," said papa, laughing; "my baby shall have a ride, that is to say if both the other ladies de- cline." Of course they did decline, and the eager, happy child, was placed beside her sister, and Mr. Mellen rode away, holding them both in a secure embrace. H.   "IOME, SWEET HOME."   87 Mary, noticing that her friend shivered, exclaimed: 'Why, Ellen, forgive me; I am beside myself to be exposing you here, in my zeal about the children ;" and she drew her into the house. "No, Miary," said Mrs. Burton, "I am not cold, and the air benefits me; I shivered to see you trust the children so, on that high-headed horse; how cdd you?" "Why, Ellen, their father knows what is safe. I could not possibly fear for them when with him." "But, Mary, do you believe your husband is infallible?" "Yes," said Mary, laughing; "I do, because I always have found him so." But Mrs. Burton could not smile; she looked anxiously down the street, say- ing:  ' 'But, dear Mary, suppose the horse should take sudden fright, what could Mr.     88     EATON PARSONAGE. Mellen do, encumbered with all those chil- dren?" Mary aswrered, with a b ight smile, "I have no fear;" and she dic not even look forth for her loved ones, till she heard the step of the returning horse, and went out to take Etta. By the time the children were disrobed, Mr. Mellen came in from tie care of "Bu- cephalus," and. his little ones gathered about him like bees on a drop of honey. Mrs. Bur- ton thought she had never seen a more beautiful grou. Mr. 5Mellen, with his deep, dark eyes, in- tellectual countenance, and smile of child- like sweetness; Mary, mother's image; Willy, so like his father; and charming little Etta, who seemed te have stolen all the witching ways and graces of fairy land. "You see, Mrs. Burton," said Mr. Mel- len, by way of apology-as he took Etta   "HOME, SWEET HOME."    89 upon his knee, and glanced fondly at Mary and Willy, who leaned on either shoulder- "the children claim me a few minutes at noon, I have so little time with them." "You seem to have had time to win their whole hearts," said Mrs. Burton, with emotion; for she thought of the comparative indifference of her own children. ' Yes," said Mr. Mellen, "they love me very devotedly," and his eyes, so wonder- fully beautiful in their -tenderness, rested upon his children with unutterable love. Mary laid her cheek against her father's, and Willy bent down and kissed his hand, while Etta nestled her curly head closer in his bosom. "Did Etta have a good ride? Could she trust papa to take care of her on the big horse?" asked Mrs. Mellen, who came in that moment.  "Yes, and Etta won't ever not trust papa any more!" cried Etta, clambering up 8*     90     EATON PARSONAGE. and hugging her father tightly abofit the neck. "Yesterday she manifested some little distrust of her father, which she now re- nounces," explained Mrs. Mellet, in answfer to a look of inquiry from Mrs. Burton.  Dinner was now announced, and all gath- ered about the table, except Willy, who quietly seated himself at a side table. After a' blessing had beent asked, Mrs. Mellen said (noticing that Mrs. Burton glanced at the child with surprise, there being plenty of room at the table): "Willy, my son, go and explain to Mrs. Burton why you do not sit with us." Willy, with red cheeks and tearful eyes, came to Mrs. Burton's side, who bent her head down to hear his low words: "I was naughty at the table, and father bade me sit at the side-table a week." "Won't you excuse him to-day? said Mrs. Burton, looking up at Mr. Mellen, "I   "HOME, SWEET HOME.'     91 want the dear little fellow here by me, and he is very sorry, I am sure." "What do you say, my son," said Mr. Mellen-laying his hand gently on the boy's 1shoulder, and looking sadly, but tenderly, in- to his eyes; "CanlI gratify Mrs. Bur- ton?," '\No, sir," said Willy, kissing, his father's hand, " my time is not out till this evening." And lie went back, and ate his dinner, in silence, at the side table. After dinner, as all gathered in the parlor, Mrs. Melleo complied with her friends re- quest, to play and sing. Mrs. Burton was a judge of music. In her school-days, she had been esteemed the best player at the seminary. She started with surprise, when Mrs. Mellen touched the keys and commenced the prelude of her song, astonished beyond measure at the perfection of her playing. But she was if possible still more surprised by her sing- ing; for, although every spoken word was  e     92     EATON PARSONAGE. music, she had no idea of the compass, pow- er, and sweetness, of her voice, in singing. Mary had always been enthusiastic in her love of music; but, while at boarding-school, wishing to devote her time to study, she had restricted herself to an hour of quiet practice, before most of her schoolmates were up in the morning, and her proficiency remained a secret, even from Ellen. Again and again Mrs. Burton urged Mary to play and sing, eager with astonishment at her skill. Mrs. Burton was urged in vain to play, till at last she said, with a look of pain : "I know, Mary, that I did play well; but that does not signify now. I have not touch- ed the keys of my piano these two years, having neither time nor motive." Mrs Mellen did not reply; her eyes were moist with tears, and the music which flowed from beneath her improvising fingers was soft and sad. Gradually, the sweet, uncer- tain strains formed themselves into an ex-   "HOME, SWEET HOME."     93 quisite prelude to the following song, which Mary had composed the previous day, and now sung with touching expression : What holiest offering for thy shrine, What richest tribute shall be thine, My home, sweet home!  Treasures of earth, of sky, of sea, Are all too poor, too mean, for thee, My home, sweet home. Oh, had I learning, wealth, and fame, An angel's face, a poet's name, My home, sweet home, I'd lay each offering on thy shrine, And make each grace and glory thine, My home, sweet home. Though these, I know, are not for me, I bring a heaven-born gift to thee, My home, sweet home; A heart, by Christ's own love renewed, And daily, by his grace bedewed, For home, sweet home. Though '" heaven and earth shall pass away." I know thy joys forever stay, My home, sweet home;  For I shall find, beyond the skies, Immortal, with its earth-born ties, My home, sweet home.     "    EATON PARSONAGE. As the strains died away, Mr. Mellcn said, with emotion: "Mrs. Burton will pardon me for express- ing, in her presence, something of the tribute 1 owe you, dearest wife, for this touching off- ering on the home altar." Mary rose and stood by his side saying: "I meant first to sing this to you alone," but Mrs. Burton quite compelled me to  change my plan, when she said she had no motive to improve her rare talent for music. Surely a home is the highest earthly motive." And Mary gathered husband and children into her glance of unutterable love. "I hardly grasped the thought of your last stanza, Mary," said Mrs. Burton, "may  I see it, if you have it written down?" Mary handed her a sheet of manuscript music, accompanied by the words.  , "Is the music, too, original?" said Mrs. Burton, with surprise. "Yes," replied Mary, smiling, ' the words 1    "HOME, SWEET HOME."    95 came to me through the music, I think; ate least they came to me together, as I sat here at thel piano improvising yesterday, and I wrote them down. What is obscure in the last st'anza, Ellen?" "Why Mary, your song is about an earthly. home; how then can you be sure that its joys will remain, 'when heaven and earth shall pass away?' How can you be sure that in eternity you. will find it ' immortal with its earth-born ties.'" ' Tell her my meaning, will you, Ernest?" said Mary, looking up confidingly into his eyes. "Excuse me my love," said Mr, Mellen," I understand your meaning perfectly, but am sure you will best explain it." "It seems very simple to me, Ellen," said Mary, a bright tear trembling on her sha- dowy eye-lashes. "Ernest and I know that we love Jesus, and He has entered into an everlasting covenant to save us, and our chil-     96     EATON PARSONAGE. dr)en, by -Iis precious blood. lTrusting L7in  for this, we are sure that the joys of oilr home will ever stay ; that we shall find it, every earthly tie unbroken, in heaven. It Qould be sad indeed if we could not, withl ourselves, entrust these little ones to the saving love of Christ. We hope that Mary, already, has  given her heart to Him."          ! It understand you now," said Mrs. Burton,  struggling against tears, "' Blessed are they  that have not seen, and yet have believed." ' "I think, Mary," said Mr. Mellen, "that Mrs. Burton would, just at this moment, like to hear your poem 'The Sweetest Word ;'  may I repeat it to her?" Mary assented, and Mr. Mellen repeated her poem, as follows: One sweet word of holy meaning  Cometh to me o'er and o'er, And the echoes of its music Linger ever-evermore: T1rust-no other word we utter Can so sweet and precious be, i/   .   "HOME, SWEET HOME."      97 Tuning all life's jarriig discords Into heavenly harmony. Clouds of thickest blackness gathered O'er my soul's dark sea of sin, And the port of heaven was guarded From my guilty entering in; Then came Jesus, walking to me, O'er the surging waves of sin, Calling, clear above the tempest, "He that trusteth heaven shall win 1" Now, through all the sacred pages, Where my woe and doom have been, Gleam those golden words of promise, "He that trusteth heaven shall win." Blessed, sure, and blood-bought promise, Let me drink its sweetness in-- He that trusts his soul to Jesus, He that trusteth heaven shall win." Trust-oh Saviour give its fullness, To me at Thy feet in prayer, Grant my dying lips to breathe it, Leave its lingering sweetness there; Sweetness there, to tay the breaking Of the hearts which love me so, Whispering from my silent coffin, "Trust the hand which lays me low." 9     D9     EATON PARSONAGE. Loved ones, as you rear the marble, Pure above my waiting dust, )Grave no other word upon it But the holiest, sweetest-TRUST;  For this password know the angels, Guarding o'er the pearly door,  Password to His blessed presence, Whom I trust forevermore.  The solemn and tender thoughts, awaken-  ed by Mrs. Mellen's song and poem, were  somewhat abruptly interrupted by Etta, who, , with Willy's help, had mounted the vacant piano stool, and now began to call forth dis- cordant strains with her little dimpled fingers. Mr. Mellen, having by a look gained Mary's smiling consent, screwed up the stool  to the proper height, and said:       - "Now Etta may play, only sze must do just as papa says;" and, taking the fair hands, he showed her how to play a few simple notes; a lesson which the bright little one quickly learned, but from which she soon dashed off, with bold strokes of her own, (   "HOME, SWEET HOME."    99 much, to the risk of the finely-tuned piano. Mr. Mellen said to her, very decidedly-gen- tly taking the little hands in his: "You must not do so, my child, it will hurt the piano; you must play as I have said, or else jump down." The child glanced up into her father's face. with an alch and defiant look, exclaiming with much emphasis:  "No, no, Etta shan't play that, Etta play t'under-storm!" and the little hands were adroitly slipped from under her fathers, and came down with an astonishing crash upon the keys. The child, as we have intimated, was very beautiful, and the whole thing, aside from its naughtiness, was so charming, that Mrs. Burton, unmindful of the disobedience, indulged in a smile, which was suddenly checked by the sad faces of-the group, and by Mr. Mellen's quietly lifting the child in his arms, and taking her from the room. "Can it be -possible," was Mrs. Burton's     100    EATON PARSONAGE. mental inquiry, " that the child-a mere baby-is to be punished for such an offence?" Her question was quickly answered, not only by Mrs. Mellen's sad quiet face, but by the words of little Mary, who said-nestling dt her mother's side with tearful sympathiz- ing eyes: "I am so sorry, mamma ; 1 hope Ettp will never have to be punished for dis- obedience again." I hope not indeed, my love," replied mam- ma; " yet she may disobey again ; but I am almost sure neither you, nor Willy, ever will. Let us go and pray for the dear child." And, with a look, of apology to Mrs. Burton, she led the children into a little library, opening from the parlor, and closed the door. It was not very long, before Mr. Mellen returned with Etta, who, with tearful face, was fondly nestling on his shoulder. Pass- ing4Mrs Burupn with a bow, and word of apology, he went at once into the little lib- rary. He did not close the door, and Mrs.   "HOME, SWEET HOME."    101 Burton heard Mary's sweet voice thank Mr. Mellen, for his faithfulness to the child, adding," I know how much you have suffer- ed,dear husband." "A mother's heart suffers most keenly," replied Mr. Mellen; "and I thank you for that fullness of love, and trust, which com- mitted the dear one to me so confidingly." Etta was in her mother's arms, as they came out, but she looked from one face to the other, with her great sorrowful blue eyes, and felt that her parents were one, in will and purpose. "Etta sorry," said she, sobbing afresh, "Etta never dis'bey any more. Papa please take her," and she nestled again lovingly in his bosom, kissing the hand, which hIad just inflicted severe pain.  While Mary and Willy, assisted by their mother, quietly prepared for school, Mr. Mellen sat downr by Mrs. Burton, expressing his regret at the painful interruption which 9*     102    EATON PARSONAGE. had occurred, and engaging her inlceerful conversation. In the meantime, poor little Etta, still clinging to her father, gradually closed her beautiful eyes-so like her moth- er's-and went to sleep upon his bosom: Mr. Mellen kissed the closed lids, and the fair little hands, as he laid her down tenderly, on the sofa in the library.    i  CHAPTER X. RESULTS Of PENNIES AND MOMENTS SAVED. "Many a little makes a mickle "Time is mqney" "Money answereth all things."  WHEN Mr. Mellen returned to the parlor he found. Mrs. Burton looking over the music, on the crowded stand with much in- terest. "You are collecting a pile there," said he, smiling, "which, I see, you recognize as Mary's work."  "Yes," replied Mrs. Burton, "I recognize them, and they are all very beautiful the table here I find other publications of hers, not in the musical line. How long have you been publishing, Mary?" Mary, who had that moment entered,     104    EATON PARSONAGE. seated herself very quietly with her' sewing, as she replied:              . "For the last three years, Ellen. I should i: never have published, but for Ernest's eager desire to have me. -I used to write, partly because I could not 'help it, and partly for  my own inprovement, and partly to please him; and, of course, my portfolio was open  to my husband, and he must be allowed to do as he pleased with the contents." "Yes," said Mr. Mellen, smiling; "I beg-  ged one thing after another, for the press, till the publishers came to know her ; and  now they keep her very busy; and safely hidden behind her' norn de plume, she is becoming well known as an author." "Really," said Mrs. Mellen, blushing, "if it is getting tp be such serious business, I shall be tempted to lock my writing-desk, and get you to hide the key." "That would,   a grievous wrong to others, not less than yourself, my love," said   RESULTS OF SAVING.    105 Mr. Mellen, very gravely, as he went away to his study. "I rejoice in your success, dear Mary," said Mrs. Burton, "'for I am sure you abun- dantly deserve it. Knowing tliis pecuniary resource, I do not need to ask you how you live on the salary, now that your family expenses are increased." "Yes, you do need to ask me, just the Fame," said Mary," for we still live upon the salary. It is my husbad's wish, that what I earn by writing go to increase a little fund which-we began to lay by, long ago, for the education of the children. I should per- haps tell you, however, that one-tenth of this income is at once cas! into the Lord's treasury." "Tell me about your education-fund," said Mrs. Burton, with much interest "where, and how did you commence it, and how has it prospered?"' "You will laugh to hear me say," replied     106     EATON PARSONAGE.    Mrs. Mellen, "that it was commenced before our Mary's birth, by laying aside the money which I was tempted to expend in unneces- sary adornment of the little wardrobe. I bought nice and soft, but durable materials, and made them up perfectly plain, thus sav- ing, as I reckoned, at least ten dollars, which would have gone but little way in embroid- ery silk, wrought edgings and insertions, linen-cambric and thread-lace. This ten dollars was sacredly kept, and duly depo- sited in the savings bank, and served as the nucleus o what is getting to be quite a little fortune for the child ;" and Mary laughing- ly handed her friend the children's bank- books. Little Mary's original deposit had grown, by small additions for the first few years, and of late much  larger ones-  her share'of the fruit of her mother's pen- work-to the handsome sum of four hundred dollars." "It is indeed a fortune for the child,"'said   X ESUL"t OF SAVING. . 107 IESUL OF SAVING.    107 Mr. Button; earnestly; "and all, in one sense, arising from this original ten dollars. But Mary, what good spirit inspired you to be so provident, at such a time? For my- self, under similar circumstaices, I did not card expense in the least, except so far as necessity compelled me to limit myself. Nothing was quite nice enough to satisfy ihy-fastidiousness; and I have no doubt I expended at least twenty-five dollars, which did not the least good, except to look pretty ; besides, weeks of precious time, in embroidery and unnecessaiy work. I see my folly, now that we suffer for the money, and time, which might have been saved.  But, after all, Mary, I don't think either money, or time, were quite lost; it was a privilege and pleasure, to make things look pretty, and doing it kept me from sad and desponding thoughts."  "Certainly," said Mary, "I have not a word to say against any thing so innocent     108    EATON PARSONAGE, '          .  E and beautiful, for those who can afford it vJ Why, embroidery and lace are to the ward- robe what flowers are to the earth; but living on an inadequate salary is stern busi- ness, quite destitute of poetry tnd flowers. I was simply sure that I could not afford such luxuryand I consoled myself with the thought that the sacrifice was all my own; the dear baby would be just as happy with- out adornments, and the money, should the child live to need it for an education, might be of untold value, and help to adorn both mind apd heart. "Then the hours, which I might have given to ornamental sewing, I vigorously devoted to my books or my music, thinking (how far and how fondly a mother's heart will roam); if I have a child to educate, I must not let my own faculties sleep." "Now you are reaping the fruit of your self-denial, dear Mary," said Mrs. Burton. "You are a successful author, and your +   L SLTS OF SAVING.    lJ Mary, who, in her infancy, was denied the luxury of embroidered petticoats, is the best player on the piano, and the best singer of her years, I ever saw , and, I have no doubt, this at the iad of all her classes at school." Mrs. Mellen -could not deny the truth of her friend's conjecture, so she only replied: "Mary is more fond of study than I care to have her, at her age; she needs physical, more than mental development, and I try to keep her busy without mental pressure. She develops a fine taste for drawing, and is nw taking lessons of a private teacher. We do not mind the high tuition, because her mind is thus happily and usefully em- ployed, without being too rapidly developed." "You may well feel easy about the ex- pense," said Mrs. Burton, "since the inter- est of her little fund here is so much more than sufficient to pay it. How did you manage to save 1i that is put down in these bank books, previous to the time when you 10     "O    EATON PARSONAGE. began to publish? I see that it sums up handsomely." "By saving all the pennies, which would otherwise have gone for unhealthful candy and nuts, and frail and useless toys, and extra trimmings and adornments of clothing, for myself or the children; and in a hun- dred other foolish ways by which money slips away unheeded. We took care of the pennies, and the pounds took care of them- selves, as you see. Yet we were always very careful never to deprive our little ones of anything which was really needed to make them comfortable and happy. Though we did not buy expensive toys; they never were allowed to want plenty of useful play- things. I have economized my moments, with even more care than my pennies ; and, you see, the sum of the pennies saved, and the moments saved, is making quite an ade- quate provision for the education of the children."         '   RESULTS OF SAVING.    1" "I see it, indeed," said Mrs. Burton. "And does the salary meet all other ex- fpenses?" "It has, thus far, but hoti without the same rigid economy as at first.\We laid by a little, the first two or three years, so that no emergency has eer driven us into debt; and we have been able to manage far better on that account. Through all these years we have economized as to eating and drinking, just as we did that first quarter. We have enjoyed almost uninteri-upted health, thanks, I believe, to God's blessing on a strict ob- servance of the laws of our physical being. We have regarded ourselves as respnsible to God for the observance of these laws. The children hardly know what it is' to be ill, except with measles or whooping-cough, which they have fortunately all got' well through with. We have great cause to be grateful for this inestimable. blessing of health. Frequent sickness would have     "2    EATON PARSONAGE. changed the whole aspect of our pecuniary affairs. "A servant's wages 'a heavy item to take from so small a salary,"said Mrs. Bur- ton; "but, of course, you have npt been able to dispense with help." "For the first year I did so; then my sister came to visit me, and brought Bridget with ,her, who was then in her eleventh year. The year -previous my mother had found Bridget, a miserably destitute, orphan Irish child, and had taken her to her home from sheer pity. A year of judicious train- ing had reduced her to some degree of civ- ilization; and, as she became very fond of 'baby,' and, very useful in caring for her, mother proposed that I should take her to bring up, saying, that she and my sister would gladly provide her with neat and comfortable clothing, if I would assume the task pf educating her. I assented to this arrangement; and it has proved a happy   !I                  k RESULTS OF SAVING.    113 one, both for us and for the girl., Though naturally wild and wayward, she soon learned to love us, and then. became docile and obe- dient. She proved bright and capable, has acquired of me a good education, and is a thorough housekeeper. Most of all, she is a faithful Christian. All our efforts for her centred in the hope that she would become such. She is now eighteen; -and although she protests that she owes us more than she Vi  can ever repay, we shall hereafter pay her regular wages. She is so devoted to us, that we may count on her continued and faithful service." "The girl is right in being grateful," said Mrs. Burton. "Aside from spiritual bless- ings, which are inestimable, she has received tenfold for her, services ; but it has all come from you, Mary, and not from the salary. In her, and the service she has rendered, we see again the fruit of your moments saved. They have all been coined into      "4    EATON PARSONAGE. gold, or into something more precious than gold." At this moment Etta awoke . and, in malting her happy, Mrs. Mellen' forgot to reply to the praises of her friend.   "How is it that you afford to keep a horse?" asked Mrs. Burton, when Mrs. Mellen, having made Etta happy with her  dolls, once more seated herself with her friend. "I should have told you before," replied Mary, "that the horse, and horse-keeping, with carriages and all things pertaining, are a present from the people; otherwise we could not have afforded them." "How came your people to gixe yoUi that noble horse?" asked Mrs. Burton. "w Hun- dreds would not buy such an one. Horses like your Bucephalus win bets and premi- (11)     "6    EATON PARSONAGE. urns, but I never knew one to own a minis- ter for raster before." Mary laughed. "Bucephalus of Macedon never owned his master more proudly than does ours, albeit he, is a minister, and no general. But you are right about his value; he has the pure Arabian blood in his veins, and it was love, not money, which bought him. You are such an enthusiast about horses, Ellen, perhaps you would like to hear the whole stor?" "I should, indeed," said Mrs. Burton, much interested ; and Mary continued: "About four years ago, in time of revival, Mr. Mellen labored day and night, visiting his people from house to house, through cold and storm and darkness, always on foot. We felt the want of a horse very much, and our people realized it. Mr. Eastman, our eccentric landlord, was among the converts, and has led a devoted Christian life ever/ since. He has always raised famous horses,   I           \     it BUCEPHALUS.      117 to which end he spares neither money nor pains. At that time he owned a splendid unbroken colt, who boasted royal ancestry, to which he gave promise of doing abundant honor. "This horse Mr. Eastman proposed to present to his minister, if the people would provide a handsome carriage, wagon, sleigh, harness, saddle, and horse-keeping. "So the ladies went to work and provided all the requisites except the horse-keeping; and the farmers contributed a year's supply of hay and grain. But Mr. Eastman was not yet satisfied; he sard, when the ybar was out they would all forget the horse, and let him starve. They must insure Mr. Mel- len one hundred dollars a year for the ex- penses of the horse!  "The young men of the parish now took the somewhat difficult case into considera- tion. They met and organized themselves into an association, which they called the      "8    EATON PARSONAGE. /                 J 'Pastor's Aid Society,' drawing up a con- Stitution, appointing a treasurer and col-b lector, designating a time for an "annual meeting, and rendering themselves jointly and severally responsible for the payment of one hundred dollars a year, for the benefit of the horse, according to Mr. Eastman's demand. "We, of course, kne  thing of all this. "One bright May morningr just as we were rising from breakfast,* there was a knock 'at the back piazza door, and Bridget brought us word that some gentlemen wanted to see Mr. and Mrs. Mellen out in the yard. "If we were surprised at the summons, we were much more so at what met our view, as we stepped out upon the piazza. "There stood Mr. Eastman; leading the noble horse by the bridle; two young men quietly held the thills of a light buggy wagon, which glittered in the morning sun,   BUCEPHALUS.  -   119 and was surmounted by a beautiful sleigh, draped with elegant furs ; four. other young men had just drawn into the yard a fine new rockaway, in which lay two beautiful saddles (one being a side-saddle forimy own use) and a costly harness, gleaming with silver mountings; yet another youth pre- sided, goad stick in hand, at an ox teem, loaded with hay and crowned with sundry bags of provender. "As we appeared on the piazza, the gen- tlemen removed their hats, and bowed to us in respectful silence; and as Mr. Mellen, returning' their greeting, went down the steps, with me upon his arm, Mr. Eastman led up the horse and presented him, with a very brief and hearty speech. "pne of the young. men nextr spoke in behalf of the ladies, presenting the car- riages, etc., and referring humorously to their being required to furnish a sleigh in that month of blossoms.      j )  120    EATON PArSONGE. "He of the ox team next spoke in honor of the farmers and their mammoth load, and, in closing his speech, handed Mr. Mel- len a folded paper in behalf of the young men. Mr. Mellen at once opened the paper land read aloud, as follows: "'We, the undersigned, members of the Pastor's Aid Society, for value received, jointly and severally promise to pay to our beloved pastor, Rev. Ernest Mellen, an- nuallv, throughour treasurer, the sum of one hundred dollars, for the benefit of his\horse, l Bucephalus.' "For myself, I felt that my cheeks glowed with pleasure, while I cquld hardly restrain , my thankful tears. Mr. Mellen knew it was no time to give way to the emotion he felt. With his hand resting 'caressingly on the horse's neck, he eloquently returned our thanks to the several donors. They felt, I know, that it was not the eloquence of words alone, but that which comes from   UCEPHALUS,     121 a heart overflowing with sincere gratis tude.  "As all refused our invitations to go in, Bucephalus was now put in the stable, the vehicles safely stowed away in the carriage- house, and the hay unloaded ^ after which the gentlemen went their several ways, and we returned to the duties of the day, made very happy by the thoughtfulness and ge-. erosity of our people." "I think you had every reason to be grateful for such noble generosity," said Mrs. Burton.  Did Mr. Mellen find any difficulty in breaking the horse,?" "No," replied Mary, '.he did not break, he won him.' These pure-blooded, noble- spirited creatures, when they once love, are willing to serve. No whip has ever touched him.  "That fact reminds me of something which I forgot to. tell you about the interview, when the horse was presented.   122    EATON PARSONAGE G "When Mr. Mellen -was returning his thanks for the bounty of the ladies, he stepped forward and took the elegant whip from its place in the rockaway; then, re- turning to the horse, and caressing his mane, and looking into his eyes, he said: t "' Bucephalus and I are friends; he will know no will but mine, and I shall never strike him.' "Turning to Mr. Eastmant he contin- ued: "' I know, could I ask the ladies, they would permit me, as I do, to. return this whip to you, as my pledge that no roughness from mi hand or voice shall ever fall upon this noble creature, which you have so watch- fully reared, and now so generously bestow upon me.' "I confess, I trembled to hear the pledge; but it has been redeemed, and Mr. Mellen's words have proved true ; the horse knows not will but ours. Having first won the    BUCEPHALUS.    123 love of the noble animal, Ernest gently and gradually accustomed him to saddle and harness, meeting with no opposing will whatever from the horse. "He seemed to understand at, once that his master and I were one; for, after pet- ting, and caiessing, and feeding him a little, I too ventured to mount and drive him, meeting with no'resistance. "You know it is said of Alexander's Bu- cephalus, that although he knelt for his master to mount, none but his master could ever ride him ; that is not true of our Bu- cephalus, yet I would not be surety for the bones of one, wh6 should distrust and nettle -him, or drive him with whip or spur. But we permit little Willy to ride him bare- back to the spring, to water, and Etta goes up before his iron hoofs and feeds him with her bread and butter. "He knows and loves each of the chil- dren, and is just as gentle to them as their     124{    EATON PATSONAc. Newfoundland dog Neptune, who is Etta' constant companion and protector."  "Well, Mary," laiQhed Mrs. Burton, "I do think your faith is unfailing, and works its own reward. Your trust extends even to your horse and dog, and they do not be- tray it." "It is true," said Mary, very seriously and earnestly, "that I never fear to repose trust where I find God has enstamped the unmistakable signet of nobility."    * CHAPTER XII. iMNISTERIAL INTERCOURSE, "A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for ad- versity". CALLERS interrupted further conversa- tion, and the short winter afternoon slipped quickly away, bringing the children from school, and Mr. Mellen from his study, at the early twilight hour. Mr. Burton also returned from Auburn, just as Ellen was insisting that they must not wait tea for him any longer. Mr. Mellen thought he looked brighter than he had seen him for many a dav. It was a beautiful moonlight evening, and Mr. and Mrs. Burton intended to return home that night ; but Mary overruled every "*' '    (125) /     126    EATON PARSONAGE. objection, and induced them to stay till the morrow. After tea, Mr. Burton sought a private interview with Mr. Mellen, in his study, and informed him that he had received a unanimous call from the church in Auburn, with a salary of one thousand dollars. "My wife does not know this," continued Mr. Burton, "but I have been to-day to inform myself more particularly about the place and people, before making a final decision. "The more inquiries I make, and the more I reflect, the more I am persuaded that it is my duty to go. Ellen's health is very delicate; she is worn out with the labors and perplexities which have attended our stay at Harding, and I have strong hopes that a change will benefit her. "I have been so bound and harassed by debt while there, that I have done both myself, and the gospel I preach, great in- tl y*      MNISTERIAL INTERCOURSE.  127 justice. After all our efforts, I owe not less than four hundred dollars. "I confided my pecuniary troubles to one. of the good deacons at Auburn, and he thinks the society are able, and would be willing, to pay me a year's salary in advance, and perhaps still further help me to meet these claims." "That was certainly very kind, and speaks well of the interest which the people feel in you there," replied Mr. Mellen, who had given his unwavering attention to the state- ments of his friend. "Yes," said Mr. Burton, "they think far too well of me at Auburn.  They have heard only my best sermons, and, besides, there are those there who knew me at college, and I have not fulfilled the prom- ise of my college days, simply because I have not been provided for pecuniarily. A people who cramp their minister for means know not how much they rob themselves.   z1/     128     EATON PARSONAGE. If they will help me to come to them at Auburn, free from these bonds, I think, with the experience we have gained, and the increase of salary, we can keep free. from debt, and I can do myself justice, and have some hope of saving souls. "Now, Mr. Mellen, advise me what to do, for you are known in the gates as a man of counsel." "Why, Brother Burton," said Mr. Mel- )en, smiling, "I think your mind is pretty much made up without counsel, and I rather think wisely so. I think it is your duty to accept the call to Auburn unless your present people decidedly wake up to your /r necessities, and hold you at Harding." "There is no danger of their waking up to my necessities, Mr. Mellen; the heart of that people is as hard as the nether millstone on the subject of ministerial sup- port." "Pardon me, dear brother," said Mr. a   MNISTERIAX INTftCOURSE. 129 Mellen, sadly, "but I fear you have let bitterness against your people find lodgment in your heart." "I have; I know it. I deserve your reproof," said Mfr. Burton, rising and walk- ing the room excitedly. "I have struggled against this bitterness in vain, and it has come between: me and, my people; aye, between me and the blessing which God, through me, would have sent them. "If they had been poor, I could have borne it patiently; but, knowing that they could pay two hundred dollars more a year, and never feel it, how could I labor on, the wife of my bosom dying before my eyes, my own mental energies decaying-through their fault-and yet keep a heart void of offense toward my people? I confess that I ought, and I confess also that I have not done it. There is bitterness in my heart." Mr. Burton continued to walk the room, his arms folded, and his'fine countenance ,     ,      "1   130    EATON PARSONAGE. overclouded with mingled indignation and self-reproach. Mr. Mellen, having bowed his head in silent prayer, for grace to guide aright his sorely wronged and tempted brother, was about to address him, when Mr. Burton sud- denly paused before him, earnestly exclaim- ing:  "Mr. Mellen, your salary is no larger than mine. You are a mystery to me. lHow have you lived on it? Why have you tried to live on it? We all know your talents. You were the first in your class at college; you have not your equal in this association, as a scholar or preacher; and no other labors have been so owned and blessed of God as yours; and to my certain knowledge, you have refused two calls, within as many years, either of which would have insured youa salary of fifteen hundred a year. Why. do you stay here? and if you do stay, why don't this people wake up and support you?    I,gs MNISTERIAL INTERCOURSE.    13: You have built them up. from nothing, to be the strongest society in this section; and how do they show their gratitude? By paying you eight hundred dollars a year Are you always going on so, Mr. Mellen?" Mr. Mellen smiled quietly, at his friend's generous zeal, as he replied: "As yet I have received no divine call to leave this beloved flock, and I trust no other call has power to move me. In justice to my people let me say, they have shown me only love and gratitude. Since--partly from the rapid growth of the place, and partly, as you say, from Qod's blessing on my labors--the church and society have grown strong and able, they have repeatedly spoken of raising my salary-" "But have not done it," broke in Mr. Burton, excitedly; " it is shameful!" "No, dear brother, please hear me out," said Mr. Mellen, smilingly. "They have repeatedly spoken to me about raising my      1t2    AAT0N PARSONAGE. salary, and I have told them I preferred they should not--" "Why, Mr. Mellen," again broke in Mr. Burton, "you are daft, as the Scotch say; how do you expect-" "Now, my dear brother," said Mr. Mellen, laughing outright, as he rose and stopped his friend in the midst of his excited walk, by putting a hand gently on either shoulder, "I am going to insist, in behalf of my peo- pie, that you hear me out. I have told them that I preferred they should not increase my salary, until they had first built a handsome new church and parsonage, which they have now done-"  \ "And will expect you, while you draw the  inflocking population to buy the pews and fill the new church, to pay them three of your eight hundred dollars, as fit rent for the elegant parsonage, which you- must also furnish as it deserves," again interrupted Mr. Burton.   MNISTERIAL INTERCOURSE.  133 'Which they have now done," quietly continueq Mr, Mellen ; " and have this after- noon waited on me, by committee, to say that my salary is increased to fifteen hun. dred a year, and -the use of the parsonage rent free. And, moreover-" "Why, Mr. Mellen," cried Mr. Burton, "how I have wronged your people; they have done nobly, nobly. How much I re- joice that they are worthy of you. I con- gratulate you, dear brother-most heartily I congratulate you. You deserve all they can possibly do for you, and a thousand fold more. But I beg your pardon for my injus- tice to your people, and my discourtesy to yourself. I believe I have interrupted you a dozen times. What was the moreover? "And, moreover," continued Mr. Mellen, "the ladies have raised a handsome sum to furnish the new parsonage; and they want the aid of my taste in selecting everything, and in keeping the whole matter a grand 12     134    EATON PARSONAGE. secret from Mrs. Mellen; so that they can make a great reception and surprise, and all that. And I, of course-" "You, of course, had to assent," inter- rupted Mr. Burton, q uite forgetting his former offenses; "and they will be using up your time, and bothering you incessantly, and, after all, get just what Mrs. Mellen don't want, and put everything in the wrong place, and she will never dare to make any change; and all the joy she would have in her new house will be spoiled ; it is too bad -too bad." "On the contrary," resumed Mr. Mellen, "I told them I could not have any secrets from my wife, even to gratify my people, and that my taste was no substitute for hers, and that, if the ladies would just take Mrs. Mellen into their confidence, and let her know all their generous plans and wishes, we should have cause for double  gratitude."    4 MNISTERIAL INTERCOURSE.  135 "Why, Mr. Mellen," exclaimed his ex- cited friend, "how did you dare do such a thing? Won't the ladies all take offense? Won't it make it very hard for your wife to please them?" "To answer your questions in order," smilingly replied Mr. Mellen, "First, I always dare do right. I could not keep such a secret from my wife, so long, without telling or acting a hundred lies. "Second. The ladies will not all, or any of them, take offense; they are accustomed to my frankness, and will understand it, and love us all the better for it. "Third. It will not make it hard, but easy for Mrs. Mellen, who will be able to act openly and naturally, and will endear herself to the ladies in a thousand new ways during the furnishing of the house." "Satisfactorily, and systematically an- swered," laughed Mr. Burton; "shall we go down to the ladies now?" .               f     136    EATON PARSONAGE. "I have a favor to ask of you before we go," replied Mr. Mellen. "Command me," said Mr. Burton, eagerly. "Is it possible that I have it in my power to serve you?" "Youehave it in your power to give me the highest proof of your confidence, by accepting a way, which I will show you, to be free from the burden of debt, of which you have so frankly spoken. You are right in feeling that debt is a fatal incubus. It is upon you through no fault of your own, and you will be another man-your own true and noble self-when it is removed. Will you accept my way?" "Certainly, Mr. Mellen, I shall be most grateful to be shown any way to be free from this burden. Ellen said, as we came over this morning, that it was best for us to sell the piano, and the most val- uable of our furniture-anythiri to meet these demands--and then we would keep   MNISTERIAL INTERCOURSE.  137 clear of debt, at any expense of suffer- ing." "I can show you a far better way than that, my brother," said Mr. Mellen. "Per- mit me to show my gratitude to God. for the unexpected blessings of thiq day by helping you. Honor me by accepting this purse, and devoting its contents to the pay- ment of your debts." "I thank you from my heart for your generous offer, brother Mellen; but I must not, cannot, accept it. I know not when, or how,I could repay you, and I fear you would need this money." "No," urged. Mr. Mellen, "I shall not need it, and you are never to return it, unless Providence makes it perfectly conve- nient for you to do so. It is yours, and I shall take no note, no interest-nay, nay, my brother, you must not interrupt me this time-no note, no interest, no refusal, no thanks." /      138    EATON PARSONAGE. Mr. Burton held doubtfully in his hand the purse which Mr. Mellen had thrust into it. Tears were in his eyes, unaccus- tomed to weep, and mingled gratitude and perplexity were depicted on his countenance. He dared not trust his voice to speak, or his judgment to decide. Standing before his friend, Mr. Mellen gently laid a hand on either shoulder, and looked beseechingly into his eyes, as he said : "My brother I beg and claim of you, as a proof that you honor, and love, and con- fide in me, and value ny friendship, that you use this money, and never mention it to me again, unless Providence opens a way for you to return it with ease." Mr. Burton dropped the purse into his breast pocket, and, grasping both Mr. Mel- len's hands, exclaimed: "Your noble generosity has conquered my pride. You ask my acceptance of your   MNISTERIAL INTERCOURSE.  139 bounty on such grounds that I cannot re- fuse. I cannot express my gratitude. May God continue to bless you as you deserve." Mr. Burton turned away to hide his emo- tion, yet with a sigh and expression of un- utterable relief, which sent a thrill of joy through the heart of his friend. That look, however, soon died away from his countenance, and gave place to one of great pain, as he paced the floor with troubled steps. Mr. Mellen sat in silence; he understood  his friend's distress, and was not surprised when he suddenly paused before him, ex- claiming: "Mr. Mellen, with all your generous kindness, comes back to me, your deserved reproof for this bitterness against my peo- ple. I cannot forgive them. What shall I do with my wicked heart?" "There can never be but one answer, as you know, dear brother, to that ques-      "O    EATON PARSONAGE. tion," said Mr. Mellen, much moved. "Take your heart to Jesus. Let us pray."  They knelt together, and Mr. Mellen poured out his soul in a prayer by which the heart of his erring, struggling friend, was indeed borne to the feet of a sym- pathizing and all-sufficient Saviour.' "My brother," said Mr. Mellen, as they rose, "Jesus forgave His murderers. Can you not forgive the people through whom, and for whom you-and she whose life is dearer to you than your own--have suffered so much? Remember,' the servant is not greater than his Lord.' Suffering is the seal of our apostleship."  "Oh, that I should have forgotten it!" mourned the penitent minister. "I can indeed forgive my people, but how can I hope my own great sin will be pardoned? How could I hope to bless them with bit- terness in my heart?  Mr. Mellen set the seal of silence upon   MNISTERIAL INTERCOURSE.  141 his own unwilling lips. All that was yet  unsanctified in his own heart rose in re- bellion at the wrongs of his friend, and, although he would utter no word to stay  the penitential tides which were purifyingI his soul, he longed to say the tiuth--that the people who can so wrong a noble heart, as to turn its love into bitterness, have no reason to expect the blessing of God. Mr. Burton raised his bowed head, and broke the silence by saying: "You thought, Mr. Mellen, that my mind  was too far made up to accept advice; you were right then, but it is not so now. Ad-  vise me, and I will be advised, for I am assured you candot guide me wrong. If it is my duty, I wish to go back to that people, there to suffer, and serve, and love, and labor, in the spirit of Jesus."  "I rejoice to hear you say this, Mr. Bur-  ton; but I do not advise you to remain,  unless your people arouse themselves to the     "2    EATON PARSONAGE. duties which they owe you.  You have labored there very faithfully and devotedly, many years, on an inadequate salary, which they were abundantly able to increase; la- bored there to your own intellectual, and even spiritual, hurt-I know you will pardon my plainness-and to the great injury of her who is dearer to you than all else on earth. You have frankly told them your need, and they have not heeded your voice. Now, God opens a door to greater usefulness, and I see no reason to think but he wishes you to enter it. He can perhaps teach Harding better by your departure, than by your stay, its dangers and duties ." Mr. Burton did not reply; he was very silent and thoughtful. Having looked upon the evil of his own heart, he distrusted him- self, and turned pleadingly to his Saviour for direction. In such a spirit he could not err.   CHAPTER XIII. HAPPY HEARTS AT EATON PARSONAGE. "He blesseth the habitation of the just." '"The liberal soul shall be made fat; and he that watereth shall be watered also himself." THE ladies were beginning to wonder what kept their husbands so long closeted, before they made their appearance in the parlor. No allusion was made by them to the subject of their conversation in the study. The evening passed cheerfully and quickly away, and the family separated at the usual early hour of retiring. Mary's never failing thoughtfulness had provided a cheerful fire, and every comfort, in the pleasant guest-chamber to which she conducted her friends. When she came back to the parlor, Mr. (143)     "4    EATON PARSONAGE. Mellen led her to a seat by his side on the sofa, saying, "I have many pleasant things to tell you to-night, dearest wife. You will rejoice to hear me say, that a brighter day is dawning for our dear friends the Burtons." How so," cried Mary, with eager inter- est ;" what blessing awaits them." "I trust, the inestimable blessing of a kind, considerate and appreciating people. Mr. Burton has received a unanimous call to the new Church at Auburn. I have had an agency in the matter, of which our friend knows nothing. I have long felt that he ought not to remain at Harding.  That people need to feel the want of a good min- ister, before they will arouse themselves to the duty of adequately supporting one. Mr. Burton seemed to me just the man they needed at Auburn; and when a committee of that church consulted me about a pastor, I advised them to hear him. The result is that he has received a unanimous call from   !        ^ i      rrHAPPY' IEARTS.   145 that church, and society. Mr. Burton is an able, and noble hearted man. With an ap- preciating people, and an adequate salary, he will begin a new, and noble life, and min- istry." "And Ellen, too," exclaimed Mary, joyfully, she will be her own dear, true self again. Oh how thankful I am for them. Ellen did not know this to-day?" No my love; up in their pleasant cham- ber they are no doubt now having a conver- sation, which will be far more invigorating and refreshing than sleep. Do you feel any misgivings about the responsibility I have assumed in this matter?" "No, your judgment is always right, and I am sure your highest anticipations for our friends and for Auburn will be realized. How grateful I am that this good has come to them!" "Dear wife, this is a day of blessings. We have reason to be thankful for ourselves, 13     "6    BATON PARSONAGP. also, and for our people, in that they have done so nobly by their minister." And Mr. Mellen told his wife, what the reader already knows, of his people's generosity, only with- holding the kind plan of the ladies, in regard to furnishing the parsonage. Instead of mentioning this to her, he said: "There is one circumstance, which I am not at lib- erty to mention to you now, but the ladies will soon confide their pleasant secret to you, I hasve no doubt." Mary heard the good news very quietly, with a heart two full for words, only saying, when her husband had finished: "The assurance of our people's love and appreciation, is far more precious than the gold." "Assuredly," said Mr. Mellen, "there lies the heart of our joy ; yet the gold, if rightly used, will be fruitful of good to ourselves and others." "Dear Ernest," exclaimed Mary, abruptly   HAPPY HEARTS.     147 and eagerly, "Ellen has told me to-day, that they -are perplexed and harassed by debt. God has brought the knowledge of their need, and the means of relieving it at the same time. I am sure you will agree with me; let us pay their debts, and free them from theit grievous load. We are com- manded to bear one another's burdens. With your nice tact, I am sure you could find some way to do it without wounding them." "Mary," said Mr. Mellen, smiling, "do you remember the charming oriental tradi- tion, which you once read to me from Lamartine's Voyage en Orient, as to the location of Solomon's Temple?" "Yes," replied Mary, "the tradition was, that they chose that spot for the site of the Temple, because there the same good thought came, with persistency, to two persons at the same time; and they therefore thought the spot must be one pleasing to God. I see     "8    EATON PARSON-XAE. why you ask me this; you too have had the same 'good thought' for our friends. Is it not so?" "Yes, my love," said Mr. Mellen, "and I developed my thought into action, this af- ternoon, by securing Mr. Burton's acceptance of the money. I was quite sure of your approval. I assure you, my empty purse gives me far more joy than did wy full one." "Certainly' said Mary, with grateful tears trembling on her lashes, " you remem- ber the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said it is more blessed to give than to receive. How grateful should we be, that the joy of both blessings has to-day been ours." As Mary was closing her piano for the night, she exclaimed: "Oh Ernest, I have another' good thought' for the Burtons ; can't you tell me what it is?" And Mary came, in her own charming way, and stood before her husband, with her   HAPPY HEARTS.     149 beautiful face upturned to his, inviting him to read her thoughts. Mr. Mellen stood some minutes parting and caressing thefunmnaagable curls, that still would cluster about that fair brow, while he looked into her deepeyes, as upon a prospect too beautiful ever to tire. Vol- umes of unutterable tenderness were in that look. "You are not thinking of Mrs. Burton, or of my thought for her," at last said Mary, archly. "I own it," said Mr. Mellen, "I was thinking of you, most precious treasure and joy of my life. But, since you wish it, I must guess your thought. Let me see; it was for Mrs. Burton, and the piano seemed to suggest it. Oh, yes, I have it, you wish your friend to play the church organ at Auburn. Am I iight?" "Yes, I am so glad you have guessed it,? cried Mary, with fresh child-like joy. "You 13*     150    EATON PARSONAGE. know the committee consulted you about an organist, when they were here, so you have aright to advise them. Now Ellen has talent and skill, too. She is only out of practice, and out of heart. She could play to their abundant satisfaction, if she would only arouse herself, and take hold of her music. Powerful motives to action are invaluable to her now. It would be a way, too, by which she would benefit, and at the same time win the appreciation of the peo- ple, besides adding something to their not over-bountiful income." "You are right, now as always, my love," said Mr. Mellen, "I wil write to-morrow, and see that she too receives 'a call.'  Happy, happy were the hearts, but light the slumbers, that night at Eaton Parsonage. -e       E  f    CHAPTER XIV. THE NEW PARSONAGE. "There is a spot of earth supremely blest, A dearer, sweeter spot than all the rest." JUNE,-month of roses, month of beauty and bloom,--crowned the new Eaton Par- sonage and its fair grounds, with untold loveliness. It had become the happy home of the minister's family.' Mr. Mellen's ready con- fidence in the good judgment and kindness of the ladies was not misplaced. In cheer- ful compliance with his suggestion, they gave up the idea of secresy, confiding to Mrs. Mellen their generous purpose to fur- nish the parsonage, placing their liberal contributions and ready services at her command, and insisting that her own good (151)     152    EATON PARSONAGE. taste and judgment must select, arrange, and direct everything. Love and harmony pre- vailed, and Mary, according to her husband's prediction, endeared herself more and more to all during the busy, happy weeks that followed. Beautiful in itself, and beautiful for sit- uation, was the new home. Neither money, nor care, nor labor, had been spared to make it a model parsonage. If some, at first, would have liked a little more display in the furnishing than Mrs. Mellen's refined and chastened taste permitted, all were pleased with the result, confessing that the dear, familiar furniture from the old home lent a charm to the new, and that nothing was wanting to the completeness of the whole. Mrs. Mellen's care to avoid extravagance and ostentation in furnishing, left several hundreddollars, which had been contributed for that purpose, unused.   THE NEW PARSONAGE.    153 With the means thus afforded, the ladies indulged their desire to give their minister's wife a happy surprise. In honor of Mrs. Mellen's favorite pursuits, they purchased a fine parlor organ, and an elegant little writing desk, and had them secretly placed in the parlor the evening previous to the reception day, when all the people were invited to visit the minister's family in the new house. A happy day, and one long to be remem- bered by pastor and people, was that of the house-warming at the new Eaton Parsonage. But this beautiful June morning is not that of the reception day; that is past a month ago, and dear home associations are beginning already to cluster about the pleasant apartments and beautiful grounds of the new home. This morning Mary is expecting her friends, the Burtons, who are now happily settled at Auburn.     154    EATON PARSONAGE. It is already past the time when she had reason to expect her guests, who wrote that "they would come in grand good season to spend a whole long June day." Our Mary is not, however, fretting and worrying her- self on account of the tardiness of her guests; that is never her way. There she sits in the cool summer parlor, whose open windows, cut to the floor of the piazza, look out upon the velvet lawn, which slopes to the shore of the beautiful river. She wears a simple morning wrapper, with narrow white ruffles at the neck and wrists, and no ornament or adornment whatever about her person or dress, save that her beautiful hair, indefatigable as ever in its curling, still disposes itself in clustering, child-like ring- lets. Sitting there in the fragrance of the open window, quietly composing music, at her elegant little writing desk, she seems the very personification of the freshness, beauty,   A\    THE NEW PARSONAGE.    155 and bloom, of the lovely June morning. So, certainly, thought Mr. ellen, as he came in to say that their guests were in sight, coming over the hill in the distance. "Will you wear this?" said he, hold- ing up a dewy moss rosebud; "it is al- most as sweet and beautiful as yourself, dearest." Mary kissed the beloved hand, which had skillfully placed the flower in the place of a brooch (which Mary never wore), saying: "It is a great joy to know that you find me all that your heart asks." When the Burtons drove up the beautiful elm-embowered avenue, they fpmad the whole family assembled on the green to welcome them, in true "country fashion." The chil- dren had rushed from the garden, at the sound of the wheels upon the graveled avenue, with eager joy, to welcome their little friends, Jenny and Freddie Burton, who accompanied their parents.     156    EATON PARSONAGE. Mrs. Burton took her husband's offered hand, and jumped from the light, open buggy in which they rode, with an elasticity and energy which answered at once the eager inquiry of Mary's heart, "Is she well and happy again?" A few short months at Auburn had in- deed wrought a wonderful change in Mrs. Burton. Mary's hopeful prophecy of the previous winter had been fulfilled. New life and motive had brought to her health, and,with health, brightness, bloom and vigor. "Oh, Ellen, how rejoiced I am to see you looking so well and young again," was Mary's joyful exclamation, as she embraced 1 her friend. "I will not say, or believe, that you flatter me, Mary," said Mrs. Burton; "you have a right to see me improved; we owe every- thing to you and your husband," and she turned from Mary to give her hand to Mr. Mellen.   THE NEW PARSONAGE.    157 Mrs Burton of Auburn was also quite another man from the Mr. Burton of Hard- ing. His brow no longer wore the line3 of care and suffering, his head was erect with conscious independence and self-respect, and his eyes and countenance were radiant with the glow  of his great, generous heart. When the ladies had gone in, and the children betaken themselves merrily to their long-anticipated sports, Mr. Burton began to look about his brother's establishment with enthusiastic pleasure. "Why, Mr. Mellen," cried he," I expected to see a fine house, but necessarily bare grounds and newly-set trees; whence this noble park, with its groups of old oaks, this avenue of magnificent elms, this garden and orchard, glorious in blossoming fruit trees, vines, and flowers? "It was indeed remarkable," replied Mr. Mellen, " that my people were able to se- "     158    EATON PARSONAGE. cure such a fine site for the parsonage. An ancient dwelling occupied this spot, which, though much the worse for age, was kept in repair, as a temporary summer residence, by a wealthy family in the neighboring city, who spared no pains with the grounds. About a year since the house took fire, through the carelessness of servants, and al- though the fire-engines were quickly on hand, extinguishing the flames, and saving every green thing unharmed, the old house was too much injured to be repaired, and the owners, chlosing another summer resi- dence, sold this fine location, on very favora- ble terms to the parish. I am getting more and more enthusiastic about its beauties every day." "I don't wonder, in the least, at your enthusiasm," replied Mr. Burton. "You will become a poet here, if there is any poetry in you. Only look at the winding river through those trees. I, who never was known to   THN NEW PARSONAGE.    159 make a couplet jingle, could almost begin a poeln upon it now. Oh glorious river, sparkling and bright I Beautiful river, bathed in the light Of June." ' Come brother," said Mr. Mellen, laugh- ingly, as he very quietly finished unharnessing the horse, "dismount from your winged Pegasus, and tell us what is to be done with this veritable beast of yours. Shall he enjoy the poetry of the 'park'--as you call it---here, with Bucephalus, or be imprisoned, with rations of hay and oats, in the stable yonder?" "Don't imprison him," cried Mr. Burton, shrugging his shoulders, " since I know what it is to be free, I wouldn't imprison the mean- est creature that ever had breath. Turn him out here with Bucephalus, if the prince of horses will condescend to tolerate a creature of baser mould."     160    EATON PARSONAGE. "There will be no trouble," said Mr. Mellen; "Bucephalus is the very soul of mag- nanimity!" True to his master's word, Bucephalus-in obedience to his call-came up and received the horse of his master's guest very gra- ciously. "What a horse!" cried Mr. Burton, Fit habitant of these fair shades, Bucephalus, of horses prince and chief- But I spare you further effusions, Mr. Mellen. Seriously though, this is a home for a poet; and of a poet, too, since Mrs. Mellen is here. We see from frequent publications that her muse still inspires her." "Yes, even to this present," replied Mr. Mellen, with a happy smile ;" for when I waked this morningjust at sunrise, I found her sitting by our open, rose-garlanded win- dow, with a wrapper over her nightdress, writing verses to the morning!  These   THE NEW PARSONAGE.    161 verses she has been setting to original music, to keep her nerves quiet, while awaiting / your arrival. Shall we go in?" "Presently, if you please," replied Mr. Burton?"but first let nme lighten my purse and conscience, by returning you the money you so generously bestowed last winter. Nay, dear brother, do not draw back and look so hurt, but hear the history of this money, and never believe Eaton people alone know how to be liberal. "On returning to Harding, last winter, after much prayer and reflection, I decided, as you know, to ask a dismission from that peo- ple. My first business then was to discharge my debts, and my next to write to Auburn accepting their call; and at the same time, to good Deacon R., to whom I had confided my pecuniary troubles, saying that through the liberality of a friend, I had been enabled to meet all demands, and enjoining upon him to say nothing to the people about my indebt- "*     162    EATON PARSONAGE. cdness. I gave him to understand, that I re- garded myself in honor bound to return the money advanced by my friend, at my future convenience. I assure you, Mr. Mellen, I did not feel my indebtedness to you as a burden; for the noblest part of your favor was, that you put the whole matter in such a light that it was pleasant to owe you, not only gratitude, but'even money. However, Deacon R. meant my friend should be paid. So, without saying a word to any one of my poverty, he went about stiring up young and old, to show their regard for their new minister and his family by making us a handsome present, which he insisted should be in money which' answereth all things.' So one evening, a month ago, the people called upon us, en masse, and preented a purse containing just the sum you so gen- erously made me accept. Now I ask you, dear brother, has not Providence provided this way for me to return to you the money?   THE NEW PARSONAGE.    163 and are you not in honor bound to take it?" Mr. Mellen congratulated his friend on the liberality of his people, and cheerfully took the money, knowing that he should only grieve him by refusal. Mr. Burton continued: "I owe you just as much now as I ever did, Mr. Mellen; more than I can ever repay or thank you for. You appreciated me-beyond my deserts, I fear-yet I must and will prove myself worthy of your confidence, and that of my already dear people. I now know to whom I owe it, that they even thought of me as their min- ister. One thing more my brother; never think that I desire to forget your liberality about the money. Permit me to keep and use the purse, in which you presented it, as a constant reminder of your friendship, and accept this one, in return, as a token of our gratitude. The grateful tears, I have     164    EATON PARSONAGE. seen my precious wife shed upon it, while netting it, will not dim its brightness, or diminish its value in your eyes, I know." Mr. Mellen, much moved, cordially grasped his friend's hand, saying: "It is a joy indeed to have won the love and gratitude of your noble heart, my brother. To Mrs. Burton, as well as your- self, I must express my thanks for this gift. Let us go in." As they went in Mr. Burton said : "Did you ever think, how adversity often brings us nearer, not only to God, but also to earthly friends? - Now the intimate and tender relations to yourself and family, which you have permitted to result to us from our trials at Harding, are, I had almost said, a sufficient recompense for all our sufferings." "I assure you," said Mr. Mellen, " the pleasure you take in the friendship is fully   THE NEW PARSONAGE.    165 reciprocated by us. I have often noticed the happy results of affliction, to which you refer. I think it is especially true among ministers' families. Trouble draws them together; prosperity estranges. I do not mean estranges, in the sense of alienating, but simply of making strange or unsocial. I have been in sections, east and west, where the ministers suffered much poverty and af- fliction, and, though their families were widely scattered, they often met, and were united by the tenderest ties of love and sympathy. Here, living side by side, the ministers' families all bemoan a want of sociality. With all our trials, we are com- paratively independent and prosperous, and, just in that proportion, we dispense with each other's help and sympathy.  This ought not so to be, for we still have trials enough to need each other, if we have not enough to drive us to each other. For our- selves, I trust that the friendship which     166    EATON PARSONAGE. affliction has cemented, prosperity will never sunder." Having been up stairs, to bestow some needful attention upon their toilet, the gen- tlemen met Mrs. Mellen and Mrs. Burton in the hall, just returning from a tour of the house, which, as this was the first visit of the Burtons to the new parsonage, was natu- rally the first object of interest and conver- sation. When all its beauties and conven- iences had been duly discussed, Mr. Burton said: "The very atmosphere here is full of po- etry. Mr. Mellen can testify, that I, who, as I told him at the time, never was known to make a rhyme, (there you see I can't help it here, any more than Watts, who was a poet born) have been improvising to the river, and the horse; and-to step from the ridiculous to the sublime-Mrs. Mellen's muse inspired her at the sun-rising this morning ; and, only think what an example   THE NEW PARSONAGE.    167 for you, Ellen, she has been composing a musical accompaniment to her verses, while awaiting the coming of her tardy guests." "Oh, Mary," exclaimed Mr. Mellen, "I did very wrong 'to tell'-as the children say; now your friends will think you very indifferent, and cold-hearted that you were not running down the avenue, and listening for 'horses hoof's and 'approaching foot- step's, and 'hands upon the latch,' according to all respectable usage." "They will have to forgive me," said Mary, smiling; " for it isn't my way ever to expect any one. Time and energy are too precious to be wasted in that way; and my nervous organization is too sensitive to bear the 'listening for footsteps' discipline." "Mary has the true philosophy of the thing," said Mr. Mellen. "When we were first married I put myself to all sorts of in- convenience to get home, when I thought she -would 'expect' me. 'My wife will ex-     168    EATON PARSONAGE. pect me' was excuse enough for anytling. But lo, I never found her 'expecting' me! I would come rushing home in the evening, stop on the steps to catch breath and com- pose myself, then enter the hall quietly, and the parlor still more quietly, to find Mary so absorbed in book or manuscript, as not to be conscious of my presence, till I address- ed her. I was not a bit jealous of the books. I knew her course was the only wise one; still, one evening when I found her thus absorbed, I said-wishing to hear her defense. 'Why is it my love, that you are never 'watching' and 'listening' and , expecting' when I come?' "'Would you like to have me?' asked Mary, looking straight into my eyes, with the utmost innocence. "' No, I would not, I am sure, replied I, much amused at her mode of ' defense.' 'It would make me very uncomfortable, and put me to all sorts of inconvenience, to in-   THE NEW PARSONAGE.    169 dulge you in any such folly; thou:gh I would do it with pleasure, if it were necessary to your happiness."' "So I thought," replied Mary. "A minis- ter can seldom tell just when he can most conveniently return home; and I thought if you knew I was always contentedly awaiting your coming, instead of wearing and dis- tressing myself about it, you would be much happier about me. I did not want you to neglect others, and come at inconvenient times, and with inconvenient haste, on my account. "Then again my nerves would not bear the watching, listening and expecting pro- cess. If I were more indifferent to your presence, it might do; but loving you, and longing, as I always do, for your coming, my only way is to keep my mind busy, and never ' expect' you." "Mrs. Mellen took the original method of first winning her case, by its own self- 15     170    EATON PARSONAGE. evident merits, and making an able defense afterwards," said Mr. Burton. "I think, as you said," remarked Mrs. Burton, turning to her husband, "Mary has set me a good example, and I nean to follow it."   CHAPTER XV. MUSIC-A STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL. ' Music exalts each joy." "O children, happy word of peace, my jewels and my gold, My truest friends till now, and still my truest friends when old, I will be everything to you-your playmate and your guide, Both Mentor and Telemachus, forever at your side." At the invitation  of her guests, Mrs. Mellen went to the piano, with her usual readiness. Her playing and singing were, as ever, above criticism, and almost above praise. "Please do not give us altogether the music of others, but favor us with some of your own," pleaded Mrs. Burton. Mary complied, by singing   and  playing several pieces the words and music of which were original with  herself. In these Mr. (171)     172    EATON PARSONAGE. Mellen accompanied her with his fine bass voice. "You have not yet given us the song y)u wrote this morning," suggested Mr. Burton. "Don't ask me, please," said Mary, -with a pleading look, and a shadow of pain, which quickly passed; "I may yet reject it. I can never judge of anything, or endure anything, the day I write it; the result falls so far short of the conception. Let me give you my 'May-day song,' which, in a month, I have learned to look upon with com- posure." The song received the enthusiastic praise which it deserved. In compliance with a whispered request from Mary, Mr. Mellen said: "Let us have some sacred music now,  accompanied by the organ," and lie led Mrs. Burton to a seat at the new instrument. "I am sure I ought to be able and willing to show you that I have profited by your   STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL.   173 kindness," said Mrs. Burton; "but, of course, my playing will never bear compar- ison with yours, dear Mary." "The very goddess of music inspires Mrs. Mellen," said Mr. Burton; "never discourage yourself by any comparisons with her, my love." 'I do not," said Mrs. Burton, with a smile; "I only deprecated comparisons, because I do not aspire to any. I am proud that I can fully appreciate and enjoy Mary's skill, and that I may aspire to her ap- proval." Do not talk so, dear Ellen," cried Mary; "were not your sincerity beyond question, I should be hurt indeed." Mrs. Burton played the organ extremely well, and received Mrs. Mellen's hearty praise with undisguised pleasure. "We know, of course," said Mr. Burton, "how Ellen came to be invited to play the organ at Auburn. At first she utterly re- 15*     174    EATON PARSONAGE. fused; but when Mrs. Mellen's letter came, urging her so eloquently to accept, and I joined with it my earnest desires; and, last of all, when the choir leader waited on her with kind entreaties--promising, in behalf of the choir, to meet every Saturday even- ing for rehearsal - she at last yielded ; and I am sure no one has ever regretted her decision." "I am sure of it, too," said Mrs. Mellen, "both from the playing to which I have just listened, and from the good reports which have reached us from Auburn. I rejoice to tell you, Ellen, that the people are more than satisfied; they are enthusiastic in your praise. Since you have learned that we mentioned your ability to them, I may show you this letter ; " and Mrs. Mellen laid before her friend a letter from the leader of the choir; thanking Mr. Mellen for directing their attention to Mrs. Burton's "rare ability," and saying how highly they appre-   STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL.    175 ciated it, as a treasure and blessing to them. Mrs. Burton's eyes filled with grateful- tears, as she read the letter. She had fel(, before that the people were satisfied with her music ; but this expressed so much more than satisfaction, and was so direct and explicit a testimonial, that it gave her heart- felt joy. "I may be allowed, here," said Mr. Bur- ton, "to say frankly, that I think our church music answers its true purpose of devotion as perfectly as any with which I have ever met. We have congregational singing,-led by the choir, who sit below, near the organ. Our singing is worship." "The fact that your music answers its true purpose of devotion, is the highest praise of all concerned, and especially of your organist," said Mrs. Mellen. "I cannot, and do not wish to deny it," said Mr. Burton; "Ellen has been in-     176    EATON PARSONAGE E defatigable in her efforts, and they are crowned with deserved success." "I am sure," said Mrs. Burton, "I am very grateful for so much praise. It en- courages, and, I trust will not hurt me. I was sadly out of practice when I began, and have needed to take great pains to perfect myself, each week, in what I was to play on the Sabbath. I have sometimes spent hours over a single tune or voluntary. I should feel unpardonably guilty, to lead the tloughts of my husband's congregation away from heaven on the Sabbath, by bad music." "You need have no fears of such a result, while your heart is thus engaged," said Mr. Mellen. "The people are right in feeling that your musical talent is a great treasure to them." The merry voices of the children were now heard from the garden, and Mrs. Mel- len proposed that all should join them there.   STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL.   1" For a week the children had been plan- ning pleasures for their little guests, and they were now realizing all their bright anticipations. One of their schemes was to have dinner out of doors, under some magnificent elms, in a charming spot, which commanded a view many miles up and down the beautiful river. Here the table had been laid, adorned with garlands and flowers, and loaded with every healthful delicacy which could supply the place of hot viands. It certainly looked very inviting, with its tempting display of cold fowls, perfect bread and golden butter, transparent jellies, sponge cake, blanc mange, ice cream, and-the crowning glory of the feast-an abundance of delicious strawher- ries and cream, the first of the season. Hot coffee and tea were to be served from the house. When the time for the early festival arrived, Mrs. Mellen managed to have the     178    EATON PARSONAGE. whole party pass through the garden gate, and come at once upon the sylvan lodge, where the feast was spread. The children, of course, were in ecstacies, and their parents, participating in their joy, were almost equally happy. The Mellen children watched with eager interest the denouement of another of their schemes; for Jennie Burton was to find beneath her plate a double gold locket from Mary and Etta, containing their pictures; and Freddie Burton a four-bladed knife from Willy. In their zeal for their little friends they forgot to turn over their own plates, till their father, having helped all the rest, came in turn to them. Then they were joyfully surprised by presents from their papa and mamma. Mary's was a gold pen- cil and pen case; Willy's, a knife like the one he had bought with his own money for Freddie ; and Etta's, a paint box with pen- cils and brushes.   STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL.    179 Those of our readers who are so happy as to have a group of little ones about them can imagine, far better than I can describe, the pleasures of that happy hour.     CHAPTER XVI. AN AUTHOR'S PENANCE AND REWARD. "Each noble aspiration Comes at last to this conclusion  Jarring discord, wild confusion, Lassitude, renunciation." "And shall not the image of his Maker be happy in his own mind's doing, Looking on the structure he hath reared, gratefllly, with sweet complacence?  AFTER dinner, as Mr. Burton was known to have a passion for rambling, Mr. Mellen proposed that they should take the children (excepting little Etta, who was- having her usual nap), for a stroll upon the river's shore, while Mrs. Burton   enjoyed  a little quiet with Mary. "I am glad to have this hour with you, dear Mary," said   Mrs. Burton, when    the happy  party  had  disappeared  down  the (180)   PENANCE AND REWARD.    181 gentle slope to the river. "Now that we are alone, won't you sing me what you wrote this morning?  I long to hear it inr its unfinished freshness." Mary cheerfully consented, hiding the reluctance which she still felt, simply re- marking: "I am not satisfied with the words, as I before said. They are a very tame and unsatisfactory expression of what I felt. Perhaps the breath of music may prove more eloquent than my poor words: After a very sweet prelude, Mary sang: Through open lattice, gently calls The sweet-voiced Morn: "Awake 1 come forth, and see what joys Of me are born! "The warbling songs of earliest birds, The breath of flowers, The softest light of rosy dawn, Float through my bowers." "Oh sweet voiced Morning, much I love Thy flowery bowers; 16     182     EATON PARSONAGE. But far more dear the heavenborn joys, Which crown thy hours. ' For now the 'Day spring from on high,' Visits me here, And, with the pledge of endless day, Dispels my fear. "When earth's cold, star-lit night is o'er, Jesus shall say, 'Awake, my ransomed, to the dawn Of heavenly day! "Then, o'er celestial hills, shall break Eternal morn, And, to my waking soul, the joys Of Heaven be born. "Sweet Morning, through thy countless charms, In earth and sky, My spirit breathes thy holiest power, Of ministry. "Even your ear can find no fault in the music, I am sure," said Mrs. Burton; " it is the very breath of a June morning. And I do not see, either, why you should com- plain of the words; they seem to me a very   PENANCE AND REWARD.    183 sweet expression of a beautiful and precious thought." Mary drew a long weary sigh, as she replied, in the saddest tones her friend had ever heard from her lips: "An author's life is a perpetual conflict with language, to make it do the thoughts' bidding. The author's penance is ever to find his work fallen so far short of his con- ception, that he almost loathes the result. As Longfellow says: "Each noble aspiration Comes at last to this conclusion; Jarring discord, wild confusion, Lassitude, renunciation i" Mary hid her face in her hands, and leaned forward upon the piano, actually shivering with emotion. "Why, Mary," exclaimed Mrs. Burton, kissing the bowed head, " do you feel like this about it? I have read Longfellow's 'Afterthought,' and many another poet's     184    EATON PARSONAGE. wail over the inadequate expression of his conceptions; and I have heard Payson, and many other devout Christians, mourn the insufficiency of language to express the souls' religious raptures; but none of their plaints ever made me realize the trouble, as it does to see you, a strong-minded, calm, self-governed woman, suffer such actual dis- tress about it." Mary looked up, with eyes smiling through lingering tears, as she said: "This poverty of language is at once the result of sin, and its fitting punishment. As I said, it is the author's penance. In the sweat of his brow must he eat the bread of literary success. In utter self loathing, must he give each work to the world. I know it is wrong to murmur at this burden ; cheerfully should 'the daily cross be borne till, at our grave, we lay it down, and fly away to bear it nevermore.  In heaven, our every mental and spiritual concep-   PENANCE AND REWARD.    185 tion will find instant and perfect expres- sion." "I wonder," said Mrs. Burton, smiling, " if somethng of this does not enter into a ministers' feelings, after preaching, and help to give him the blues." Mary did not smile, but answered, very sadly : "Certainly-did you never think of it before? He loathes himself, and the best things he ever did, or said, or wrote. This is the preacher's penance. It results, not only from the cause of which we have spoken, but from the fact that his ministry, as a whole, falls so far short of his con- ception of what it ought to be." "Now IV understand," said Mrs. Burton, "why an eminent divine once remarked, he never wanted to walk down to the post-office on Monday morning, because he could not face his people." Mary could not smile. She said, as her apology, "I hope I am not getting morbid 16'     186 '   EATON PARSONAGE. on this subject, but it does seem unutterably sad to me that such is the conclusion of all our brightest conceptions, and sternest labors. But music can drive away even this wicked discontent." Mary began to call forth sweet strains from the piano, remarking as she did so: "I always make it my business to keep evil spirits away from my husband every Monday, and he does me the same favor every time I publish any thing." Smiles and dimples returned to Mary's face as she played, and Mrs. Burton ven- tured to say: ' Surely, Mary, this depressing feeling of 'lassitude and renunciation' is not the only one with which the author regards his work. If he has a penance, he also has a re- ward. After the first disappointment of finding it so far from what he would have it is over, he can, and ought to rejoice in what it is, and in its precious fruits to others.   PENANCE AND REWARD.    187 Tupper's is the healthful, happy, Christian 'after-thought' when he says: 'How pleasant is the thrill of composition! Yea, when the volume of the universe was blazoned out in beauty by its Author, God was glad, and blessed His work; for it was very good. And shall not the image of his Maker be happy in his own mind's doing; Looking on the structure he hath reared, grate- fully, with sweet complacence?' "I wish, dear Mary, I could make you realize how much your words of tongue and pen have blessed me. Do you remember your poems, with which you favored me last winter?" Mary assented, and her friend continued-: "I want to tell you, dear Mary, how much good they did me, especially ' The Sweetest Word' and the last stanza, of 'My Home, Sweet Home,' which ever lingered in my mind:     188    EATON PARSONAGE. 'Though heaven and earth shall pass away,' Thy joys, I know, forever stay, My home, sweet home; For I shall find, beyond the skies, Immortal with its earth-born ties, My home, sweet home.' I longed to feel that blessed assurance of eternal rest, for myself and my children, which you express in those poems. I knew it could come alone from that abiding union with Jesus, which both you and Mr. Mellen regard as the vital element of all present and eternal good. "Adopting your plan of absolute open- heartedness in the conjugal relation, I con- fided my feelings to my husband, and to- gether we sought, and found, Jesus anew in His fullness, and felt that we could trust un- waveringly His precious promises to us and our children. "In this spirit we went to our new peo- ple, and we have every reason to hope that God has already blessed our labors to the   PENANCE AND REWARD.    189 conversion of many souls. Te hope that' our own dear Jenny has also learned to love Jesus. "Since we have this abiding union with our Saviour, a different atmosphere pervades our home. Our family government looks more to the immortality of these relations, and our children begin to cling to us with something of that filial devotion, which yours have ever manifested. "Now that I am speaking of the conver- sations which I had with you last winter, let me assure you, also, that the practical suggestions, made by yourself and Mr. Mel- len, in regard to the laws of health and of domestic economy, have been invaluable to us. They were so eminently practical, that we have been able to put them in practice, to our lasting benefit. "In time, and in eternity, we shall have cause to remember with gratitude that day at Eaton Parsonage.     190     EATON PARSONAGE. "The blessing of Jesus attends your life, dear Mary. "Weary hearts by thee are lifted, Struggling souls by thee are strengthened, Clouds of fear asunder rifted, Truth from falsehood cleansed and sifted, Lives like days in summer lengthened." THE END.     
         
      
   
