
    ----CITATION----
        Hunt, Sara Keables.. The Brook, and The Tide Turning, Vol. 1 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6844
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            The brook, and The tide turning, vol. 1
             
                THE BROOK.-P-ge 9-    THE BROOK, AND THE TIDE TURNING.  NEW YORK: National Temperance Society and Publication House, 58 READE STREET. 1875.     Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1875, by J. N. STEARNS, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, Washington. D. C.     t J . - ;' TIlE BROOK. CONTENTS CHAP.              PAGE I. The Old Homestead, . . . . . . . 5 II. The Sewing Society, .. . .  I .  "I. The Wedding, . . . . . . . . . 17 IV. A New Home, . . . . . . . . . . 22 V. The Blind Child, . . . . ..  VI. Poverty,   .  ...    34 VII. Enlisting, . . . . . . .. . 44 VIII. The Return, . . . . .. . . . 50 IX. Fallen Again, . . . . . . ... 55 X. Sorrow and Death, . . ..   6 XI. A New Life, . . . . .. . . 66 XII. The Temperance Lecture, .. .. . . 74 XIII. The Old Homestead Again, . . . . . . . 85 3 ^        \ 1      I. THE OLD HOMESTEAD. T was a pleasant place; not suggestive so much of wealth, perhaps, as of true comfort and real home-happiness--a genuine country farm-house, but with that air of delicacy and refinement which show- ed there were cultivated minds within, and hands that had learned something besides farming. Around the wide portico a vine, which now hung heavy with its emerald leaves, had been trained, and in the broad front yard flowers of beauty and fragrance grew in       rich profusion. Sitting un'der the branches of the trees, you could catch a gleam of a little brook dancing in the sunlight, and filling the air with the music of its ripples like some far-off song. Entering the parlor, your first impres- sion would be rest and enjoyment; so, throwing yourself down in one of the luxu- rious rocking-chairs, and looking around on the bright-green carpet, the guitar, the case of books, the engravings on the wall--any- where that your eyes might rest-there would be nothing to offend the most fas- tidious taste, and you would exclaim with a long breath of delight, "Ah! this seems homelike." So thought Edward Clifton as, on a hot summer afternoon, he was ushered into the parlor of the old homestead, where Alice, the only daughter of the hospitable farmer, was awaiting him. He was a handsome fellow, this Ned Clif-   The Brook.       7 ton, and, during the two summers that he had spent in the country, had become the admiration of many a fair village maid, and the favorite of all. So, with that fascinating way of his, he had won the hearts of old and young, and with them all the guileless one of Alice, the pet in the old homestead. "I shall come for you next Christmas, then; and in the meantime it shall be my delight to prepare a pleasant home for my bride in that great city where I am going to take her," he said, as they talked with happy anticipation of the future. "You know, Alice, I have none to work for but you; for since my mother died, I have felt alone in the world." "And, oh! how I will work for you," said Alice, the tears welling up into her blue eyes. "I will make your home so happy that you will never, I hope, feel the loss of your mother's love. ' I know I shall be de- lighted with the city, and so perfectly do I     8       The Brook. trust you that I would be happy anywhere if you were near." And the little brook went flowing on. Perhaps it was fancy, but it seemed as if the waters were no longer laughing, but sobbing low and sorrowfully, as the voices in the parlor mingled with its own sweet song. Then the echo came through the window: "Good-by, now, till the day I come to take you to our new home." And the winds whispe ed it-" new home"; the flowers painted it, the sunshine gilded and the birds sang of it-or was it only Alice's heart saying it over and over again? 'So Edward Clifton stepped lightly but with a proud and manly air down the path- way, and, turning to look once more at the smiling face in the doorway, gathered a rose, and threw it at her feet, where it fell in a shower of broken petals. The train was a little delayed that day   7The Brook.      g and, as he waited for its coming, he passed into the store on the corner, calling for a glass of wine, which he tossed off at a breath; then wiping the foam from his curling mustache, he hurried to a seat in the now approaching cars. "He's a good customer," said the store- keeper-" a capital customer, and I shall miss him exceedingly; that's a fact." O little flowing brook! with your pure, cold water, by whose banks the bright-eyed Alice has played from childhood, would that you could speak in a language which could not fail to avert the evil that must come in the future! Sing on while the summer days linger, for the winter hours will draw nigh, when your voice will be silent; and when again your song is heard in the land, your little playfellow will be with you no more. And sometimes, hurrying over the burning street, she will long for the time when she sported  on y)our banks and     A     I'- /JVL fl'  LJ/ VVItc bathed her feet in your limpid waters; she will yearn for your sweet song to flow over her aching heart, and weep unavailing tears for the dear old homestead.   II. THE SEWING SOCIETY. "ALICE hasn't come yet, has she?" said Clara Mears, as, entering the rooms of the Sewing Society one cold day, she found only a few assembled. "No," said the Widow Standish; "and I guess she won't be here to-day, seein's how she's a-goin' to be married so soon." "Don't it seem queer to think of Alice being married! Dear me, how we shall miss her! And won't it be lonesome up at the old homestead? Her ooor mother will be dreary enough." "Yes; I s'pose so," said matter-of-fact Miss Smith. "But she can't have her with her always; and if Alice is going to get 1      12      T/ e Brook. a good husband, why, her mother ought to be contented." "Well," said a pale, jaded-looking wo- man, "marriage is like a lottery: there are not many who draw prizes after all." "That's true," says Miss Skinner, squint- ing one eye, as she threaded a very fine needle with some rather coarse thread; "and that's the reason I never entered the list, because I knew it would be just my luck to draw an unfortunate number." A general laugh arose at this; somehow, every one always laughed at Miss Skin- ner's speeches, whether they were funny or not-she had such a droll way of say- ing anything. "By the way," broke in Annie Ross, "did you know the young men were getting up a temperance society?" "Is that so?" shouted all the younger portion of the company.  "Do tell us about it. Wlho's going?"   The Brook.      -13 "I know but little about it myself, but I believe Charlie Hughes started it; you know his father is a very intemperate man, and I do not wonder that Charlie should be a warm temperance advocate. But I don't imagine it will grow very fast; for you know we girls always have wine at our sociables, and of course they would hate to refuse us if we offered it to them, which they would have to do if they signed the pledge of total abstinence." "Did you ever hear Gough lecture.?" said Annie Martin. "If you could hear him once, you would become as strong a temperance advocate as could be desired. When I was in the city last week, I went to hear him. You know what a crowd- ed house he always draws?   Well, I nearly fainted away, the room was so close; but I believe I could listen to that man all night! I sat perfectly enraptur- ed; and when the meeting was over, I     "      The Brook. made up my mind that I never would taste of even home-made wine again, and, what is more, I determined never to offer a glass to a young man as long as I lived!" "Why, our gentle Annie is really get- ting eloquent. Bless me, how her eyes sparkle!" "Well, girls, you may laugh at me all you like. I'm not afraid to be laughed at, and you can't change my decision. My aunt was with me that night, and, coming out of the lecture-room, she said: 'I've always had wines on  my New  Year's table before this; but I never will again!' I can't tell you, girls, how her words thrilled me; for she isn't one who is easily affected." ( Did you ever hear it said that Edward Clifton was one who drinks-moderately, I suppose they call it?" "Why, no. \\1ho told you so? Are you sure?"   TheR Brook.      1 5 "Oh! yes, I am sure; because pa heard Mr. Wright say that he heard the store- keeper down on the corner say that he was a first-rate customer; and you know about all they have in that store is liquor." "O pshaw! I don't believe any such re- port," flashed out a black-eyed girl. "You know very well what a splendid character he bears, and there are a plenty that would like to injure his reputation." "Well, well, please don't mention it; for, even if it is true, he never may drink any more than he does now. How we shall miss Alice! Won't she look sweet in her wedding-dress and white veil! What are you going to wear. O dear! I've sewed this wrong. Isn't it provoking to have to rip a piece of work apart? I declare I never can talk and work too; mother al- ways said so, and I believe it more and more each day. Why, here comes Alice now.  O you nice girl! I knew you     i6      The Brook. wouldn't stay away when you are going to leave us so soon. Now don't sew any to-day; just sit .and let us look at you." "Why, you wouldn't want me to begin to be lazy now? No, indeed; give me some- thing to do, and, even if it isn't finished before dark, I shall feel that I have done a little more for our dear Sewing Society." The moments flew by, and as the shades of evening gathered, and they laid aside their sewing, the black-eyed defender of Edward Clifton's name came gently up to Alice's side, and, kissing her sweet lips, drew her unfinished work from her hands, and, folding it slowly, almost caressingly laid it in the drawer, half weeping at the thought that, when it would be taken from there again, the little hands that had placed those stitches would be far away, entered on a new work, in a strange city, among un known faces.   IIJ. THE WEDDING. JOLLY old Santa Claus has been busy enough, but the night is passed when he makes his annual visit, and Christ- mas-day, bright and beautiful, is ushered in with sparkling snow and a frosty air. The sun shines brightly, and all the vil- lage people are saying: "What a splendid day for the wedding!" Yes, it is Alice's wedding-day. The old homestead is filled with merry guests, and bustle and confusion reign supreme. From one mysterious room come sounds of merry laughter, where the bride is being adorned by loving hands. 17     1S      The Brook. Down in the parlor the guests have as- sembled, and, although some are trying to laugh and be gay, there is an air of solem- nity through the room, as there invariably is at a wedding, notwithstanding it is said to be a joyous occasion. "Well," said old Mrs. Raymond, with one of her long sighs, "I hope Alice is a-goin' to do well; but I should be afeared to risk one of my darters with a young feller like him away off in that great city of New York, where there's so many wolves a-goin' about in sheep's clothing. I've hearn tell of 'em. 'Nice young man? \Vell recommended?' To be sure. 'My Clarissa admired him? Did you presume to say that, Miss Smith?' No, she didn't, I say; no, she didn't. And I've heard her say, many's the time, how mighty conceited he was; and between you and me, Miss Smith, there's other stories about him. The' do say--now don't men- tion it---btut they do say that-- "   The Brook.      19 A rustle in the doorway and the en- trance of the bridal party put a stop to the gossiping dialogue in the corner and the piece of scandal which was about to be uttered. She was indeed a beautiful bride, in her dress of fleecy whiteness and long, flowing veil, with a new light shining in her eye, with roses tinging her cheeks; and, beloved as she was by all the country round, con- gratulations, sincere and heartfelt, poured in from every side. Freely the wine and cake went round, with many a hearty good wish; and when at last the carriage came to convey them to the train, the good-bys were spoken with joyous accents and smiling lips. There were no flowers to look up at Alice Clifton as she passed down the snowy path, and winter had touched with his icy hand the lips of the stream, until, its song frozen, it see!ced to aze in mute wonder, as its      20       The Brook. playfellow went out from her childhood's home. In the parsonage that night Mr. Win- throp, the kind-hearted clergyman, and his wife, sat talking lovingly of the young bride, and how they should miss her. "I declare," said Mrs. Winthrop, "I don't know how I shall get along without the child-she used to run over here so often. I shall miss her dear, bright face for a long time." "Blessings on her!" said the pastor kind- ly. "I hope she has a good husband, for she will make a noble, faithful wife. I tell you, Mary, there is that in Alice's disposi- tion which will make. her cling to a man through thick and thin; and Edward Clif- ton has found a blessing which I hope he will appreciate." In the old homestead that evening there was joy and yet grief-joy for their dar- ling's iha)DinI ss, but  grief thlat sWll: 1must   The Brook.      21 be separated from them; and they, too, sat side by side, talking of the fair young wife, their only daughter. The fire crackled and burned in the old- fashioned fireplace, sending forth a genial heat and ruddy glow; but the lonely pa- rents only knew that the light of their home had gone to illuminate the dwelling of another, and the room looked cold and cheerless. May God bless and take care. of our darling!" the old man prayed. "And never may she look back with regret to this her wedding-day." P, A N1 .T-----     IV. A NEW HOME. flHE home which our friend had pre- JH  pared for his bride was not the most costly; but nowhere in the city could there be found a more attractive place, and it soon became not only so to them, but to their friends and acquaintances, so that the winter flew by in a succession of par. ties and entertainments. So proud of her husband was Alice that she could see no fault in him ; and, as he became the centre of an admiring group wherever they went, she listened to his sparkling witticisms and smiled at his flashing eyes, without ofe dream of what it was that lent that fevered brilliancy to his conversation. 22   The Brook.      23 One night, at a party given by a friend, she had left the crowded room, and seated herself in the conservatory apart from the confusion. Suddenly she caught the sound of her husband's name. (I see Edward Clifton and his wife are here. That man is surely ruining himself. I am astonished that his wife does not see and check the love of drink which is show- ing itself so strongly in her husband's dis- position. Mark my words: if this thing goes on, Edward Clifton will be a ruined man; and five years from now, if living at all, it wAill not be in the refined, pleasant home where they are now.." "You shock me," said a second voice sadly. "I have not observed this myself, and do not wonder that his wife has not. She is one of those gentle, confid- ing creatures who, when they once love a person, can believe no evil of what is to themn almost an idol. You know     24      ThXe Brook. she is very young; would it not be well for some one to speak kindly to her about it?" "Oh! no," said the first speaker, "that would never do; it would be taken as an insult. No, she will have to find it out for herself." "Why, Allie," said her husband some time later, when she went slowly back to the parlors, "how pale you are! What is the matter? Are you faint?" "O Edward!" she exclaimed excitedly, "Iet us go home; I am tired of this place." And with trembling hands she clung to her husband's arm in affright. "Indeed we will; but come, drink this wine first, and you will feel better. The rooms are too warm." ( No! no!"  she shuddered, "never, never. I will never touch another drop as long as I live!" Her husband saw that she was violently   The Brook.      25 excited, but forbore to question lier, and they rode home in silence. When they reached there, and she had become a little more calm, he said: "Now, Alice,' what was it that frightened you so? You must tell me, and I will see that it never happens again." When at last the whole story lay before him, he laughed at her fears, and said: "Why, you silly child, to pay any atten- tion to the remarks of two old womenr! Do you think I would be a drunkard? Do you think I don't know how much I can bear? Do you think I cannot control myself? Now, never let me see any- thing of this kind again," he said sternly. "I am sorry that my wife cannot trust me." And so their first misunderstanding be- gan. The incident soon passed from the mind of Edward Clifton; but it had made an     26      Tlc '-crook'. impression on the susceptible heart of his wife that no time could erase, and her -cheek grew paler, her heart more anxious, as she watched the influence that liquor was. slowly but surely gaining over her unconscious husband. His evenings gradually began to be spent away from home, although Alice did her best to entertain him. Sometimes he spoke harshy, and many an hour did the weary bride spend in anxious thought and weary walting. Her heart went out sometimes, with a weary, homesick longing, for her mother and the dear ones in the old farm- house; but they were far away, and so she stifled her sorrow, and wrote cheering letters to them, telling whlat a pleasant home she had and how   she loved her husband. Alice had never been a professing Chris- tian; but now her thoughts turned often   Thic irook. .     27 to God, and, feeling her own sinfulness and lack of strength, she came to him in prayer, asking' to be guided in the right way, and for help to lead her husband from danger. Little did Edward Clifton dream, when chatting with his gay companions in some gorgeous saloon, of that faithful wife, kneeling in prayer at home. He did not know how much need he had of those prayers. One' night Alice sat sewing, as she awaited his return. Her heart yearned over him, as a mother's over an erring, child; and at last, when she heard him coming, she put aside her work and has- tened to meet him, with some pleasant greeting just ready to fall from her lips and her hands outstretched in welcome. "What are you setting up lIere for?" he exclaimed angrily. "Do you do it to watch my actions?" And thrusting  e tr     28       The Byrook. rudely and violently from him, he sank in a drunken stagger upon a chair. With one wild, imploring cry she fell to the floor and fainted, for the first time in her life. -   1R V. THE BLIND CHLD. ALICE'S home is not as pleasant as it once was. Many a little luxury has been given up; for her husband has failed in business, and is now almost en- tirely without employment. Her parents long ago passed away to the spirit-land, and sometimes their weary child longs to follow them; but the thought of her two children gives her strength, and the hope that she may reclaim the fallen. Her two children-how she loves them! -Eddie, with his noble brow, so like what * his father's was when she first knew him; and Allie, dear, darlingl Allie-why  does 29     30       The Brook. she weep, and clasp the little three-year- old so closely to her heart? "Mamma," whispers the little one, "the chilluns says, Allie's blind. What's dat? An't I like the chilluns? Dey run around and play, but I tant. Why don't 'oo fix my eyes so I tan see too, mamma?   I's tired of being led. Sail I stop being blind when I get's a big girl? May be so; wouldn't dat be nice, mamma? And now sing-anysing, I don't tare what." And so she sings to her little blind daughter, and, looking down into those beautiful blue orbs, wonders if it can be possible that they are for ever sightless. As she sings the baby voice joins with hers, carrying the tune almost perfectly, and Alice beholds a rare talent lurking in that little being; and so each day she sings to her, teaching her many a pure hymn that she had known and suntg when a child.   The Brook.      31 Eddie, too, is a great comfort to her; sitting down at her feet, he delights to plan for the future, saying: "Mother, when I'm a man I'm  going to work for you and Allie, and I'll never leave you all alone every evening; but I shall stay with you and take care of you, and you won't be afraid any more and jump so every time there is a step at the door." Sweet, childish prattler! Deeply as Alice mourns the disgrace of her husband, her heart still clings to him with. a firm, unwavering power, strong in the belief that he will yet reform; but still he goes on. Oh! why must he thus rush Satanward, when there was so much good in him? But he did as many another man hath done as noble and generous as he, and with such grand possibilities in his nature. One by one articles of value are dis- posed of: the piano, some finec engrav-     32      The Brook. ings, and now  and then some golden  trinket that did not bring half its worth. But when little Allie first missed the piano, her poor mother could not keep the tears back. "Manmma, where de music?" she said, groping her way  around the room. "Where de music?  What for it gone?" "My poor child," she moaned, "how can I keep her from suffering? But at least," she said, clenching her hands, " she shall never know hunger; and if meagre- ness and poverty come, it will be uns'een by her." So the clays crept away, bringing no gladness with them; and Alice knew that it could not be so much longer.  She 1 new that her husband was squandering all he possessed, and that poverty must come, sooner or later. And she was right; there came a day when, for the last time, il her once pleasant home, Alice led her   The Brook.      , ttle blind girl's voice in song-the last me. "Well," said Edward Clifton, returning rom the midnight carousal, "we've got to nove somewhere; for this house is sold, ,nd the furniture too. I've hired another )lace; so to-morrow we'll clear out of lere. Alas! alas! could it be possible that this heartless, unfeeling wretch is the once noble, generous, manly Edward Clifton? O intemperance, intemperance! what brutes you make of men!  What sorrow and desolation you carry into innocent households! How many paupers' graves you dig!  How many hopes you blast and crush to ashes!  How many hearts you have broken and bright eyes closed for ever! Intemperance, thou curse upon the land, will the time ever come when we shall rejoice to see your hideous form  removed? 4     VI. 'POVERTY. POOR, squalid place has become the abode of Edward Clifton, with his saddened family. Time and trouble have made great changes in poor Alice's face; the blue eyes have a pale, expres- sionless look, the hands are ruug-h and red, the garments torn and facled. Day after day she toils for nmoey to buy bread and fuel, sometimes sewing. some- times washing, willing to catch at any work. And all this is the result of intempe- rance! All this poverty and wretchedness brought upon them by liquor. (Oh! how call men who sell it to their flllow-bein-s 34.   The Brook.      35 ie down and sleep? Why do not terrible 'isions come to them of the ruin, the ,ears of misery, they have caused? I ;hould think the bread they eat would :hoke them. I should think the clothes hey wear would scorch their flesh. I should think their wives would rather beg rom door to door than deck themselves n jewels purchased at such a price! Do you ask if Edward Clifton never repents-if he never thinks of the misery he has brought upon his fanily? Ah! yes; remorse, terrible and mighty, gnaws upon his heart. But there is a gnawing, gnawing, gnawing ever within him that seems to overrule every other desire; and, a slave to his appetite, he falls, again and again, to the tempter's power. The sweetness of the disposition of the little blind child manifested itself more and more each day.     36       The Brook. Although her mother tried to keep it from her, the child seemed to comprehend their situation, and one day said: "If I was a little bigger, mammia, may be I could earn some money for you." Little Eddie often earned a few pen- nies; but, oh! what were they? You may think it strange that no friends of the poor ever provided for them; but Alice, with her inborn pride and sensitive- ness, and jealousy of her husband's name, concealed their wretchedness, and toiled on in uncomplaining silence. Little Alice often sat by the window and sang; with her blue eyes upturned to heaven, she looked like some angel sent into that dreary place. One day, as she sat thus, with her curly head thrust a little ways out, and sing- ing: "There is a happy land, Far, far away,"   The Brook.      37 her voice floated downward until it reach- ed the ear of some one going by-a lady, clad in deep mourning. She looked up, and caught a sight of that beautiful vision. The sunlight was falling down on the float- ing curls, that waved in a flood of golden splendor; the blue eyes upturned, as we have seen them in some rare old painting; the little hands clasped in a fashion the child had taken up; and the face radiant with that inward ecstasy of song.  Sweetly flowed her voice in that old, dear hymn so familiar to every child: "There is a happy land, Far, far away." The lady turned to her companions and drew their attention to the scene. "I am going up there," she said, "and ask them if I may adopt her. Somehow she reminds of-" Her voice choked, and she entered the     38      The Brook. building to hide the tears so quickly springing up. Mounting the flights of stairs, she came to the room from whence the sweet sounds issued; and, in answer to her knock, Alice opened the door. "I have been drawn hither," the lady said, "by the sound of a sweet hymn and a face that reminds me so forcibly of my own little one in heaven that I want to ask you if you will give her to me to be mine. I long for a little child to look up in my face and call me 'mother' once more. Will you give her to me? I will educate her and love her as an own mother would." "Lady," said our poor Alice sorrowfully, "I could not let her go from me, even though you should still continue to urge nme. But, beautiful though she is, when you know that her eyes are sightless, you will not feel that you could love her as I do."   The 3rook.      39 ( Is it indeed so?" was the sweet reply. "Oh! forgive me.  I fear that I have pained you. May I see her?  Dear, will you sing that little hymn for me? I have been listening to it, and want to hear you again; for I often think  of that happy land where  I have  a darling little girl waiting for me." The sweet tone won the child in a moment, and she nestled in the enclosing arms of the strange lady, and sang again and again at her oft-repeated request. "She has a wonderful voice," the lady said, turning to Alice, and asking her if she would bring her c!ld to see her at her home, adding that she had taken a great fancy to her. "I see vou are poor and in trouble," she said; "but, although I am rich, I have suffered very deeply, and can feel for others who are in sorrow. I should like to be a friend to -you, if I may."     40       The lBrook. Poor Alice burst into tears-it was so long since she had heard any words of sympathy; and, with a warm, fervent clasp of the hand, they parted, the lady say- ing softly, as she left her: "You know where we can go for comfort in our trials? Yes? Then we have a bond of sympathy between us.  I shall come to see you again, and try to assure you that I am your friend." She was true to her word, and many a delicate luxury was brought to the little blind girl. Alice never would accept money from her, save as payment for work; but for this she gave liber- ally. As time passed on, they became more and 'more attracted to each other, giving and receiving confidence and affection. It was a gleam  of sunshine in Alice's life when that light step was heard on the stairs, and those white hands would snatcl   7Th/c ]Brook.    41 away her work and smooth back   the waving hair from her tired brow. Her history was a very sad one. Alice felt that it was much more bitter than hers. She had married when very young against the wishes of her parents, who immediately disowned her, and so alone she had gone away with her husband, only to find him to be a wicked, heart- less man. He took her many thousand miles away from her home, and  in drunkenness and riot passed his life, treating hler with brutal violence, and yet using every effort to prevent her escape; until one night, in a drunken frenzy, he stabbed 11is child, a little girl of beauti- fil promise, and then turned toward his wife,l who fled, shrieking, from his grasp; lwhen suddenly he plunged the weapon in his own bosom, and expired, his breath dying out in a succession of horrible wails and agonizing curses.     42       The Brook. For a long time the poor, childless widow lay between life and death; but one thought gave her strength to arise: "Oh! if I can reach home and obtain my  parents' forgiveness." At last she came to their door, only to find them gone-gone  to another, better world, leaving their forgiveness and blessing for their child, should she ever return, and also the whole of their great property. Day  after day Alice became more deeply attached to her; but this blessing, too, must be snatched from  her lonely life. As the lady was riding one day, coming for little Allie to go with her, the horses took fright, overturning the carriage and dragging its occupant frightfully over stones and rocks, until when, mangled and bleeding, they gathered her up, life was extinct. Death had come suddenly to meet her; but she was prepared for   The Broook.      43 e dark messenger, and in that happy nd, of which she had loved to hear lit- Allie sing, she now. clasps her own "Id again, to suffer no more for ever. The days were longer and. more dreary ow; lower and lower the poor drunkard ad been sinking, and Alice, still strug-- ling to support herself and children, felt iat she had indeed lost a friend who ad been to her almost a sister. And  now poverty indeed crept near them. O wretched hours! O wretched ionment! when the cry of her little blind hild arose in piteous accents: "Mamma,- I am   hungry-I am  very iungry!"     VII. ENLISTING. BOUT this time arose the war of the Rebellion; and, feverish with drink and excitement, Edward Clifton en- listed. He came home that night sober for the first time in many months, and, as, he bade his wife and children good-by, an indescribable expression of agony swept over his features. "O  Alice!" he groaned, "if I had never taken you from your home, you would have been spared all this misery. Wretch that I am! Do you remember that day I came to bid you good-by- that summer afternoon-how we talked and "   The Brook.      45 planned for the future, and all the time how that little brook kept singi'ng and gurgling? As I left you, and passed by those cool waters, I was going to stop for a refreshing drink; but the tempter whispered, ' You may have to wait for the train; stop at the store, and take some wine-it will give you strength for your journey.' Oh! how many times since have I wished that I had listened to the voice of the brook instead; that moment may have been the turning-point of my. life. Can you forgive me for bringing these years of misery upon you? Alice, dear, faithful wife, the memory of your devuted love shall ever follow me through every battle, through all the loneliness of camp- life; and-and-Alice, if J should be kill- ed, you will be provided for; the soldiers' widows will be taken care of. -Don't weep so. -If I live to come home, it will be in a better state than I have been so     "      The Brook. long. I shall not touch a drop of liquor while I am gone, and you will hear good news from me. There, there, don't cry, dear. Keep up a brave heart; teach the children to love and remember me kindly, if you can. Why, this may be the mak- ing of me, Alice. There, now, smile again, and give me )our blessing  and forgiveness." "Father in heaven," she' said, solemnly placing her hand on his bowed   head, "shield him from the hand of earthly ene- mies, but, above all, from the one great enemy of life!" Oh! what an   excitement there was when those first troops marched away from their homes; there wer e heroes there then, and God knoweth well there were hero- ines left behind. You all know  the story of the war. Each has his or her own memories of that fiarful period. I would not recall those   The Brook.      47 painful scenes to your mind; for I know there are eyes that will read this that have shed bitter tears over some sacri- ficed life. O ye who have given up some sacred treasure for our country! still those sobs; let no vain regret go after the loved one. Yours  has been a noble  work; those martyred lives have been glorious, and their death is crowned with the glory of immortality. And was it hard to bear? Ah  yes, I know. So much to recall your grief: the sight of the dear old flag; the cry of "peace! peace!" the tramp of those returning troops Oh! yes, it was hard; but God is pitiful, God can comfort you. He, has, has he not? Ah! lift up your burdened souls to the everlasting hills, where once more you shall roam, with the loved of earth, terrified by no battle-cry, startled by no midnight sum- mons, but throlughout eternity dwelling amid the glory of paradise. .     48       77^cThe Brook. Poor Alice 1 how  weary the hours became.  The nights were terrible in their dreary silence. Often she started from her sleep, thinking she heard her husband coming from  the nightly revel. How she worked, that poor woman, shud- dering lest the time should ever come again when her children should cry for bread in vain! And amid all her suffering Christ was with her, helping her bear her crosses, and giving that sweet smile to her lips, as she murmured, "Jesus suffered more than i." And all her wretchedness had not turn- ed her heart from her husband.  With tender love she clung to him, telling her children everything that she could to make them  love him; and every  night they kneeled to pray for the absent. Hers is not an imaginary character. If we could read the inner life of our fellow- creatures, we mighlt behold many a tra-   The Brook.      49 gedy there that no boolk could ever pic- ture; and many a Christian wife, faithful to her marriage vows, goes on lovirig through unkindness and desertion and scorn, screening her husband's disgrace from the world, and praying humbly for his reformation, blaming helrself rather than him, blind to his degralation, and remembering only what is noble in his character. The first letter from her husband- how it cheered poor Alice! And there was money in it that seemed a little for- tune to the hard-working woman. Edward Clifton made a good soldier. The curse seemed to be lifted from his shoulders. Some strange, unfathomable in- fluence seemed to keep him firom his old habit. So time passed on, and at length he is coming home, a sober man.     VIII. THE RIETURN. HEY   say Ned Clifton has return- ed," said one of his old associates in crime, " and is coming home fromi the war safe and soudl. Funny, isn't it, that the war should have cured him! I declare, there lie is now!  Let's try him. Ask himl to drink, and see if he'll refuse. I'd be willing to bet considerable that Ned Clitton will be dead-drunk be- fore night." Come on," said the others, " here's for fun. How are you, Ned? Glad to see you again, 'pon my word! Do tell us something  about yourself and  the ' Reths.' Give us a yarn. Iave you been long home?  50   The Brook.      51 "Two days," said Edward.   "But I can't stop very well. Got a sick  boy home; going for medicine." "Oh! stop a minute, can't you?   If you don't, we shall think you've grown proud. Come on! The boys are crazy to see you. Think you're quite a hero." "Oh! flee, Edward Clifton, from  the tempter," says his better angel. But he pauses; thinks, "I will just go in and see them a moment, but I won't drink." Before night a gang of evil men were laughing and gloating over the prostrate form of Edward Clifton, fallen again; and in his pocket lay the vial of medicine for ivhich his sick boy was waiting. Poor Eddie! For a long time he had been getting weaker and weaker; and as the day drew near for his father's return, he had been forced to lie upon the bed nearly all the time, his wan cheek flushel xxith fever, anxtd his: weak voice ever say)ing:     52       The Brook. "O  mother! I'm  so glad father is comling home." What a happy welcome the soldier re- ceived! Alice had arranged her hair just as she used to wear it; and as little Allie passed her hand over the long, luxuriant mass of curls, a cry of admiration broke from her lips, and she said: I guess papa will think you're splen- did!" How  noble and handsome he looked to the happy wife, as she was clasped once more in his strong, close embrace, and what joy there was in that little family when he told them  that they would all go away to a better home than that, and have something nice to eat and wear! Allie clapped her hands in delight, and no one noticed the tear that rose in the eyes of the sick boy, as he re- Dcatc dtt  tlh  words, "I3 ttt'er llh lie."   The Brook.      53 "I'm getting real worried about Ed- die," Alice said that evening. "He seems to be growing weaker instead of stronger. It would do him good to take him in the country. Let us go to see my old pas- tor; will you, Edward?" "Yes," he said, "in a few days, when I have arranged some business which I cannot very well leave now; then we will go to your old home, and I will live to make you happy, and make up for all the misery I have caused you." So they talked, with bright anticipa- tions of the future; and two days went swiftly by in a whirl o blissful dream- ings, and the light came back to Alice's face, as she thought and planned for the future. "He is safe, he is safe!" was her one cry-a glad cry of thankfulness and joy. "Never again shall I see him lie de- graded before me; but ever more he will     54      Thle Brook. be my own noble husband, and the sor- rows of my life will all be forgotten. Oh! what a happy return-a return to his loving family and to virtue's path!" So she dreamed, and, singing softly, packed together what they would need for the journey; and Eddie, smiling from his pillow, said: "How pretty you look, mother! Your cheeks are so pink-just like Allie's!" And the happy, dreaming hours flew by as if on wings. But, alas! a shadow is coming, coming, creeping again over those happy and unsuspecting hearts!   IX. FALLEN AGA I N. "I WONDER what can detain him, Alice murmured, as she watched the face of her sick boy, over whom was gradually creeping a fearful change. With clieerful tones she told him that on the morrow they were going to her old home, of which he had so loved to hear, and, smiling sweetly, he said: "I've been dreaming about it and the little brook where you used to play. But I will wait till father comes home before I tell you about it. Why don't he come, mother? The time seems so long. May be if Allie will sing I shall feel better." So the sweet voice rises in hymn after     56      YThe 3Brook. hymn, and the sick boy falls asleep, and still she sings on, on; and Alice, listening and waiting, feels some indefinable dread creeping over her, the tears falling slowly from her eyes as she thinks of the changes in her old home. How  strange and sad it would be to go back there, and not find the welcome that never failed to greet her--strange faces looking out of the windows, unknown voices singing through the halls, the dear ones that once loved her so now silent in the grave! So the night wore away with its de- sponding fears, and when, -toward morn- ing, they brought the fallen man home in a state of beastly intoxication, Alice felt that her trials were almost heavier than she could bear; and sinking upon her knees, she prayed, in an agony of supplication, that her husband might not go down again into the road to ruin, but that he might become a Christian.   The Brook.      57 After this her heart grew lighter; and when, the wretched man awoke, no word of scorn or upbraiding greeted him. Her tender care and gentle forbearance touched his heart as no words or tears could have done, and, groaning in deep grief, he said: "O  Alice! I thought I had   come home a better, a reformed man, and at the first temptation I yield and fall; and I know I am killing you!" He broke down in great sobs that shook his whole frame. "Edward," replied the mild voice of his wife, " you can reform; but do not trust again in your own strength. This is what you have been doing, and God is showing you how  insufficient it is. Begin now with Him who is able to keep you from falling,' even the Saviour, ' whose arm is not shortened that it cannot save, nor ear heavy that he cannot hear.' Let us pray that le will forgive us, and help us to begin together a true, noble life.     58      7The Brook. I feel that I am greatly to be blamed, for I have been blinded and too self- reliant. To-morrow we will hasten from this place, and thus escape from its un- happy associations and many temptations. But now our boy is wanting to see you, He has been talking about you, and seems to have something to say to you. He seems better, I think, and the jour- ney home will do him  so much good. You know I have often told him stories about the time when I was a child play- ing by the little brook. He seems to think and dwell upon it a great deal, and in his sleep murmurs, ' How cool the wa- ters are! My head is so hot, and my hands are burning, my  lips dry and parched.' Come, let us co to him now, and tell him how we are going to take him there, and how happy we shall be." So the) went together to the bedside of their sick boy.   The Brook.      59 Little Allie sat with her curly head bent forward on the coverlid; and as they approached Eddie lifted his hand, with a smile, and pointed to the sleeping child, saying: "She sang me to sleep; and when I woke, I found her dreaming too.  Isn't she lovely, mother? I am so glad you have come, father. Let me lie in your arms. I'm not very heavy, am I?" Tears fell from the father's eyes as he held his boy to his heart, with the inward feeling that it would be the last time. All unconscious of the sad truth, Alice looked on, and said cheerfully: "Eddie, you will get well right away, now; for just think, we are going into the country to-morrow, and you shall hear the little brook sing, and we shall all be so happy."      X. SORROW AND DEATH. "!^TO, mother, I shall not be with you i when to-morrow comes; for I am going to that other home that you have told me of so often-that home in the heavens. O darling mother! don't cry so. I'm not afraid; for I have prayed to Jesus, and I know he will take care of me. "Papa, I want to tell you something. Bend closer, please. Papa, if I should not be living to-morrow, I want you to go, just the same, to the country. It will do you all good; for mother says the air is so much purer there. And if you can, would you take me with you? 60   The Brook.      6  I have a fancy that I would like to be carried where mother used to live, and be laid down by the side of those that mother loved. And lately I have kept thinking of that little brook, and dream- ing such queer dreams. Once I thought you were very tired and worn and'weary; and I was taking you by the hand, and leading you up to those waters, and bath- ing your head. Well, when I woke up, I thought I would ask you if you would make me a promise before I die. If you will, perhaps I can do more good by my death than I could ever have done in my life. "I want you to promise me that when you have laid me down to sleep you will go to that little brook, and pledge yourself over its waters that you will never touch that which has made us all so unhappy, and there too seek the Sa- viour. He will help you keep your pledge. Will you, father, will you?"     62      7The Brook. It was a solemn moment for Edward Clifton, as he placed his hand on the boyish brow before him, and said, amid heavy sobs: "My darling boy, I promise you, with God's help, that I will grant your re- quest." A sweet smile stole softly over the dy- ing face. "Allie, wake up, darling. My poor lit- the blind sister, kiss me good-by! I am going to heaven, Allie, and I will wait for you on the golden shore, where you will come to meet me at last, in that land where there shall be no more darkness, but all one glorious light. Be a good girl, darlin-, and comfort mother. I had thought to be her comfort and stay, but God has ordered it otherwise. "Mother, will you forgive me all my waywardness?  I have often caused vou pain; but, ol! I have loved you so dearly,   The Brook5.      3 so-O  mother! Hcannot-speak.   Lift me up, father! Allie, sing "'I'm going home to die no more.'" Sweetly rose her voice, low and clear, in that small room, flowing and swelling in sweetest harmony. And so the soul of the clear boy was lifted up, as if upon those waves of melody, until it floated outward, upborne upon a song not of earth; and the child had indeed "gone home to die no more." The Saviour was there. Little dreamed the bustling crowd in the street below of that one little room so near heaven! The Saviour was tlhere, and, weeping tears of tenderness anld love, he said': "These are all mine now; and one of them I will take to be with me for ever; but the others I will leave for a while to testify of me." Not far off, in the rooms of revelry {     "      7The Brook. and sin, coarse men laughed aloud and hissed at the name of Edward Clifton, shouting in fiendish glee because he had yielded to their entreaties. But Satan knew that he was beyond his reach; for, looking on him, he saw him   upon his knees by the still form of his child, pray- ing that God would keep him from  fall- ing, and the Infinite Father, who "know- eth our frame, and remembereth that we are dust," looked down with tender com- passion. T"he soul that on Jesus hath leaned for repose He'll never, no, never, desert to its foes." It was  pitifuLl to see the sorrow of the poor blind child. Passive as a baby, they could lead her anywhere; never complaining, creeping away by herself, or nestled in her mother's arms, she mourn- ed in silence. Some kind ladies came and prepared   The Brook.      65 the little form for the journey; and at last with solemn thoughts they went out from the place where poverty and sorrow and death had crept near them-went out towards the little village where Edward Clifton won his bride! And the little room was closed in silence, the dismal walls never more to look down on a pale, toiling woman. The little curly head, with its golden splendor, has gone from the window for ever-the sweet song van- ished. The sound of the drunkard's step at the door will come never again. The little, frail boy with weary feet will mount those winding stairs no more; for in the golden streets of heaven his path now lies, where the footstep never falters nor the sad voice whispers, "I am tired."     XI. A NEW\ LIFE. mHE old pastor in the country town where our story opened was sitting in his study, trying to write his Sunday sermon; but somehow his thoughts seemed to be very wandering, and finally, laying down his spectacles, he determined to leave it and go down in the parlor and sit awhile with his wife. As they talked of the past, the old mlan said: I wonder what ever became of that little girl Alice who was married and went away to New York? Let me see, how long aco was it? Ten--twelve-why, it must be twelve years. Somehow, wife, fj7   The Brook.      67 I was a little bit afraid of that young man-a splendid fellow he was, I know, and with good brains; but too fond of wine-too fond of wine. I do, hope he has turned out well; for Alice was a good, noble girl, and deserved a true, manly husband. It was about a year after her marriage, wasn't it, that the old folks died, passing away within a week of each other. I saw Alice then, and she was looking well; but somehow I can't help feeling worried about her, the world is so full of temptation and sorrow." "Why, pa," said his wife, "I never saw you so morbid. What's the matter?" And the good woman looked over her spec- tacles in extreme anxiety, wondering what had come across her cheerful husband. "Hark!" she said, "I thought I heard wheels. Yes, I did; there, they've stop- ped. Some couple to be married, may be. You open the door, pa."     68       The Brook. "O Mr. Winthrop, my dear old pastor! have you forgotten the little Alice you used to instruct? And you, dear lady-do you not remember me? I have come to you in deep sorrow, my friends, with my poor dead boy, whose last request was that he might be buried by the side of my mother; and I knew of no one to whom I could come but you Will you welcome ne?" "Poor, dear child!" they said, and let her weep in their arms; and little Allie was taken to the warm heart of the old lady without a question. How many there are, like her, compre- hending in a moment lwhat it would bring pain to explain, and with tender attentions rendering it unnecessary that words should be spoken! What a feeling of rest came over them to be in that Christian home, and hear loving, kind words, and receive naught butI tcdtfernless . and delicate attention!   The Brook.      69 After the funeral of their dear boy Edward Clifton went out with the good pastor down where the brook was yet bubbling by the roadside. "Mr. Winthrop," he said with deep feeling, "I have been leading a wrong and sorrowful life, but I am anxious to begin anew;. and here by this cold water, in obedience to the request of my darling child, I now make this vow, with God's help, to abstain for ever from all intoxi- cating drinks; and trusting in the merits of the Redeemer for pardon for my many sins, I determine, in his strength, to live a new life, devoted to God and the good of my fellow-men!" Oh! how the little waves danced and sang, as he quaffed the cooling waters and bathed his forehead in the limpid stream; and the white-haired pastor lifted his hands in blessing over that aching brow, and prayed that God would seal     70      The BIrook. in heaven what had been done on earth, and, forgiving the past, give grace and strength in time to come, making his ser- vant a true Christian, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord. And so Edward Clifton's new life be- gan. Oh! would that every drunkard in the world might begin, like him, a new life! Would that every young man lightly laughing over the wine-cup in some fash- ionable parlor or glittering saloon-would that they might take warning, and save themselves the years of misery which the use of liquor surely brings! O ladies! beware how you place the wine-cup be- fore your young guests. Better for them that you stab them to the heart than kin- dle within them a passion which will work their ruin. O young men! be not ashamed to re- fuse to drink. It is an honor to turn away from it. I would glory in scorning   T/it Bie rook.    71 their appeals of destruction. Your com- panions may laugh, but in their hearts they will admire the courage which you possess. And cl* ou who have fallen again and again; you who might be so noble, were it not for that which is consuming you, oh! I beseech you make one more effort- not in your own strength, my friend, but leaning on Him who is mighty to save; praying to him who can keep us from temptation and deliver us from evil. Oh! conme to the fountain of life; be baptized witl the waters that Christ can give you, which shall be as a well of water spring- ing up within you to everlasting life. May God bless every tempted soul, and lead it from this day to enter upon a newer life! Does it seem to you, lonely, tempted soul, that your life is so isolated, so de- void of kindred and friends, that you have     72        T/ie Brook. none to feel an interest in you, none to be influenced, either for good or ill, by what you may do? Indeed, indeed, it is   not so.  "None of us liveth unto himself." "No stream from its source Flows seaward, how lonely soever its course, But what some land is gladdened. No star ever rose And set without influence solmewhere. Who knows What earth needs from  earth's lowest creature? No life Can be pure in its purpose and strong in its strife, And all life not be purer and stronger thereby. The spirits of just men made perfect on high, The army of martyrs who stand by the throne, And gaze on the face that makes glorious their own, Know this, surely, at last. Honest love, honest sorrow; Honest work for the day, honest hope for the morrow- Are these worth nothing more than the hand they make weary, The heart they have saddened, the life they leave dreary?   The Brook.        73 Hush! the seven-fold heavens to the voice of the Spirit Echo, ' He that o'ercoreth shall all things in- herit.'"     XII. THE TEMPERIANCE L,ECTURE. 'COME on, boys! What do you say to goin' to the temperance meetin' to-night? Goin' to have a big speaker, so they say. I tell you, Bill, I'm kinder tired of livin' this way. What's a man  good for drunk half the time? There was that poor Ned Clifton.  Do you remember the day we got him to come here and drink after he came home from the war? I say, Bill, that was as mean a job as I ever had a hand in. I was one of the boys that helped carry the poor fellow home that night; and when I saw  his wife looking so kind of broken down like, I tell you it was 74   The Brook.      75 7 5 enough to make a chap cry like a baby. I didn't drink any more for two days after that; it just upset me. And I went there to see how he was getting along; but the folks said they'd moved-gone into the country-and that their boy was dead  Ned Clifton was too fine a fellow to throw himself away. He 1had a good head, and a good heart too.   It was kinder tough for his family, that thought such a heap of him. I might be dead- drunk all the time, and there'd be no- body to care-nobody to say, 'Jim; be a man '" A great tear shone in his blood- shot eyes, and, as he drew his ragged coat-sleeve over his face, a vision came up before him of a gentle mother calling for her little boy to be placed beside her, and his soft, chubby hand drawn to those dying lips; then her weak voice seemed saying, "Jimmie, be a good boy, and don't forget your mother."     76      T/h B]rook. "No, mother, I won't forget you," he sobbed; "I'll be a man." "Comrades," he said, turning to the group of rough men in that old, wretched tavern, "I'm goin' to give it up and try to lead a different life. Will you, Bill? Come on, what do you say?" A shout of derision arose, mingled with jeers and loud ejaculations of disdain. "O you chicken-hearted fellow! Goin' to a temperance meetin'! Ha! ha! ha! That's right, go it! Look pretty there, wouldn't he? May)r be they'd ask you to make a speech. Ila! ha!" "Look here, Bill, you needn't laugh. I'm not afraid of your sneers; and if I make up my mind to be a sober man, you know  Jim Ranson well enough to feel sure that no mortal man could laugh hixm out of it. I'm goin' to that tem- perance meetin' to-night"- bringing his broad fist down upon the table with a   The Brook.      " loud crash-"and I'm goin' to make a speech, if they'll let me; and then I'mn goin' to sign the pledge. And if you don't believe me, you may come there and see." "You're a-goin'!" they shouted-"a-goin', a-goin! Is there anywhere else you're a-goin', preacher?" A  look came over that man's face that seemed to sweep the evil from it as he said, sadly and solemnly: "Comrades, I can't tell you where I am goin', but I can tell you wh ere I am not goin'-if there is a power that can keep me from  it-and that is to hell; and this place is leading there just as fast as it can. So this is the last time you will ever see me here. Farewell!" The tavern-door went to with a loud noise, and James Ranson walked   hur- riedly away from that den of wickedness. Around the group within there arose a mlurmur of surprise. "';What's come over     78       The Brook. the fellow?" one said. DIo you believe he's in earnest?" "Boys, I've got an idea," said another. "You'd better take good care of it, then," sneered a third; "for you'll never have another." "I say," continued the second speaker, without notici1ng the sneer, "wouldn't it be a good joke to close up the estab- lishment to-night, and all go in a pro- cession to the hall where that temperance meeting is going to be? \Vhat do you think?" "All right," said they. "But what a fright we'll give 'e! Whew! won't they stare when we march in; for I tell you we've got our name tip," added the one called Bill. "lurrah! here's for fun." One of the largest halls that the city afforded was set apart for this the great- cst temperance meeting of the season.   The Boook.      79 Long before the hour every seat was taken, and still the crowd pushed in, until every aisle and corner was placlked with human beings; and as the speaker ap- peared upon the stage, the great sea of faces swaved to and fro in the effort to behold him, for he had become widely celebrated as an orator, a philanthropist, and a true Christian man. The gang of inebriates were comforta- bly seated near the platform, much ex- citement having followed their arrival and at some distance off Jamles Ranson, with a solemn, earnest countenance, looked utp- (on the scene After the singing and opening exercises the speaker was introduced to his audi- ence, and, advancing toward them, he be- gan his lecture. Not a sound was heard, save   that thrillihng voice, risil ng fiuller, more imlpas- sioned, as he proceeded with his theme.     8o       The Brook. Intemperance was set before them in a way that could not fail to move the hard- est heart, and with eager eyes and lis- tening ear the audience bent forward, as if afraid of losing one word of the eloquent address, so fraught with intense feeling. Towards the close, coming still nearer to that vast, enrapt people, he said: "My friends, I could give you a little passage from the life of a man over whom for ten years intemperance brought its misery. He commenced  the world very prosperously, with a good education, kind friends, and many blessings-among them one of the purest, noblest wives ever given to man. But this young man had one failing-love of wine-and he allowed it to increase day by day, year by year, until it gained the ascendency over him, and he fell into degradation and ruin, dragging down into years of misery his bb6   The Brook.      8  wife and two children-one a noble boy, the other a little, delicate blind girl. "When the war broke out, he enlisttel and served as a private soldier in tle, Union army, during which time lhe t-! ed not a drop of liquor, and, iln his s;ell reliance, fancied himself reclaimed. 1lit no thought of God entered his mind, and on his return he was shown how weak his will was; for on his first meeting with his old companions he fell. "It was only by the death of his boy that this man rose again; for the dying request of that angel child was that his father would cease drinking. Oh! I could picture -to you that scene-the dying boy, the pale, weeping wife, the poor little blind girl, and the once manly form of the father. I could tell you how they bore the sleeping one to a peaceful coun- try grave, and how that man began a new life on a firmer foundation-even     8 2      7h c )Brok. Christ Jesus; but, oh! my voice would falter. I should break down in a storm of grief, were I to attempt the story; for, friends, I am that man, and before mne I see some with whom  I have joined in revelry! I knew not if they were living till now; and, oh! I want to persuade them to leave their old habits and be noble men. Will you? Will you?" The speaker's voice trembled with ex- citement and feeling. He clasped his hands in a fervent appeal, and, falling on his knees, prayed, as man   never prayed before, for the reformation of those men. Before he had ceased the sobs of one and another were heard, and as he arose there came a shout from a distant cor- ner, and James Ranson pushed his way through the excited crowd, who, seeing him, sent up cheer after cheer. Springing upon the platform, he graspIed   The Brook.      83 the speaker's hand, and shook it with an iron grasp, crying:' "Thank God, oh! thank God you are saved! I've thought of you many a time, and I've made up my mind to be a better man; and, though I've been a great sin- ner, I hope God will forgive me and help me to change my course.  Where's the pledge? I want to sign it. Here it is. Now, comrades, wallk up and join me- you'll never be sorry. Ah! here they come. Now  three cheers. One! two! three! Hurrah!" And the house rang with the, applause, lulling for a moment only to break out again, till it seemed as if. the sound would never cease. Every one was on his feet, hats thrown up, women laughing and crying together, men shaking hands one with another, and amid it all name after name going down on the temperance roll. Ah! it was a grand scene, and Edward Clifton went     84       The Brook. from that temperance meeting with a feel- ing of unutterable joy. Those rooms of crime that had been the rendezvous of that gang of men are opened no more for their old purpose; but a mission school now meets there, and children's happy voices, in sweet hymns of praise, are now heard instead of the coarse jest and drunken laughter that once filled its walls. Should you visit that pleasant school do not fail to notice particularly the superintendent, Mr. James Ranson; and if you wish to please him especially, ask him to tell you the history of the school. That will bring him to his favorite theme, of which he never tires of discoursing. "I tell you what, sir," he will say, "you ought to have been there at that wonderful temperance meeting."   XIII. THE OLD HOMESTEAD AGAIN. SNCE   more we will take a look at the old homestead, again the abode of Edward Clifton's wife. God has prospered his efforts, and given him wealth, honor, and fame, with true domes- tic comfort. He has bought the old homestead, and given it to his wife for a Christmas pre- sent, telling her that she was a Christmas gift to him. All that wealth and art can do has been done for the place, rendering it one 85      86       The Brook. of the finest in the country. A large tract of land has been added to it, laid out in wide avenues, parks, and gravelled walks. Fountains are throwing up jets of spark- ling spray in the air, while marble statues gleam amid the foliage. A rustic bridge has been built over the little brook, that still sings its same old song, and close by its banks stands a summer-house, half covered with climbing roses and vines. The house has been greatly enlarged and entirely refurnished, save one little room that seems almost sacred to Alice- the parlor where we first introduced the reader; that remains, with its soft green carpet, its books and pictures, just the same as when Alice became the bride of Edward Clifton. Little Allie has grown into a tall, beau- tiful girl, hut in those large brown eyes   Thc B rook.      8; darkness yet dwells; for her blindness baffles every physician's skill. She has been educated by teachers for the blind, and her voice trained to a wonderful rich- ness. God has given  them other children, dearly loved; but their beautiful Allie, child of their sorrow, seems nearer than all the rest. Her soul is full of music, and, as if under some inspiration, her rare talent shapes itself into songs of melodious sweethess and wondrous har- monies. And so her whole life flows on like some exquisite strain of music, making all around purer and nobler. It is a warm summer afternoon, very much like that day when Edward Clifton came to say good-by to Alice in the little, cool parlor so long ago. They are sitting in the summer-house now by the singing brook, their children     "      The Brook. playing on the lawn, and filling the air with their shouts of glee. By the win- dow of the music-room that opens on the piazza their blind daughter is singing to the sweet tones of her harp, and, as Ed- ward Clifton looks upon the scene, he says: "O Alice! how  thankful I am  that God gave me such a true, faithful wife. All this happiness I owe to your kind love and forgiving fidelity. If I had riot had your encouragement, I might never have been brought successfully through my struggle for a higher life." Tears of joy fill Alice's blue eyes, as she looks at the manly form beside her, and thinks how honored he is among men and how beloved by his family. "To God be all the glory!" she says in a sweet, solemn tone, her heart over- flowing in happiness; and forgetting the years of misery she had experienced, her   The Brook.      89 life seemed as clear and peaceful as the flowing stream beside them. Walking by its banks, they talked of the future, Edward telling her how his whole life shall be devoted to God and her. "But, oh!" he exclaims, "if I. codld only persuade others from following the course which I pursued!  If men would only listen to a friendly word, and be warned in time, how much suffering might be prevented! I wonder sometimes, when I see the wretchedness that intemperance brings, why its victims are so blind to their unhappy state, so unconscious of the waves of woe that are carrying them along to a sea of despair and :ruin. Oh! look, Alice, what a glorious sunset. How radiant every object becomes! It seems to me that sunsets are more beautiful here than anywhere else in the world- this dear old homestead!" So they walked together through thei-     90       The Brook. broad, pleasant grounds, watching their children at their play, and listening to Allie singing with her harp from the low window, while over it all floats the voice of the brook, laughing and trilling its own old song, as it dances onward, leaping for joy even as the children dance upon the lawn. And as the last gleams of the setting sun burst in at the open window they fall -upon the radiant face of the sweet- voiced Allie, as she lays her cheek against her mother's, and the father's voice, in deep thanksgiving, says: "Thus may the Stun of Righteousness ever shine upon you, my best earthly treasures, and at last may we all gather, an unbroken band, in that beautiful city of God above!" Sweetly murmurs the voice of the blind girl, as she reaches to clasp her father's hand:   The Brook.      g9 "'And there shall be no night there; and they need no candle, neither light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light: and they shall reign for ever and ever.'"     
         
      
   
