
    ----CITATION----
        Clarke, Thomas.. Avondale .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6069
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            AVONDALE, 
            A STORY OF ENGLISH LIFE, 
            BY THOMAS CLARKE, 
            AUTHOR OF "THE TWO ANGELS," "SIR COPP," "A DAY IN MAY," ETC., ETC. 
            415 pp. Cloth. Price, $1.25. 
             
               OPINIONS OF THE PRESS: 
               [From The Chicago Standard.] "Avondale is a book whose author has gained no inconsiderable reputation as a writer, both of prose and verse. It has been well received by the critics, and is, in fact, superior to much of the literature of the day; and it is refreshing to get hold of a book that reads like nature in life, instead of the stilted extravagances which constitute too much the style of modern fiction. The teachings of Avondale tend in the direction of virtue, honor and moral sentiment." 
               [From the Chicago Evening Journal.] "Avondale is a novel of a high moral character, and rich in valuable information and useful suggestions. It abounds in classical allusions, but is not pedantic. The plot is deep, and is worked up in a way to hold the interest. The tone of the work is ennobling, and the book is far above the average of current romances." 
               [From the Chicago Advance.] "Avondale is a story of English life pleasantly told by Prof. Thos. Clarke. Its scenes are well described, its incidents natural, and its conversations sensible and edifying." 
               [From the Chicago Inter-Ocean.] "Avondale reminds us of Fielding in some respects, and of George Eliot in others. There is a touch of Parson Adams in its classical allusions sions, and excellent debates on questions of political and social interest, while its love scenes recal the authoress of Evelina and Cecilia. The author possesses a narrative power, a knowledge of human nature, a wealth of reading and a clearness of reasoning which must recommend his book to the notice of those who look beneath the surface. His descriptions of Irish life and character, of Liverpool tailors and London footmen, remind one of Richardson; and, in fact, the book is superior to seven out of every ten novels we have perused during the last few years." 
               [From The Western Catholic.] "Avondale is a work of much thought and information, generally interesting and often beautiful in description. The author's deep knowledge of human nature is traceable on every page. His love for rural scenery is often realized in his attractive views of wood, flower-enameled vale and highly wrought pen pictures of a country life." 
             
             
               From Alfred Dutch, Esq., the well-known Scholar and Critic. 
               
                  TO PROF. THOS. CLARKE:
                
               
                  Dear Sir:-I have just read your excellent novel, Avondale, with deep interest and delight. It will stand the test of criticism suggested by Martial: "A book that is destined to live must be pervaded by genius.' Avondale ought to be in every library. 
               Thus we see that AVONDALE ranks with the best novels of the past, and is absolutely without a rival to-day. 
             
          
          
            The Burning of Chicago. 
            By the same author, 
            A POEM. PRICE, 10 CENTS. 
            This is the noblest monument ever erected to the memory of any city, and as it justly claims, one "More durable than brass or pyramid, or mausoleum reared to honor kings; a monument which not the gnawing tooth of wind or rain, or the rough flight of time through years innumerable, can destroy, but which shall stand as long as earth endures." p. 22 
          
          
             
            THE TWO ANGELS, 
            A Story of Either Paradise. 
            A POEM IN SIX BOOKS. PRICE, $1.00. 
            This work takes rank with the first literary productions of the age, and is also out of print since the great fire, but it will soon be republished. 
            25,000 Copies Sold in Three Years. 
             
               TESTIMONIALS. 
               "'The Two Angels' essays the great theme of the origin of evil. The plot possesses interest and power, while its influence is thrown upon the side of virtue and religion."-Chicago Advance, (Congregational.) 
               "Mr. Clarke's previous poems have all been well received by the press and the public. 'The Two Angels' takes captive the reader, and carries him away in spite of himself."-Chicago Standard, (Baptist.) 
               "There is genuine poetry on every page, and whoever commences, the perusal of 'The Two Angels' will not lay the book down till he has finished it."-Mrs. Livermore in the New Covenant.
                
               "The story of 'The Two Angels' will bear witness to the learning and genius of its author."-Chicago Evening Journal.
                
               "The best English critics have awarded to Mr. Clarke a high rank among the first poets of the age."-Chicago Tribune.
                
               "The story of 'The Two Angels' is decidedly superior to 'Milton's Paradise Lost.' Mr. Clarke has great facility in versification, his fable is ingenious, his fancy fruitful, and his diction correct and elegant.-Chicago Republican.
                
               "The pleasure we derive from Mr. Clarke's volumes is enhanced by the fact that the author is one of our most estimable citizens."-Western Rural.
                
               "Dear Sir: Your 'Two Angels' took me captive at the first introduction (as did its author), and love-led me to the end with delight."-Alfred Dutch, Esq., of Chicago.
                
               "Dear Sir: Your beautiful poem, 'The Two Angels,' I have read with the deepest interest. It is concise, and in my judgment, more than beautiful, it is perfect."-Hon. Judge Joseph Knox, of Chicago.
                
               "Mr. Clarke's works have received the stamp of public approbation; and having passed through several editions, may now be set down as additions to the standard literature of this country."-Chicago Evening Mail.
                
             
          
          
             
            SIR COPP, 
            A Poem for the Times. 
            IN SIX CANTOS. PRICE, $1.00. 
            This book has had an immense sale, but the plates were melted in the Chicago fire, and have not yet been replaced, but will be ere long. 
            The Chicago Tribune says of SIR COPP: 
            "We must, in justice, commend this work for many striking and some admirable passages. The best English critics have accorded to Mr. Clarke a high rank amongst the first poets of our day." 
            35,000 copies sold of SIR COPP. 
          
          
            The Great Centennial Ode, 
            AND OTHER POEMS, PATRIOTIC AND HUMOROUS. 
            PRICE, $1.00 
            This work will be published shortly. Never published before. 
          
          
            The New Sentimental Journey. 
            IN ONE VOLUME. PRICE, $1.00. 
            Will also be published in due course. Never published before. 
          
          
            A Volume of Lectures, 
            UTTERLY ANNIHILATING ATHEISM. PRICE, $1.00. 
            Never published before. Will also appear in due course. 
            All the above works stand in the first rank, by the unanimous verdict of the critics and the public. 
            Agents Wanted Everywhere. 
            1881, Re-published by J. C. WADLEIGH, No. 38 Madison Street. CHICAGO. 
          
          
             
             
               AVONDALE. 
               A STORY OF ENGLISH LIFE. 
             
            BY THOMAS CLARKE, AUTHOR OF "A DAY IN MAY," "THE TWO ANGELS," "SIR COPP," ETC., ETC. 
            
               CHICAGO: 
               PUBLISHED AND FOR SALE BY THE AUTHOR.
             
            1874. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by THOMAS CLARKE, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, in Washington. 
          
       
      
         
            Avondale 
             
            AVONDALE. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               INTRODUCTION. 
               
                  AVONDALE, September 6, 18-. 
                   
                     TO FRANK DUNWOODY, ESQ. 
                  
                
               WHEN the heart is oppressed with sorrow, or under the influence of deep emotion, it naturally seeks solace in the sympathy of friendship. 
               To you, my dear Frank, I turn, as my earliest friend, hoping that I shall find that consolation for which my heart yearns, in pouring out my whole soul to one whose love and kindness I have experienced under all circumstances, and who has proved himself a true friend at a time when acts speak louder than words, and when others who had made greater pretensions were found deficient when put to the test. 
               But your absence with your regiment in India has rendered it impossible for you to become acquainted with the great calamity which has recently befallen our family. This it is now my painful duty to acquaint you with. 
               You are aware that I had almost finished my collegiate course when you left; but you had scarcely touched at the port of your destination when the occurrence of which I write came suddenly and unexpectedly upon us. 
               I had passed my final examination with applause, and was awaiting the arrival of my father and sister, to witness and participate in my triumph, when I was handed a letter which stunned and, for the time being, utterly unmanned me. I am ashamed to confess it, but friendship demands that nothing-not even our weaknesses-should be concealed from a friend. 
               The letter in question brought me the appalling intelligence that my father's bank in Armagh had stopped payment, in consequence of a panic which had caused a run upon it; that my beloved father himself had been thrown into prison for debt, and that our worldly prospects were ruined beyond the hope of recovery. 
               This blow was so sudden and unexpected that all who knew us stood aghast at the news, as if such an event had been among the impossibilities. Nevertheless, it was a fact-one that could not be disputed. 
               As to the remote causes of it, it is not necessary now to enter upon the details. I shall merely dwell upon the consequences, which were terrible to us, at least for the moment. My poor father, lately so prosperous and honored, now reduced to poverty and distress, and the inmate of a prison! and a family lately rolling in wealth and luxury reduced at once to dependence and humiliation! What a reverse! 
               But, fortunately, the imprisonment of my dear father was of brief duration. It had been unnecessary-the work of an over-zealous attorney, who had gone beyond the limits of his orders; and it was regarded by all good men as harsh and cruel. 
               Only a short time was necessary to place matters in their true light, and to vindicate the character and honor of my father in the eyes of the world. He gave up everything he possessed to his creditors, without the slightest reserve. It was found that his assets would be sufficient to satisfy all just demands; and so pleased were his creditors that they would have returned him a considerable sum, in admiration of his integrity, but this he refused to accept, although he had nothing left that he could now call his own. 
               My sister and I were now the only consolation he had to look up to in this world, for death had kindly spared our sainted mother the pain which this sudden change of fortune must have caused her had she lived to witness it; and though we had deeply lamented her loss, we were now grateful to Heaven that she had been removed from the cares of this lower sphere and exalted to a higher and happier state of existence in the eternal world. 
               Philosophy is a good thing, but it generally fails to give consolation when it is most needed. My sister and myself-young, ardent and hopeful-could not easily reconcile ourselves to the sudden change that had thus blighted our fair prospects in life and turned its whole current into darkness and tears; and, no doubt, indications of such feeling were visible in our look and demeanor, though outwardly we desired to assume a look of resignation and repose. 
               Our beloved father was not slow in detecting these secret thoughts that were preying upon our minds and sapping the foundations of our happiness, and he was prompt in discovering and applying an appropriate remedy. Taking us, therefore, aside, he addressed us in his usually mild but firm manner, as follows: 
               "My children, although Divine Providence has deemed it right to take from us our wealth, and with it that station in life which we have hitherto, I trust, usefully and honorably filled, that is no reason why we should repine or be inconsolable for our loss. Have we not still much left for which we ought to be thankful? Health, a sound mind and a clear conscience, the greatest of all earthly blessings, are still the possessions of each of us. As long as these are ours, though we possessed nothing besides, we can never be poor; without them riches were vile and loathsome poverty. In the time of our prosperity I trust I did not neglect those duties which a parent owes to his children. I have endeavored to cultivate your minds and to imbue them with those principles of virtue and honor of which no casualties can deprive you. These advantages aiding your natural gifts and talents, which are of a high order, will enable you to wrestle successfully with the world in this your hour of adversity; and it is incumbent on you to employ them now for your own support and that of an aged parent who has labored all his life for your happiness, and whom no imprudence of his own, but an unforeseen calamity, has deprived of all the fruits of his toil. Why do I say calamity, since you, my dearest treasures, are spared to me? All else I count as dross, so long as you remain to bless me, my darling children." 
               Here the old man threw an arm around each of us, and pressed us tenderly to his heart, while the warm tears trickled down his furrowed cheeks. 
               "Yes," continued he, as he kissed us repeatedly, "let it all go; let the world do its worst-let the elements themselves conspire against us, if they will, so long as I can fold you thus in my arms, while I can thus gaze upon your innocent faces, and whilst my ears can drink in the sweet sound of your voices, I shall be happy-too happy to think of aught besides. May Heaven in its mercy spare you to me, my children, and may its choicest blessings accompany you in all the paths of life." 
               Long before our dear father had concluded his blessing both my sister and myself were bathed in tears-tears of regret and shame mingled with tears of joy-regret and shame at the consciousness of having repined at the will of Heaven, and joy to think that we who had hitherto been a burden to our beloved parent should now be deemed worthy to minister to his wants, and that, too, by calling on the resources of our own industry; and, embracing him tenderly, we entreated him to inform us how we could employ onr talents so as to be of service to him, assuring him that we would be most happy to do anything, even submit to the greatest drudgery, to gratify his humblest wish. 
               "I have not been mistaken in my estimate of your characters," he replied; "you are indeed the noble-minded, disinterested beings took you to be, and Heaven will reward you for all this, both here and hereafter." 
               "Dear father, we esteem it a great reward to have your approving smile, and we consider it a great privilege to be called upon to labor for your comfort and happiness," we both exclaimed in a breath. 
               "I know it," he replied; "and now let us act, for there is no time to be wasted. I will now acquaint you with the plan which I have formed for our future guidance and direction. I suppose you are aware that my pecuniary resources are reduced to the lowest ebb. The trifle that remains belongs not to me but to you. It was the legacy of your dear departed mother, bequeathed to you, and to you alone. This neither I nor my creditors could claim, which is fortunate, else it must have gone with the rest. Justice must be done to you, my children, as well as to her who is gone. Her gentle spirit in heaven would be grieved if her last request were not complied with and her children should suffer in consequence. 
               "With this wreck of our fortunes I propose, with your consent, to leave our native land, beloved though it be, and to seek for fame and fortune on a foreign shore, where we must sojourn at least till a better day, if such should ever visit us again. The amount, however is not sufficient to carry us to the New World or any of the colonies. We must therefore seek a home in England-great and powerful England, which opens her arms freely to receive the oppressed and downtrodden of all nations, and presents a field for talent and genius which excludes none that are worthy to compete for the prize in any department of art, or science, or thought. 
               "Once there, I shall seek out some employment for each of you, suitable to your talents and sexes; and I trust that by industry and prudence we may yet win for ourselves competence and peace. I might indeed establish you here in your native city, but it would be in a position so widely different from what you have been accustomed to and taught to expect, that the experiment would be painful both to me and yourselves. Better, therefore, will it be to go amongst strangers, and there begin the world afresh; for I cannot bear to see you looked down upon, especially by those who before our misfortunes would have considered your slightest notice an honor. What say you to this proposition, my children?" 
               It is needless to say that my sister and myself acquiesced most willingly in this proposition of our honored father, and assured him that in all things his will would be our law; and so the matter was arranged and the time appointed for a scene which we dreaded, and which I find it impossible to describe to you as I would. I must therefore leave you to imagine it; and yet with you it is not all imagination, for you, too, were forced to tear yourself from home and the bosom of your family and friends, yet under different circumstances and far brighter hopes for the future than we dared entertain. With us all was gloom, uncertainty and sorrow; yet the cloud had a silver lining which has since shone forth to cheer and comfort us in a most extraordinary manner;-but I must not anticipate. 
               It is my purpose to unfold to you the whole story from the beginning-that is, from the moment we took shipping up to the present time, and you will find many of the incidents strange and eventful, but nothing distorted or unnatural-truth itself being often more strange and startling than fiction; so that he who can do justice to the one need never have recourse to the other for the purpose of giving a higher color to his narrative, Nature's true colors being inimitable. 
               
                  Ever your friend, 
                  EDWARD MONTAGUE.
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE DEPARTURE. 
               IT was on the 29th of May, 1829, when, after bidding farewell to our home, and the few humble friends, the former recipients of our bounty, who were really sorry for our misfortunes, that my beloved father, my sister and myself embarked on board a steamboat in Carlingford Bay, at Warren Point, a few miles from Newry. It was evening before the boat sailed, and the weather was delightfully warm. The surface of the bay was as smooth as glass, scarcely a ripple disturbing the tranquil face of the waters, save those which are produced by the gentle heaving of the tide. The lower rim of the sun had just reached the horizon where it is bounded by the Mourne mountains, and a flood of light was thrown from its broad disk over the surface of the sea. For some distance it was one condensed stream, like a river pent up between its banks; then it began to diverge in innumerable radii, and finally to be spread over the whole breadth of the waters, as far as the eye could reach, throwing into prominent light the tiny crests of the ripples, before indistinct, and their intervening spaces into the most picturesque shade. I had not then seen the beautiful evening pieces of Claude, but I have never since looked upon those masterpieces without being forcibly reminded of the natural picture which I gazed upon with such melancholy delight that evening. Hills clothed in verdure and ornamented with trees up to their very summits; neat, whitewashed cottages; gentlemen's bathing-seats with gardens; groups of fishermen with women and children dressed in the rough homespun of their native mountains, on one side;-the open bay illuminated with the departing glories of the setting sun; innumerable boats filled with gay, laughing parties taking their pleasure on its bosom; the lighthouse, with its glaring red flame mimicking the blaze of the grand luminary, with the open interminable sea view, on the other;-these were objects which could not fail to attract the attention and awaken the admiration even of the dullest and most insensible of mankind at any time: I leave you, therefore, to conceive the impression they must have made on our minds at that peculiar moment, when every object in that landscape, even the most minute, possessed a deep interest for us, from the circumstance that we were about to lose all trace of our dear native land, perhaps forever! 
               While intent upon this picture we were scarcely conscious of receding from it rapidly, and that the whole must soon vanish like a dream. Soon nothing but the indistinct outline on the farthest verge of the horizon remained, like a cloud, to mark the dear isle where all our hopes and prospects had once, and but lately, centered. Our eyes remained fixed in that direction even long after the cloud had ceased to be visible, and tears, which we would in vain conceal from each other, dimmed them as we at length turned away to the contemplation of other objects. 
               The feeling that I was now, for the first time, on the deep sea-narrow, indeed, but yet a part of the great and boundless ocean by which all the countries on our globe are connected together, and even brought close to each other by the skill, the energy and the perseverance of man-that I was at that moment plowing its surface by means of a machine of vast powers, which, though not yet fully developed, was likely to create a complete revolution in the mode of intercourse amongst nations, and in the arrangements of commerce and of war. This feeling, with all its undefined and indistinct associations-the improvement of science, the progress of knowledge and of virtue, the annihilation of bigotry and prejudices, the perfectibility of the human race; then the starred canopy of heaven, in all its stilly brightness, though infinitely distant, yet grasped, as it were, and realized by the sublime and ambitious spirit of humanity; the beings that might people the arial space and the glowing orbs-until my mental vision penetrated the mysterious veil flung around the throne of the Most High: these thoughts overpowered me with emotion hitherto unknown, or known but faintly, and I became conscious, in a certain degree, of possessing a more dignified state of existence-a more noble motive of action than I had ever before conceived. The glories of the heavens above, the wonders of the deep beneath, with all its living myriads, were before me. The shadowy past, with all that ever breathed the breath of life, either on the land or in the water-the grovelling beast, the mute fish, and godlike man-were dwelt upon in silent awe. "Where now are all the creatures that once lived, moved and had their being?" I inwardly exclaimed, "and what am I amidst the wreck or the regeneration of nature?" 
               While these thoughts were passing through my mind, my sister, who, shortly after we lost sight of land, had gone down to the cabin with my father, now joined me on the quarter-deck, and by her presence and gentle smile put to flight the reverie in which I was indulging. 
               "So," she said, with as cheerful a look as she could assume, "you have been breaking our agreement! Do you forget the bargain I made with you before embarking; namely, that you should not court solitude nor indulge in those melancholy reflections-perhaps I should say repinings-to which you have of late been so prone? Indeed," said she, earnestly, "you promised me that you would not do so." 
               "True," I replied, "and I have kept my word. My reflections have neither been melancholy nor repining. The vastness, the beauty, and the sublimity of the scene before me forbid the thought. My soul but harmonizes with the rest of nature, and rises in praise above yon starry sphere to nature's God! I was thinking of my own littleness and the short span of human action and life, compared with the immensity of space and the duration of eternity, and of the myriads of animated beings that exist in the cold watery element beneath us, over which, unconscious of our very existence, we pass silently and rapidly." 
               "And yet the eye of God sees down into their lowest chambers," she answered. "His hand scatters plentifully to them their necessary food. He forgets not even the meanest of his creatures, and why should man, who is the noblest of all his works, fear either for the present or the future? We may rest assured that if we trust in God, and do our duty, he never will forsake us. But come, I wish you to explain the steam engine to me. You have already taught me the theory, but as I have never seen one in operation, you could not, of course, explain it so clearly as you wished. You have now an excellent opportunity, and it is well to take advantage of it." 
               We then proceeded to the engine house, and I recapitulated the history of that extraordinary invention, from its first rude elements to its then comparatively perfect state, giving a full explanation of its working and everything I knew connected with it, in language as concise and simple as possible, yet with a zeal and earnestness which might appear extraordinary to a stranger, who would be unacquainted with the enthusiasm of my character and the interest which I took in that wonderful invention. 
               While I was thus engaged many of the passengers, to most of whom the steam engine was a mystery, flocked around us, attentive listeners to all I said. Amongst the group my eye caught the countenance of a venerable man of pleasing aspect, whose look was riveted on me with a deep interest, for which it would be difficult to account. Though his hair was perfectly silvery he did not seem more than fifty years of age. He was hale and vigorous, even for that time of life; and there was a fire in his eye and a penetration in his look which bespoke him at once no ordinary character. I felt abashed when I encountered his eager gaze; but soon feeling somewhat proud of the general interest I had unwittingly created, and being encouraged by the consciousness of a thorough acquaintance with my subject, I pursued my theme, I might say lecture, with enthusiasm to the end. When I had finished I was greeted with a low murmur of applause from the assembled group, which, I confess, gratified my vanity considerably; and then, drawing my sister's arm into mine, I led her back to the quarter-deck, with the intention of retiring early to rest, in order to be up betimes in the morning, to enjoy the (to us) novel sight of the sun rising at sea. 
               I conducted my sister into the ladies' cabin, where, having taken a slight refreshment, she retired to rest, while I went to join my father in that devoted to the gentlemen. I found him discussing politics with the venerable gentleman who was so attentive to my lecture on the steam engine. There were several others who joined in the conversation, and amongst the rest two newly elected members of parliament and a noble lord of the upper house, who were hastening to ST. STEPHENS to oppose an important bill then before the legislature. The usual arguments pro and con were entered into by the disputants, without much novelty, though with considerable heat, until both parties seemed weary of discussion and manifested a predilection for repose. As I did not take any part in the argument, and found it rather insipid, I bade my father good night and retired to my berth, having told him our intention to rise early in the morning. 
               When I was gone the old gentleman, who saw from the affectionate manner in which I took leave of my father, in what relation I stood to him, began to launch forth diffusely and warmly in my praise. He said he had heard me that evening explain the theory and operation of the steam engine, and that he had never listened to anything with greater pleasure; that he was sure I possessed a mind not only stored with knowledge but imbued with a noble enthusiasm and endowed with an originality of conception and power of illustration which, if properly directed, might lead to important results; that I was a son of whom any father might be justly proud; and then, in as delicate a manner as possible, begged to be informed whether I had, or was likely to have, any employment suitable to my talents, or that was at all likely to call my powers of mind into active and useful operation. 
               My father, who was struck with the earnest manner of the stranger, and the deep interest which he seemed to take in me, though naturally proud and reserved, candidly and unhesitatingly imparted to the gentleman the actual state of our affairs, our past history and future prospects, and concluded by saying that he had no other dependence to rest on, no other happiness to look up to, but the goodness of Heaven and the talents and virtues of his, children. 
               "And Heaven is good!" cried the venerable gentlemen; "and happy, too happy, am I to be its unworthy instrument for good to those who require its aid. I can be of service to your son and to you. I have a proposal to make which, if you condescend to accept it, will make me truly happy. I am not rich, and I have a family; but, thank Heaven! I have a sufficiency for all our wants, and something to spare. I live a peaceful and quiet life, in a retired but beautiful part of the country. I have three sons, aged ten, twelve and fourteen years, respectively, for whom at this moment I require an efficient tutor. I know your son must have been well brought up, and he is just the sort of person I would choose for the office. I feel that he deserves something far better than this, but I have thought that, as you are at present circumstanced, it might not be altogether unworthy of your notice, at least till something better offers itself; and I assure you that when such does happen I will do all in my power to promote your interests. In the mean time you and your daughter shall have a good house with a garden, and, if you are fond of farming, whatever quantity of land you may choose to cultivate, at a reasonable rent. Everything shall be done to promote your comfort and happiness; and do not suppose that I shall consider you under any obligation to me for this: on the contrary, I shall be the person obliged if you accept my offer. The services of your son will amply repay me for all, and leave him something to spare. Besides, I have daughters almost arrived at the age of womanhood, to whom the society of your fair and amiable daughter will, I have no doubt, be a great acquisition. For their sake I would press this offer on you, even if I had not a stronger motive in the education of my sons. These are at school at present, near Liverpool, whither I am now going; but not being satisfied with their tutor, I have determined to remove them and finish their education at home Providence has thrown me in the way of your son and of you, and I sincerely hope that neither party will have cause to repent of the meeting. I purpose staying a fortnight in Liverpool, till the midsummer vacation commences, which will be about the 14th or 15th of June, and then we would all proceed together to Avondale, where I reside. What say you to my proposal, worthy stranger?" 
               "In your kind and generous proposal, sir," replied my father, who had listened with admiration to the unexpected offer, "I can easily trace the hand of an all-wise and all-seeing Providence; and it would be presumption in me, even if I felt inclined, to offer any opposition to his will; and as for my son, I think I can promise you that he will most willingly close with your offer at once, and be thankful to Heaven and grateful to you, sir, for the means of performing duties of the most sacred character. At all events I will take the earliest opportunity in the morning of acquainting him with his good fortune, and of letting you know the result." 
               And here, having wished each other a good night, they parted and retired to rest. 
                
               Next morning my sister and I were introduced by my father to our new patron, who was delighted that I made no objection to avail myself of his offer, and the matter was soon arranged by us so as to please all parties. 
               Mr. Worthington-for that was the gentleman's name-now entered freely into conversation with my sister and me, and we were both pleased with his manners and address. He seemed a most agreeable and amiable man, and indeed we have ever found him to be so in reality. 
               We were all walking together on the quarter-deck. The morning was fine, and we enjoyed it exceedingly; but the sky soon became obscured, and although there was no-appearance of a storm, it was evident we would have rain; we therefore descended into the cabin. 
               There was at one end of the cabin what seemed a small bookcase, containing what I supposed would be a great treat on a wet day-"the Waverly Novels;" but when I eagerly ran to take one down, I found it impossible to move it. The truth is, it was only an imitation of a bookcase, with false books, shelves, etc. Mr. Worthington and the other passengers laughed at me for my pains, and I felt some little chagrin and disappointment. 
               "You will not get much out of them," said that gentleman; "they are only wooden novels, arid placed there more for ornament than use." 
               "Rather for deception than either," said my sister. "I think they might just as well have real books, for they would be a great treat on such a wet day as this, to pass a dreary hour when one cannot go on deck and admire the deep blue waters and the clear sky." 
               "You are right, miss," said Mr. Worthington: "they might just as well have real books, and I doubt not that in a few years the passengers will find every accommodation of that kind; but you must consider that steam navigation is only in its infancy, and that the public companies have not yet had time to think of everything. Competition will soon render the cabin of a steamboat just as comfortable as the drawing-room of the nobleman." 
               "Those who are accustomed to read," said my sister, "would be glad of almost any kind of book on such an occasion. How thankful we ought to be to those men who spend their whole lives in furnishing us with a rich variety of good, substantial fare! but we are too apt to overlook their merits, if we only can enjoy their labors." 
               "Very true," said Mr. Worthington. "We never know the full value of anything till we feel what an annoyance and discomfort it is to be deprived of it. Even a second or third rate author would now be hailed with pleasure, when we cannot have one of any kind." 
               "I shall never go to sea again," said I, "without being well provided with books of amusement for such a contingency as this?" 
               "You have plenty of books with you, Edward," said my father. "Why don't you try to get us some of them?" 
               "It is quite impossible; they are packed with other things entirely out of my reach," I replied, "and we should be at our journey's end before I could get at them." 
               "I have often heard," said Mr. Worthington, "of the dullness of a country inn, when one has the misfortune to be weather-bound at such a place for any length of time, but I do not think it is quite so bad as a steamboat, because there at least you could go out and take a walk in the country, but here you are confined to one spot, without any hope of escape." 
               "It is very strange," said I, "if we cannot find sources of amusement among ourselves. Let us play at some game-chess, draughts, or even at whist; there are four of us." 
               "Bless you!" said Mr. Worthington, "you will find neither chess-board nor cards here, unless you have brought them with you. But I will make a proposal: let each of us tell a tale-one which he knows to be true and for which he can vouch." 
               "Will you begin, Mr. Worthington?" I asked. 
               "I have no objection," he replied. "We shall yet be on board for at least six hours. I forewarn you, however, that my story is a long one, and that if I should not have finished it before we arrive, that will not exonerate any of you from your obligation to tell a tale in return; for this can be done, in Liverpool, at the inn, in the long evenings after dinner," 
               "You must really excuse me," said Ellen, "for I know no tale except such as I have learned from novels and romances." 
               "And my experience of the world has Been so limited," I added, "that I am afraid you will not be much edified by anything I have to tell." 
               "Then, sir," said Mr. Worthington, addressing my father, "it seems the responsibility of entertaining these young folks devolves upon us, without any prospect of meeting a return." 
               "So it seems," said my father; "but we will not let them off so easily as they imagine, provided they confess they have been entertained by our stories. If, on the contrary, they declare, when our tales are told, that they have not been amused, then we shall let them go scot free." 
               "I think we had better let them off at once," said Mr. Worthington, "and make no bargain of the kind; for I assure you that I, for One, feel very diffident as to their being entertained at all by my story; arid indeed I should not have made the proposal if there had been even a second-rate author on board. I have volunteered to tell a story merely to pass the time, and I dare scarcely venture to hope that it will be successful even in doing that. Of one thing, however, I can assure you, I shall tell you nothing for the truth of which cannot vouch. Indeed, the hero of my tale is still living, and perhaps before many days I may have the pleasure of introducing you to him." 
               Having spoken thus he sat down in a retired corner of the cabin, and, our curiosity being already excited, we eagerly took our places beside him, and he commenced his tale, as you will see in the manuscript sent herewith. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               MR. WORTHINOTON'S STORY. 
               SOME years ago a young man, a stranger of prepossessing mien and gentleman-like manners, made his appearance in our immediate neighborhood. No one knew who he was or whence he came, except that from a slight accent we judged him to be a countryman of yours. He did not follow any profession, but, from his style of living, seemed to be the owner of a considerable fortune. He rented a beautiful cottage about a mile from my house, and surrounded himself with English servants, not keeping in his elegant establishment a single soul from whom the slightest information concerning his family or connections could be ascertained. He was very retired in his mode of life, and seldom visited any of his neighbors except upon particular occasions, when his presence could not well be denied to the few who were slightly acquainted with him; but when he did visit he was sure to win the affections and esteem of al] with whom he came in contact. He was tall, handsome and well formed, and there was an intelligent expression in his countenance which could not fail to favorably impress those who had once seen him. He was a great student, and had an excellent library, with a fine collection of astronomical and other instruments of scientific research, which, it was said, used to employ his attention till a late hour in the night. He was, notwithstanding, an early riser, for he was a lover of nature and a poet of no ordinary capacity. 
                
               Though we are neither inquisitive nor impertinent as a people, yet the appearance, the life, and the manners of this interesting stranger could not fail to excite the curiosity of most of the families in the neighborhood; but the more they sought to gratify that curiosity the less likely they were to succeed in their wishes, for the stranger repelled every attempt to worm from him the place of his birth or the slightest whisper of his history. At last he rather shunned than courted society, however select; and if he perceived the slightest attempt, to gratify impertinent curiosity, not only was he perfectly silent on the subject of his own life, but took especial care to prevent a repetition of any further questions for the future by avoiding altogether any intercourse with the individual who would be likely to put them. Such was his exclusiveness or tact that those whom he honored with his company thought themselves highly flattered by such a mark of his esteem, and many proud families have been heard to boast of the favor which his notice conferred upon them. This, at that time, seemed to me, and to some others, strange and unaccountable; and therefore, far from imitating my neighbors in running after this extraordinary individual, I took not the slightest notice of him-no more than if he had never visited the neighborhood. I will not deny that I felt some curiosity about, as well as interest in, the young man; but I kept my feelings to myself, and never suffered them to betray my thoughts on the subject. I have sometimes met him in the house of a friend and in general society, when he always seemed cheerful, free, and highly intelligent on ordinary topics of conversation; but I did not think of entering into any particular topic with him, as I had learned from others the peculiarity of his character in that respect. 
               His fine figure, his agreeable conversation and elegant manners-but, perhaps, most of all, the idea of mystery that was associated with him-produced a considerable sensation amongst the female portion of our community at that time. Nor is it to be wondered at. He was to all appearance everything which an elegant and accomplished woman would be likely to find agreeable. Possessed of wit, of learning, of a taste for music and the arts, a graceful dancer and a sweet and pleasing singer, it is not strange that he should be an agreeable and welcome guest amongst that portion of society who know so well how to appreciate accomplishments that are so rare in our sex-especially in the country, where men generally make but an indifferent figure in company, and seldom equal the other sex, at least in those lighter and more pleasing graces which ought to be equally cultivated by all. Hence the name of Harcourt-so the stranger was called-was in everybody's mouth, and nothing could be heard but the enthusiastic admiration of his tastes and accomplishments when anything elegant or fashionable formed the topic of conversation. 
               He had been living in our neighborhood about a year when it began to be whispered pretty distinctly that he had made an impression on the heart of a beautiful and amiable girl, the only daughter of Sir Frederick Cumming, a wealthy baronet, a near neighbor of ours, and that the father of the lady-at first entirely averse to the match, for reasons which are evident enough-at length gave his consent on the sole condition that Harcourt should declare who he was and how he was connected, and that if he was of a genteel family and honorable connections no further obstacle should be offered to the union so much desired by both; adding, at the same time, that though he entertained no doubt whatever that all would be found perfectly correct, yet that the happiness of his daughter and his own dignity demanded such an inquiry, and that the mystery in which the stranger was hitherto enveloped rendered it imperative. 
               The brother of the lady, who had become Harcourt's most intimate friend, and who indeed had promoted his suit with his sister, was charged with the very delicate duty of imparting to that gentleman the only terms on which his father would consent to their union; and though he naturally anticipated a joyful reception from a consideration that those terms were not only reasonable but so easily complied with that his, friend would find no difficulty in satisfying all doubts on that point, yet, when he reflected on the peculiar care which Harcourt had always taken to avoid the slightest allusion to anything that related to his family and connections, and to the general suspicion, rather hinted at than plainly spoken, by those who envied Harcourt his accomplishments and, success, and even by many of his soi-disant friends, he felt some misgivings as he entered the apartment of his friend to make him acquainted with his good fortune. 
               This, however, was entirely dissipated when he gazed upon the open, manly brow of Harcourt, and the smile of ingenuous pleasure that lighted his countenance at the approach of his friend. Without seeming to do so, he carefully scanned his person and features, his figure and demeanor, trying to detect there some of those marks which are said to betray a plebeian origin, but in vain. His figure and form were faultless; his hands small, white and delicate; his feet and limbs of the most perfect symmetry; and his whole person cast, as it were, in nature's most beautiful mould. And then, when he reflected on his manners and good-breeding, the purity and elegance of his speech, the exquisite delicacy of his taste, and the extraordinary store of his knowledge and learning, he could not for a moment entertain the unworthy idea which had haunted the minds of others rather than his own, but felt quite assured that it could have no foundation in reality. He therefore proceeded to perform his now pleasing mission with the greatest alacrity. 
               "To what lucky circumstance," said Harcourt, after tie first greetings were over, "am I to attribute this unlooked-for pleasure-a visit from you at this hour? You are not wont to be a rival to the sun in your regular motions; and see! he is but just now beginning to raise his bountiful face above the horizon! You sigh and look confused! Ah! I see it all! and being a sufferer by the same disease, I can read its symptoms and sympathize with the patient. You are in love, my dear Charles. Come, do not deny it, but unbosom yourself to your friend. Though he cannot find a remedy for his own disease, perhaps he may be enabled to find some alleviation for the sufferings of another. You are silent. Am I, then, right? Speak, I pray you, and remove my doubts. It will at least be some consolation for each that he have a fellow sufferer in the other, and to talk together of our feelings and the objects of them with mutual sympathy." 
               "Indeed, my friend, you are for once deceived," replied Charles, with a smile. "I have not yet fallen into that snare, and I intend to keep free from it as long as possible, seeing the havoc it produces in others. No, no! I will keep the tyrant at a distance, I warrant him. But come,-attention! I bring you glad tidings." 
               "Oh, speak them!" exclaimed Harcourt: "anything of my dear Charlotte? Has your father?"-- 
               "Consented!" said Charles, "to your union!" 
               "Good heavens! Are you in earnest?" 
               "Yes; but"-- 
               "But what? For Heaven's sake keep me not in suspense, or I shall lose my reason!" 
               "On one slight condition; such as I know you can and will most readily comply with." 
               "Name it," said Harcourt, with a vehement energy. 
               "Oh, it is a mere nothing-a matter of form-a whim in which my father wishes to be gratified." 
               "For God's sake name it at once!" said Harcourt, with still increasing impatience. 
               "Patience! my dear friend; it is really insufficient even to excite your curiosity. But, however, you shall hear it. You are aware that ours is an ancient and honorable family. We trace our line down to the Conquest; and my father, very naturally, you will grant, feels a family pride which many people would condemn, but which, I confess, I respect myself, as being no more than what he is justly entitled to feel under the circumstances cumstances, for I am one of those who think that we cannot too much prize the virtues and imitate the example of those of our ancesters who deserved nobility, and even glory, by their achievements in the field for the honor, of their, king and country." 
               "Proceed," said Harcourt, in breathless anxiety. 
               "Well, my father has declared to Charlotte that he is totally indifferent to her husband possessing fortune or not, as she will have quite sufficient for both, but that it is indispensably necessary that he should be a man of good family at all events, and that though he feels quite satisfied that you will be able to show yourself such a person, yet that from the mystery which has heretofore enveloped everything connected with you, and (you will excuse me) from the suspicions of his neighbors, he thinks it necessary that the truth should be made plain to all, as well for your own sake as for the honor of a family who will be proud of your alliance, and therefore he has commissioned me now to say, in his name, that the moment this matter is cleared up satisfactorily he will offer no further obstacle to your union with my sister. But, my dear friend, what is the matter? You are deathly pale! Do you feel ill? Let me ring for your servant, and"-- 
               "No, no," said Harcourt, with a faint and forced smile; "I am subject to these impulses when I am suddenly overpowered by any extraordinary emotion, whether it be of pain or of pleasure. I-I-I shall speedily-recover my self-possession. I am-so overwhelmed-with pleasure at your joyful-announcement that it has almost-deprived-me of sensation, from the intensity of my feelings! You say-your father wishes to know who I am, and all my connections. It is very natural he should, and as far as lies in my power he shall be gratified. That there is certain mystery hovering over my early life is too true; but this is my misfortune rather than my fault, and has been the only source of sorrow and pain that has marred the otherwise tranquil course of my past existence. But this shall no longer stand in the way of my happiness piness and the happiness of one more dear to me than life itself, for I am determined to make you acquainted with my past history, as far as I know it myself, which is only in part; but the time is fortunately at hand when the blank in the history shall be fully made known to us; but for the present lend me your patient attention." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE MYSTERY. 
               AS far back as I can recollect I was surrounded with comforts, and even with luxuries. The house in which I passed my infancy was large and well furnished, and in every respect adapted for the residence of a gentleman of property. The pleasure-grounds in which I played at full liberty were, I remember well, beautifully laid out and kept in excellent order, and even the surrounding scenery is familiar to my mind, though I cannot now describe it. I think I should know it again, should fate decree that I should ever revisit the country of my birth and early years, which was Ireland. I can recollect lofty ranges of blue mountains in the distance, and one was of so peculiar form that it has left a distinct impression on my mind ever since, so as never to be forgotten. But I do not recollect ever receiving the caresses of a mother as such, nor the endearments of a father, and I was too young when I was removed from that place to remember in what relation I might stand to the members of the family-an old gentleman and lady, who always treated me with kindness, but I should think with coldness, for they left no impression of affection and tenderness toward them on my mind. There were also in the house, as domestics, a man and a woman, the former as general servant and the latter as my nurse, to whom I was strongly attached; but, though I knew not why, I hated the man as long as I can remember him. I was, at what period I know not, removed to another part of the country, and of course amongst strange people, except that my nurse still clung to me and attended me with the most anxious care. At this new place I was visited often by a lady of great beauty and sweetness, who used to caress me in the most tender and affectionate manner, and who, I observed, always shed tears when she left me. I loved her from the first moment I saw her, and it was with the greatest possible difficulty that I could be separated from her when she wished to depart. She used to bring me every little toy she could think of to amuse and delight me, and nothing could give me greater pleasure or tended so much to please and pacify me when I was troublesome as to tell me that she was coming. This is the only impression of early attachment I ever entertained for any human being except my nurse. But this was a strong and lasting one. Never shall the features of that dear and beloved countenance be obliterated from my mind, though I could not so define them as to be able to distinguish that lady amongst others; my impression of them is shadowy. 
               "I must have remained here for two or three years, but I cannot be certain, from my own recollection, how long. At the age of seven I was removed to a preparatory school some miles distant, kept by a lady, and I saw no more of my dear friend who was so kind and affectionate toward me. I have never seen nor heard of her since, except that she left that part of the country and went abroad. But my faithful nurse did not forsake me; she followed me to the school, took a little cottage near, and watched over and tended me still, like a guardian angel as she was. She came to see me at every opportunity, and often took me, with permission of the schoolmistress, to her neat little cottage, where she was as a mother to me, and I think I loved her almost as well. There I often saw the man, too, whom I had seen in the house of my infancy, and my hatred and antipathy toward him seemed to increase with my years, and this feeling seemed to be mutual, for the very glance of his eye was sufficient to make the blood run chill in my veins. My good nurse noticed my horror at his sight, and henceforth she was careful to keep him out of view as much as possible when she expected I should visit at her cottage. 
               "At this school our holidays soon came on; and now, for the first time in my life, I began to feel what it was to have no home to go to, and no one whom I could call by the endearing name of father or mother. All the other boys were delighted at the prospect of going home and seeing their parents and families, while I, who knew not what it was to have either one or the other, began to reflect on the meaning of it, and to inquire of my nurse where my father and mother were, and whether I, too, could not go home. 
               "The poor creature could not help shedding tears as she replied that I was to stay at the school during the holidays, where Mrs. Town would do all she could to make me happy, and I should come sometimes to see herself at her cottage, and that she would come to see me; and when I repeated my question as to who or where my parents were, she wept bitterly, and either could or would make no reply. I wept also, I suppose because I saw her weep and that my inquiries were of no avail. 
               "It is useless to dwell on what followed for several years, as the course of my life at this time had a good deal of sameness in it. Suffice it to say, that at the age of eleven I was removed to a public school in England, where I made such progress as in a few years to rise to the head of the school without a competitor. I had masters, too, in every accomplishment, and no pains were spared to render my education such as the first gentleman in the land might be proud of. I was well supplied with pocket-money, but whence it or the expenses of my education were derived I knew not, nor did I then even think of inquiring. My nurse was still near me and ever my friend, and whatever money I received was always given to me through my schoolmaster. What had I to trouble me? 
               "Thus I went on till I arrived at the age of eighteen, when I found myself an object of attention, not only to my schoolfellows but also to my teachers, and even to strangers. My name had gone forth as that of a youth of high promise, and many gentlemen of respectability and learning took a pride in encouraging me by their notice. 
               "It was only now that I began to be an object of interest to myself, and I resolved to inquire diligently who my parents were, and what were my prospects. I applied to my nurse again, as the only person likely to know anything of my circumstances and connections; but the only answer I could get from her was that she knew nothing whatever of the matter, except that I was heir to a considerable property, the interest of which had been applied to my education and support; that even if she knew, she was not at liberty to disclose the particulars, and that I must have patience and hope, and all things would yet turn out to my entire satisfaction. 
               "I then inquired if she knew any person who was likely to give me information on the subject. At first she said she did not; but when I pressed and entreated her with tears in my eyes, she with much hesitation confessed that she thought she did. 
               "'Who?' said I. 'Oh, tell me, I beseech you, by everything that is sacred and dear to the heart of man! by your own parents and relatives, if living-by their spirits, if dead! I implore you to conceal nothing from me that you know on this subject!' 
               "'Do not ask me any further, I beg of you,' she replied; 'at some future time, perhaps, I may tell you, but at present I cannot-indeed I cannot-I am bound by'-and then she looked round mysteriously, lest any one should be listening-'I am bound by a solemn and sacred oath not to reveal aught I know of the matter yet.' 
               "'But tell me-what time are you thus bound?' I eagerly inquired. 
               "'For two years more,' she replied, 'and then'- 
               "'You will disclose all!' I interrupted. 
                
               "'Everything!' she replied; 'and then, my dear, good--. But I must say no more at present. Two years from this time and my long and painful silence shall be broken; and Heaven knows that it has been a painful one!' 
               "I then embraced her with the utmost tenderness, delighted with the prospect that in two years from that time all my fond hopes should be realized; I should, perhaps, be restored to the embrace of my long-lost and unknown parents, to the endearments of relations-perhaps of brothers and sisters, and to a wide and respected circle of friends! How alluring was that hope! but alas! deceptive it may prove! 
               "It was now October; and as my name had been entered in the books of the University of Oxford, I prepared to go thither directly. My nurse followed me and watched over me, though she never would receive a farthing of money nor anything except a trifling present occasionally, which I forced her to accept. I could not help wondering how she contrived to live all this time; for she lived very comfortably indeed, but always in a plain and humble way. I often went to see her at a neat little house which she rented in the outskirts of the town, and on one occasion I thought I saw the sinister eye of the man, her former fellow servant, peering at me from behind a door; but perhaps I might have been mistaken. 
               "At length came the long vacation; and as I had no friends whom I could visit nor parents' home to go to, I resolved to spend it in a tour on the Continent, in company with a college friend. But as I undertook nothing without the advice of my good friend, my nurse, I resolved to ask her opinion on the subject. At first she was very reluctant to part with me; but when I told her that it was only for a short season, and that I must return before the end of the vacation, she no longer opposed my wish; for such was my love for her and deference to her opinion that I would not have ventured to go had she shown herself entirely averse to it. 
                
               "The kind-hearted woman shed tears as she raised her hands to bless and embrace me, and I took my leave with a full heart, for she was all that was really dear to me in the country I was about to leave. As I turned round at her cottage door, to take a last look and bid farewell for the last time, I was almost petrified with horror at the glance of that eye which I had before encountered, but which now expressed an exulting and diabolical malignity beyond my power to describe! Surely, I thought with a shudder, that must be a demon of hell, or my evil genius! and what connection or sympathy he can have with this excellent woman I know not, nor can I account for it. 
               "We now made preparations for starting, and in a few days found ourselves amongst a strange people on a strange shore." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               THE CONTINENT. 
               NOTHING worth notice occurred to us till we had reached Paris, and nothing very important even there. One incident, however, I cannot pass over in silence, from its remarkable singularity, as exciting hopes in my heart which were destined to be cruelly blighted. It was as follows: 
               "One evening my friend and I were walking in the Palais Royal, amusing ourselves by observing the groups of persons scattered over the place-some walking; others seated in the open air around tables which were placed before the doors of the beautiful cafs and restaurants, enjoying their coffee and conversation with a peculiarly good grace; while others, again, were seated in chairs around the fountain in the center of the garden, which played with a soft and pleasing murmur, well calculated to soothe the feelings and even to lull to sleep. The fountain is, I think, peculiarly graceful and pleasant. The water rises from several jets to a height I should think of fifteen to twenty feet, in the form of a huge lily, each jet forming an arch bending outward from the center, and when the sun shines in the day, or the moon at night, a perfect rainbow is formed by the spray, which has a pleasing effect. Add to this the marble statues in various postures, but all graceful-some like wood nymphs leaning against trees; others as Fauns, Pans and rural deities-their Parian whiteness contrasting finely with the dark foli age, especially at night; others with the sublime countenance of Jove, or the beauty of Apollo, or the grace and elegance of Venus. 
               "To be able to associate the idea of the country, its softness and repose, with the bustle and confusion, the noise and tumult, the civilization and society of a crowded city, is no small achievement, yet it seemed to be realized there almost as far as that is possible on so small a scale. 
               "Though that small square was crowded at various points, particularly along the sides and in the center, yet such was the stillness that prevailed that the poet or philosopher might muse there uninterrupted; the lover of art and nature might be fully gratified in the graceful figures, the trees, and the soft murmur of the waters; and the cosmopolitan would, if he chose to seek it, find within that narrow inclosure all that is pleasing and select in society. Nothing that nature or art could produce, or that commerce could command or procure, but could be found there; and it seemed that everything elegant and beautiful, everything calculated to amuse or to charm, was concentrated within that narrow space. 
               "I had stood for a few moments riveted on the scene before me, in a sort of reverie, almost unconscious of everything else, in the contemplation of its beauties. My friend, equally absorbed, had gone on a considerable distance before me. But he was soon aroused from his dream by an extraordinary apparition; for presently he was by my side, breathless and agitated! He seized me by the arm, and with a wild and bewildered look dragged me onward, with a force which seemed supernatural, toward the fountain. 
               "'What, in the name of Heaven!' I exclaimed, 'has happened to you? You are certainly mad, to act with this violence! Let me go, and tell me what it is that has thrown you into this excitement.' 
               "But not a word of explanation could I get in reply till I was hurried with irresistible force to within a few yards of the fountain, when he exclaimed with a wildness of manner that confirmed my former suspicion of a sudden fit of insanity having seized him-though, so far as I knew, he had hitherto been free from anything bordering on excitement of any kind- 
               "'Look! see there-there! Don't you see?' continued he, pointing with convulsive energy to the form of a young man who was leaning against a tree, with his head turned a little away from us. 
               "'See what?' I answered. 'I see a young man sitting there opposite, with his head turned against the tree, and near him I see a lady of a pleasing countenance, who must have been beautiful once, though she is no longer young.' 
               "'Yes,' he said, 'that is he! That is--good Heavens!'-- 
               "'That is who? What do you mean? or what has possessed you? Try to recall your wandering thoughts. You labor under some strange hallucination!' 
               "'Look at him! now-now! You see him! He is turning his head this way! Now-now!' and he seized my hand with a violent and convulsive grasp. I looked, felt my head turn dizzy, and in another moment I was stretched, pale and senseless, on the earth! 
               "When I recovered I found myself in our hotel, my friend watching over my couch. I felt tolerably well, but strange recollections crowded on my mind. I thought I had just had a dream, and that the object I had seen was only one of those unaccountable freaks of fancy that often disturb our repose, but vanish with the other reminiscences of the past, and which may all be counted as dreams of some kind or other. But when I reflected a moment that illusion was dispelled, as well by my own feelings as the assurance of my friend. It was no dream, but an extraordinary reality! You will doubtless be anxious to know what object could possibly create such emotion in a friendless and, I may say, desolate being like myself, in a strange land and amidst an unknown people! I will tell you. The youth whom I saw was the very image-the duplicate as my friend afterwards affirmed-of--myself! The same lineaments! the same eyes! the same expression of countenance nance!-in fact, both of us felt assured at the moment that it was a phantom-a mere apparition-the messenger to announce my speedy dissolution, according to the vulgar and pretty generally received opinion and prejudice, particularly in our native country, though it is not confined to it alone, but is more or less received in all the countries of Europe, and, I believe, in other quarters of the globe as well. This it was, doubtless, which caused me to swoon away, for I cannot account for it otherwise; and this opinion-or prejudice, if you please to call it so-was strengthened by the assertion of my companion, who declared that when he lifted his head to look round, immediately after I had fallen, the young man was nowhere to be seen, and the interesting lady had also vanished! 
               "It struck me, however, that I had seen that lady somewhere before; but when or where, I could have no distinct recollection. Yet her face seemed familiar, and one on which I could have gazed long with pleasure; and as to the other figure being an apparition or wraith, as it is called, that absurd notion was of course instantly dispelled by the light of reason and philosophy. I merely mentioned the vulgar prejudice to show the influence that early impressions have on the mind when one is taken suddenly and unaware, which influence they could not have if sufficient time were given for the operation of reason, and thus to account for the effect this sudden and unexpected appearance had on my mind. For otherwise I justly reasoned, what was there in a simple coincidence which ought to produce this strange effect? Instances of extraordinary likenesses, even in strangers, to each other are not uncommon, and why should this instance be regarded as a matter so extraordinary? In fact, I reasoned thus till I became ashamed of my own weakness, and for some time I felt a diffidence in entering into society, or appearing in public, lest I should be recognized as the person who fainted away like a woman in the garden of the Palais Royal at the mere sight of a man who happened to resemble himself! 
                
               "In a few days, however, I resumed my wonted equanimity and mingled in the gaieties of the French metropolis as usual, and if I ever thought of this incident at all, it was only to laugh at my own weakness in allowing myself to be unnerved by a circumstance which, though certainly not common, was not so very uncommon as that it should produce such an effect as this; and the whole would shortly have been forgotten had it not been for another incident equally remarkable which occurred about a fortnight afterwards. 
               "My friend was confined to his room by a slight cold and occupied in reading one of Victor Hugo's new novels, and I went to spend an hour or two, as was my custom as often as I could get an opportunity, in the magnificent gallery of the Louvre. 
               "That princely gallery, though at that time stripped of its illgotten plunder, had still sufficient treasures left to charm and delight the intelligent traveler. The gallery itself, even if it were entirely stripped of the paintings, would be well worth a visit, from its great length, its stately grandeur, and the magnificent coup d'il which it presents. To have seen it when it was enriched with all the finest paintings in the world must have been a sight never to be forgotton. Even as I saw it, it surpassed anything of the kind I had ever before witnessed. 
               "While I was examining the paintings and the visitors alternately, a young gentleman, dressed in the first style of fashion, the moment he saw me from the opposite side, came rushing towards me, threw his arms round my neck, and before I could extricate myself from his ardent embrace, imprinted a shower of kisses on my forehead, exclaiming: 
               "'Mon Dieu! comme je suis ravi de vous voir, mon cher ami! Mais vous ne rpondez pas  mes chaleurs! Est-ce que je me trompe? Non! il est impossible! Vous tes, assurment, mon cher ami Dumont! n'estil pas vrai?' 
                
               "'Non!' lui rpondis-je, 'je ne suis pas la personne pour qui vous me prenez, mais-' 
               "'Quoi!' dit-il, 'vous n'tes pas Dumont! mon cher Dumont! Ciel! quelle ressemblance! Jamais n'ai-je vu une chose semblable! Ayez la bont, monsieur, de me pardonner la libert que j'ai prise.'
                     "'Heavens! how delighted I am to see you, my dear friend! But you do not respond to my warmth! Can I be deceived? No! impossible! You are assuredly my dear friend Dumont; is it not so?'
                     "'No,' I answered, 'I am not the person for whom you take me.'
                     "'What!' he replied, 'you are not Dumont! Heavens! what a resemblance! I have never seen anything equal to it! Please, sir, to pardon the liberty which I have taken.'
                  
                
               "I begged that he would not make any apology, telling him that I had seen the gentleman for whom he took me, and that I was even more surprised than he was at the resemblance; 'but,' added I, smiling, 'such extraordinary likenesses do sometimes occur, and we cannot account for them by any known laws. However, I should very much like to become acquainted with the individual whom you call by the name of Dumont, as it might be a gratification to both to see and speak to another one of the species on whose external form nature seems to have impressed the same stamp, however she, or circumstances, may have moulded the mind.' 
               "He said that he would be extremely happy to be the medium of bringing us together, but he feared it was too late, as Dumont was to have left Paris for Italy a fortnight ago with his mother and sister, and hence his own surprise when he thought he had found him lingering in the precincts of the Louvre. 
               "'What! has he a sister?' said I, interrupting him. 'Is she handsome? is she good and kind like her mother? Oh! she must, she must be so!' 
               "'He has one sister,' replied the stranger, 'and she is a perfect angel for beauty and grace and every endowment of mind and person; and is soon to become a wife,' continued he with a smile which told a tale plainly enough. 
               "'And I think I could guess who the happy man is to be,' said I, smiling also; 'but you have nothing to fear from any rivalry,' I added, looking at him with a glance of admiration (for he was certainly as fine a figure and as handsome a young man as ever I had set eyes on.) 'You cannot wonder, however, that I should feel a little curiosity to know something of a family to one member of which I bear so strong a resemblance, and you will, therefore, I trust, excuse the liberty I take in requesting you to give me some further information concerning it.' 
               "'You are perfectly welcome to hear all I know of them,' replied he, 'and I believe that is everything material, for I have been their near neighbor from my infancy. Gustave Dumont is the son of an ancient house in Lorraine, where his ancestors have lived from time immemorial, and though the revolution has shorn them of their ancient luster and much of their wealth, they have still sufficient left to live in honor in their native province. His sister, Matilde, as I said before, is a model of beauty and female excellence, both of which she has inherited from her inimitable mother.' 
               "'And she,' I interrupted, 'is she French? I mean the mother.' 
               "'Oh! yes, certainly! and of as ancient and honorable a house as that to which she is allied, and of the same province too,' said he. 
               "'And has she never been out of France? never in Ireland?' I inquired with an eagerness which to any one but slightly acquainted with my history would have betrayed the feelings within. 
               "'Never! that I am aware of or heard of,' he replied. 'Her father was, like many French gentlemen of that disastrous period, obliged to seek an asylum in a foreign land at the time of the revolution, but I am not aware that his daughter has ever crossed the sea, and if she had I should have known it.' 
               "You may form some conception of my feelings, my dear Charles," said Harcourt, "on hearing this explanation. It must have been obvious to you that I expected to find a brother, a sister and a mother in the persons who so much interested me, and what was my disappointment on being told this plain and simple account. I had determined to make diligent search into the history of the young man and the lady, his mother, in order to find, as I felt assured I should, the long cherished hopes of my life realized; but now that I had heard the truth from this stranger, that determination, together with the hopes that suggested it, fled for ever! When I had recovered a little from the surprise of disappointment into which his announcement had thrown me, I thanked the stranger for his information, and after we had exchanged cards I returned to my hotel and informed my friend of all that had taken place. He agreed with me that it was a strange coincidence and no more; and since that time I have endeavored to forget all about it. I have merely mentioned it now as a remarkable circumstance." 
               "Did either the lady or gentleman see you?" inquired Charles. 
               "No!" replied Harcourt, "for my friend told me that he looked round immediately after I had fallen in the garden of the Palais Royal and no trace of them was to be seen, though many people flocked around me to ascertain what was the matter, and it is very probable that the next day they left Paris. It is true I have the name and address of the stranger whom I met in the Louvre, and through him I could still trace them to their home, but for what purpose? I have already learned everything about them that can possibly interest me and further inquiry would be of little avail. 
               "We traveled through the south of France slowly, in order to observe the manners and customs of the people, as also the charming scenery that was unfolded to our view as we proceeded. Nothing can exceed the richness and fertility of the soil, or the beauty of the landscape in those regions. Hills covered with vines producing grapes of the most delicious flavor, cornfields and meadows, meandering rivers and shady groves, with the brown and sunburnt features of the hardy peasantry, were the principal objects that attracted our attention. Every portion of the soil seemed closely cultivated, more for use, however, then ornament; and there was an absence of those delightful rural love-walks so common in England, as also of noble mansions with beautiful parks; but then ample compensation for the absence of these was made to the mind of the philanthropist by the reflection that the cultivators, in France, were also frequently the lords of the soil, and that their labors, however severe, were undertaken and performed with cheerfulness, because they were for themselves alone and not for a master. This circumstance invested the peasantry in my eyes as well as their own with a dignity with which we cannot, unfortunately, invest our laborers at home, in England, though the latter are less severely worked and harrassed than the former. But the severest toil is borne with equanimity and even with pleasure when it is not imposed by the task master; the lightest compulsory labor is intolerable to the mind of man, however necessity may compel him to acquiesce, to all external appearance, in the servile condition of his birth or circumstances. 
               "We had got as far as Lyons, on the banks of the beautiful Rhone, when I received a letter from England which instantly determined me to return with all possible speed. It was from a medical gentleman, informing me that my good dear nurse was dangerously ill, and that she requested to see me as soon as possible, as she had some important intelligence to communicate to me alone; but that if I did not make all haste back it was very likely I should not find her alive. When I examined the date of the letter I perceived it had been written a fortnight before, and on inquiry I found it had been waiting my arrival in Lyons for upwards of a week. This was easily accounted for, for on leaving Paris I gave orders that my letters should be forwarded to Lyons; but as we had loitered long by the way, and had gone round to see several places, nearly three weeks had elapsed before we arrived there. I now reproached myself bitterly for this delay and determined to set out for England instantly, though with very slender hopes of being able to arrive in time. My companion endeavored to dissuade me from my purpose, but in vain, and I had not been more than two hours in that city when I left it, and with a heavy heart found myself on my way homeward. Of course I did not accept the offer of my friend, which he kindly made me, to accompany me home. I knew he had set his heart on visiting Switzerland and Lombardy, and as the vacation was hardly half spent at that time it would have been very selfish in me to deprive him of the pleasure he anticipated from visiting the principal objects of his tour. We parted in haste, but with the warmest professions of mutual esteem and lasting friendship. 
               "I traveled night and day without intermission or repose, except that which might be snatched at intervals in a diligence, until I arrived in Dover, where, from my extreme fatigue, the heat of the weather, and the want of sleep, with my mental anxiety, I was taken suddenly so ill as to be unable to proceed! A burning fever seized me, and I felt as if my head was rent and torn in pieces, so violent and acute was the pain. Next morning I was in a raging fever, utterly unconscious where I was, and raving, as I afterwards learned, like a madman. A physician was sent for by the landlady, and, notwithstanding every attention possible was paid to me, I remained a whole week in a state of perfect unconsciousness! At length the fever abated, and I began to have some lucid intervals. I then inquired where I was, and on learning the circumstances, requested my physician, who was very attentive in his visits, and a kind-hearted man, to write to the medical gentleman who attended my nurse, acquainting him with the cause of my delay, and entreating a speedy answer to inform me how she was, and every circumstance since his last letter. This he undertook to do with the greatest alacrity, and though very anxious, I determined to wait the issue with as much patience as possible. 
               "Never shall I forget one remarkable evening! It was twilight; the attendant, thinking that I had fallen asleep, had left the room. I was not asleep but as waking and conscious as I am at this moment. I never was superstitious. From my earliest infancy I have despised and laughed at everything supernatural and at all ghost stories. I have never felt the slightest fear of spiritual beings or apparitions, because I did not believe they were visible to our senses, or could have any purpose in being permitted to visit mortals. I therefore could not have been predisposed by my fears or my beliefs for the reception of the scene which I am about to describe to you, and which made so powerful an impression on my mind, not only then, but for a long time afterwards! Perhaps this may be accounted for by the state of my brain and nerves at the time. 
               "It was twilight, as I said before, and rather clear; my candle had not yet been lighted for the night. Everything was silent and still around me, so that I could distinctly hear the throbbing of my own heart or the slightest sound or noise. It was impossible I could be sleeping, because I remember well I was counting the number of spots in each diagonal line of the paper on the wall, and comparing them together, when I was startled by a deep and painful groan, as if from a person close to my bed! I lay still for a moment and then I heard another still deeper and nearer than the last! I was going to ring the bell or call out for some one to come to the assistance of the sufferer, whoever it might be, when I saw a glimmer of light near the chimney, which gave me great pleasure at the moment, for I thought it was the servant coming in with a candle; but what was my surprise and horror when, on looking towards the foot of the bed, I saw distinctly the form and figure of my nurse! not such as she used to appear, with a sweet smile, but sad and dejected, and as pale and livid as a corpse! There seemed to be an expression of agony and suffering in her countenance beyond all powers of description; and feeling assured that it was no earthly appearance, but a visitant from the tomb, either in reality or such as my own excited imagination had conjured up, I made an effort to speak, but found that impossible! I next tried to rise, but whether it was from weakness or some unknown cause, I found I could not move, but remained fixed to the pillow, with my eyes riveted on the frightful form that stood so plainly before me! It was a fearful moment! but still my reason assured me that it could be nothing but a mere phantom of the imagination, to the reception of which the severe fever from which I was only just beginning to recover must have greatly predisposed my brain. If I had had strength either to rise or speak, I would have assured myself of the truth as far as that was possible. But then, when I again reflected that though my sight might be deceived, as is very common under such circumstances, how could I account for the pitiful groans which I but a moment before had heard? This staggard me! I cannot tell how long I remained in that posture, with my eyes fixed on that apparition; but at length the door was opened and my attendant entered. He found my eyes riveted, as if on vacancy, and wildly staring in one direction at nothing! (for he could not see the apparition,) and he naturally concluded that I was beginning to have one of those temporary fits of mental alienation to which I had been so subject during my illness, and he took the usual means resorted to on such occasions, viz.: to divert my mind from some supposed object that absorbed it. He therefore approached my bed gently and said something which I now forget, merely to turn my thoughts into another channel, but in vain! I made him no answer; but at length recovering ering a little strength, I raised my arm and pointed to the figure, exclaiming in a wild and vehement tone: 
               "'See there! look! there it is at the foot of the bed! It is my own dear! Look! look! she glides away now! Now she is gone!'" 
               "The man having been accustomed to hear me rave in this way often before, thought nothing of it, but merely saying that my imagination conjured up strange phantoms, recommended me to go to sleep. Reflection told me he was right, and I endeavored to dismiss what I had just seen from my thoughts as quickly as possible and to follow his advice. I accordingly closed my eyes, and in a short time fell into a doze; but it was not a calm or peaceful one. That phantom haunted me all the night in my dreams! First I saw my nurse with her fellow servant, whose name; which I have not yet mentioned, was Denis McArdle, sitting together at a table on which were several cups and saucers, as if it was for breakfast; then I saw them drink from the cups, his sinister eye beaming with a hellish exultation, as if the demon within him was gratified by some diabolical deed of darkness! Then I saw my dear nurse on a bed in agonies and tortures, the man attending her with seeming kindness and attention, but every time he averted his eyes from her look they seemed to beam with a fierce and savage delight! Then I heard her groan most pitiously and call upon my name, saying that she would die contented and happy if she could see and speak to me only for a moment! I thought I tried with all my power to approach her bed, but that I was held back by some powerful arm and prevented from moving. I struggled with violence, and in my efforts awoke to find it was but a dream! Whenever I closed my eyes again a similar scene would present itself, till, at length, I thought I witnessed the last convulsive pang of my dearest and only friend; gazed upon the mortal glance of her eye and her distorted features until she sank down on her bed a pale and haggard corpse! A shock of horror aroused me again from the painful scene, which, however, was presented to my fancy anew if I allowed my eyelids to close for a moment in slumber! At length the morning dawned, but the impression left on my mind was of a painful and harrowing nature. I could not persuade myself but that my dear nurse was dead, and that she had been murdered by the wretch McArdle, who seemed to be somehow connected with her; but for what motive it was impossible for me to conceive. 
               "This idea haunted me day after day, and was strengthened by a repetition of the same horrid scenes at night. I made frequent inquiries of my kind physician if he had yet received a letter in answer to his inquiries concerning my nurse; but several days passed by without any letter. I at length became impatient and declared my resolution to remain no longer in bed, but to rise up immediately and go myself to ascertain the truth; at the same time affirming my conviction that some foul villainy had been perpetrated towards my nurse! The doctor became alarmed for my safety, declaring that if I persevered in that resolution it would be the cause of my death: but nevertheless I was determined to put it in execution. 
               "'I know,' said I, 'yes I feel assured, that she is dead, and that she has been murdered, cruelly murdered! and I must go and punish the miscreant this moment,' at the same time making an effort to rise. 
               "The doctor very naturally concluded that my mind was still somewhat disordered by the effects of the fever, and that it was necessary for my safety to impose a salutary restraint on my actions till I should be perfectly recovered. First, however, he reasoned with me on the folly of such an attempt at that particular time, even supposing what I said to be true. 
               "'For how,' said he, 'could you prove the fact? From dreams and apparitions seen while you were laboring under a fever? Ha ha! what excellent proof this would be before a jury?' 
               "'I could have the body exhumed and examined,' I replied, 'to see if it exhibited any marks of violence, or, as I rather suspect, any remains of the poison.' 
               "'And is it possible,' said he, 'that a person of your sense and judgment can place any dependence in dreams or visions under any circumstances?' 
               "'Murders have been brought to light by that means before now,' I replied. 
               "'Well, at all events,' said he, 'let me request of you to wait two days longer, and if no letter should come before that time, I promise you my full permission to depart, for I hope you will be then sufficiently convalescent to undertake the journey. And besides, I can see that this affair preys upon your mind and retards your recovery.' 
               "I promised him that I would wait till that time, and he left me, giving strict charge to my attendant not to quit my room on any account, and to take particular care, lest I should attempt to make my escape. 
               "How I passed the remainder of that day and the following night you may more easily conceive than I can describe. Early on the following morning the doctor entered my room with a letter in his hand. I tried to read its contents in his countenance, but he had too much command over his features to allow a single muscle of his face at any time to betray his inward feelings. 
               "'Well, doctor, you are come to confirm my suspicions-my conviction; I know you are. Nay, do not attempt to deny it! Let the truth be told at once without any circumlocution! Is it not so? She is dead, and has been-' 
               "'No! not murdered!' interrupted he, 'but that she is no more, is but too true! I am utterly astonished how such a powerful presentiment could have found access to your mind! You were at a great distance; you had no communication through the medium of the senses! This is mysterious! Let me see!' 
               "And here he paused for a full minute with his forefinger on his temple, in an attitude of deep and profound meditation. At last he exclaimed triumphantly: 
               "'I have it! What a child I was not to have thought of it before! The first letter you received at Lyons did it not say, that unless you made great haste you would not see her alive?' 
               "'Certainly,' I replied. 
               "'Well,' continued the doctor, 'is it not self evident that you have reflected on this so long and so intensely that it has become a reality, a bodily shape on your mind, and that it has there assumed those frightful forms which you have already described to me? Can anything be more plain than this? Surely vague imagination ought now to give place to the sober dictates of reason; and this would teach you that it is quite impossible the mind can receive any impression except through the medium of the senses from some material substance. Now, as a spirit is an immaterial, unsubstantial being, it is quite impossible that it could make any impression whatever on material, corporal sense!' 
               "'It seems reasonable,' I replied, 'but yet my conviction is opposed to reason and philosophy.' 
               "'Oh! that conviction will pass away with the return of health and strength,' said the doctor. 'Yours is a very common case, and sufficiently familiar to us medical men. I can assure you that it will soon pass away and be forgotten.' 
               "'I question that,' I replied; 'but what in the mean time would you advise me to do?' 
               "'To make your mind easy under your bereavement and to remain here a few days longer, till you are perfectly restored, and then to pursue your journey either to join your friend on the continent, or else go on to Oxford, where you will hear more particulars,' replied the doctor. 
               "'I will take your advice,' I answered, 'and will adopt the latter of the two courses which you propose.' 
               "'But why!' I murmured to myself when he had left me, 'I have lost everything dear to me or that cares for me in the world! I am a desolate, friendless outcast, without home, without parents, without everything that is dear to the heart of man, except money; and what is that? Would that I had been a poor, pennyless beggar, in the lowest poverty and distress, but blessed with the smile of a mother, or the protection of a father! How happy should I have been in comparison of what I am now!' 
               "Still, however occupied with the one idea, I inquired of the doctor on his visiting me again in the evening, whether there were no suspicions of foul play towards the nurse stated in the letter of her medical attendant, and he assured me that there was not the slightest hint. 
               "'Nay,' he continued, 'here is the letter, which you are at liberty to peruse for yourself.' 
               "I eagerly grasped it and ran through it with avidity; but it contained nothing whatever calculated to confirm my suspicions, nor the slightest circumstance that could lead any one to suppose otherwise than that she had died a natural death. 
               "In a few days I was pronounced by the doctor sufficiently recovered to proceed on my journey, and after having thanked him kindly for his attention and rewarded him for his trouble, I departed, but could not proceed the whole of the distance on that day, as I was yet so weak as to be fatigued by the slightest exertion. I was, in fact, obliged to make three days' journey of the small distance between Dover and Oxford, where I at length arrived on the evening of the third very much exhausted, so much so that I was obliged to go to bed. Here again my sleep was disturbed by dreams of the same kind. The same phantom haunted my couch and seemed to implore revenge for a black and murderous deed, and in the morning when I awoke I was more impressed than ever with the conviction which all along haunted me. I determined to have the affair searched into with the utmost scrutiny. I arose, dressed and proceeded, unaccompanied, to the cottage where my good nurse had resided, and where she had often gladdened my heart by her kind and welcome reception. 
               "I knocked at the door. A hollow echo was returned from within, but no answer. It was early, perhaps, thought I, the man McArdle, if he be here at all, is not yet awake. I knocked again; still no answer, save a louder echo than the former. I knocked a third time and with all my force. I heard something like a growl, but from what kind of animal it proceeded it was difficult to determine. Encouraged, however, by a sound from something like a living being, I knocked again, and again; and at length I heard the sullen and gruff voice of McArdle, demanding, in an exasperated tone: 
               "'Who is there? What do yer want at this early hour? Go away! you shall not come in!' 
               "I now redoubled my efforts, and determined to give him no peace till I should be admitted. 
               "'Who are yiz, and what do yer want?' demanded he with fury, 'that comes to disturb me in this violent manner. I will make yer repint of it whin I get on my clothes!' 
               "'Open the door this instant, you wretch!' I exclaimed, 'or I will break it open!' 
               "The moment he heard my voice he opened the door with a leer, fawning upon me like a dog and making a thousand apologies for keeping 'my honor' standing so long outside, protesting by everything sacred that he did not think it was I, but some of the neighbors who had come purposely to annoy him; and immediately afterwards, as he led me further into the cottage, closing and bolting the door behind him, he burst out into a long, doleful and horrible howl, as he pointed out to me the chair where my good nurse used to sit, and the room in which she used to sleep. After which he gave a long rambling account of her sudden illness and death, blending the whole with a mixture of eulogium, half English, half Irish, which it would require a more skillful adept in these languages than I can pretend to be to understand. 
                
               "'Wretch!' I exclaimed, 'do you think to impose this story upon me, when you know in your heart that it is false! You know well that she has been murdered, and you are the wretch that has done the horrid deed!' 
               "While I spoke I marked his countenance. It became at first deadly pale, then red as fire, and then again pale. I saw a flame of mischief rapidly kindling up his eyes, which glanced first at me and then around, as if in seach of some deadly weapon which he could plunge into my heart. At length he made a spring to a cupboard, opened it in an instant, and seized upon a huge knife-it was a kind of hunting knife-with which he rushed upon me, aiming a deadly blow at my breast, and if it had taken the desired effect I should not have been here now to tell the tale which I would fain not have to impart to your ears. By bending timely to one side I avoided the blow, which struck an interior door post opposite to which I was standing, and the knife was buried in the wood several inches. While he tried to draw it out I seized his arm; but he was a very powerful man, and in the weak condition in which I then was I found my case would be hopeless should he repossess himself of the knife. I therefore fell down on the floor and dragged him after me, where we struggled violently for some time without either uttering a syllable or a sound, except that of quick breathing. Notwithstanding all my efforts, I found that I was so much exhansted that I could not hold him much longer. He dragged me by degrees along the floor nearer and nearer towards where the knife was still sticking in the door post. He was already close to it; his hand grasped the handle, and in another instant I should have been weltering in my blood! but just at the moment he was about to draw it, a brick which had been loose on the top of the half wall, having been moved by the impulse of my feet against the wall in attempting to pull him back, fell down with a violent crash on his wrist, which it completely disabled, at the same time dashing the knife violently out of his grasp and hurling it just within reach of my right hand. I seized it, and in turn became the assailant. My antagonist, stunned with the blow of the falling brick and writhing with agony, had sunk to the ground. I seized him by the throat with my left hand and with my right raised the knife, as if about to plunge it in his breast. He seemed to expect or hope for nothing else. I paused for a moment and said: 
               "'Fiend! it was not enough for you to murder my dear nurse, but now you must attempt my life also! Have you any reason to urge why I should not plunge this knife into your heart and free the earth from a demon by sending you to your own damned dwelling place?' 
               "'Oh! I am in yer power,' he replied, 'but spare me life, I beseech you by all the saints and angels of Heaven! spare me life and I will tell you something which you have long wished to know. I am the only one livin now who knows the sacret of your birth!' 
               "'Demon!' I answered, 'confess to the murder at once! It is the only hope you have left of life. I promise to spare your life for the present and consign you to the justice of the law on this one condition! As to your knowing anything of my secret, as you call it, I disbelieve it altogether, and I should loathe myself ever afterwards if I thought you had any knowledge whatever of anything that concerns myself or my fortunes. Be assured you shall not escape me so easily as you imagine by your pretending to know my secrets! Confess instantly or you are a corpse! Confess!' and thus saying I raised the knife as if about to plunge it into his heart. 
               "'Spare me! oh! spare me!' he said, 'if you value your own pace of mind and contintment. You will be sorry for the rash act hereafter, whin you will be made sartin that I am the only one now livin at all that can tell you what you want to know. Sure enough it is myself that can tell you things at which you will be astonished and surprised intirely, and wouldn't you jist be cuttin your own throat if ye did me any bodily harm?' 
               "'Confess!' said I. 
               "'Sure,' said he, 'ye are no father confessor at all at all. If I have done any harm, and God knows I am a big sinner intirely, it is the praist that will pardon me. Now, listen to me. How do you think it possible that I could by any manner of manes murder a poor ould helpless woman? For what purpose? She had no money, no property of any kind! Do ye think I am such a fool as to put my neck in danger for nothin at all at all? No, no! Denis McArdle is not such a simpleton as that comes to!' 
               "'Then why did you attempt to murder me? and why did you turn pale and of all colors when I taxed you with the other deed?' 
               "'Ha! do ye wonder at that? Is it surprisable that I should be ruffled a little when my character was blackened without rason by accusin me of murder? You little know me if you think my timper could stand sich an assult; and it is well I did not get hould of the knife! I should have done a deed for which I would have been very sorry. But it is all past and gone now, and though I would have killed you at the moment, I am still your friend. So you may jist relase me and it will be all at an end.' 
               "'Heaven preserve me from such friends!' I replied. 'But will you, can you behave yourself properly, if I release you?' 
               "'On the word and honor of a gintleman,' said he, 'you shall have no cause to fear me.' 
               "'But first of all tell me what you know of me.' 
               "'I promise to do that in good time.' 
               "'When?' I eagerly demanded. 
               "'Not yet! not yet!' said he, 'but it will be soon, soon enough, I warrant,' he muttered to himself, with one of his malignant looks. 
               "'I will have the time stated before I permit you to rise.' 
               "'Well, if it must be so, I will say within a year from this time, provided you give me a proper recompense.' 
               "'Well I promise you anything you ask in reason, only name the day.' 
               "'Let it be this day twelve months then,' said he in a calm tone. 
               "'What! not sooner?' 
               "'No! it will be impossible.' 
               "'Well, agreed!' I replied, 'this day twelve months!' 
               "'But,' said he, 'I have one other request to make of you.' 
               "'Name it!' 
               "'It is that you will not mention that foolish notion you have got in your head about the nurse being murdered, as it might create suspicion and can sarve no purpose whatsomiver. Ye must have bin dramin in your illness, and these hobgoblins cam in yer head. Why, sur, the people would think ye mad, and I have too much regard for your father's son to allow sich a report to be spread about ye. Now I hope ye are quite satisfied!' 
               "I really began to think now that I had gone too far, and to feel somewhat ashamed of the figure I made, even in the eyes of this wretch; and having taken proper precautions to guard myself against any sudden attack, I permitted him to rise, promising to do as he requested. 
               "He was now perfectly calm and showed no symptoms whatever of resentment or ill will, but even appeared much more polite and civil than before; and he looked at me with an attempt at benevolence in his eyes, as far as their sinister and forbidding expression would admit of such a look. 
               "I was about to depart from a scene at which I shuddered when I reflected on what might have been the consequence had McArdle been able to grasp the knife in his fury, when he called to me in a gruff, but for him the mildest tone he could assume: 
               "'Misther Harcourt!' said he. 
                
               "'What would you have of me,' I replied sternly. 
               "'I have known your honor whin ye was a little baby not that high; I have been a faithful sarvant in your family; but now I am gettin ould and I have no frinds left in the world.' 
               "'Well, what have I to do with that?' I replied. 
               "'I know,' continued he, 'that I niver was a mighty favorite wid you, but, nivertheless, I could not help that. I am now poor and have no manes of livin; take me into yer sarvice, I beg of yer honor.' 
               "'Never!' I replied; 'but though I hate and detest you, as you well know, I will not permit you to starve. You shall receive a sufficient sum for your support from my own pocket till I see you again, which will not be before this day twelve months; and if, as you say, you can inform me satisfactorily of what I have been so long anxious to know, I will continue the pension for life, with perhaps some additions.' 
               "God bless yer honor,' said he; 'I always knew ye was good, altho it has not been my good luck to be able to plase ye or gain your good graces; but nivertheless I am still yer honor's best friend, and why shouldn't I? Sure no one has a better right to be so at all at all! I am goin to flit from here, and I will let ye know in a day or two where to find me when ye want me. Good mornin to yer honor and good luck, and may ye be happy till we meet agin!' 
               "'Good morning, McArdle,' I returned in as kind a tone as it was possible for me to assume; after which I departed, in order to learn further particulars of the doctor who attended my nurse. 
               "I fortunately found him at home, but could not glean anything from the conversation I had with him, (which, however, was guarded, in consequence of the promise I had made to McArdle, as well as for the sake of my own character for sanity,) that could, in the slightest degree, tend to confirm my suspicions. I paid him liberally for his attendance on my nurse, and departed more satisfied in my mind than I had yet been of the groundlessness of my fears, but still unable to divest myself of the conviction that they were not entirely without foundation. 
               "As I now felt very low in spirits, both at the loss of my dear friend, the nurse, and because of the peculiarly isolated position in which I found myself, which now began to prey upon my mind more and more every day, I was earnestly advised both by my medical attendant and the few friends with whom I asssociated at college to rusticate for some time on account of my health, which, they said, might be irreparably injured by my usually intense study, if I remained at college during the coming term. To these reasons, backed by the advice of my tutor, for whom I entertained the warmest affection and whose friendship I was fortunate enough to have gained, I acceded, though reluctantly, as I was ambitious of literary distinction among my cotemporaries. But feeling assured that severe application to study at that particular time would be injurious to me, I thought it better to prevent in time what, if let go on, might turn out to be serious. I therefore, in about a week before the commencement of the term, left Oxford, resolved to seek out some quiet rural retreat where I might spend the time in pursuits agreeable to my state of mind and to my general habits without interruption. These were studies of a scientific, though not of a severe character, and absorbed in such amusements I hoped to forget both myself, my own position and the external world, at least for a season. But whatever place I should choose for my retreat I firmly resolved to abstain from all intercourse with my neighbors there, for two reasons: first, because solitude and the pursuits of philosophy were more congenial to my mind than the society of my fellow men, however select it might be; and secondly, because I felt acutely the peculiarity of my anomalous position. On this subject I was nervously alive, and hence the slightest allusion to my family and connections, or even to the family and connections of others, in my presence, always excited the most unpleasant feelings in my mind, which the commonest observer could scarcely fail to notice. For this reason particularly I determined to avoid making any acquaintance whatever, but to live like a very recluse in every respect. For the same reason, too, I resolved to have no attendants about me but strangers, who had never even heard of me before, and to seek some place in the heart of the country where there would be little chance of my meeting with any one who knew me. 
               "A few years before the time I speak of, I remembered, in an excursion I made with a young friend, to have passed through a valley which from its solitude and repose, and its great beauty, left a lasting impression on my mind. Thither I now resolved to retire and to seek for a retreat. It is the valley now before us. None other could rival it in beauty or seemingly could be better adapted for my purpose. I accordingly came and found a cottage exactly such as I desired. I furnished it, engaged servants of the neighborhood, and in a short time saw myself surrounded by everything that could impart comfort and happiness, if the mind was at ease. Books, instruments, a garden, a river, a delightful country and a lovely landscape around me! what more could I desire or hope for? But yet I was not happy! My lonely and desolate condition, the uncertainty that hung over my birth, and the loss of my dear, kind friend, the nurse, with the suspicions and dreams that still haunted me with regard to the manner of her death, all these things were no small obstacles in the way of my full enjoyment of the otherwise congenial scene around me, till plunged in scientific investigation and the pursuits of wisdom, I banished these thoughts from my mind, and then I enjoyed a larger share of happiness than I had ever experienced before. By degrees, too, my unpleasant thoughts and feelings began to be absorbed in the objects of interest around me, and I really think that had I been permitted to remain undisturbed in this repose, I should, in time, have been as happy as it is possible for man to be on earth! But it was ordained otherwise! That very society which I shunned so much, and which was, in fact, my greatest bane, and ought to have been avoided by me with the greatest care, sought me out in my calm retreat, prevailed upon me in a moment of weakness to join it and has now undone me for ever! Had I been truly wise I should easily have seen that I was not sought after for my own good, as it was pretended, but merely to gratify a morbid curiosity! 
               "It was soon whispered about the neighborhood that an extraordinary character, a stranger, a prodigy of learning, but a wild and eccentric recluse, had taken up his abode in that vicinity, and that he was accessible and would be accessible to no one! It would be endless to recount the innumerable conjectures and opinions that were hazarded and spread abroad as to what could have possibly led me, in the bloom of youth, rich as it was reported, and neither hideous to look at, nor deformed, to adopt such an extraordinary mode of life! Some said it was disappointed love; others that it was the love of letters; others that it was in consequence of some quarrel with my family; and others hinted even at deeds of wrong and violence! So that, in a short time, I became an object of the most extraordinary and unaccountable interest to my neighbors. Many looked on me with an eye of suspicion, and others thought I was deranged in my intellect; in short, all seemed to busy themselves about my affairs, so that instead of enjoying that solitude and repose which I so much desired, I was continually annoyed with knocks at my door, carriages, calls and cards, not one of which visits I returned or took the slightest notice of. It was in vain that I left orders to say I was not at home. Sometimes a clergyman would come soliciting a subscription to a charity; the amount would be sent him through my servant. Sometimes a neighboring gentleman would send up his card, requesting to see me about some damages my cattle had done in trespassing on his fields; I referred him to my servant. At another time a farmer would call, requesting to know if I would sell him a horse that he had taken a fancy to. But I was never to be seen by any one in a private conference; but like a king transacted all business through the medium of my minister! 
               "But in acting thus I had not the slighest idea that I was doing anything extraordinary and still less of creating a sensation, as I was accused of doing, in the neighborhood! My sole object was to be alone and tranquil, and this for the obvious reasons which I have already given. But I was very much disappointed in my expectation! for the most crowded city would have been more eligible in this respect than the retired valley which I had chosen. What was I to do? It was obvious I could have no peace as long as I remained perfectly and entirely a recluse. There was a better chance for me if I mingled a little with a few of the select families in the neighborhood. I might then, at a sacrifice of a small part, enjoy the remainder of my time in my own way tranquil and undisturbed. This I determined upon, and the first place I visited in the neighborhood was your friend H's. The occasion was thought worthy of a large party. On that evening all the beauty and fashion of the neighborhood were assembled. Though many were beautiful, yet I was totally indifferent to the bright array as well as to the attentions that were forced upon me. I felt that I had no tie there and sighed for my accustomed solitude. At length a new name was announced, though it was late. Curiosity directed my eyes to the newcomers. It was a tall, stately, middle aged gentleman, leading in a lady young, beautiful and elegant, both in her form and manners. Never had my eyes dwelt on such an object! I gazed upon her with surprise and delight! My eyes refused to look on aught besides! I felt a new and strange emotion take possession of my soul! My whole being was conscious of an impulse hitherto undreamt of! My step was insensibly attracted to whatever part of the room she moved, and the bystanders could not but remark the impression which she had made upon me. I was quite a new creature both in their eyes and my own. My former reserve left me, and I gave myself up, without restraint, to a seductive but unconquerable passion. I sought the host in my eagerness and requested him to introduce me to the beautiful stranger. He willingly complied, at the same time extolling your sister's mental endowments even more than her personal charms. We were introduced. I requested the honor of her hand for the next dance, and how my soul thrilled with ineffable rapture when I heard the silvery tones of her voice, caught the sweet, mild expression of her eye, which seemed to beam with pleasure, as she modestly gave her consent! Oh! who would not give away a whole existence for the recurrence of such a moment as that! We danced and seemed mutually pleased with each other, and contrary to etiquette and seemingly regardless of opinion, we danced again and again! The hours flew by on wings of lightning! Morning dawned, but my eyes were not satisfied with gazing, my heart was too full of joy, of delight! Yet we must part! The thought was harrowing! My emotions were too powerful! I led her into the recess and thence on to the balcony. We were alone, the stars above and the early dawn the only witnesses. I could no longer restrain my feelings, but throwing my arm around her waist I pressed her to my breast! I felt the throbbing of her heart against mine! She made no effort to withdraw from my embrace! Our lips met! The tale of mutual love was told, more in sighs and tears of delight than in words! Yet they were not wanting! We both confessed to the tender emotion, and from that moment to the present we have lived only for each other! 
               "That night I knew for the first time what it was to live, to love, to be loved, to exchange vows of mutual and eternal affection! And that night I retired to bed, not to sleep but to feast my memory with the lovely vision I had seen, with the delightful emotions I had enjoyed! Her form, her look, her graceful movement in the dance, the pressure of her hand in mine, and then the balcony scene! oh, heavens! how could I close my eyes in sleep while such a remembrance blessed my waking dreams? How often again was my arm in fancy thrown around her waist! how often did I feel the throbbing of her heart! how often did I feel the pressure of her warm, soft and ruby lips! Oh! would that I had then been arrested by the merciful hand of death! I should have died happy, and she, my love, would have been saved the pain of this doubt, and might yet have bestowed her heart on an object more worthy of its tender and enduring affection!" 
               "Speak not thus, dear Harcourt," said Charles, in a firm tone, "and do not repine for her sake. You know that your love is dearer to her than life, and that she will be happy with you if everything else is taken away from her; wealth, friends, family connections, and, dearest of all, life itself, must yield to the lasting love she bears to you. Then do not despair, my friend, you shall yet be happy; for since honor and virtue must ever be yours, what matter if the world misjudges your actions or your motives? Look to a higher tribunal for that justice which is denied us by our fellow creatures here." 
               "Angel of mercy, as you are!" exclaimed Harcourt, "how can I sufficiently thank you for the expression of such noble feelings?" 
               He would have gone on thus much longer had Charles not reminded him that the day was far advanced and that he must bring his tale to a conclusion as soon as possible. 
               He therefore continued as follows: 
               "Though overwhelmed with a flood of happiness and delight, yet, on sober reflection, I could not help regretting the occasion which gave rise to it. I had completely broken through the bounds and the rules which I had imposed upon myself, and I could not help perceiving that in my present circumstances it was next to madness to have formed any attachment which perhaps could never be gratified. The very idea that I was totally ignorant of my own origin and connections struck a chill through my heart which was never felt so acutely before, and I very justly reasoned that it was worse than folly, it was cruel, to involve another person in my fate, at least till that doubt should be cleared away. These reflections gave me great pain and determined me to break off the acquaintance which I had just formed, to make a precipitate retreat from this neighborhood altogether, and to trust to time for an explanation of my motives to Charlotte and you, and an exculpation from blame; but so powerful was the impression made on my heart, and so feeble was my resolution that I found it utterly impossible to act up to it by pursuing that which my reason told me would be the proper course. Besides, hope, which never forsakes the most forlorn of mankind, whispered consolation to me from the disclosure which I was promised from McArdle, and the time of that interview was not very far distant then. Thus I reconciled my honor with my inclination in keeping up a correspondence with your sister and your family, though my conscience, on reflection, warned me that I was doing wrong. However the passion which I found it hopeless to resist, took complete possession of my soul and of my whole being, and stifled the voice of conscience and of reason within me. The time fled by on golden wings like a pleasing dream. With her I could think of nothing annoying or unpleasant; away from her I could think of nothing but her. Her image was ever in my thoughts by day and by night, to the exclusion of every other idea. What wonder if I became almost forgetful of myself! 
               "From this state of torpor I was aroused this morning by your visit. I had asked your father to consent to our union. He refused. I entreated the intercession of you, her brother, and after much difficulty you succeeded in wringing a tardy and unwilling acquiescence on one condition. This it was which you, so joyful and delighted, have come to impart to me. Strange coincidence! It is the very day appointed for my interview with McArdle! Yes, this day I shall know my destiny, what I have to hope for and to live for. May Heaven grant that all things may turn out well. But I tremble for the issue. Go back to Charlotte and tell her all; conceal nothing. Bid her be prepared for the worst, if the worst should come; say that I would have hurried to her presence and thrown myself at her feet had time permitted. But I see by my watch that little remains to me. The place of rendezvous is at some distance; I fear the stage will be here before I am prepared for it. To-morrow I hope to explain everything to Charlotte herself. Adieu, my friend, till to-morrow." 
               So saying he hurried off to prepare for his journey, while Charles Cumming, having bid a hasty adieu to his friend, bent his steps homeward to communicate to his sister, and to her alone, the strange result of his mission. 
               Charlotte Cumming, who really loved Harcourt with the most devoted affection, was a girl of sound judgment, though of a very delicate and sensitive frame; and though at first she entertained some hope at the recital of her brother, yet she could not suppress certain misgivings when she reflected on the very mysterious manner in which her lover had hitherto studiously avoided all allusions to his own family during the whole period of their acquaintance, and the embarrassment and emotion he betrayed when allusion was made to it by others. She pondered well the account which her brother gave of the deadly paleness of Harcourt's countenance on the announcement of her father's wish to him, and the seemingly reluctant answer which he gave to Charles when he requested an immediate explanation, together with the abruptness of his departure at a moment when she most expected his presence, and that he would be eager to throw himself at the feet of her father in gratitude and thankfulness for his goodness, and she could come to no satisfactory conclusion in her own mind what to think of the result. However she assumed a cheerful countenance and resolved to summon all the courage she was able, in order to meet whatever events the coming morrow was destined to bring forth. 
               It will be more easy to conceive than describe her anxiety during the whole of that night, and the contending feelings that struggled for mastery in her mind during that to her tedions interval. At length, the often wished for morning dawned and passed away, and noon came, long before which time it had been Harcourt's usual custom to make his appearance at the hall, without bringing any traces or tidings of her lover. The poor girl now became very uneasy. Her patience, though great, began to yield to her fears and misgivings, and soon an uneasiness and perturbation in her manner became so evident as to attract the observation of her brother, who easily divined the cause, and felt some alarm for the consequences. He volunteered to go over to Harcourt's house in the hope of being able to learn something of him from the servants. He did so, but no one could give him any information, and he returned, dejected, to communicate the result to his sister. Reflecting, however, that the day was not yet more than half spent, and that Harcourt had not mentioned any particular hour, he very naturally concluded that he might be detained longer than he had expected by particular business, and that as he was usually very punctual to his promise, he would yet come before the day was entirely spent. This view of the matter had not escaped the penetrating mind of Charlotte, who, for that reason, was, notwithstanding her fears, enabled to look forward with some glimmering of hope to a happy issue. But yet she could not help speculating on the possibility of some serious disappointment. She was naturally nervous and a gloomy impression of some impending ill had for some time past hung over her mind. She had had disturbed dreams, in all of which Harcourt seemed to play a prominent, but always a melancholy, part before her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE DREAM. 
               THOUGH I am not superstitious, yet I must confess that I cannot entirely divest myself of a belief in dreams and impressions. This may be unphilosophical, perhaps vulgar; but there are, I believe, many things for which philosophy cannot account, that happen in the experience of every individual, and leave on the mind feelings and persuasions of supernatural agents which few would venture to confess, in this matter-of-fact age, even to themselves, for fear of incurring the imputation of weakness or vulgarity, or both. Now it is possible to carry this affectation too far, and hence we find that the most ignorant and presumptuous dabblers in science are generally the first to laugh at those who profess some belief in other than natural agency, as antiquated and unphilosophical dreamers. But the truth is, that philosophy, with all its research and pretension, knows little or nothing of the nature of things or the true relation between cause and effect, and therefore, being capable of explaining nothing satisfactorily itself, it has no right to condemn those as ignorant and superstitious who look to higher and more powerful agents than any it can boast of. The relation we bear to the spiritual world is little known, and still less is the government and mode of communication which the Great Creator has adopted with regard to his creature man, in every age and clime; for we find, if universal belief is any ground for faith, that dreams and impressions sions have been very powerful in their influence always and amongst every people of the globe. The Jews, the Egyptians, the Greeks, the Romans, the Hindoos, the Chinese, and even the Indians of North and South America, have been firm believers in dreams, and many of them have handed down their convictions concerning them, that they were sent down from heaven by the gods, to guide, direct, warn or reprove men. The Bible abounds with proofs of this assertion; so do the Grecian and Roman poets and historians, and the records and observations of our modern travelers. 
               It is curious, too, to observe the extraordinary coincidences between dreams and their fulfillment, which most people attentive to the subject may remark, even in their own individual experience or in that of their friends; but it would require volumes to record all that might be written on this theme. 
               However men may differ as to their opinions on this subject, it is certain that poor Charlotte Cumming was more powerfully influenced by her dreams and impressions than she would willingly acknowledge. She had found by experience that whenever her dreams were disturbed and unpleasant, something of an unpleasant nature always followed to disturb her happiness; and this was a sufficient reason for her to dread a similar result for the future. It may not, perhaps, be uninteresting to relate here, as a striking illustration of what I have said above, a dream which she had had a few evenings before the circumstance occurred to which I now am directing your attention. 
               She thought she was walking through a dense wood in company with Harcourt, on a beautiful night. The moon shone with all its wonted brightness, and the stars twinkled joyfully in their orbits, as if rejoicing in the loveliness of the earth on which they gazed with seeming delight. The path in which they walked was at first sufficiently broad for them to walk together, but after a while it became so narrow and so entangled that only one could walk in it at a time. She thought that Harcourt took the lead, and was busied in clearing a path for her, lest her tender feet should be torn by the brambles and thorns with which it was almost literally choked up, looking back ever and anon with one of his most tender and anxious looks, to see if she was following in safety in the track which he had taken such pains to clear for her, when all at once the heavens became involved in clouds, the moon was obscured, and the whole forest was enveloped in utter darkness. Then a stream of lightning broke through the gloom, followed by a loud crash of thunder, which seemed to rend the earth itself on which they stood, and to break and tear in a thousand pieces the strongest oaks of the forest. Immediately the scene was changed! She seemed now on a lofty hill, surrounded by her brother, father, and other friends, who were all in the wildest consternation, intently gazing on the east. It was the conflagration of the world! The sun seemed like blood, and was falling down into space from its orbit! The earth had caught fire, and was sinking into an abyss of annihilation! Charlotte looked wildly around her for Harcourt, that she might die in his embrace. He was nowhere to be found. She screamed aloud, calling upon his name, and in her agony she awoke, thankful to Heaven that it was but a dream! But then, what a dream! The impression it left on her mind could not easily be forgetten. She shuddered when she thought on the wild and fearful sublimity of the scene, and dreaded lest some terrible calamity should befall her through him whom she valued more than life itself. 
               In this state of anxiety and fear she spent the day. Her brother tried all he could to comfort and console her, but in vain. The evening was already far advanced, and no traces of Harcourt were any where to be discovered. Charlotte listened eagerly to every sound, every footstep. The rustling of the leaves in the arbor, or the shadow which a cloud passing over the moon cast on the lawn-every object, however unimportant, attracted her attention and excited her hopes, but it was only to dash them to the ground. She began now to give up all idea of his coming that night, and therefore fore, at the earnest entreaty of her brother, she retired to her own room. 
               It was about eleven o'clock at night; the moon was full orbed and shining in all her brightness in the calm cerulean sky. Sometimes a fleecy cloud would for an instant obscure her luster, but soon sailing over her disc, would leave it pure and spotless as before. The stars, too, shed their gem-like rays with unwonted brilliancy, and the whole heavens seemed to smile in serenity and repose. From her window Charlotte Cumming had a full and clear view of the surrounding landscape, mellowed as it was by the radiance of the nocturnal luminaries, and idealized by the peculiar mood of mind in which she then found herself. The house of Sir Fred. Cumming, being situated on a rising ground at some little distance from the river Avon, commands one of the most beautiful prospects, perhaps, in all England, and never did that prospect appear more lovely or interesting than on that night. In front of the house was a lawn, smooth-shaven and sloping down to the very brink of the river, along the banks of which, to right and left, stretched a flower garden and shrubbery of the most choice flowers and plants, whose perfume filled the surrounding atmosphere with the most grateful and delicious fragrance. Beyond the river, which at that spot was broad and deep, lay a beautiful green meadow, skirted on the farther side by a grove of stately trees, and in the distance rose the blue hills of Mendon, which seemed like dark clouds on the brow of the bright horizon. Here and there the beams of the moon and stars fell upon the dark current of the river, as it wound its meandering course through trees and meadows and corn-fields in the distance, and tinged its surface with a bright silvery hue, which contrasted finely with the shadows of the surrounding landscape. An artificial cascade, whose distant murmurs, wafted to the ear at intervals by the light and balmy zephyrs, and mingling its sounds with the low whispering of the leaves in the arbor, gave an additional charm to the scene and impressed the mind of Charlotte Cumming with mingled feelings of awe and sublime emotion as she contrasted the peace and repose of nature with the grief and perturbation of her own mind. Yet there was a solemnity in the scene which could not fail to make a salutary impression on her by soothing her mind and elevating her thoughts above the cares and anxieties of life. There is something in the bright and pure countenance of nature that, when we gaze upon it in certain moods, makes us forget our own sorrows and anxieties in our veneration for the presence in which we stand, and causes us to look forward with a holy faith from the woes of the present troublesome world to the full fruition of joys in a scene of eternal calm and repose of which she at such times is the type. 
               Such are the feelings that generally impress us when left to ourselves in the solitude and repose of inanimate nature. We wonder why it is that we are generally so little attentive to its surpassing beauties, and are influenced so much and so incessantly by human passions and human sympathies; but no sooner do animated creation, and especially human interests, present themselves to our attention than we forget all we so much admired before, and mingle, both in heart and person, with a more congenial association. 
               Thus was it now with Charlotte Cumming. She gazed upon the scene before her till her soul was beginning to blend and sympathize with it, even to the oblivion of her sorrows. A calmness and repose succeeded to perturbation and emotion in her mind, and she almost wondered why she could take such a deep interest in fleeting and transitory passions, when all at once her attention was attracted to an object of a different nature. She thought, as she gazed on the grove which skirted the meadow on the other side of the river, that she distinctly saw the form of a man moving cautiously in the shade. It advanced into the light for a moment, and then shrunk back, as if in fear, and then it stole out again. She was not deceived. The figure moved down timidly towards the water, and then stood still, gazing up at the window where she sat, having forgotten to cover her light. She thought she recognized the form and figure of Harcourt! but as he was wrapped in a cloak, with his face muffled, she could not be certain; besides, he was still too far distant to enable her to judge by the now dim light of the moon. 
               In a moment, however, her doubts were removed. The figure sprang into a boat which had been concealed amongst the bushes on the bank, dashed across the water, and in a few momonts more Harcourt stood before her! Heavens! who can describe the joy of her heart at that moment! Her sympathy for nature and all the thoughts that had recently passed through her mind were dispelled by the presence of one whom a moment before she had almost despaired of seeing, and for whose loss she was endeavoring to console herself by her sympathy with the inanimate objects around her. 
               "Charlotte, dearest Charlotte!" exclaimed Harcourt, as he threw off his disguise and approached the open window, at which she sat riveted to the seat with astonishment and delight, "the clock has not yet proclaimed the arrival of another day, and I am come to redeem the promise which I made to your brother yesterday-that all would be 'set at rest to-morrow,' that is to-day." 
               "But why, Harcourt, have you come at this late hour, and thus disguised, as if there was any cause for concealment, when you are aware that my father has at length consented to our union on one simple and easy condition?" asked Charlotte, in a tone of gentle reproof. "Besides, I think it was hardly kind of you to keep me in such suspense, and so long, too! You might have written, at least, or sent some message, if you had business so important as to detain you all this time. Indeed I must say that I am not half pleased with you." 
               "It is for that very reason that I beg, I intreat your pardon," answered he, in a supplicating tone; "and indeed," continued he, "I shall have great need of your indulgence and forbearance with me on this trying occasion, for I am come with the additional purpose of communicating something of importance to you, which I have resolved to impart to you, and you alone, however it may impair the good opinion you entertain of me, or expose my own weakness and folly. But I deserve the worst that can happen to me!" continued he with a deep sigh, "which would be the loss of your esteem and affection, Charlotte, for not having explained matters sooner, and I should be unworthy of both did I seek to gain or keep them by falsehood or deception; I shall therefore give you a full and distinct account of all I heard and endured last night, and if you can see anything dishonorable or base in my career, then dismiss me from your presence forever with scorn and contempt; but if, on the other hand, you find there no fault of mine, but solely what nature and necessity can be accountable for, then exercise your own excellent judgment, and reflect whether the prejudices and pride of family and birth ought to weigh with the inherent qualities and dignity of the mind, and judge between your father and me. 
               "I need not tell you that our birth and station in life are not in our own power, but are ordered by an all-wise and all-seeing Providence, for his own holy purposes, into which it were vain and presumptuous for man to scrutinize. Some are ushered into the world surrounded with wealth and pomp, and every luxury that can smooth the path of life; others, the wretched and forlorn offspring of poverty and crime,-and of such latter class I am the unfortunate issue!" 
               "Good Heavens! do not-oh, do not say so!" exclaimed Charlotte, with a shriek which was suppressed by the very intensity with which it was uttered. 
               "Listen to me," interrupted Harcourt, "and be calm. This is not a time for giving way to vain emotions, but demands action. What I have said to you is but too true," continued he. "I was born the son of poor peasants, not only wretched and miserable, but guilty! for the hallowed words of the church had never sanctioned their union, nor were they received or acknowledged as children within its sacred pale! You may look upon me with surprise, with horror and contempt, but such is the fact, and who can alter the decrees of fate or the order of nature? Yes! despise me if you will, but"-- 
               "No, no! I cannot-I will not-I could not if I would despise you!" said Charlotte, bursting into tears. "Are you not the same gentle, kind and pure being who won my love-to whom I have pledged my irrevocable faith and troth?" 
               "You may recall those pledges if you will!" exclaimed her lover; "I absolve you from all obligation, from every engagement; nay, if you will, I will depart from your presence, for which alone I live and breathe! I will do anything to atone for my error-in what?-in loving, in presuming to love, to adore, one so infinitely far above me-one so good, so pure! Yes," said he with energy, "I would die to gratify your humblest wish! Only say what that is, and it shall be gratified!" 
               "Alas! Harcourt," said she, in a subdued tone of voice, "it is now too late to recall pledges, when the heart is pledged and fatally bartered away! Could that be restored all might be well; but I feel that whatever you are, whatever you have been, or whatever you may be, I must continue to love you, and that my fate is interwoven so intimately with yours that we must both stand or fall together! But at least tell me something more of your history, and how it has happened that one of your upright and honorable mind could reconcile your silence on this subject of your family with your attention to me, knowing the temper and disposition of my father and brother, who are so prejudiced in favor of birth and family that they would sacrifice me to the tomb rather than to any man of an humble, much less to one of disreputable or dishonorable birth and connections." 
               "It is for this alone that I blame myself," replied Harcourt. "I ought at least to have communicated to you all I knew on the subject myself, which, however, was very little up to last night, when I heard the worst. Till then I only knew that my parentage was uncertain, and that there was a mystery hanging over my birth, which, however anxious, I could not penetrate before that time. I had not the slightest hint, one way or the other; and as I had been brought up and educated as a gentleman I had every reason to hope that the mystery would be cleared up to my advantage and honor, and that I should at length be acknowledged the son of an honorable family and not unworthy of forming an alliance with your ancient house. This was the sole object of all my hopes-this was the aim and the end of my highest ambition. Oh! then think of my sufferings, my agony and horror when I learned the truth last night from the only person living who knew it! Think of what an abyss was opened up to swallow me in its dark gulf, and then you may form some notion of my love for you, which rescued me from the yawning chasm and restored me again, if only for a moment, to your presence and your embrace." 
               "Dearest Harcourt!" cried Charlotte, shuddering with horror, "how my soul pities you! how my heart clings to you! In every fortune, good or evil, believe me to be your own, your ever-devoted love-your servant, your slave, your consoler and friend! I have not been deceived in you; you are everything which the purest and fondest heart could desire, and nothing but death shall separate me from your loved embrace!" 
               "Oh! I am totally unworthy of such love, such disinterested love and devotion!" exclaimed he; "but I feel conscious that whatever may be the decree of fate or the turn of fortune, my heart is upright and honorable, and devoted to you alone. I feel assured that no casualty, or calamity, or circumstance can change my feelings for a moment or estrange them from you! But now listen to my tale, if it will not give you too much pain to listen to the recital." 
               "I can bear to hear anything of you or from you,' replied. Charlotte. "Pray go on, for the night is advancing." 
               "What I have to tell may detain us long; nevertheless, though painful to myself, I shall not refuse to gratify you in this matter." 
               So saying he took a seat beside her, and pursued his narrative as follows: 
               "Yesterday I requested your brother to recapitulate to you the whole story of my life, as far as I then knew it. I hope he has complied with my request." 
               "He has faithfully," said Charlotte, "even up to the moment in which you stated you had promised to meet that terrible man, McArdle, who pretended to be the only person living who could throw any light on your parentage and connections." 
               "Well, then," resumed Harcourt, "I shall take up the story at that point and continue it to the end, if I do not exhaust your patience. 
               "The place appointed for our meeting was in all respects suited to the mysterious nature of our business-a lone barn or sheep-shed in the midst of a desolate common, far removed from the dwellings of men, and the hour was that of midnight-the only place and the only time that McArdle would consent to meet me at all. What his motives were will appear in the sequel." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE RENDEZVOUS. 
               AS the place was full thirty miles distant and as, for the last five miles of the way, there was no direct or open road, it was necessary to set out in good time, in order to be able to keep my appointment exactly to the minute. Accordingly soon after your brother left me yesterday morning, I set out by the first coach and traveled without intermission the greater part of the day. In the evening I arrived at the nearest point of the main road to the place of my destination, and after having partaken of some refreshment at an inn, I set out alone and on foot through byroads and footpaths for the place of meeting. The day had been fine hitherto, but I perceived signs of an approaching storm, both from the appearance of the setting sun and the clouds that were gathering in dark, thick masses on the verge of the horizon. The air was sultry, and whether from this reason or the eagerness and haste with which I hurried to the rendezvous, I felt a kind of suffocating sensation and a palpitation of the heart, which very much retarded my progress. Thus I was upwards of two hours in gaining the common from the time I left the main road, as the darkness had set in, which was increased by the gathering storm to the utmost degree. I could no longer perceive the slightest trace of a path, but was obliged to grope my way through the rough furze and heath with which the common was abundantly covered. It is true the place of rendezvous was only at a short distance from that part at which I entered the wild, and I knew well the direction in which it was situated, as I had visited the spot before for the very purpose of acquainting myself with its exact locality, but such was the impenetrable darkness and gloom around that it was utterly impossible to trace any object even at the distance of two yards, and I was therefore literally obliged to grope about with my hands and my cane, if by chance I could fall upon it in this way; but in vain, for though I was most assiduous in my search, no trace of a house or any kind of habitation could I find. I was anxiously engaged in this fruitless search for upwards of an hour when the storm that had so long been threatening came on in all its fury. The clouds opened and a blaze of light was poured forth which lit the whole heath round me as far as the eye could reach, but it revealed nothing like a dwelling to my astonished sight. I seemed to be in the midst of an interminable and shoreless desert, without a path or a shelter, and exposed to the pelting rain, large drops of which began now to descend, the forerunners or outposts of the main body that was so soon to follow. I heard a wild rushing of waters like that of a cataract above me in the heavens, and by the aid of a bright flash of lightning which burst from the clouds at that moment I saw the torrent approaching me like a furious and irresistible lion in pursuit of his prey, on which, after a short flight, he springs with a fearful roar. In one moment I was literally drenched to the skin; my breath was taken away, and I was compelled to stand still and oppose my strength to the rush of waters to prevent myself being borne to the earth by its resistless power! 
               "The lightning ceased now to glare, saving at distant intervals, but the torrent of rain was unabated, when happening to look round in a contrary direction to that on which I had been moving, I thought I saw like a glimmer of light at a great distance. It could not be the lightning, as it was in a different direction altogether from the storm, and seemed also to have a duration and steadiness which are no characteristics of the former. It might perhaps, I thought, be phosphoric vapor from some swamp lighted up by the increased temperature imparted to the atmosphere by the storm, but it might also be a light from some human habitation; and therefore I resolved as soon as I regained a little strength and the fury of the elements somewhat abated, to follow its direction and ascertain the truth. This in a few minutes occurred, the violence of the storm abated, and I made all the speed which my drenched clothes and the fatigue I had undergone permitted me in the direction of the light, which burned more clearly as I approached it, and as the vapors and mists produced by the heavy shower decreased. I found that it was much nearer than I had at first supposed, for nothing is more deceptive than our calculation of the distance of objects at night, especially of lights, and in a few minutes I approached close to the building whence it emanated. It turned out, as I expected, to be the one to which I was proceeding. Indeed it could be no other, for, as I have already stated, there was no other within the distance of several miles. On any other occasion I would have paused ere I entered it, but in my present mood of mind and in the state of exhaustion and fatigue in which I found myself I made no hesitation whatever, but entered at once with as bold and daring a countenance and as determined a look as I could assume. I found McArdle already there. He was seated and leaning over a few live embers in one corner of the building, which was nothing more than a shed, almost roofless except at that particular spot, and seemed to have been built as a retreat from the storm or winter's cold for the sheep and cattle that browsed upon the common; but it was almost useless even for that purpose now. McArdle had lighted a lamp and placed it in a hole of the wall to guide me, as he said, to the hut on so dismal a night, as well as to cheer the gloomy spot which he had so unaccountably chosen for the rendezvous. 
               "At my approach he rose from the rude log on which he had seated himself, and holding out his rough hand, bade me kindly welcome, declaring himself delighted to see me, and the expression of his countenance fully corroborated his words, for never did I see such diabolical exultation depicted in the face of a human being before. He seemed totally unable to suppress his savage joy, which I knew well foreboded no good to those who should be so unfortunate as to be the objects of it. 
               "Instead of accepting the proffered hand, from which I shrunk with a kind of instinctive horror, I pushed it back in disdain, saying in a determined tone of voice: 
               "'McArdle, I want no ceremony. We are here on business, and we know each other, and we know well there is no love lost between us. Let us, therefore, lay aside everything like hypocrisy and simulation and come to the point at once. You say you know the history of my birth and of the mystery that hangs over me. If you reveal it faithfully to me I promise you (and am ready to perform my promise) a handsome recompense, an annuity suited to your condition while you live.' 
               "'And what may you think suited to my condition?' said McArdle in a peculiarly gruff and insolent tone. 
               "'Why that can be determined at our leisure, and there is no fear of our differing about the consideration of a few pounds, more or less,' said I in an impatient tone. 
               "'No time like the present, masther,' replied McArdle with a sinister leer. 
               "'What do you demand?' I exclaimed. 'Name your demand that I may know how to deal with you.' 
               "'If I am the only person livin who can give you the information ye require,' answered he, 'you ought, I think, to dale handsomely wid me. You could not think it too much if I asked the one-half of your income? I mean what you come into when ye are of age. That is a reasonable thing, eh!' 
               "'McArdle you cannot be serious!' I exclaimed in astonisment, 'the half of my income! Why, what would you do with it? No! you do not mean to take advantage of my situation and be so exacting?' 
               "'Well, if you are contint as you are, so am I!' he replied. 'Remember I don't want any of it at all at all! Keep it all to yourself. Denis McArdle can live without it.' 
               "And thus saying he turned on his heel with the greatest indifference, as if about to quit the shed. 
               "'McArdle!' I exclaimed, 'come back; let me entreat you to listen to me!' 
               "'No! it is no use, not one farthing less than what I have said; and if you say much more about it I will not tell you a syllable for all the pelf ye have or may have in the world!' 
               "'For God's sake, tell me!' I exclaimed almost in despair, 'and take the half, any amount you choose, but relieve me from this terrible suspense and doubt.' 
               "'Now yer honor is talking like a wise man,' said Denis with a kind of sneer. 'That is jist how a rale born and bred gintleman should act. Sure enough ye have got the breeding of a gintleman at all evints, and that is something, yer honor.' 
               "'What do you mean?' I inquired with eagerness mingled with displeasure. 
               "'Oh! nothin at all, but that ye will plase jist to be after puttin yer name to this bit of paper or parchmint, I think they call it, that is all, and sure as ye are a good scholard ye will not have much thrubble in doin that same! Here is a pin and ink, sign away; but wait jist a minute, I think a witness or two would be no bad move in these threacherous times. Ho! Barny and Phelim! are yis awake? Shure the tunder is a great sporifier, as ye learned folks call it! Ho, rise up, ye lazy rampscallions, and come and witness this honest thransaction between two honest min!' 
                
               "So saying he ran to another corner of the shieling, in which a heap of straw and rubbish seemed to be deposited, and giving it a kick with his toe while he muttered a curse, he aroused two grim looking beings of gigantic stature and powerful frame, who seemed just then to have been awakened from sleep, for they both rubbed their eyes and then stared round them wildly, as if trying to recollect where they were, and having become conscious of their whereabouts and the cause that brought them thither, they came up to where I was standing, grinning and bowing in a most hideous manner, at the same time holding out their hands as if to bid me welcome. But I repulsed their insolence with a look of contempt, and then they seemed all deference and respect, taking off their hats and going through a variety of gestures, as if in mockery of the gentility and aristocratic exclusiveness I had assumed. Then having performed this pantomine, they both burst into a loud, horse laugh of derision, as if to let me know there was little respect paid to rank or wealth in the place I then stood, or that I had little pretensions to either. I took little notice of these insults, but put my hand to my breast to feel if my pistols were all right, which action they imitated, and not in vain, for my eye caught the butt ends of a pair of horseman's pistols in the breast of each, with a short dagger, or rather knife, concealed within their coarse great coats, none of which they took the least pains to conceal, but on the contrary seemed desirous that they should be seen as it were by stealth. 
               "'Why have you brought these men here?' said I to McArdle, 'you promised to come alone as I did; but I have kept my word and you have violated yours!' 
               "'I have not!' answered McArdle in an altered accent and speaking good English, 'any more than you have. I suppose I have as good a right to be considered a man of honor as yourself. I did come here alone, and the two men you see came by themselves two or three hours before me.' 
                
               "'But why did they come armed in the manner I see they are? for the purpose of insulting, perhaps murdering, an innocent victim of too much confidence in your promises?' 
               "'Make yourself easy on that head,' replied he, 'they have no intention of murdering you; your death would be a great calamity to us now, and as for their being armed that is no novelty with them, I warrant you. It would have been far more suprising if they had come here without arms. They are here to be witnesses of our bargain, and when they have done this work I will send them about their business; that I will, I assure you. Sign this paper.' 
               "I looked it over and found it was a regularly drawn contract, with blanks, which I was now to fill up by giving away the one-half of my income for value received, and that value was to satisfy my curiosity with regard to how I came by that property and to whom I owed my being. Though doubtful and hesitating as to the course which I should adopt, I determined at last to sign, reflecting that the possession of the whole would be of little value to me, or even ten times as much, unless I could obtain the object for which I would sacrifice the whole, and not that only, but life itself! 
               "Making, therefore, a virtue of necessity, I seized the pen, and in the presence of the two witnesses above mentioned signed the contract. They, in their turn, signed also, and I was surprised to see the excellent hand in which they wrote, as well as McArdle. At a sign from the latter they immediately afterwards quitted the shieling and we were left alone. 
               "'Now,' said McArdle, 'as you have performed your share of the contract, it only remains for me to do mine, which I will execute faithfully, beginning with an occurrence which took place even before you were born.' 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE SOLUTION. 
               SOME twenty-one years ago, or thereabouts, I was living in a wild and lonely part of the west of Ireland, close to the shore. It was on the coast of Galway. I gained a scanty livelihood by fishing, in which I was assisted by my only companion and friend, a young woman to whom a kindred disposition and feeling had united me, without the aid of any legal or religious tie to bless our bridal. Though of a dauntless spirit and affectionate character, she was the most mild and amiable being that man was ever blessed with as a ministering angel. No two could be more happy than we were in each other's affections. We had lived together nearly a year when I began to perceive that I should very soon have a stranger to provide for, which gave me at first some little uneasiness, as hitherto our united exertions had barely enabled us to gain a scanty subsistence, and how much more must we be pressed now, when I, by my single exertions, must provide for an increased family, whose powers of assisting me would be diminished by the very means that increased their number! 
               "One day in September, when I was sitting in my cabin, perplexed by these harassing cares, and looking out on the troubled oeean, which was lashed to fury by the raging storm, I thought I saw, on the farthest verge of the horizon, something like a sail. At first this made little impression on my mind, as it was no uncommon occurrence; but when it approached somewhat nearer I could perceive very distinctly that the vessel was disabled by the storm, and that it was rapidly drifting towards the dangerous coast, seemingly without any exertions of the unfortunate mariners being able to arrest their progress to inevitable destruction. By-and-by I could discern the people on board, and the attitudes of despair, supplication and frenzy into which they were thrown, according as they were severally affected by the prospect that awaited them. They all, however, seemed to give themselves up for lost. My first emotion was that of pity and horror-the next of self-interest, for in the general wreck of the fortunes of others I might gain some alleviation of my own poverty and anticipated distress. This thought aroused me. My companion was in the last stage of pregnancy, and we expected every moment that she would be seized with the pains of childbirth. She was therefore unable to accompany me in the effort which I told her I was about to make to assist the unfortunate beings in danger, and to recover for our own and their use some of those precious things which no doubt they carried with them, but which the sea was about to swallow up in its unsatiable jaws. 
               "I hastened down to the beach. It was fearful to gaze on the sea in its fury! How much more so to look upon a number of our fellow beings about to be swallowed up in its dark and roaring gulf! The spray was driven around me, and for miles over the country, like a fall of snow. The foundations of the rocks trembled to their center with the mighty shock of the billows. The wind howled like the roar of ten thousand wild bulls in all their fury, and the tops of the mighty waves seemed to kick and lash the indignant and lowering sky in the distance! In fact, a dense spray mingled the sea and the clouds together, and a seething and hissing sound like a boiling cauldron or the violent rushing of steam from an engine pipe burst forth from all sides. At the distance of about half a mile from the shore appeared the dark outline of the vessel's hull. No sail or mast was any longer visible, all having been carried away by a heavy sea. Sometimes it rose to the surface of a wave, and hung there for a moment, as if suspended between heaven and earth, with nothing to support it but a thin pillar or ridge of foam; again it sank in the trough of the sea, as if never to rise! and again, when I thought I should never behold it except as a shattered and dispersed wreck, it burst upon my sight within a hundred yards distance, and then I could distinctly hear the agonizing cries of despair from the wretched creatures on board! Down she sank into the abyss once more; and being now upon the hidden rocks near the shore, she suddenly struck, as I expected she would, and the next moment she was dashed into a thousand pieces! for nothing that could be constructed by the ingenuity and powers of man, however strong and massive, could have resisted the shock of the contending elements and the rocks at that moment! I saw several of the crew buried in the gulf at that instant, never to rise again with life! indeed the greater part perished in this manner; and when I looked towards the spot where the vessel had disappeared, I thought at first that every soul must have perished! The feeling of sympathy, which actuated me while they were yet in danger, now gave place to that of avarice, which was, after all, the more predominant as I saw casks, and chests, and apparel heaved by the billows towards the shore, and some of these I hoped to secure for my own use. 
               "I had already landed one or two small casks containing spirits, as I supposed, and was just stretching out my hands to seize a casket, which I also succeeded in bringing to shore, when I observed a plank close at hand, which I did not notice before because I was so intent on the plunder, with two human beings seemingly lashed to it with cords, but to all appearance quite dead! As it came close to my hand I could not resist the impulse of landing them on the dry part of the beach, though I had no sooner done so than I felt angry with myself for interrupting my labor, as several valuable articles had been dashed to pieces on the rocks in the mean time. However, I now redoubled my efforts, to make up for lost time, and succeeded in saving a great many boxes and valuables from the destruction which must have happened to them if permitted to be dashed against the rocks. Everything else disappeared! 
               "As I was busily engaged in dragging several of the articles farther up from the spray, I came in contact with the bodies that were lashed to the plank; and now, having more leisure to examine them closely, I was struck with the richness and splendor of their apparel, and the noble appearance which they exhibited. I approached more closely, and to my astonishment-I may add my utter disappointment-I perceived that the gentleman was not dead, but warm and breathing as if in a soft slumber! 'Heavens!' I exclaimed to myself, 'this will never do! My toil, my labor and my exertions will all go for nothing, and my hopes and prospects for the future are utterly blasted, if this man should recover! He is the owner of all this property, doubtless, and he will claim it of the authorities; and I, for all my labor and pains, shall be loudly praised but slightly rewarded! No, no; it will never do for him to recover! and I see there is no time to be lost! No one will suspect other than that he met with his death like the others, either from the sea or from the rocks; there is therefore no danger in"- 
               "Good Heavens! Monster!" interrupted I, "surely you did not, you could not, murder him!" 
               "I had a great temptation," replied McArdle, calmly, "and I could not resist it. I seized a stone that was lying on the beach, approached him gently, and struck him one blow on the crown of the head! His limbs quivered only for an instant, and he was no more!' 
               "Cruel, heartless murderer! why do I listen to this and not take vengeance?" 
               "I little fear you, replied be, with a malignant grin, for having such a tale to unfold, I have taken good care to tell it in a place where your most violent rage (and it has not yet come to the height) will be utterly impotent; so you may as well make yourself as easy as possible, or if you think proper to be sentimental, I can easily withhold the remainder, should you suppose you have heard enough already; but I am still willing to perform my contract to the letter, if you conduct yourself properly. 
               "You may imagine, my dearest Charlotte, what torture I endured while compelled to listen to this monster! but my curiosity overcame my disgust and loathing, and I determined to restrain the outward expression of my feelings, however violent, at least till I should hear the end, whatever that might be; I therefore promised him to listen without interruption, and with much difficulty I persuaded him to go on, which he did in the following terms: 
               "I next proceeded to examine the lady, and to my horror found that she, too, was alive! but breathing so low and softly that at first sight any one would think her dead. Without hesitating a moment I took up the stone approached her, and- 
               "Murdered her, too! I exclaimed, with a shudder of horror, quite unable to suppress my feelings. 
               "You had better keep your promise, said McArdle, else I shall think myself absolved from all obligation. No, I did not murder her! for at the moment I had drawn back my hand for the purpose of inflicting the fatal blow, she opened her eyes and smiled unconsciously upon me, more like a being of another world than an inhabitant of this. My arm was paralyzed! the instrument of destruction fell from my grasp, and I felt it impossible to do the deed. Besides this, she seemed far advanced in pregnancy, and that circumstance, joined to the other cause, made me feel for her situation and spare her life. I even felt a pang of remorse for having deprived her of so noble-looking a companion as lay stretched in death by her side, for he was doubtless as dear to her as life itself, and he seemed worthy of her love. But it was no time then for the indulgence of vain regrets. There was much to be done; night was approaching, and there was no time to be lost. Having therefore determined to spare the lady, or rather being unable to inflict the fatal blow, I made a merit of necessity, and took every means to insure her gratitude and the approbation of my own mistress, who would have never forgiven me had she known the deed of which I was guilty. I therefore took my knife, cut the lashings from the plank, carried the lady in my arms to my cabin, and confided her to the care and attentions of Norah (such was the name of my mistress), who used every exertion to restore her by cordials and other means usually resorted to on such occasions, while I hastened to secure and conceal as much of the wreck as was possible before any of my neighbors should come to share it with me. I was indeed surprised that no one had made his appearance that afternoon or evening on that part of the coast; but this was fully accounted for by the news which I heard on the following day, of the total wreck of a large vessel at some five miles further down the shore, which had attracted and held the attention of all the wreckers in that neighborhood, for no one had noticed my vessel or knew anything at all of the transaction till all my plunder was secured. 
               "When this was done I returned weary to the cabin, but loaded with several luxuries and articles of immediate use, which I knew would be highly agreeable to Norah in any circumstances, but particularly acceptable in her present condition, and still more so as she had to exercise her hospitality towards a stranger evidently of high rank and great distinction; but when I entered the cottage a scene no less surprising than the other remarkable scenes of that eventful day and night awaited me. I heard the cries of a new-born infant on entering the door, and when I advanced still further I saw the strange lady stretched out in the bed, apparently dead, and my wife sitting beside her, crying and holding in her arms an infant which she seemed scarcely able to support, for she was pale and exhausted. On the other side of the bed lay another newly born infant, quite dead, and it naturally struck me that the lady had borne twins, one of which came still-born into the world; but on inquiring of Norah, she had sufficient strength to give me the following account: 
               "'You had not been gone out more than an hour,' said she, 'when the lady recovered her strength and color far beyond anything I had expected; but just at the moment she seemed most blooming and well she was seized with labor pains, and as I happen to know something of nursing, from having lived in the service of a famous midwife and occasionally practiced in this wild neighborhood, I knew how to manage the birth. It was quite fair, however, and there was not much difficulty; but I found that the child was unfortunately stillborn.' 
               "'What!' I interrupted McArdle, 'do you mean to say that child was stillborn, and that I am not the son of that strange lady?' 
               "'I am merely telling you what Norah told me,' continued he, with a sneer, 'but patience, boy, and you will hear all soon enough.' 
               "I could do nothing but listen. 
               "'Well,' continued Norah, 'the lady was quite unconscious of what had occurred and has remained in a state of stupor ever since, which I do not well understand, as I have never seen a case like it before; perhaps it is in consequence of what she suffered from the wreck. But however that may be no sooner was she delivered than I felt myself seized with the most violent pangs, which I immediately recognized to be similar to those from which the lady had only been freed by the stillbirth before you, and I scarcely knew what to do. You were gone out and I had no messenger to send for assistance. However, I took courage from the knowledge that unsophisticated and unpampered nature is always more efficacious under these circumstances than the most consummate art, and that kind and merciful Heaven would not withhold its support from God's creatures in their emergency. I suffered much for a time, but nature, Heaven assisting, soon triumphed, and behold the healthy boy with which I have the happiness to present you! All is well as far as I am concerned, but your attention must be devoted instantly to this lady, lest she perish from exhaustion and neglect.' 
               "Having thus spoken," said McArdle, "she gave me directions how to make a cordial for the patient, which would refresh and cheer, without stimulating her over much, and I had the satisfaction to perceive that she began rapidly to regain her strength on its being administered to her in small quantities. At length she fell asleep, and Norah prognosticated favorable symptoms when she should awaken. She hoped she should then be able to impart to her what had occurred without any danger to her nerves from the shock, and seemed highly delighted at the turn affairs were now likely to take from such unfavorable beginnings. 
               "It was now that a strange idea took possession of my mind. It was to make a gentleman of my son by substituting him as the offspring of the lady instead of the stillboy to which she had just given birth, which latter would be acknowledged as the child of my wife. Nothing could be more easy than this if Norah would consent; but that was the difficulty. I feared she would not be willing to resign her own boy to a stranger, but when I pointed out the advantages that would accrue both to him and to ourselves from the fortunate circumstance, and the likelihood that she would be chosen as his nurse and taken into the service of the lady to watch over and take care of her own son, who would be brought up in wealth and luxury, and would doubtless be the means of raising his humble parents at least above the necessity of gaining a scanty and precarious livelihood by the hard and dangerous life to which they were now exposed; and when I added the joy it would give the lady, whose only and chief desire and longing might be to have an heir to her great estates, and that Providence would send us perhaps more children than we could provide for, because we were poor, she at last, with reluctance, consented, more however because she saw me bent on it than from any inclination she had to comply, because she had a conscience and did not like to do what was an evident wrong to another, though she was not so scrupulous in doing what she knew to be morally wrong, if that wrong did not affect others than herself. Such is the inconsistency to be met with in the characters of individuals. 
               "It was then agreed that this exchange should be made; and accordingly in the morning, when the lady awoke to consciousness, as Norah had predicted, I imparted to her the occurrences of yesterday at the wish of the latter, at the same time placing our own living child in her arms instead of the dead one, which she received with a seeming mixture of fondness and sorrow, allowing it to nestle in her bosom and presenting to its lips the first nourishment which nature prepares for the young of our species. The child sucked the breast eagerly and soon fell asleep in her arms; and thus a few days passed by without any particular occurrence. A coffin was procured and the stillborn child was buried without any ceremony at the lower end of a triangular field, and there is a large, rude stone, without any epitaph, which marks the spot where the infant reposes in peace." 
               "'Happy infant!' I exclaimed, 'to have escaped from the wickedness of this world before knowing it, and from the indignities and sorrows which have strown my path and to which I must soon fall a wretched victim! I see what you mean to insinuate,' I added, 'that I am your son! but you will not succeed in your diabolical machinations, for he that could commit murder for gain would not stop at telling a lie or an infinity of lies for the same selfish purpose, or if he could make it answer his own ends. No! no! you will never persuade me of that! So your wretched malignity is entirely abortive in its aim. But I have made up my mind and can now endure to hear you to the end; proceed.' 
                
               "And if you do," he replied, "I will convince you that you and that child are identical. In the course of a week my Norah was able to get out of bed and wait upon the strange lady, who by this time began to recover something of her self-possession and memory. Then it was that Norah told her of the pretended fate of our boy and congratulated her on her good fortune in bringing a live child into the world under such extraordinary circumstances." 
               "'Alas!' said the lady, who did not seem more than seventeen years of age and was most beautiful, 'what you would have esteemed a happiness is to me a misery!' 
               "While she spoke the tears ran down her cheeks like rain; but recovering herself a little and gazing upon Norah with a confiding look, she said: 
               "'You are good and kind; your husband saved my life and you have preserved it; but had it pleased Heaven, which however has otherwise ordained, how I should have preferred to have died in the arms of my beloved, my adored Henry! Then we should all have been together! But you have done all for the best, and therefore no less gratitude is due to you for your kindness and exertion. Why then should I withhold my confidence from you? You are deserving of it, and it may perhaps ease my mind and bring me some consolation if I unburden it to some one who will sympathize with me. I wish too to speak of one who can never be obliterated from my thoughts. But now he is no more and I am left alone and desolate! The world is a wilderness without him and I cannot endure the light of Heaven when it no longer presents his noble features to my view. I feel that but for this innocent babe I must follow him to the tomb!' 
               "Norah entreated her to compose herself and not yet enter upon a subject which would be too much for her to bear in her present weak condition; but she persisted in her intention of telling her the following particulars:" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE MOTHER'S STORY. 
               I AM a native of France (she said) and the only daughter of a nobleman of large property in one of the interior provinces, which it is not necessary to mention by name. My mother died when I was a child, and I was left to the sole management of an austere father and a gouvernante, who was at first devoted to his interests, but whom I gained over to my own in the course of time by large bribes and large promises. I was loved at the age of sixteen by a gentleman in the neighborhood, one of the most noble and disinterested beings that ever bore the name of man. Our love was in secret, for it would have as soon consented to my death as our union. This did not arise from any inequality in our condition, but from a long cherished feud that existed between the two families. We met and were privately united by a priest under the sanction of the most solemn vows, which were as good and as firm in the sight of Heaven and in law as the most open marriage at the altar. My gouvernante was alone privy to our loves. My Henri would have openly avowed our union to the world and defied the consequences; but knowing well that it would be his inevitable destruction I was determined to sacrifice honor, fame, and life itself, rather than I should run the slightest risk of injuring him, perhaps of losing him forever. It was in vain he entreated me on his bended knees to be permitted to call me openly by the endearing name of wife. I would not hear of it; but expressed my readiness to yield him everything else. The temptation was too great, and in a short, too short a time alas! I found that I must become a mother! 
               "In the mean time my father, as a matter of course with us, had provided a husband for me of his own choosing, and it would have been utterly vain to offer any resistance to his will. I was now in a state bordering on distraction, when a stratagem occurred to my mind which would give me a chance of avoiding disgrace, by at least putting off my marriage to another time. It was the plea of bad health. In this scheme my governess and Henri joined, and all we wanted now was a medical man to recommend a change of air, particularly to the sea shore, for my recovery, and that without delay. I knew well that it would be utterly impossible for my father to accompany me at that time, as he had a most important business which would keep him at home at least for six months longer. But my health would admit of no delay. The physician was then procured to give the recommendation, and my governess, in whom my father placed the greatest confidence, was entrusted exclusively with the charge of me. We came to Havre, where, according to the recommendation of the same medical gentleman, frequent sailing in a boat or yacht was particularly recommended as a powerful restorative of health in my peculiar circumstances. Henri took good care to be at the same place, but never took the slightest notice of us when anyone was present, but was very assiduous in his visits at all times when he could be so prudently. He had a beautiful, large yacht-the same which was wrecked on your coast-in which we were in the habit of making frequent excursions to various parts of the coast, where we often spent two or three weeks, and then returned, so that little notice was taken of the circumstance, as he always passed for my brother wherever we were seen together. At last the time came when it was necessary for me to leave Havre, as the acquaintances we sometimes met there could not fail to observe the change which I had so suddenly undergone in person and appearance; and my beloved Henri thought the best place for me to retire to for my accouchement would be some wild, unfrequented port on the western coast of Ireland. We accordingly made everything ready and embarked before day on the morning of the 2d instant, and made all sail for this coast, when, just as we were in sight, the storm began to rage which has proved so fatal to all but her who has had the misfortune to survive and to this hapless infant! The sailors all declared they had never witnessed so furious a gale, and in less than two hours after its commencement they lost all control over the vessel and gave themselves up to despair. Indeed it appears that no exertion could have saved the vessel. When this news came to my ears I was not terrified, but content to die with him for whom alone I could live. We both expressed our mutual joy at a circumstance which tended to prove the sincerity of our love, and clinging together to the last, and even lashing ourselves together with cords, we awaited with resignation the shock that was to send us together to a watery grave! At length it came with all its fury! It was indeed tremendous! My senses were taken away without pain! I fell asleep, as I hoped forever, in the arms of my love! but oh! what pangs have I endured to awake and find I am left alone with this child of supposed sin as the world's charity will name it! 
               "What course to pursue, I know not. The intention of my lover was to have made a handsome provision for the child and leave it to be properly educated in this country, under the guardianship of some one in whom we could confide. And for that purpose he had deeds of settlement drawn in its favor upon his own estate, which he intended to place in the hands of some respectable lawyer here, who would act also as guardian, without however knowing anything whatever of his charge. But alas! these deeds must have been swallowed lowed up with all our other effects when the yacht was dashed to pieces on your coast, and I am utterly at a loss how to provide for my poor unfortunate child. I cannot take it back with me, and I am entirely dependent on my father for everything I have or may possess, and even should I be able to return home uninjured in character and reputation, to perform his will, by sacrificing my feelings to worldly interest, I should still, I fear, be unable to escape the vigilance of a jealous, perhaps tyrannical husband, in my attempts to devote a portion of his income to the use of my child." 
               "'Were the deeds you mention contained in a small casket?' eagerly inquired Norah. 
               "'Yes, yes! do you know anything of it? It contained besides a quantity of gold; but that is of little importance compared with the papers.' 
               "'My husband,' said Norah, 'saved a small casket from the wreck. He took out the gold and threw the casket into the sea.' 
               "'And the papers?' 
               "'I know not what he has done with them, for as they were written in a foreign language, we knew not what they might contain. They were lying about the room for nearly a week, but lately they have disappeared altogether, and I know not what has become of them, but I fear they are destroyed.' 
               "'Alas! then my misfortunes are at their height, and the hopes you have just raised are blasted forever!' 
               "At this moment I entered the cabin, (continued McArdle) and on learning the nature of the papers in question I went to a hole in the wall that was stopped up with a brick, which having removed, I put in my hand and drew out a scroll of parchment; for on reflection I thought the papers I found in the casket might be of service to me one day or other, and therefore I preserved them, contrary to my first impulse, which certainly was to burn them. I presented the scroll to the lady, who opened and examined it with the greatest est eagerness. I watched her countenance. On the first glance at the papers it beamed with joy and hope. 
               "'All may be well yet!' she exclaimed. 'These are the papers which I feared were lost, and which secure an honorable independence to my otherwise unfortunate child. But it is one consolation to a mother to reflect that her offspring can never want the necessaries of life, or can never be exposed to the cruel charities of the world, though he be rendered unhappy in never being destined to know his parents or feel what it is to be the object of a mother's love.' She then remained silent for a minute or two, as if in deep thought, when all at once her countenance assumed a look of decision, as if she had arrived at a result which she was determined to act on, and in a firm voice she said: 'I see my way clearly now! I know how I shall act. I shall endeavor to find an honest and respectable lawyer of this neighborhood, to whom I shall intrust the entire management of my son, according to the original design of his deceased father; but he must know nothing whatever of the relation in which he stands to me. You,' she said, addressing herself to Norah, 'shall be his nurse and kind foster-mother while you live, with a suitable annuity; and you,' she said to me, 'shall be his attendant with a like provision. I shall direct the lawyer that you shall both be attached to him permanently, and I shall give him certain rules with regard to his education, which must be attended to punctually, or if he should fail to do so you must write to me instantly, and I will have him withdrawn from his guardianship altogether, for you shall have a copy of the same rules; on the other hand, though I do not mistrust either of you, yet, for my own satisfaction as well as yours, I must direct the lawyer to give my agent a full account of your behavior towards the boy from time to time, so that you will be a mutual check on each other; and if I should hear any complaints substantiated against you, I must dismiss you from your employment, notwithstanding all I owe you; but as this will depend entirely on yourselves, there is not, I hope, much danger of such an occurrence ever happening. By these deeds a suitable allowance is made for my child till he is twenty-one, and then, if his father should die without other children, which you know has alas! already happened, then the whole of his property reverts to him, for he had the power so to dispose of it, and my son will be at full liberty to act for himself. There is one thing, however, to which I must bind you by the solemn obligation of an oath, and that is that you will never, on any account, till you shall receive my permission, divulge, either to himself or any other person, the slightest hint concerning his birth. He must pass for an orphan in the eyes of the world-one whose parents both died when he was young, and left him well off. But as it will be impossible when he grows up to impose this story on his own mind, as you cannot introduce him to any respectable relations or connections, which would in this event be the case, he must be content to know merely that a mystery hangs over his birth, which may one day or other be cleared up to his credit and advantage. We must trust to the natural pride of the human heart for the result. This mystery is absolutely necessary when we reflect on the ardor and enterprise of youth; for if you only hinted the possible country of his parents, he would leave no land unexplored, nothing untried, to satisfy his doubts on a point which all are so anxious to know-the nation of their own origin, and the history of their birth! and hence, though the particular province in which I live, and even my name and every other clue that might lead to a discovery, shall be carefully concealed from you and every one else for the present, yet a chain of circumstances might arise from any rash information given to him which might lead to inquiry and my utter ruin and disgrace! Are you willing to swear? The obligation will only be binding till he has attained the age of twenty-one, or till you have received my permission, for then, if it is properly imparted to him, his own discretion will dictate the line of conduct he ought to pursue, and circumstances by that time may render an open acknowledgment of his birth and a recognition of his claims highly probable.' 
               "We both willingly swore to the secrecy required of us, more particularly as it was so much for our own interests to avoid all inquiry on the subject, and when we had done so the lady asked me if I knew of any lawyer in the county who had the reputation of being honest and humane, which were considered so rare in the profession, but which at the same time were essential to success in that as in all other callings of life. 
               "I replied that I knew a man by repute who, if he could be pervailed upon to undertake the charge, would answer her purpose admirably, but that he lived at a considerable distance from us, in the county town. 
               "She inquired how far that might be off, and I said I thought about twenty miles, but I was not quite certain as to distances, for they were never accurately measured nor marked, but as near as I could guess from having often traversed the ground with my fish, that was about the distance. 'But,' I said, 'that does not matter much; I will go to Galway myself and bring the lawyer here to you, which will save you much trouble and inconvenience.' 
               "'By no means,' she replied; 'that would betray all! No, no; I must wait till I am perfectly recovered, and then go myself and see him personally. I can then tell him that having heard a high character of his honor and integrity, I had come to place under his care the orphan child of a deceased sister, whose dying wish it was that he should be carefully brought up in Ireland, under the guardianship of such a man as he was reputed to be; and then I will hand him the deeds and the power to receive certain moneys, which I shall take good care to have deposited with proper securities to his account, by the agent of his deceased father. At the same time I shall have the agreement drawn up with regard to you both; and having settled everything thus in the most satisfactory manner, I will depart for my native land, and there relate to my father a story of romance, in order to account for the loss of my nurse, and to relate the narrow escape from destruction which I had encountered, and the loss of all our crew. I will tell him that, according to the recommendation of my doctor, we were sailing for pleasure in a yacht; that we were driven by a violent storm on the coast of Ireland, where we were wrecked, and every soul perished but myself, and how I escaped through the heroic conduct of a poor fisherman, who at the risk of his own life succeeded in saving mine. In this way I hope to lull all suspicions, and to become even dearer to my parent than before, on account of the imminent danger I had just escaped; and if I can ever arrange it so as to return, you may depend upon it that I will take the earliest opportunity of visiting you, my good friends, and seeing again this my beloved child, when I trust I shall have no reason to complain of the treatment it will have received at your hands.' 
               "In about a month after this time she was sufficiently recovered to undertake the proposed journey, and having taken leave of Norah, and tenderly embraced what she thought her own son, she accompanied me to Galway, where, after some difficulties from bad roads, we at length arrived. We sought out the dwelling of the lawyer, where the lady arranged everything to her own satisfaction and that of all concerned; and having done so she embarked for France in a vessel then in the bay, which was bound for Nantes; and I returned to my wife and child, rejoiced in the success of our scheme and the new and easy mode of life it had insured to us. 
               "It was arranged that Norah and I should, as soon as possible, remove to the house of your guardian. It was situated at some distance from the city, in a beautiful rural retreat. The inmates were only the lawyer and his wife, who were considerably beyond middle age, and a few domestics, of whom Norah and I were the chief, and here the time passed as pleasantly as we could desire. You grew up very rapidly, and showed every promise of vigor and manly beauty, and both your mother and I took a just pride in such a son, though we could not acknowledge you as our own." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE PARTING. 
               WE had continued in this tranquil state (continued McArdle) for nearly four years, when I one day received a letter dated from Cork, directing me to proceed directly with Norah and the child to that city. It was from the strange lady. Your guardian received another at the same time, from the same person, making a similar request, and the following morning found us on the road. We took up our abode in the suburbs of the town, and there we were visited by your supposed mother on the very evening of our arrival, and her joy and gratitude were unbounded when she clasped you in her arms, and surveyed with a mother's pride your rosy cheeks and buoyant, sturdy limbs. She was still more delighted when you responded to her tenderness, and wept when we tore you from her embrace. This she attributed to the mysterious sympathy of nature, and certainly nothing could be more like it! 
               "She now told us that her story had succeeded even beyond her hopes with her father, who received her with open arms, as one returned from the jaws of death. That some inquiry was set on foot by the extraordinary coincidence of her lover having perished about the same time, but that was easily quieted by the suggestion of the fact that he was continually at sea, that he no doubt happened to be out at the same time, when not only his, but many other vessels perished without a soul having survived to give an account of the manner or place of their destruction, and as no one survived from his vessel but herself, she might give just what account she pleased, without any danger of contradiction. 
               "She then proceeded to state that in due time she was obliged to redeem her promise to her father by giving her hand to the man whom he had chosen for her husband, and that they had since lived together as comfortably as most people do who marry without any choice of their own, or the slightest affection for the individual forced on them; that her husband, though inclined to be jealous, was upon the whole, good natured enough, and would willingly gratify her in every thing that did not trench on his own selfish enjoyments; that they had just arrived in Ireland on a tour to which she had urged him, in the hope of seeing again her beloved boy, whom she had longed to behold once more, and that they were likely to remain in the country for some time; but that the utmost caution must be observed lest he should find she had any acquaintance there. She must visit us by stealth, she said, and we must on no account breathe a syllable of the matter, or of inquiry or curiosity to any one living! 
               "During her stay, which she contrived to prolong to nearly three years, she made frequent visits to our cottage, at every opportunity, and gave many instructions about our future proceedings, as well as made numerous inquiries about the past; particularly how your guardian behaved to us, and whether we were happy in his house. I had no particular complaint to make, but, at the same time, I suggested that I thought it better if there was no communication at all permitted between you and the guardian personally, but only through some third person; alleging as a reason that there would be less danger of a discovery, but having my own particular views, as you shall see presently. I urged my arguments so strongly that she soon came into my views on the subject, and finally determined that matters should be so arranged. 'But,' said she, 'do you not fear that the old gentleman will be offended at this proceeding?" 
               "Not in the least," I answered, "for he has so much to think of besides that he will not have time even to reflect on the matter at all; besides he does not like too much trouble in things which are not exclusively professional; and therefore it is my firm belief that he would rather rejoice to be rid of us altogether, if he could be so honorably. All you have to do, therefore, is to hint your wish to that effect, under a pretext that you think the boy ought to have a change of air for his health, and he is sure to comply without a murmur. Besides, too, he will still have the direction of affairs as before, till you shall think fit to transfer it to other hands, which you may find it expedient to do in the course of time; for, added I, when the boy grows up, he will begin to inquire of his guardian about his friends and connections, and it will seem rather odd that the latter will be able to give him no information on the subject; and this will make him reflect on the matter and perhaps render him suspicious and inconveniently inquisitive of me and others." 
               "That is very true," she replied, "and the bare possibility of such an occurrence must be guarded against with all possible care! He must have no communication whatever with his guardian, and all things must be transacted through yourself, McArdle, for I know you to be trustworthy, and I will take the necessary steps in order to effect this purpose, which she did accordingly, and I have ever since been the only means through which you have received every blessing you have hitherto or do now enjoy! 
               "At length the time came when urgent business compelled her husband to return to his native France, and she accompanied him. The attempts were vain to paint the scene of parting from you, and you seemed little less affected than she; but while you were permitted to give full vent to your sorrows in tears, she was obliged to stifle hers and put on gay smiles, lest she should betray the secret of her heart. She departed, and from that day to this I have only heard from her twice. 
               "And what might be the nature of the communication?" I inquired. 
               "That I will tell, perhaps, at another time; at present it is not relevant to our object, and we must not waste the little time that remains in vain discourse." 
               "Well, proceed with your story." 
               "It is already told! you must know what has occurred since you were seven years old." 
               "And do you mean to palm this story on me for the truth?" I exclaimed. Do you think I am silly enough to believe myself the son of a vile and base murderer like you, on no other authority than your own base lying assertion? I did not think you quite so foolish as that," I said, calmly, "whatever credit I may have given you for dishonesty and every thing that is knavish and wicked! If what you assert is true, you ought at least to have preserved some authentic proofs from better authorities than yourself, if that kind and honest woman whom you mention as my mother (and I should not be ashamed to acknowledge such a mother!) had only uttered in my hearing one syllable in confirmation of what you assert, I could not for a moment have withheld my belief; but on the contrary, when I have spoken to her on the subject, she entreated me to make myself quite easy on that head, as the whole mystery would yet be cleared up to my entire satisfaction, and she must have known my abhorrence even of your sight or presence too well to suppose it would be to my entire satisfaction to hear that I was connected with you, even by the most distant tie of relationship, much less that of father! Go and impose your fabrications on silly children, but do not attempt any of your practical jokes upon me, for you are quite mistaken if you imagine you will succeed." 
               "Well, now it happens that I can convince you by a document the most indisputable and the most satisfactory factory that could be presented to the senses or judgment of a rational being, though such proof ought not to be necessary for a person of your penetration and good sense, if you reflected a moment on the past and the conduct of that woman whose truth you so justly extol towards you from your earliest recollection. Could any mother have loved you more or tended you with more affectionate and enduring solicitude? Did she not at all times and in all places display those feelings towards you which none but mothers possess? Did she not cling to you with a mother's grasp wherever you went, and did she not watch over your sick couch and your sleeping pillow with the watchfulness and devotion that characterize a mother's love? Oh! Ungrateful youth! not to perceive the true relation you stood in towards her even from the dictates of nature, without having it forced on your reluctant and mistrustful reason! But you know her handwriting?" 
               "As well as I do my own," I replied, 
               "And you would believe anything she would assert, you say?" 
               "As firmly as the gospel of truth," I added. 
               "Well examine that," at the same time handing me a folded paper which he took out of his breast pocket, "whose signature is that attached?" 
               "That is certainly the signature of Norah, my dear departed nurse." 
               "Mother! you should say," exclaimed he in a voice harsh and gruff as the distant bellowing of thunder. "Read the whole document." 
               "I immediately glanced over its contents and was struck with horror and conviction on its perusal. It ran as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "I, Norah Connor, being, as I believe, on my deathbed, and expecting soon to render my soul to God, who gave it, and feeling sorrow and compunction for my sins in general, which are grievous and burdensome to my soul, do now, before God and in the presence of his servant and holy minister, my lawful confessor, make humble and penitent confession of one sin in particular, in which I took a part and which now overwhelms my soul with a load of guilt which is intolerable, in the humble hope that the Lord will pardon me, through the intercession of the Holy Virgin and by means of the absolution of his minister and holy servant, this good priest, in whose presence and to whom I confess. It is this: Being led wickedly by my own evil heart and the temptation of the devil, I did, on a certain night some twenty years since, impose my own natural born child, now living under the name of Henri Alexandre Harcourt, entered of the University of Oxford, but now traveling, as I believe, on the continent for his own pleasure, upon a lady, a native of France, who had in the same house and on the same night given birth to a stillborn child, as her own; and appropriated as mine her stillborn child, in order that I might promote the interests of my own son by cheating the lady and inducing her to confer that patrimony or endowment on my son which she would have done on her own had it been born alive and not been changed. For this and my other sins I feel sorry at heart, and may God in his infinite mercy pardon my soul through Jesus Christ. Amen! 
                           "In testimony of which I affix hereto my hand and seal. 
                           
                              NORAH CONNOR." 
                              Witness: 
                              PHELIM OMORE, Confessor.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "On glancing over this document, which was, to my mind, an indisputable confirmation of the truth of all McArdle had said, I was struck with utter amazement and horror. I could not utter a syllable. I was riveted to the ground, and for some time was perfectly unconscious of everything passing around me. As I recovered my self-possession a little and reflected on my position and prospects, I was struck with loathing and despair. Life was a burden, and I instantly resolved to release myself from it. Without noticing any object and intent only on the execution of my design, I rushed out of the shed into the open air. The morning was just beginning to dawn, and a calmness and repose reigned over all nature, which was in strange contrast with the storm that raged in my breast. I rushed on, maddened by my thoughts, towards some lonely spot or deep pitfall, where I might bury my miseries and my shame forever in oblivion. I heard that that part of the country abounded with coal-pits that were no longer worked, and into one of these I purposed plunging myself unknown to all the world, that I might never be heard of more. I hastened on, looking on all sides for something of this kind, but could find no traces of them. At length I came to a river which seemed deep and still, and into this I resolved instantly to plunge to avoid the approaching light of heaven, which was now becoming intolerable to my eyes. 
               "It was yet obscure twilight and the stars were reflected in the dark mirror of the river, which, with a low murmuring sound, alone announced the proximity of its waters. My mind was made up, and delay was worse than the death which I so eagerly sought for. I hurried towards the bank, and the next moment after I gained it I should have been buried in the depths of its watery current, had I not been arrested on the instant. An iron grasp seized me from behind. I turned round to see who or what it was, when I recognized the face of one of the men who had acted as witnesses in the shed. The other also was standing near. The man who had seized me dragged me with herculean force from the bank of the river, and, without uttering a single syllable, led me back like a child to the shed whence I had come. He went out and left me there alone, at the same time signifying by his look and gesture that it was in vain to attempt self-destruction or flight. I then searched my breast for my pistols; but they were gone-which, from my state of mind, I had not noticed till that moment. I was maddened to fury and would probably have dashed my head against the wall in my frenzy had not McArdle that moment entered the shed. He was calm and undisturbed in countenance, and seemed as if he pitied my condition, which added to my distress and fury. I would have torn him to pieces, but I saw his two gigantic attendants close by ready to interpose and save him. As they were armed at all points I made use of every provoking expression I could think of in hopes that they might be impelled to murder me on the spot. I even, at length, condescended to entreaties that they would put an end to my suffering and my life together; but the fiends only laughed at my prayers and entreaties and scoffed at my sufferings! I confess, my dear Charlotte, that I had forgotten everything else, even yourself, in the humiliation and fury of that moment. 
               "At length I became quite exhausted with rage and madness, and sank down on an old bench, when I got some relief to my mind by a flood of tears. Then it was that McArdle mentioned you, my Charlotte. He painted your feelings and suffering if I should persist in my design, and even went so far as to upbraid me with moral cowardice, in seeking to hide my grief and shame from the world, and in sacrificing the happiness of a young and innocent girl who loved me dearer than life itself! Your name recalled me to myself. I acknowledged the justice of the accusatiou, and on the instant determined to make all the amends in my power by recounting to you the whole truth without concealing anything. No sooner was the resolution taken than I determined to put it in execution. I started instantly for the inn whence I had set out the evening before, took the coach there, traveled all the day, and arrived in this neighborhood late in the evening, where I determined to conceal myself till the dead of night, when I hoped to be able to see you alone and unobserved. Yonder wood afforded me a covering whence I could observe all that was passing here without being seen. I waited patiently till eleven o'clock, when all the lights were extinguished but one. I knew well whose that was, and divined the thoughts that kept its owner awake. I stole out from my cover as you have seen and now I sit beside you, the most wretched and unhappy of men! save that my conscience has been lightened and my mind somewhat relieved by imparting the sad story of my life to her who alone deserves to hear it, because she alone feels an interest in the wretch whose painful task it has been to relate it, and be at the same time the melancholy subject of his own melancholy tale!" 
               "I am, indeed, surprised and grieved at what you relate," said Charlotte; "but that, however humiliating, should not hurry you to despair. You had no part whatever in the atrocities and villainies of those to whom you have rather the misfortune than the blame of being united by natural ties only, and your mind being pure and your feelings honorable will make full amends in my opinion for the fortuitous and inevitable circumstances of humble birth and depraved parents. To me you must ever be the same, whatever the world may think of you." 
               "But your father and brother, what will they think?" asked Harcourt with breathless anxiety. 
               "That is the difficulty," she replied. "Their pride of birth is so great and so deep-rooted that it is hard to expect they can consent to my union with the son of an humble and disreputable peasant. But they are just and generous. When they hear your extraordinary story and that till yesterday you were as totally ignorant of your birth and connections as we have been, they may judge more favorably of our union. The strict principles of honor which characterize you, my dearest Harcourt, the tenderness and gentleness of your disposition, your heart that is framed for love and happiness, will and must have their due influence upon them. I will tell your whole story without disguise; I will paint your feelings and your sorrows; I will enumerate your virtues and your worth, and to all this I will add the prayers and entreaties of an only daughter and sister pleading for the man she loves; and if they have not hearts of stone, if they are not callous to every feeling of humanity, if they are not more cruel than the wild savages of the desert, they will yield to my prayers and my tears! Yes, my love, do not be discouraged, we shall yet be happy in each other's love, for though all the world should be against us, Heaven will lend a favorable ear to the prayers and the sighs of the heart-broken and the wretched!" 
               "Would you then hope to succeed by telling them all?" replied Harcourt. "Alas! I fear it would be worse than vain, for they will never consent!" 
               "What else can I do?" said she. "You would not, surely, wish me to sacrifice my duty to my parent to any other feeling or passion however violent? You are too honorable I know to wish to conceal anything seemingly unfavorable to yourself, which, when known, will only give you an additional claim to the respect and veneration not only of my relations but in the eyes of the world. Men respect the noble simplicity of virtue, however humble, more than the pomp and parade of birth or riches, which are only the gifts of fortune and the mere accessories of circumstances, and I cannot be persuaded that my noble-minded father can be blinded to that which all good men prize by the narrow minded prejudices in which he has been educated. No, no! I will go to him, fall at his feet, and tell him all candidly, as a dutiful child ought to do; and I am sure he will not, he cannot, be unjust or deaf to the voice of reason and of nature!" 
               "Well do as you please, but I have a strange presentiment that you will not succeed. Your pure and disinterested heart knows little of the pride of the human soul; but go, try what you can do-and should you fail?" 
               "Nay, Harcourt, speak not that discouraging word! It cannot be; it is not possible!" 
               "It is not only possible, but highly probable, and to guard against the worst is the prompting of prudence and wisdom. Supposing, then, that you should fail, what am I to hope for?" 
                
               "Why, if my father could be so unjust, so ungenerous,-the very thought is too much for me!-then, my love, I am yours at all hazards! Nothing shall separate me from you, save death alone!" 
               "Noble and generous girl!" exclaimed Harcourt, "how can I ever pay you the debt of gratitude under which you have placed me?" 
               "By continuing faithful and honorable as I have ever found you," she replied. "That will amply repay me for anything I may have to suffer for your sake." 
               "But," he replied, "you do not yet know the full extent of what that suffering may be; and I should indeed be unworthy of the confidence you repose in me, and the high opinion which you entertain of my honor, did I suffer you to remain ignorant of the whole. You must know, then, that I am as poor in this world's wealth as I am humble in birth! It is true that if I could reconcile it to my feelings to live under a false name and on the property of others, as I have hitherto unconsciously done, I should be rich; but I cannot do that, and therefore everything which I now possess shall be immediately restored to its proper heirs, and the wretch McArdle will be frustrated in his aims and hopes. He doubtless reckoned on a principle too common in our nature, self-interest in me, for the concealment of my true name and birth, and the preservation of his part of the spoil in mine; but he is mistaken, as he shall soon find to his cost, and the justice he so richly deserves will at length overtake him. I am therefore from this moment penniless, in addition to the other complicated misfortunes that surround me; so that an appeal to your father under such circumstances must be hopeless, and it is almost folly to attempt it. You have shown yourself so generous, so noble, so disinterested in everything hitherto that I should upbraid myself forever afterwards if I permitted you to make the sacrifice to which your love and devotion would urge you. No, no! my beloved Charlotte, it cannot be! Fortune has otherwise decreed, and I must submit to my fate. Ought I to be less self-denying ing, less disinterested, less pure in motive, less heroic in making a self-sacrifice than you? It must not be! for however painful to my feelings to tear myself from your embrace, perhaps forever, stern and inexorable necessity demands that such should be the case. We must part, Charlotte! and let us part with firmness! I could never endure to see you so humiliated, so humbled, as to share my poor fortunes, and the pang which I should suffer from the bare contemplation of it must wound my peace forever. Farewell! and may the Great Ruler of human events and Protector of those who trust in Him watch over and protect you, and so direct all things for your happiness that the bitterness of this moment may soon be lost in the bliss that awaits you! Farewell!" 
               "Stay, Harcourt! stop! It must not-it shall not be so! Would you forsake me thus, and forever? And for what? There is nothing in the circumstances to warrant such a step. As for your poverty, I care not for that; I am sufficiently rich for both-independent of the world-which riches I inherit from my dear departed mother, and over which no one can have the least control. Why, then, should we part on that account? It is right, and my heart applauds you for your resolution, to relinquish everything which is not your own and to which you can have no just title. Yes, relinquish, at once and forever, that ill-gotten wealth, and let those who are guilty meet with the punishment they deserve; but do not-oh, do not rob me of that which is dearer to me than all the world's riches-your own presence and your love, which is the treasure wherein my soul delights, and I shall be well content to forego all the rest! for what were the whole earth to me if I were deprived of your love? You must not-you shall not leave me!" 
               "To leave you, dearest Charlotte, will indeed, I confess it, be worse than death itself; for, apart from you, I feel it impossible to be happy in this dreary world. But what can be done? Is not death better than dishonor? and who that knows what it is to love as I love could fear death if torn from all his soul loves to dwell upon? Yet I can see no remedy for this. Two insuperable barriers stand in the way: the duty you owe your parents, and that which I owe to you and myself; and let us see whether we can break through these with any rational hope of permanent happiness. If you should commit an act for which your conscience might ever afterwards upbraid you, where are you to look for internal peace, without which there can be no true happiness? and if I should so far forget myself as to urge you to that act, or encourage you in it, I should thereby be not only an accessory to your misery and wretchedness, but also a participator in the crime which caused it. Besides, the respect I feel for your honor and character, and for your position in society, would, apart from any personal regard, prevent me from sanctioning any step that might compromise either. This feeling would at first, had I known my history, have effectually prevented me from seeking your acquaintance, or that of any young lady in similar circumstances; for I am convinced that equality of condition is essential to the happiness of a matrimonial connection. Taking all these things into consideration, I have no doubt you will agree with me in feeling that the path of duty and honor is the only path in which we need expect peace of mind and permanent happiness, and that it will be better for both in the end to submit to the dispensation of a wise and a just and a benevolent Providence. I feel convinced that proper marriages are ordained of God, and are at his wise disposal. Seeing, then, that it is evidently in opposition to his divine will that we should be justly and legally united in the holiest of unions, let us resign ourselves to his decree, and submit to the fiat of his holy will, and time will show us that we have acted properly." 
               "You are right! you are right!" exclaimed Charlotte. "Alas! how my passion, but for you, would have hurried me into error, perhaps crime! You are right, and I must yield to your just, your kind, your benevolent counsel; yet is there no hope for the future? Must I resign all thought of you forever? But I deceive myself! Your mind is intent on some dark deed-some scheme against your own life! and I shall soon be left alone in the world to deplore your loss! But I shall not stay behind, but follow soon to the tomb, for this world will indeed be a wilderness when you are gone! Say, dearest Harcourt, is it not your intention to die? Do not, I intreat you, conceal this from me, for now I could look upon death with a friendly eye, as a relief from the cares and miseries of this unhappy world, and I would willingly be your companion to the tomb!" 
               "Heaven forbid!" cried Harcourt, "that either of us should harbor such an impious thought! In a paroxysm of frenzy I had indeed the weakness to attempt self-destruction, nor can I say what I might be driven to do again under similar circumstances; but to resolve deliberately to deprive ourselves of the gift of life, which none but God could give us, would be to treat his goodness with scorn and ingratitude. No, no! we must heroically endure whatever we are ordained to suffer in this world without flinching, like soldiers stationed at the post of danger and difficulty, and pray to Heaven for strength to support our trials. How wrong and foolish I felt I was in having made the attempt on my own life I think I have already shown by the manner in which I received a just rebuke, even though coming from the most vile and despicable of men, though it required the magic of your name to save me from myself!" 
               "Are you certain that he did mention me by name?" demanded Charlotte, in surprise. 
               "He did! and it is now, for the first time, a matter of astonishment to me how he knew anything whatever of you or the relation in which you were likely to stand to me," answered Harcourt; "and indeed it leads me to suspect that he must have had spies about us, of whose presence we were not aware. However, his machinations are at an end, as far as I am concerned cerned; for from this moment I am resolved he shall neither see me nor hear from me again while either of us lives. I intend immediately to leave this neighborhood, assume a disguise and another name, to abandon all my property, and to become a wanderer through the world, earning a livelihood by whatever honest means I can. But before I go I must make one request of you, which I trust you will not refuse me, and that is, that you will not admit having seen me, but deny all knowledge of me from every one. The people will talk of and calumniate me for a season; your friends will congratulate you on your happy escape from the hands of an 'adventurer;' but in a short time all will be quiet again, and in the course of time, yielding to the entreaties of your friends and the merits of a new lover, you will become happy and"- 
               "Never!" exclaimed Charlotte. "From this moment, in the presence of all-seeing Heaven, I dedicate myself entirely to you, and you alone! and should I not be blessed with you, then I swear that no other man shall ever be listened to, no other ever be looked upon as worthy of my heart or my hand!" 
               "And I, too," said Harcourt, solemnly, "in the same holy presence swear and pledge myself to you alone, though well assured that I can never enjoy you as my wife! and should that assurance prove correct, then I swear in addition that no other woman shall ever share my love or receive the pledge of my hand!" 
               Scarcely were these words uttered when a deep groan was heard issuing as it were from the next room! Both were surprised and terrified at the unwonted sound. Harcourt thought it was the same which he had heard on a former occasion, when he was recovering from the fever at Dover. He was awe-struck, but concealed both his thoughts and emotions as much as possible from Charlotte. 
               "Did you hear anything?" said she, with some emotion. 
               "Yes," he replied; "it is only-Hush! hush! There is a sound of footsteps on the stairs!" 
                
               "What? Yes! Oh, Heavens! you will be discovered, and we are undone! Haste! haste!" she continued; "I will open the window, and do you descend the arbor steps as quickly as possible or you will be observed. There is no time to lose! One last embrace-fare-well! farewell!" 
               "Adieu!" he replied, as he waved his hand when he had gained the garden walk. He then quickly disappeared amongst the shrubs on the bank of the river. Soon, however, he emerged again from thence, and appeared in the boat in the middle of the stream. In an instant he reached the other side. He waved his hand once more, and then finally disappeared and was lost in the wood that skirted the upper rim of the meadow. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE CRISIS. 
               WHEN the alarm which had so unexpectedly separated the lovers, had somewhat subsided in the mind of Charlotte, she was affected with sorrow and emotion almost to the brink of despair. It seemed to her as if her very soul had been torn from its tenement and that her sufferings could not possibly be increased by any thing that could now happen to her. The light of heaven was burdensome to her eyes, and life had lost all its charms for her; but she had sworn to live, and she would not break her vow, though to die would have been the greatest of all boons. She remained with her eyes riveted to the spot where she had perhaps for the last time seen the retiring form of her lover, till daylight dawned upon her, unconscious of its presence. At length the sounds of the family rising for the day, with the accompanying bustle of the servants aroused her from her painful reverie, and suggested the necessity for repose. She threw herself upon the bed but was unable to sleep, or if she closed her eyes, gloomy and disturbed dreams robbed her of all its refreshing power, and she awoke in the pain and excitement of a violent fever, whose paroxysms increased so rapidly that before the evening of that day she was in a complete phrensy, raving of her lover with the wild, incoherent expressions of a maniac. Medical aid, though called in in good time, seemed powerless to afford relief. 
               It was now the third day of the fever, and the doctor, despairing of her recovery, had given her up for lost. Every one who saw her foreboded a speedy dissolution. Her breathing became quick and oppressive; her pulse so feeble as to be scarcely perceptible; her extremities cold, her eye riveted on vacancy, and her countenance fallen into that fixed and marble paleness which marks the hand of the great destroyer, she heaved a deep sigh, and her gentle spirit seemed to depart from its beautiful house of clay and wing its flight to Him who gave it! 
               The last test to demonstrate the cessation of the vital functions was applied, but no stain of human breath was visible on the clear, bright surface of the mirror. The medical attendants pronounced to her bewildered friends that her mortal sufferings were over, that she had breathed her last! 
               Poor Charlotte Cumming! so young, so beautiful, so loving, and so beloved! was this to be the end of all thy hopes and aspirations! Was it for this that nature crowned thee with so many graces, so many virtues? 
               She was decked out in the cerements of the grave, and the young maidens of the village came with offerings of fresh flowers to adorn her bier; and they lamented her early fate, wondering how death could be so cruel to one so fair, so beantiful, so good! 
               And the wretched father! What consolation could he find for the loss of so fair a child; his only daughter? Sir Frederick stood over the lifeless corpse and pondered. He could not weep. 
               And her dear brother Charles; what were his thoughts and feelings under this cruel bereavement? Ah! those only who have been similarly afflicted are qualified to answer. Let them do so if they can. 
               But Charlotte Cumming was not dead! She had only fallen into a trance from which she awoke that night; but oh, how changed. Memory and reason had fled, perhaps forever; and her friends' temporary joy was soon overcast with a deeper gloom. Death itself were preferable to her new condition, if it should last. Was there any hope of a cure? 
               Time, the universal healer, could alone answer this question. But cruelly the most sanguine hopes of her friends had been disappointed. She still lingered, not in pain, but in apathy. Nothing seemed to attract her attention, to move, to soften her heart. It was locked, and there seemed to be only one key in all nature that could open it. But that key was lost. Alas! was there no hope of finding it? 
               A year passed away after this mournful event and not a whisper was heard of Harcourt or her who was suffering for his love, save that now and then parents would point them out as an example to their children, in order to save them from indulging a passion which could not be gratified, but might hurry them to a similar fate. People looked with feelings of awe and of pity on the scene of this tragedy, and on those unhappy relatives who had been bereaved of their treasure, and abstained from all uncharitable remarks on either side, and thus the whole matter was gradually hushed up, and every thing wore a smiling and tranquil face as before, save the countenances of the father and brother, where traces of their sorrow were engraved in characters too deep ever to be obliterated. 
               Chance alone, or perhaps I should say Providence, made me acquainted with the remainder of Harcourt's story. 
               My three boys, whom I have already mentioned to you, had arrived by this time at an age when it was necessary to send them to school. I made inquiries of many parents about a proper place to send them, and I was warmly recommended to place them with a clergyman named Lovechild, in the neighborhood of Liverpool. This recommendation was given by a friend of mine in whom I placed and still place the greatest confidence, (for he knew nothing whatever of what I have learned from other sources since then,) and accordingly I took them down a year ago last Easter, and found Mr. Lovechild and his wife so very plausible and kind in appearance that I was well pleased with my choice. 
               As Mr. Lovechild was taking me around the grounds he descanted in high terms on the advantages which his pupils enjoyed; the salubrity of the situation; their extensive play ground; but above all the excellence of his system of instruction; for he never, he asserted, retained any but the best masters that could be found, and at that time in particular, he said, he was fortunate enough to have secured the services of one preeminently qualified in every respect for such a situation. Indeed, he said, the situation was far beneath his powers, for that he was fully competent to a professorship in any of the universities, and that he could not account for his accepting such a place at all. He is quite a gentleman, both in manners and feeling, he continued, and I am almost certain that some mystery hangs over his history, which, if we knew all, would show that he was born to a far different position. 
               My curiosity was excited to see this gentleman, and as we were now about to enter the school-room, which was detached from the dwelling, I requested that he would point him out to me; but what was my surprise and astonishment when I discovered in this stranger the person and features of Harcourt! I could not be mistaken in him, for I knew him well. The moment I entered the room his eye caught mine, and the color came slightly to his cheeks; but soon regaining his self-possession, he became composed and dignified, with the same air of haughty reserve which I had formerly remarked in him. My feelings towards him were those of contempt and disgust, as I had been accustomed to regard him in no other light than that of a base and needy adventurer, who practiced upon the feelings of others to gratify his vanity or appetites, and I turned away with the intention of quitting his presence, which, to my mind, could not fail to contaminate all with whom he came in contact, and to relate his history, as far as I then knew it, which was that portion only which he had told Charles Cumming, to his employer; but I had only proceeded a few steps when I felt some one tapping on my shoulder. I turned round and saw it was Harcourt, who had now assumed the name of Hardy. I intended at first to repel his advances with disdain, but when I saw the painful expression of his countenance, his worn and haggard look, and heard the melancholy music of his voice, imploring me to give him a private interview for only a short time, and he would explain all, and convince me of his innocence and the preservation of his honor, my heart relented, and I could not resist granting a request which was so just. It would be time enough, I thought, to condemn when I had heard all he could say in his own defense, and I told him in as mild a tone as I could, that I was ready to hear him then, if he chose. I apologised to Mr. Lovechild, saying that I wished to converse with Mr. Hardy privately, and begged that he would excuse him for the remainder of the day. I then walked with Harcourt along the shore, where I heard from him the account which I have already told you, and, in addition, his history up to the moment we were then conversing together, and you may judge how my opinion of him was changed. I now not only pitied him, but loved and honored him for his virtues and heroic conduct, and offered him every assistance in my power to give. But he would accept of nothing, saying that he was too happy to suffer for the sake of her who had died for him, (for he had learned her fate from the public papers, but not of her revival and present condition,) and that nothing which the world could do would be able to alleviate the sorrows that must soon, he said, bring him to the grave, and happy would be the hour of his deliverance when he should go to join her that was gone before to that place "where the wicked cease to trouble and the weary are at rest." I had not the heart to acquaint him with her actual condition, as this was so hopeless that it might add to instead of alleviating his sufferings. The account he gave of himself, after having torn himself from Charlotte Cumming, is as follows. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               HARCOURT'S STORY CONTINUED. 
               WHEN I arrived at the wood (continued Harcourt) on the other side of the meadow, I paused to look back, and fancied that even from that distance I could see Charlotte at the window, waving her small, white hand. Feeling that if I gazed much longer I could not resist the temptation to return, I resolutely pursued my way through the dense and pathless underwood till I reached the other side, when I found that my clothes were all torn and my hands, face and limbs bleeding from the briers and thorns which I met in my way, for I had never thought of following the beaten track. In this state I went on with a heavy heart, but running like a madman, to avoid as much as possible the pain of reflection by bodily suffering and agitation. At last I came to the open road, but did not dare to pursue it, lest I might be met and recognized by some one in the neighborhood. I can scarcely account for the horror I had of being seen, but I know that I dreaded it worse than anything else that could have befallen me. The shame, perhaps, of appearing in the eyes of my acquaintance other than I had appeared to them in the time of my prosperity and happiness might be assigned as the reason. At length morning began to dawn, and this reminded me that if I would remain concealed I must find some wood or empty dwelling where to remain during the day. I looked about on all sides, and saw at some distance what appeared to be a barn in the middle of a field. I made my way as speedily as possible to the spot, entered it cautiously, and found it exactly suited to my purpose. It was filled with hay, so that I lay concealed till night in the most perfect security and secresy. During the time I was forced to remain here, overcome with fatigue and mental suffering, I slept a good deal, and on awaking I found myself much refreshed, though I now began to feel the cravings of hunger, as I had neither eaten nor drunk for the space of twenty-seven hours! but as yet it wanted some hours of night, and I dared not venture out; I had therefore some time to reflect on the course which I ought to take with regard to restoring my property and all I possessed to its proper owners, and I found that it would be a difficult matter to accomplish, seeing that I knew no person to whom I might apply, nor did I know who the right heirs were, or how to find them. If I advertised it might expose the foreign lady to the danger of being disgraced, and it must, at all events, expose myself to the world, which I dreaded more than anything else. I could endure poverty, the loss of friends and of every worldly possession, but not of honor; and having hitherto lived and been considered a gentleman, I could not bear to be regarded as the low-born son of a vile and vicious peasant. The thought stung me to the quick, and I wished above all things to have it believed that I had perished by some unknown and extraordinary accident, or even by suicide in a fit of insanity, rather than it should be imagined I should live in disgrace. This weakness it was which impelled me to request Charlotte to deny all knowledge of me to every one, that it might be supposed I had been destroyed in some dark and mysterious manner, and this it was which induced me to lie concealed in the barn, though suffering severely from hunger, rather than run the risk of being seen by some one who should know me in the neighborhood. 
               "At length the long-wished-for night came, and I stole out of my hiding place as softly as possible, and looked carefully round, lest some one might see me, and finding all safe in that respect, I pursued my way through by-roads and fields and entangled lanes, without ever daring to procure anything to eat in the houses which I passed, till I had arrived at what I thought a long distance from all danger. By this time I was so hungry and fatigued with my exertion that I was almost ready to faint with weakness, and I determined to go into the first house I should come to and buy myself some refreshments. Accordingly I soon noticed a solitary light at some distance from the path I was then pursuing, and followed its direction. It led me to a low, neat cottage in the fields, surrounded by trees, and with a small garden in front. I did not venture to enter till I should ascertain who were its inmates; I therefore went to the back window, where I could see everything without being seen. There was no cause for fear, for I saw only an old man and woman, with a young fellow of about eighteen, who seemed to be their son. They were sitting before a cheerful fire, with a table before them, which was covered with a clean white cloth, on which was placed their frugal evening meal, consisting of coarse bread and some cheese, with a nice piece of fresh butter and a jug of beer. As I had never seen any of the faces before, I ventured in; for the supper, to a person so hungry as I was, looked very tempting. They were rather startled at the appearance of a stranger, and especially one of my forlorn and care-worn aspect; but when I told them that I had lost my way in attempting to pass through a thick grove in the neighborhood, where my clothes, my hands, face and feet were torn by the brambles and thorns, they expressed their pity and begged me, with a politeness and attention quite natural, to take a seat at their fire. I did so, and moreover informed them that I felt very hungry, and that in fact my principal object in troubling them was to purchase, if possible, some refreshments. They pointed to the table, saying that what it contained was all they had to offer, and if I would condescend to partake of their humble repast I was very welcome, 'unless,' said the old woman, 'you might, perhaps, prefer fer an egg or two, which I will boil for you directly.' So saying she went to a cupboard, took out some eggs, put on a saucepan, and in a short time laid on the table the most delicious fare I had ever yet tasted, for never before did I feel what it was really to want food. I did ample justice to their delicacies, and the good people seemed surprised at my voracity, and delighted that they had it in their power to appease my hunger. 
               "When the first cravings of ravenous appetite were in a certain degree appeased, I could not help admiring the peculiar and, to me, strange aspect which this little group of three persons presented to my observation. Never before had it been my lot to mingle thus in intimate association with, or even to think of, persons of this class-the laboring poor, whose feelings and comforts are of such little consequence in the minds of the rich and the proud; but many a proud family, had its members been in my place, would have learned that felicity and content are not confined to their own peculiar sphere, and many a self-righteous Christian would have learned a lesson of true christianity and religious feeling from the humble instructors whom it was my fortune to mingle with in heart and feeling on that evening. Before beginning the meal the venerable father invoked an impressive blessing, and at its close returned, not the vain offering of the lip, but the truly greatful out-pourings of the soul, in brief but impressive language. And then, how delightful it was to see the love and attention of the mother to the son of her love! He was her only child, her chief support, and a good and dutiful youth he was. Young, cheerful and healthy, he worked all the day for the common support, and at night, instead of going to the ale-house, as many others in his circumstances unfortunately are in the habit of doing, he staid at home and conversed with his beloved parents or read for them a portion of that Book which is the poor man's chief consolation, because it points out to him a brighter and a happier world than that in which he is condemned to perpetual suffering, privation and toil, and it teaches him to endure dure with patience the brief evils of the present, in the hope of meeting eternal happiness in the world to come. And the poor man alone seems capable of appreciaing its sublime and cheering truths, for he is the child of misery and suffering, and none other can feel the full force of what is contained in that blessed book; for how can the rich man and the happy in this world look up with earnest longing to the bliss of a future? He will rather look on his latter end with horror, as a period to be avoided, even in thought; for it will take away from him everything which distinguished him among men and made him happy in this world, and will place him on a common level with the rest of the children of Adam. Adversity is indeed the best teacher of the proud human heart, and happy is that man who can turn the lessons it inculcates to good account. 
               "I was agreeably surprised to hear this youth read. The piety, the feeling and the goodness that were conspicuous in his whole character could not fail to impress the most indifferent and trivial mind with feelings of respect for him; and I confess that on that night, for the first time in my life, I knew what it was to pray with heartfelt and lively devotion, taught by an ignorant and unsophisticated youth, the child of nature! After supper a portion of scripture was read, and the young man prayed with fervor and devotion, and without the slightest affectation of spiritual pride or superior sanctity, but with a simplicity and touching appeal to Heaven, as if he felt himself in the presence of his Creator and his God. 
               "Never shall I forget the impression which was made upon my mind that evening. I arose from my knees with renewed courage and a firm reliance on the goodness and protecting care of Divine Providence; and, recruited in body and cheered in spirit, I resolved now to pursue my way. Having therefore thanked my kind entertainers, I presented them with some money, but they would not accept it. I threw it down on the table, saying that they were poor, and I could not think of accepting their refreshments for nothing. I then inquired whether they could sell me an old smock frock or something of that kind, to protect my clothes from the thorns and briers, and having obtained one for a small sum, I bade them a warm adieu, and departed, resolved to travel the whole of that night, and to rest the next day, as I had done the day before, after which I hoped there would be no longer a necessity for traveling at night, as I should by that time reach a part of the country where no one would be likely to know me, especially disguised as I now was; for my hat was all bruised and torn so as to answer the purpose of completing my disguise. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               AN ADVENTURE. 
               I TRAVELED on for several hours without meeting with anything worth relating, till about the hour of twelve, or it might be half past. The lights in all the houses were extinguished as I passed along, and darkness, relieved only by the dim light of the stars, seen at intervals through a dense and drizzling mist, with perfect stillness, prevailed over the whole face of nature. Nothing could be more dismal or lonely than my journey on that night. It seemed as if I was the only being in creation which could not enjoy the sweets of repose, and my heart sank within me as I contrasted the loneliness and unfriended state of my position-even with the smiling hearth, the loving parents and the humble roof of the poor peasant boy, whose hospitality and piety I had but recently experienced, and I should have been happy could I have changed conditions with him! While occupied with these melancholy thoughts I imagined I saw a glimmering light amongst some trees before me. I looked again, and all was dark. I proceeded, but had not gone more than a few paces when I saw the same flickering light as before. I now looked up towards the murky sky, thinking that it was either a flash of lightning or the reflection of a shooting star. That moment I saw it again amongst the trees; but this time it continued longer than before, and then suddenly disappeared. I cautiously approached in the direction of the place where I had seen the light, and when I reached the clump of trees I saw it again, for a second or two, at a short distance from me. I now redoubled my pace, until I was abruptly stopped by a high wall, which seemed to be the inclosure of a garden. I groped around me for some time, to try to find a path, but could not succeed in extricating myself from the underwood and brambles, amongst which I had stumbled in the dark. At length, while I was occupied in this way my hand came in contact with something like a ladder. Curiosity tempted me to ascend, which I did with perfect ease; but I found the top of the wall covered with spikes and broken glass, which cut my hands a good deal before I was aware of it. At that moment I saw the same glimmer of light as before; but now it seemed to issue from a house, and this time it remained steady about a minute. I thought I discovered the shadow of a man reflected against the wall of it, and it instantly struck me that there were robbers about to plunder the house, and perhaps murder the inmates! At all hazards, and indeed quite regardless of the consequences, I resolved to give the alarm, and for that purpose sought for a place where I could descend into the garden. Another gleam of light directed my attention to another ladder placed on the inside of the wall, and this removed all doubt as to the contemplated robbery. I descended immediately, and was proceeding up the garden, with the express purpose of giving the alarm, when I heard the report of firearms, followed by a loud shout. The people of the house had perceived that an entrance was attempted; and, taking the alarm, fired at the depredators. Several shots were fired by them, and returned by the robbers; when the latter, despairing of success and fearing detection or instant death, took to flight in the direction in which I was advancing. I heard their approaching footsteps, and determined to prevent their escape, if possible, though I was unarmed, and in order to surprise them drew back behind a tree. I could not tell how many there might be, but I hoped to be able to secure one, at least, in the confusion and terror of a precipitate retreat, which might be a clue to the detection and punishment of the rest. I already heard the footsteps, and soon the quick breathing, of a man approaching, who was followed at some distance by another. I could not hear any others. I determined instantly to let the first pass, and to seize the other when he came up. The first man, who seemed tall and powerful, and whose face was masked, flew by me like lightning. The other came up breathless, and on him I sprang like a tiger. He uttered a wild shriek at the sudden surprise; but I soon found that he was too muscular to be long held in my feeble grasp even without the aid of weapons; but he had a pistol in his hand, and drawing it he struck me with all his force a blow on the shoulder which so completely stunned me as not only to compel me to let go my hold, but laid me senseless at his feet! Had he struck me on the head, at which he aimed, he would have killed me at once; as it was, even, he very nearly succeeded in doing so. When I awoke to consciousness I found myself on a wretched pallet, in open daylight, surrounded by strange faces, which seemed to look upon me with all the horror and disgust that the right-minded can conceive for the deepest and darkest guilt. I thought the scene of the night before was only one of those frightful dreams with which my sleep of late had been so constantly disturbed; but when I heard those around me express to each other the fervent wish that my life might be spared in order that justice should not be robbed of its due, I immediately perceived the very critical position into which my own imprudence had hurried me. 
               "It seemed that immediately after I was stunned by the blow of the house-breaker, the people of the house, who were drawn to the spot by the shriek he had uttered, hastened where I was lying, and finding me there senseless, they very naturally concluded that I was one of the gang who had attempted to break into the house, with an intent to rob, perhaps to murder, especially as they found lying beside me the pistol, which the robber had let fall in his flight. They carried me in triumph into one of their out-houses, where there was a kind of bed, and set a guard over me till daybreak, in the mean time sending for a surgeon to examine my wounds, for though I was senseless I did not seem to be dead. The surgeon came, and finding me uninjured except by a severe bruise on the shoulder and some cuts on the hands, pronounced that I should soon be in a condition to undergo an examination before the magistrates, when he hoped my accomplices also might be brought to light. But the severity of the blow gave such a violent concussion to my whole nervous system, already predisposed by excitement, sorrow and fatigue, as to throw me into a violent fever, and three weeks elapsed before I was in a condition to appear before the magistrates, who were extremely anxious to examine and punish me. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               THE LAW 
               AT length the day arrived when I was to be conducted to the neighboring town for that purpose, and long before the hour of departing a crowd assembled round the place in order to catch a glimpse of "the robber," as all were unanimous in pronouncing me. When I made my appearance, handcuffed and attended by two constables, and a large party of armed men to prevent my escape, although my pale, haggard and care-worn countenance might have excited compassion, I was assailed with groans and hisses, and the most fierce and threatening looks from the crowds of people assembled, not even excepting the females, who seemed to have forgotten the natural kindliness of their feelings, in their horror of one whom they doubtless supposed guilty of the blackest crimes, though he was as innocent as any of themselves. The same demonstration of feeling assailed me on entering the magistrate's room, which, however, was partially suppressed by respect for the presence in which I was about to be placed. 
               "Several witnesses were brought forward to prove that on the particular night in question a burglary and robbery had been attempted on the house and property of a gentleman named Hawsworth; that though an entrance had been effected, the burglars, after a short though fierce resistance, by which, however, one of the inmates was shot dead, had been foiled in their attempt and put to flight by the members of the family; that in the pursuit I, the prisoner, was found lying senseless on a walk in the garden; that the others, whose persons and number were unknown, had made their escape by means of ladders over the garden wall; and that, though diligent search had been made, no traces of them could be discovered. And then they went on to state my illness, the incoherent expressions in my ravings, and every little word or look, which they interpreted so as to strengthen the belief of my guilt. Indeed there was no need of such minuteness of detail, for appearances were against me, and when I was called upon to account for myself, and stated the truth, as you have already heard it, the whole court was in a roar of laughter and derision to think that I could hope to impose upon them so improbable a story. I gave another name from that under which I was hitherto known, for I did not wish to disgrace myself in the eyes of my former school-fellows and college acquaintance, and also from that which I now bear, because I have found it necessary, even for my very existence, to change it since. But I refused to give any other account of myself, my parentage, the place of my birth, my circumstances, or to say anything else than that I was entirely innocent of the crime laid to my charge, or of the intention to commit that or any other crime whatever, and my committal was made out accordingly without any hesitation, and I was sent to the county goal to await my trial at the next general assises for a capital offense of which I was not only innocent, but which I even risked my own life to prevent. But I confess I do not know how the magistrates could have acted otherwise than they did, for I am sure that had I been in their place I should have done the same thing myself. I therefore cannot blame them for the unheard of calamities which it has been my fate to suffer, both in mind and body, under the severe discipline of a prison and the stigma of a horrid crime, and can only attribute it to my own evil destiny which seems to persecute me without mercy wherever I go, or whatever I do. But with the assistance of heaven nothing shall tempt me to despair, or even to repine, or to swerve for a moment from that rectitude of purpose which has hitherto been the guide of my existence. 
               "To describe to you what I had to undergo during my three months imprisonment before my trial would not only be tedious but disgusting; but I may remark that neither the felon's garb nor the menial offices that I was obliged to perform, nor the cold damp cell, nor all the other evils I had to endure, could for a moment be compared, for the excrutiating torture they inflicted, to the society of the wretches with whom I was obliged to herd in common. Had I been left to myself, my imprisonment, however severe in other respects would have been tolerable; but to be obliged to listen to the low ribaldry, the disgusting levity, the atrocious and open avowal of hardened and guilty fellow creatures; to be subject to their scoffs and contempt; to be the perpetual object of their derision and insolence, because I seemed to listen with an unwilling ear and an uncongenial mind to their filthy and abominable disclosures, is surely the utmost punishment that the mind of man can endure, and well calculated, if anything can do so, to make it forget the impress of the Almighty Being which it bears, and rush headlong into perdition and misery! Great God! I am almost maddened with the bare remembrance of what I then endured, and wonder that my mind was not completely unhinged and distracted by the abominations I was forced to listen to, and that for a space of three long months. Oh! who would endure the torment of fire for one hour, one minute, and yet this would be even less painful to the body than that companionship to the mind. Surely, if there is to be a punishment for the wicked in another world, (and who can doubt the fact?) there is no need to have recourse to a material fire for that end, when the immaterial fire which scorches without consuming the soul is all sufficient for the purpose. But amidst all my sufferings, it was one consolation to me that my beloved Charlotte was ignorant of my fate; that she remained in happy unconsciousness of the sufferings I endured. For as yet I knew nothing of her death; how could I? no papers, no books of any kind were allowed me, and what short moments of quiet I could steal from the impious mirth around me were spent in reflecting on her; but it was a bitter and painful reflection, for I could not help thinking that we were separated for ever, as I had now no hopes of seeing her again, whatever little or vague hopes I might have entertained before, for not being able to give any account of myself on the evening of the robbery, and having such clear testimony of my guilt against me, I must, doubtless, fall an innocent victim to the strict severity of the laws. I fully made up my mind that this must be the case, though I could not help regretting that it must be in so ignominious a manner. However death in any shape would be a boon to such a forlorn and friendless wretch as I, though but a few months before I was the happiest of men, with every prospect of success and worldly prosperity in view. All that gave me any sorrow now was that there was one being in the world who would, if she knew it, sympathize in my sufferings and deplore my fate; and it would have been no small consolation to me at that time to have learned that she had gone before me, and that we should soon meet in another and a better world. But even that consolation was denied me." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               THE TRIAL AND SENTENCE. 
               THUS the time passed painfully slow, every day seeming a month and every hour a day, till at last I was so worn with suffering, both mental and physical, and so pale and emaciated as scarcely to appear the same being. But the hour of my deliverance was fast approaching, and I was beginning, as it drew nearer, to feel a restless impatience till death should rescue me from all my sorrows. The assises at length came. I was arraigned at the bar of justice, tried and found guilty by a jury of my countrymen, for the facts were too plain to admit of any other defense than the simple assertion of my innoeence, in which I persevered to the last; but against such palpable evidence as seemed to add effrontery to crime and to call forth the reprobation and disgust of all present. And as I either could or would give no account of myself whatever, I was pronounced to be the most hardened and obstinate criminal that had ever come within the experience of the learned and venerable judge who tried me. 
               "The sentence of the law was therefore pronounced upon me, which was, that in a few days I should be led forth to execution for the crimes of willful murder, house-breaking and attempted robbery, and no hope of pardon was to be thought of by me, or indeed was possible. I bowed my head meekly, at the same time protesting my innocence again, and was supported out of the dock to my condemned cell, where I was to pass the short interval between my trial and execution. 
                
               "This was a narrow dungeon, damp and foul, but yet to me it was a paradise compared with the hideous den to which I had hitherto been confined, because now I was alone. Shut in from a cruel and insulting world, I now enjoyed a foretaste of that repose which, in a few days, would be perfect; and far from feeling my situation a miserable one, I considered it a friendly retreat from the cold, suspicious eye and the cruel charities of my fellow-men, and rejoiced in the prospect of eternal enlargement which its gloomy shade, the precincts of the tomb and the shadow of death must soon lead to! Now, my very loneliness, my friendlessness was a matter of the deepest consolation to me, for I alone should suffer in my approaching ignominous death! I should pass away unknown and unlamented from the world, and not an eye should be moist, nor a heart sorrowful at my fate! Had I parents, brothers, sisters, or relations, how great would have been my pangs of sorrow and distress in the prospect of bidding them an eternal farewell, in tearing myself from their loved embrace! How many deaths should I have endured in witnessing their desolation and misery? But now I was the only one who was to suffer, though innocent; but then that suffering was sent me from Heaven to release me from a greater. It was a precious boon, and I blessed the hand that inflicted it, and the more so still because my conscience told me that I died innocent of any crime. To the stranger, if any wasted a thought upon me at all, I must have appeared the most wretched of mankind; to myself I seemed the most happy in that lonely and dismal cell of the condemned, so great is the power of circumstances in making the happiness or misery of men and influencing the feelings of individuals at different times. 
               "The greatest interruption to this tranquility and calm was the bold and indecent intrusion of men calling themselves ministers of the gospel and servants of Christ, who worried me with entreaties to confess my guilt at once, 'as no one,' they said, 'entertained the least doubt of it,' and to repent in time, 'as God,' they said, 'was ever willing to receive the repentant sinner to his bosom!' All I could say to the contrary would not convince these reverend gentlemen of my innocence, and after hours of vain remonstrance they have often departed in the greatest anger, anathematizing the depravity of the human heart, because I would not confess to that of which I was not guilty, nor inculpate associates of whom I knew nothing. These made very unfavorable reports of my spiritual condition, and some of them did not hesitate to affirm that I was a spirit of evil that had assumed the human form to execute some diabolical machination of Satan. At last they became so insolent and importunate as to induce me to exclude them altogether, and if they persevered in tormenting me, to close my ears and take no notice of their presence whatever. I even went so far as to tell one of them that if I had no hope of being saved except through his charitable interference and that of his meek brethren, I did not desire salvation at all. I never would even attempt to pray in their presence, for I scorned their hypocrisy and wished to mortify their insolent presumption; but when I was left alone, then did I fall on my knees before my Creator and my God! then did I pour out my whole soul in the presence of my Maker and Redeemer, and derive that inward consolation and support which He never refuses to those who place their confidence in Him! I was resolved to be religious in my own way and according to the dictates of my own heart, without the vain pomp and parade of outward show and hypocritical ceremonies. 
               "With the exception of these petty annoyances, I now felt comparatively happy and resigned entirely to my fate. I slept soundly at night and took my meals with regularity, and thus regained some of that strength of frame which I had lost from the uncertainty in which I was placed before and the companionship with which I had been forced to associate. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               THE REPRIEVE. 
               AT last the morning dawned which was to be my last in this world. I hailed its friendly light with heartfelt gratitude. I arose, dressed and prayed in silence and alone to my God, into whose hands I was so soon to resign my weary spirit. Presently I heard a key in the door of my cell; it was opened and the officers who carry into effect the last sentence of the law made their appearance, accompanied by the chaplain of the prison. They found me in a firm and tranquil frame of mind, awaiting their arrival with anxious expectation. My chains were struck off and I was led to the scaffold, the chaplain reading in a solemn tone the service appointed to be read on such occasions by the church of England. I mounted the scaffold with a firm step, my arms pinioned. I glanced around the multitude assembled to witness the last agonies of a fellow creature, and I thought I saw a savage joy depicted on their countenances. It seemed that an execution would be a rich feast for them. The executioner was just beginning to adjust the instrument of death when all at once a cry was heard amongst the crowd of 'Stop! stop! a reprieve! a reprieve!' and the sound was echoed along through the dense mass of human beings and was repeated with increasing power till the whole crowd pealed forth with one universal voice the (to some) joyful sound, 'reprieve! reprieve!' but to many it seemed a great disappointment, and murmurs, and even hisses, were mingled with the cries of exultation for depriving the people of a sight which they had that day made so many sacrifices of personal comfort to see; and the mass were departing with an air of sullen dissatisfaction, when it was announced by the sheriff that 'the criminal had received a free pardon because he was found, from the confession of the real culprit, who had been taken in the act of committing another robbery, to have been completely innocent!' 
               "I must do the great mass the justice to say that when the announcement was made fully known to them that I was innocent, a universal cheer of exultation swallowed up the incipient signs of previous discontent, and all seemed rejoiced at the happy turn which events had taken in so short a space of time. I was just on the brink of eternity and one minute more and I should have been irrevocably plunged into its dark and unfathomable abyss! but Providence overruled this catastrophe for the sake of human justice, which would have been so grossly outraged by this deed of blood! 
               "As for myself, I was, I may venture to say, the only person who remained unmoved in this general, this universal ferment of minds. Though it was a matter of rejoicing to me to be cleared from all suspicion of crime in the presence of my fellow men, yet knowing already how I stood in the presence of my God, and that ere now I should have been happy in his bosom, there to dwell forever more, I felt regret that the reprieve had arrived so soon and thereby condemned me again to encounter the storms and tempests of this black and gloomy world! 
               "I was now warmly congratulated on my escape, not only by my fellow prisoners, but also by the officers of the prison and the sheriffs, who all seemed delighted at the issue of an affair which but a few moments before had seemed gloomy and hopeless! The reverend chaplain alone seemed morose and sulky, either because he had the mortification to find his dogmatical assertion of my guilt contradicted, or that he was sorry that one so hardened and obstinate should escape a punishment, if not due to his guilt, at least richly merited by his unbending and independent demeanor, and he alone retained the stiff and unbending attitude which characterized him." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               FREEDOM. 
               I WAS now told that I might go whithersoever I chose; and though pleased to regain my liberty, yet, having neither money nor clothes, nor a single friend in the world to whom I would apply, I knew not what use to make of my liberty. The trifle of money which I had on my person on being sent to prison, was taken away from me, and when, on being liberated, I demanded it of the turnkey, I was told that it was barely sufficient to pay the ordinary fees. 
               "What!" I demanded, "must a man who has been falsely imprisoned for upwards of three months with the vilest characters, and felons of the worst description, who has suffered all the agonies of a condemned cell, who has been subjected to the ignominy of standing before the public gaze on a scaffold, and who, when on the brink of eternity, was found to be innocent of every crime, must he be compelled to pay the last farthing he has in the world for such favors, and at last sent out, naked and penniless, to beg his bread from door to door?" 
               "Such is the law," I was answered. 
               "It may be law," I exclaimed, "but it is certainly not justice. Ought not the law be made for the protection of the community, and the terror and punishment of evil-doers? And who are the community? Is it not composed of individuals who, from their blameless life and unimpeachable characters, are entitled to the protection of the laws? and if any such are falsely accused and persecuted to the death, even though innocent of crime, surely the law ought to hold out to them some means of redress for these wrongs." 
               "It does," I was answered. 
               "What redress?" I inquired; "it is this only which I wish to know." 
               "If the accused," said my respondent, "has the good fortune as you have had, to escape the gallows, and can prove that a false accusation had been maliciously preferred against him, and he was thereby exposed to personal or pecuniary injury, he can bring his action, and a jury will return him suitable damages." 
               "What compensation," I asked, "can money make to the man whose being has been blighted, whose spirit has been seered, whose character and prospects have been utterly ruined?" 
               "There is no remedy for this," he replied, "and the evil must be borne to secure a greater good. For though some from a peculiar concurrence of circumstances, may run the risk of being falsely accused, as you have done, and even of suffering death, which you have escaped, yet such instances are very rare, and not to be compared with the advantages arising from the state of the law to the community at large; for if none could be put to inconvenience but those whose guilt was manifest, how few would meet the punishment they deserve, and how many abandoned and depraved wretches would be let loose on the world!" 
               "True," I replied, "but is it not enough for the unfortunate wretch, who, though innocent, happens, from circumstances, to be the object of strong suspicion, and who for that reason is subjected to every mental and bodily suffering, is it not enough for him to suffer these inflictions as long as he is an object of suspicion, but must he be subjected to the consequences perhaps for the remainder of his life afterwards? Must he be cast out on the world, naked and abandoned, merely because he has had the misfortune to suffer unheardof calamities already for the sake of justice; and must he continue to suffer after the necessity which first placed him in that position was entirely removed? One would think that the wisdom and mercy and kind consideration of legislators would have made some provision for such a case; for surely society ought not to abandon and cast away the man who has suffered so much in its behalf, no more than she would abandon the soldiers who fought her battles, or the sailors who guarded her interests in distant regions. But it seems she not only abandons him to his own resources when his energies are broken in her service, but she robs him of the little he possessed. And what does it matter whether the law expressly sanctions such injustice or not, if, like a careful guardian, it does not take care that no such abuse can occur either through those who administer it or through those more mercenary tools who only look to their own interests in executing its final decisions, who, in direct opposition to its spirit, take advantage of every loop-hole to creep through its meshes, and to prey upon those whom it was framed to protect as well as to control. I may be told that custom, either local or general, sanctions the practice from time immemorial, as well as acts of the legislature. But, if this is the case, I have done. It may be that both custom and the legislature sanction it. I say it may be, for I am ignorant of the law on this point; but one thing I will say, if it is so, both custom and the legislature are opposed to justice, which ought to be the only end and aim of all law. This is but too evident, if an innocent man falsely accused, falsely imprisoned, falsely condemned, is, in addition to this, robbed of all he possessed, and sent into the wide world naked and penniless. 
               "But though I could obtain no redress for my wrongs, my case excited universal pity amongst all who heard it, and as the English people are ever ready to relieve the distresses of the wretched, a subscription of a very liberal character was immediately set on foot on my behalf, and a handsome sum would have been presented to me had I not immediately, on hearing it, put a stop to it, declaring that though my gratitude was unbounded, I could not possibly accept a farthing. 
               "No," I said to the gentlemen who were deputed to inform me, "tell the people that I shall feel grateful for their kindness and benevolence while I live, but that this bounty would be showered in vain on a wretch like me, whose miseries no wealth or worldly circumstances could alleviate, and that since I cannot obtain what is my just right, I must decline to accept the kind offer which they have made me. 
               "While I yet spoke, several of the gentlemen were moved to tears, others seemed lost in astonishment and wonder that one like me could refuse such a munificent gift as the people proposed to offer me, and when they reported my answer to the towns-people it excited universal curiosity and interest. 
               "I was now about to retire to bed for the night, when I was informed that my refusal to accept any relief had created such a sensation in the town that hundreds had expressed their intention of visiting me next day with a desire to become more acquainted with my character and history, if possible. I therefore resolved to steal away privately from the inn at which I stopped, in the middle of the night, and thus disappoint a curiosity which it was impossible for me to gratify. Accordingly, having left some little article of dress sufficient to pay for my lodging, with a note for my landlord explaining the reasons for my abrupt departure, I collected together the few things which I had left and took my departure privately, when all the household were locked in the arms of sleep. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               COLD AND HUNGER. 
               IT was a cold, frosty night in the beginning of January. The north wind was keen and piercing, and the stars twinkled with extraordinary brilliancy in their orbits. Not a cloud was seen to obscure the deep azure of the heavens, and the whole earth was buried in silence and deep sleep. Man, and beast, and bird, and fish were at rest, and their repose seemed like that of the dead. I alone was awake and in motion amidst this universal torpor of Nature. I and the starry host; for, though silent, their bright beams were not quenched, neither did they for a moment cease their regular and never tiring dance in their spheres. And their music; oh, it must have been sweet to the ear attuned to hear it; but mine was deaf to every sound save the sigh of sorrow; and my weary heart, though it felt, yet it heeded not their sweet harmony. 
               "As I walked down the streets of a city that seemed deserted, no sounds assailed my ear save those of my own footsteps on the pavement, echoed by the surrounding walls; but these seemed so loud and so multiplied as to be likely to awaken the sleepers, however soundly they slept. I therefore endeavored to tread more lightly, which, from the nature of the shoes I wore, was a somewhat difficult task. At length I cleared the town and found myself in the open country, but so thinly was I clothed, and so keen and piercing was the cold, that I felt now for the first time what cruel pangs the naked and homeless wretch is exposed to in the severity of the winter. I attempted to run, in hopes of gaining a little warmth from muscular exertion, but so thin and emaciated had I become, and so stiff and benumbed were my limbs, both from my long confinement and the intense cold, that I found it quite impossible to continue it for a minute only. I must therefore content myself with going on slowly, and endure the cold with as much patience and resolution as I could summon to my aid. 
               "I know not how long I may have traveled in this state of torpor and suffering, when daylight began to appear. The ground was covered with a hard frost, and the landscape revealed to my eyes was one of the bleakest I had ever seen. In addition to the cold I now began to feel the pangs of hunger, for the keen air of the morning was well calculated to produce that effect. But though I passed by houses of refreshment, none of their inmates were yet stirring, and if they had been I had not the means of purchasing even a morsel of bread. What could I do? I had no other resource but to beg a scanty meal of the charitable; and though I shrunk back with shame at the bare thought, yet when I reflected that had I not been unjustly robbed of my own, I might, at least for some time longer, have been saved from the humiliation it implied. But (I exclaimed to myself) let the shame rest on those who have driven me to it, and upon laws which sanction what is unjust! 
               "But before I could resolve to ask for alms I determined to seek some employment, even in the most laborious drudgery that my delicate frame and the weakness of my condition would permit me to undertake; and should I fail in this, then I determined, as a last resource, to have recourse to the charity of my fellow men. 
               "I had scarcely formed this resolution when I observed a farm house at some little distance from the main road. Thither I directed my steps, sad and dejected, but urged on by the powerful cravings of hunger ger. I knocked at the door and inquired for the master of the house. I was told kindly to walk in, and that he would be down directly and would see me. I took my seat near a large fire that burned most cheerfully in the kitchen, and the heat which I received from its benign influence was gratefully diffused over my whole frame, and restored me to myself and to life. Oh, how delightful are the most ordinary comforts when we have long suffered under a deprivation of them! All around I saw unequivocal signs of plenty. The beams of the kitchen literally groaned with the load of ham, bacon and cured beef which they supported; the farm yard sent forth a merry sound from the intermingling voices of the fowls, ducks, geese and turkeys which it contained; and in fact everything indicated wealth and rural abundance. I augured well of the master and mistress of the house from the kind looks and kind conduct of their servants and dependents-even towards such a forlorn and wretched being as I was; for I have invariably found, as far as my own observation has gone, that when the servants in a house, whether that house be the abode of the peer or of those in the middle and upper classes of life, show themselves considerate and attentive to strangers of all grades and conditions, they but act at second hand the part of their master; and when, on the other hand, the servants are uncivil either in their words, actions or looks, they but mimic and echo those whose will they are hired to obey and whose wishes it is their interest to fulfill. 
               "I had only been seated a few minutes when the farmer made his appearance. He was a tall man, well made, and rather inclining to be stout, though by no means more than was becoming. He had a most benevolent countenance, and his voice and manner were in perfect accordance with his appearance. In a mild and gentle tone he asked me whether I had any particular business with him, and whether he could do anything to serve me. 
               "I then told him that I was a poor, miserable wretch, without a farthing in the world to buy me a mouthful of bread, though I was almost starving with hunger; that I was most willing to work for my living in anything I was capable of doing, if I could get employment; and that, seeing his house on passing along that morning, I had ventured to call, in hopes of procuring something to do, for which I should consider the smallest pittance a sufficient requital. 
               "He surveyed me for some time, as if half-doubtful of the truth of my story; then all at once he muttered aloud, as if unconsciously- 
               "'Yes, it must be so! His very looks show that he has suffered from starvation, and his countenance is not that of a liar!' Then aloud to the maid: 'Ho! Janet! bring this young man some breakfast directly. Be quick, you jade, for he is sorely in need of it.' 
               "Janet was not slow in obeying the command of her master, for she seemed as eager as he to do all that a benevolent heart could suggest. She quickly placed on the large oaken table a round of beef, some fresh eggs, broiled ham, and the most delicious tea I had ever tasted. Both she and the benevolent farmer gazed with astonishment and delight at the justice which I did to their fare, and at the pleasure which I enjoyed from their bounty. Had any one, even the most selfish and hardened sensualist, seen the glistening eyes of the farmer and his humble dependent that morning, and the internal satisfaction they derived from that which gave happiness to another, though an utter stranger, he would be compelled to confess that there is indeed some 'luxury in doing good.' 
               "When I had finished my meal the farmer took a seat near me, and began to question me as to what I could do and what I had been accustomed to do. 'But I see,' said he, 'from the delicacy of your frame and the extreme whiteness and softness of your hands, that you have not been much inured to the ungentle labor of the plow or the spade.' 
               "'I confess,' I replied, 'I have not; but I am young and willing to learn, if you will have the kindness to place me under instruction, and I will demand no pay till I have thoroughly learned to perform the part of a man in whatever department you wish to place me. Like many others, I have been brought up too delicately, and with lofty ideas of life which I had not the means to support. These I would wish to unlearn now, and to acquire in their stead some honest calling that will enable me to gain a living by my own exertions, independent of the world's charity, and continue as I have hitherto lived-an honest man. But I entreat you,' I continued, 'do not question me about my parents or my former station in life, for of these I can not speak, and it hurts my feelings to enter on the subject at all. If, therefore, I am to enjoy your kindness and protection, let it be on this one condition; in every other respect treat me as you will.' 
               "'Fear not, young man,' he replied, 'I will not seek to dive into your secrets, if such you have; it is enough for me to know that you are wretched, and that I can be of service to you, without wounding your feelings. You may rest assured that no one under my roof or in my employment shall ever mention the subject, if you wish it; but the best way is to say nothing at all about it, and no one will ever think of it, for wherever there is any appearance of mystery, there human curiosity will be at work, trying to unravel it. But come now,' he continued, 'what do you think you are fit for? I think tending sheep, under the direction of Johnny Downshire, my shepherd, would not be amiss, at least for some time at first, and then if you find it too inactive a mode of life you might change it for some other.' 
               "'Yes,' I replied, 'with your kind permission I should very much like to learn every branch of farming besides, and to work at everything in turn, in order that I may become a proficient in a profession which I so much admire, and at the same time furnish myself with the means of earning an honest livelihood by my skill and labor.' 
               "'A very laudable ambition indeed,' said the farmer, 'and one which ought to be gratified as fully as possible ble. Yes, it shall be done; I am determined it shall,' he continued; 'so from henceforth consider yourself engaged in my service-more, however, as an apprentice than a servant, for if you behave well I assure you you shall be treated as one of my own family, but if not, then that moment our engagement is at an end.' 
               "I thanked him kindly for his good intentions towards me, and remarked that since he was good enough to give me a trial, it must be my own fault if I proved unworthy of his confidence, but at the same time I hoped he would never have cause to complain, and I begged that he would give me an opportunity immediately of showing my gratitude and my zeal in his service by setting me to work forthwith. 
               "'Pooh, pooh!' he said, with a significant glance at my figure and a sportive smile. 'you must lie fallow for some time, till we get you into good heart, otherwise you will never produce a crop worth the mowing. No, no; such a bag of bones as you are must be stall-fed before you are in condition for the knife-eh? and you must get on a fleece that will stand the weather, boy, and then we will try what sort of bell-metal you are made of!' So saying he went off, laughing, to give an account to his wife and family of the wild and famished colt he had caught that morning, and of the plan he had laid to break him in, and left me to enjoy the comforts of a warm kitchen and a good breakfast, seasoned with the simple but kind-hearted conversation of Janet. 
               "In a very few minutes she told me all the affairs of the family, the number of children of both sexes, their various dispositions, the number of men-servants and of maid-servants employed, and, in short, everything she could think of, without the slightest inquiry on my part. She said her mistress was both a handsome and an excellent woman, and that she had two daughters as good and as amiable, and as handsome, too, as herself. She told me also that their only son, having taken an unconquerable liking for the sea, had gone abroad, and thereby almost broken his mother's heart, and that the eldest daughter, Fanny, was soon to be married to a great match in the neighborhood, one farmer Muckleworth, who was very rich; that the other, Jane, had a great many admirers, but had not yet made a choice; that both daughters would have a good fortune, and that we should have jolly fun in dancing at their weddings. 
               "She had scarcely finished this history when the farmer, whose name was Ringwood, returned to the kitchen and beckoned me to follow him. I did so, and we proceeded to a little back parlor, where we found his wife and two daughters seated at breakfast. They rose to receive me, which they did with the greatest kindness, at the same time observing my features and person with the keenest scrutiny, though by no means with a vulgar stare, but gradually and as it were by stealth when they imagined I was not observing them. Mrs. Ringwood did indeed seem a very kind and pleasing woman; and her two daughters, though not handsome, were distinguished for an expression of good nature and kind feeling in their countenance, which partook both of the benevolent smile of the father and the placid, mild look of the mother. They were perfectly at their ease and lady-like, and it was evident they had received a good education. They all looked on me with a smile of approval mingled with compassion; and when they had satisfied themselves with examining my looks and occasionally questioning me, the old gentleman whispered to me that I had better accompany him now to the tailor's, in order that I might be equipped in a manner suitable to my new duties. I therefore took my leave of the ladies with a low bow, which was cordially returned, and then I followed Mr. Ringwood to the tailor's, where I was measured for a new suit of clothes, which were to be ready as soon as possible. 
               "In a few days I was decked out in a new suit of clothes, which, though coarse, were very well adapted to that cold season of the year; and now, expressing my wish to be employed immediately, I was placed under the tuition of John Downshire, the shepherd, whom I found to be not only a kind but a very agreeable companion, taking all things into consideration. He possessed a fund of legendary lore and of anecdote, and had a very happy manner of telling his stories, which served to beguile the long winter evenings and to turn what was irksome in my novel pursuit into a source of pleasure and delight. He soon became very partial to me because I received his instructions eagerly and profited by them so well that in a very short time he pronounced me as capable of managing a flock and preserving them from the various diseases incident to cattle and sheep as himself or any man in the country. He was, like myself, fond of music, and often, as the season advanced and the spring began to grow genial, have we made the fields re-echo with our strains, playing and singing in concert, for he had an exquisite though uncultivated voice, which I taught him to modulate so as to accompany my flute beautifully in a short time. 
               "But I did not rest satisfied with knowing how to manage a flock. I put my hand to the plow, the spade, the axe and the scythe; and when the yellow harvest waved its golden locks in the breeze I manfully took up my sickle and mingled with the foremost in this interesting though severe rural labor, until I became an adept in every species of husbandry. The management of bees also claimed a portion of my attention, with the cultivation of flowers and gardening generally. The manuring and enriching of soils, liming, draining, the planting of trees, and the breeding of horses and cows, the operations of the dairy and the tenants of the farm yard-in short, every department comprised within the knowledge of the farmer, was studied by me with unremitting attention, and I labored at all in turn with my own hands; and that labor was amply compensated, not only by the approbation of my employer and the esteem and kind attention of his family, but by the fund of knowledge which I gained of things and of persons, and the feeling of noble independence pendence with which it inspired me. I felt that though moving in an humble sphere of life, I was of some utility in the world and of service to my fellow men, and not spending my time in listless idleness, like the children of wealth and luxury, but in accordance with the will of my Creator, who, knowing that it would promote the good of fallen man to labor, pronounced the merciful sentence upon him, saying: 'In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread till thou return unto the ground.' 
               "At no period of my life had I felt so much at ease as at that I am now speaking of, and my happiness would have been complete had it not been for the remembrance of the past. My history previous to my last meeting with McArdle had been involved in such obscurity as to be a perpetual source of torment to me from the first moment I could reason upon it or feel my position. I knew not how it might turn out, though I hoped for the best, and therefore I lived in perpetual dread of the worst also, for hope is inseparable from fear; but the moment all was made known to me I knew the worst that could happen, and though the blow was a terrible one, yet when I recovered from the violent reaction of its first impulse I determined to bear it manfully. Labor, instead of being an evil, I felt would be the greatest blessing, for it might teach me in some measure to forget the woes of the past by keeping my attention occupied on the pressing necessities of the present; and this was fully realized by experience. The constant attention which I was now obliged to devote to a multiplicity of objects, and the interest which I took in everything around me began to wean my mind from the contemplation of the past, and in a certain degree to lull it into repose. I now looked on by-gone scenes as it were in a dream. I had fallen from some high eminence, or was disappointed in my attempt to possess myself of some precious jewel, but I awoke to reality and found it only a phantom of the imagination! My aim now was to forget all about that, and to conform to my true condition in life, in which fortune tune, but for one of her freaks, would originally have placed me. 
               "I had now been about nine months with the good Farmer Ringwood, and so rapidly had the time glided away that its flight seemed to me almost imperceptible. I had witnessed almost every operation-of putting in the crop, of weeding it, and of reaping the harvest, and in that one season I had learned the management of a farm so completely that the farmer declared he had never witnessed anything so extraordinary in the whole course of his life, and that if I persevered in the course I had begun I could not fail to become eventually a prosperous man. I was informed, too, by my kind friend, Janet, that I was looked upon with a favorable eye by others of the family besides her master and mistress, which indeed I knew too well already; for it was with no little pain that I had remarked the interest which the farmer's younger daughter, Miss Jane, took in my welfare from the first moment of our acquaintance, though no word of courtship had ever passed between us; and it may be well believed that, far from paying her any attention, I discouraged her advances by every means in my power, for I could not forget the merits of her whom I loved more than life, nor, if I could even do that, could I forget the oath which I had sworn in her presence and that of all-seeing Heaven! At first I hoped that this passion on her part, if discouraged on mine, would in due time work itself out, and be thought of no more. But I was mistaken. At every opportunity she threw herself in my way for the purpose of conversing with me. At dinner and our other meals her eyes were riveted upon me, and I sometimes detected a tear stealing down her cheek as she gazed upon me with a mingled look of pleasure and pain. I could not help feeling for her. I could even have loved her had not my heart been so completely filled with a passion which time could not dislodge, however it might mitigate its effects, and I reasoned with myself that the best way to insure her peace of mind would be for me to quit the house of her father and seek some other master, though I might not hope to find his equal. However, I determined to sacrifice my own interest for the happiness of his child, and though he might blame me for ingratitude I thought he would be well satisfied with my conduct when he should know the motives which impelled me to adopt it, which, however, out of tenderness for her, I did not intend to tell him at present, but to make some other excuse for the course I was about to pursue. 
               "But there was another cause besides, which urged me to this step, and that was a certain restlessness of disposition which would not allow me to remain entirely satisfied with my new condition. I had learnt every thing there was to be known, and I could not bear the idea of sitting down quietly to a drudgery and routine of the same kind without any variation. As long as there was anything new to engross the mind, and keep it in active employment, so long was I perfectly satisfied; but when this ceased, which from the confined circle of the pursuits in which I had been occupied, must soon be the case, there was little to make me feel an interest in it any longer. The motives which actuate the great mass of men in that sphere of life were entirely wanting to me; I mean the desire of gain and a permanent establishment. To me that inactivity and torpor of mind which must succeed the novelty and attraction of a new pursuit were, even in prospect, intolerable; and I resolved to seek for excitement, without which I found my whole energies would dwindle away to nothing, and become worse than useless. Whether this was a feeling peculiar to myself, or common to all of the same temperament, I cannot undertake to say, but I should think the latter the more likely. What right, I thought, had I to enjoy the calm and tranquil sunshine of life? What had I, in common with those around me that could influence me to imitate their example or to think with them? Nothing! I felt, therefore, that I must encounter the storms of the world, for which fate seemed to have ordained me, and that in mingling with my fellow men, and exposing myself to their contumely and rebuffs, I was only fulfilling my destiny which it were worse than vain to oppose. 
               "Impelled, therefore, by these various and conflicting considerations, I sought an interview with my kind master and in as delicate a manner as possible, and with every demonstration of the most lively gratitude, imparted to him the resolution which I had just formed, without, however, mentioning any of the reasons which urged me to the step. At first, indeed, he seemed surprised, but soon collecting himself, he said: 
               "Well, Hardy," for that was the new name I had assumed, "I need not wonder that such is your determination; and if I had had as much sense as I ought, I should not have so fondly counted on your staying very long amongst us. You are worthy of a far different sphere of life, and are well calculated to adorn any. I had hoped, however," he added, "that your stay would have been longer than it is likely to be, and that we should not so soon lose the pleasure of your society; but pursue your own course, and follow that which you may deem agreeable to your interests, and I shall be happy to do all in my power to assist you, either by word or deed; you may always rely upon me as a friend." 
               "I thanked him for this additional proof of his kindness, enumerating at the same time all the benefits I had already received at his hands, from the time that he confidentially received me, a poor, forlorn, and penniless outcast, into his house, till that moment, and declared that the memory of his goodness and confidence should never be obliterated from my mind. As to bettering my condition by leaving your service," I continued, "that is very doubtful, indeed, for I may travel long before I meet with such a master, and as yet I know of no one who would require my services. The truth is," I added, "that I am a miserable and restless man, and that perhaps I am only rushing on to my own destruction!" 
                
               "Oh, then," he replied, "if that is the case, let me entreat you to remain, at least till you have some place to go to, and do not again throw yourself naked upon the world, lest you should be reduced to extremeties still worse than when you entered my house. Let me beg of you to remain, and the moment any thing offers that will suit your purpose, you shall be dismissed with my blessing and many thanks for your zeal in my service, and the interest you have taken in my prosperity." 
               "For that I am more than amply repaid already," I replied, "by the knowledge I have gained in your service, and the kind and indulgent treatment I have experienced from you and your family; and as to the danger of exposing myself to the chance of difficulties, that is the very thing I am sighing for. I want excitement, and I cannot have this unless I am placed in circumstances of difficulty and danger. Do not, therefore, my kind and worthy friend, give yourself any uneasiness concerning me. I am the child of caprice and the sport of fortune, and must fulfill my destiny." 
               "Well," he said, "if you are determined, I will not oppose your wish; but always remember that you have a friend in time of need in old farmer Ringwood, and a shelter under his roof, should you ever require one." While he spoke, I saw a tear spring to his eye, which he dashed away, and seizing me by the hand, while I was thanking him again and again, he exclaimed: "No more of this, Hardy; it is too much for me, and I cannot endure it! I know not how it is, but I always feel a kind of silly weakness when likely to part from a friend. Well, God bless you whensoever and where ever you go." 
               "I was so overcome with the earnest, kind manner of his address that I could not utter a word in reply, but turning away to hide a tear that was glistening in my eye, I was relieved from my embarrassment on finding, when I turned round again, that he had been called off on some business. Before this, however, we had arranged that I should take my departure on that day month. 
               "When my resolution was made known to the family and the farm servants, it created much surprise and sorrow, but particularly with my kind friend and companion, John Downshire, the shepherd, who was affected even to tears when he was assured of its truth. The good-natured Janet, too, was grieved to hear that which, at first, she would not believe, for she thought it would be impossible for me to resist the attraction of a young and pleasing girl who loved me, and who possessed the additional charm of a good substantial fortune. But poor Janet knew little of my feelings, or the motives which regulated my conduct. 
               "At length the day of my departure arrived; when having bidden a warm farewell to all my friends, and having thanked Mr. and Mrs. Ringwood and their daughters, (poor Miss Jane was bathed in tears, and her eyes were swollen and red, which effects of sorrow she in vain endeavored to conceal,) I took up my little bundle containing some changes of linen and a good suit of decent Sunday clothes and departed from the only place where I had ever enjoyed true happiness for any length of time. Besides a good wardrobe, I also possessed a small sum of money, which, being the fruits of my own industry, of the labors of my hands, and the sweat of my brow, I prized more than all I had ever before possessed. 
               "It was a sweet autumnal day in the early part of October when I took my departure. The morning was clear, and there was an exhilirating freshness and buoyancy in the air, which quickly dispelled the melancholy of my mind in parting from those with whom I had become familiar by a friendly intercourse for upwards of nine months. The trees, though beginning to exhibit signs of the season, still retained much of their verdure and beauty; and the fields and meadows, relieved of the bountiful harvest which they had yielded to the husbandman, smiled in repose under the influence of the genial light, like a man who reposes after the fatigues of the day, or the mind of the scholar which takes the needful relaxation after a hard-fought and victorious collegiate campaign. Herds of fair cattle were browsing peacefully everywhere around, and sheep let loose from their pens seemed to exult in their boundless freedom over the open plains; for, instead of grazing and eating down the grass as they proceeded, the leaders of the flock would just nibble a mouthful here and there, under the pretence of feeding, but in reality to gratify their ambition for ruling their mates and leading them where they chose; and these followed first in twos, then in threes, and in still more extended files, until the whole exhibited one mathematical figure of a spheroidal form, which kept pace with their chief as regularly as an army obeys the voice of its commander and the prescribed step of time. Here and there were to be seen enclosed paddocks tenanted by draught horses, let loose to rest and fatten after the toils of the year; and sometimes a foal sporting round its mother, and on the slightest alarm erecting its mane and tail, and scampering off with a graceful motion for some little distance from its dame, then turning round to listen for a moment, and to see the cause of its fear, and then again hastening back to her in the same graceful manner. It ever kept hovering around her in a certain circle, as if it was held by an invisible chain of which she was the centre, and so she is, for that chain is the bond of nature, stronger than any material tie, and more certain is its operation than chains of iron, brass or gold. In a distant field a solitary plow would sometimes be seen preparing the soil for the crop of the coming year; but its movements, slow and measured, seemed to speak of repose and the absence of all hurry, as if to signify that there was time enough yet to come in which to do the necessary labor without pressing either man or beast, who, in order to avoid total idleness, appeared to be rather voluntarily employed for their own amusement and recreation, than that there was any thing to be done which required particular attention. Then came the homestead, with its immense ricks of hay and corn, near which the farmer was to be seen with his hands in his pockets and a smile on his countenance, as if fully satisfied that his winter's store was safely housed, and that the labors of the long year were not in vain. Yet, sometimes, mingled with the smile, was to be noticed a sudden start of fear lest his precious heaps should become the prey of the merciless incendiary, who, like a malignant spirit, prowls about in the dark with his hidden fire, seeking what he may destroy. Then appeared the orchard, bending down to the earth under its load of fruits, which it required the aid of props to enable it to sustain; and now the sound of the flail, the vans, and the other implements necessary for preparing the grain for market were distinctly to be heard, and mingled harmoniously with the other sights and sounds which give a variety and a peculiar interest to the labors of rustic life at this season of the year. 
               "Next would appear the broad and stately park of the squire, or the noble, the resident proprietor of the soil; then his mansion would gleam on the sight through an avenue of stately trees, where perhaps he himself would be seen in the honest pride of his worth, with his gun and his dogs, just going out in pursuit of the wild tenants of the hills; or perhaps mounted on his hunter, which bounds and springs forward at the cheering sound of the huntsman horn, or the wild echo of the pack reverberated from the hills. Then on each side were to be heard the frequent sounds of the gun, which, perhaps, at every shot brought down a bleeding victim to the earth; or in the distance was to be seen the pack in full cry at the heels of reynard, and followed close by the venturous and the brave, whom no obstacles could impede in this eager pursuit until both sight and sound vanished in the distance, and nothing was left but the brilliant image on the mind. 
                      
                        "Then came still evening on and twilight gray, 
                        Had in her sober livery all things clad," 
                     
                  
                   when the sun had sunk beneath the horizon and tinged the clouds with a purple hue, and silence and sweet repose reigned over the whole earth. What a picture was there presented to the eye! It cannot be described, but may perhaps be faintly shadowed forth in the language of the poet:  
                     
                         
                           "And others soft and sweet, 
                           As the mild eve in autumn, when the sky 
                           Is melted towards the west to one broad sea, 
                           All crimsoned as of roses; and their hues 
                           Fade imperceptibly; each beauteous shade 
                           More lovely than the last, more delicate, 
                           Until the whole bright vision dies away, 
                           And darkness drops its curtain o'er the scene." 
                        
                      
                     A Day in May, Book 5th. 
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               THE ADVERTISEMENT. 
               ON the evening of such an autumnal day, wearied with the exertion of walking, but soothed in mind by the repose and beauty of the objects I had witnessed in its course, I arrived at a small country inn, where I proposed remaining for the night. There was an air of cleanliness and comfort about the place which, though by no means uncommon in England, I hardly expected to meet with on that retired and unfrequented line of road-for I have always preferred by-ways and green, shady walks and footpaths to the open and frequented roads, whenever I have traveled alone and not been in haste to arrive at my journey's end. I ordered some supper, consisting of fresh eggs, butter, and a sallad; and while I was sitting alone, waiting its being served, I happened to take up a Liverpool paper that was lying there, and my eye fell upon an advertisement in its columns, for a gentleman to undertake the principal desk, after Christmas, in a classical school in or near that town, to whom a liberal salary would be given if he could furnish suitable testimonials as to ability, character, etc. It immediately occurred to me that such a situation might perhaps suit me, if I could procure the necessary testimonials, but under my present peculiar circumstances that was quite impossible. I resolved, however, to pursue my way direct for Liverpool, and if I could get employment in a school there it would be well, if not I could easily, I thought, procure employment in some other way, as there were but few things which would come amiss to me, and accordingly I arrived in that town on the evening of the next day, without meeting with any adventure worth relating. 
               "My first care on arriving in that huge seaport was to seek for some cheap lodgings, as my means were very scanty, and I knew not how long I might be out of employment. It was necessary, therefore, to husband my little money with all care and precaution. I searched long before I could find a place suitable to my taste and my purse at the same time. There were two classes of lodgings that might suit my means, but it was a difficult matter to find one amongst them that had any pretensions to cleanliness or comfort. One class were dark cellars, of which there are great numbers in this town. It is stated that there are upwards of seven thousand eight hundred, occupied by more than thirty-nine thousand persons, being one-fifth of all the working classes in that town. This would give on an average five persons to each cellar; but some of them are far more crowded, containing eight or ten persons each, huddled together like sheep, and for these they pay about one shilling each per week, if they are lodgers. The next class of lodgings are those occupied by poor people, but not so crowded together as the others, where each lodger pays about two shillings weekly, and they sleep two in a bed. It was one of these that I took the first evening of my arrival. No references were either sought of or required by me. The person who kept the house was the wife of a sailor who had been absent for several years. She had one son grown up, who was apprenticed to a ship-carpenter, but had gone away from his master to America two or three times, though he had now returned. With this youth it was arranged that I should sleep. There were no other lodgers in the house. I soon found that the mistress of the house was a great gin-drinker; but I did not suspect her honesty at first, till I began to perceive that whenever I changed a sovereign (I had just six altogether) the money disappeared in a manner for which I could not account, and I began to grow very uneasy about it. Both her son and I were very sound sleepers, and it was requisite for her to come into the room early every morning, in order to rouse him to go to work in the docks, and I determined to watch whether she went near my clothes to take money from them as I suspected. But it was a long time before I could detect her, though my money was going fast. At length, when it was all nearly gone, I awoke one morning with anxiety about the future, when I heard the door open softly and saw the old wretch steal gently to where her son's clothes and mine were thrown together on one chair. She removed his, and, coming to mine, began to put her hand into the trousers' pocket, when I leaped out of bed and seized her in the act. 
               "'Bless me, child! what is the matter with you? You almost frightened me to death!' she said in a calm tone, quite unconscious, seemingly, of doing anything wrong. 
               "'You wretch!' I said, 'you have been robbing me for a long time, and I have caught you at last!' 
               "'You are mad!' she replied; 'why, man, I was only looking for my son's trousers, to mend them before he goes out; and look! here they are, still in my hand, just as I first took them up! You must be dreaming!' 
               "And certainly when I examined more closely it was her son's trousers, and not mine, which she held in her hand. I did not know what to say, but held down my head, unwilling even to look her in the face. 
               "'You may well be ashamed of yourself!' she said. 'But, howsomever, I don't want such folk in my house, so you may cut your stick as soon as ye likes from here. No one hever suspected me afore. You shan't sleep any more here, I'll warrant!' So saying, she slammed to the door and departed in a rage, forgetting to awaken her 'dear John,' as she called her son. 
               "But the latter, hearing the clatter of her tongue, and thinking she had come to scold him out of bed, began to move, opened one eye and then the other, then, stretching himself and yawning so as to be heard across the street, inquired, seeing me up and half-dressed, what was the matter. 
               "'Nothing particular,' I said. 'I have lost some money out of my trousers' pocket occasionally, and I wished to find out the thief, but I fear I have been mistaken.' 
               "'The ould woman has taken it,' said Jack. 'I can't keep a penny for her unless I lock it up, and even then she contrives to get at it by some devil's trick or other. On my soul I believe she's an ould witch, though she is my mother!' 
               "'Well, John,' said I, 'let this matter rest for the present, and remember she is your mother.' 
               "I forgot to mention to you (continued Harcourt) that soon after my arrival in Liverpool I wrote again to the schoolmaster, and in due course received an answer. He stated in his letter that if I proved sufficiently qualified to attend to the duties of his school, it was all he required, and that he would be glad to see me on the following day. 
               "Next day, accordingly, I called upon him, and I had the good fortune to please him. We agreed for a certain sum-indeed I may as well tell you the sum at once; I was to receive forty pounds a year, with board and lodging. According to the suggestion of a friend, I endeavored to stipulate also for washing, but this he would not concede. I agreed to his terms, however, and was very well satisfied, and thankful to Heaven for giving me the means of getting an honest livelihood by my own exertions." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               THE POOR LABORERS. 
               IT yet wanted several weeks of the re-opening of the school, when, as I have already stated, I found myself almost destitute of money, owing to the dishonesty of some one, but whether of Mrs. Sweetbriar or not I was not quite certain, though I had strong suspicions. This was a very awkward predicament, and I scarcely knew how to act. I thought of several means of getting some money in the mean time, none of which would answer my purpose. At last I communicated my circumstances to my friend, Jack Sweetbriar. 
               "'Make yourself aisy,' said he, 'you can live here, any how, till the time comes for going to work (meaning the school), and you can pay the ould'ooman when you gets the blunt; and as for the pocket money, you shall have share with me.' 
               "'Why, Jack,' I replied, 'you are only an apprentice as yet, and havn't got much to spare, and your mother is too poor and too fond of gin to be either able or willing to do as you say. Indeed I could not think of such a thing, even if it was convenient for her; and as for robbing you of your trifle of wages, that I cannot think of. No, no! I can work, if I could get any thing to do in the mean time. Do you think I could get employment, Jack?' 
               "'I don't know that,' he replied; 'it requires interest with the lumpers or ship captains, who are a set of vile scamps and employ none but blustering Irish wagrants, who won't allow any but their own countrymen men to be employed; or if they do, they lead him such a devilish life that he is soon glad to get away from them. I wud advise you not to try it at all,' continued Jack, 'but to stay quietly where you are till you are wanted at the school. Working in the docks will spile your clothes, dirty and blacken your ands, and make you unfit for anything genteel. Take my advice and don't try it at all.' 
               "'But, Jack,' I replied, 'I have got working clothes with me, and as for blacking my hands and making them rough or hard, that doesn't matter. It is no disgrace, Jack, to have hands hardened with honest labor; besides, I have been used to it lately, and I prefer work to idleness.' 
               "'Do you?' says Jack. 'Well, now that's quare enough! By my soul, I'd rather play than work any day of the week, and Sunday into the bargain. But as you say you like work, I see no reason why you should be deprived of the sport, if you can get it and be paid for it. That is the difficulty. Do you know anybody in town who might plead for you with some fat, ill-fared lumper?' 
               "'Not a soul!' I replied. 
               "'Then I don't see much chance for you. I'll tell you what you might do though. Take a spade in your and, put on your working clothes and go down towards the docks at six o'clock in the morning, and stand amongst the men waiting to be himployed there, or at Nelson's monument, in the exchange, and take your chance with the rest. Some one may take pity on you, and give you a day's work.' 
               "'But if Mr. Lovechild should happen to see me there, Jack, what would he say?' 
               "'Him see you! not lackely! God bless you! nobody ever lucks at poor laborers, except them has wants to ire them, and then it is only to see wether they are strong and sturdy, and able to do their work.' 
               "'Do you think I have a chance, Jack?' 
               "'I don't know; you luck too slim and genteel like. If anyone does employ you they will give but little wages." 
               "'That's very consolatory, Jack; but can you tell me what I can get a spade for?' 
               "'I don't exactly know. I don't dale in them are kind of tools; but I should think you might get one for five or six shillin.' 
               "'Well, then, I've just got the price of one, with a shilling or two besides, and this is my whole fortune. I will buy a spade and try my luck.' 
               "Accordingly I went out that evening and bought a very good, new spade, and rose early next morning, dressed in my working clothes, and directed my steps, with a sick heart, towards the exchange, in hopes of meeting with a day's work. 
               "It was a dull, dark December morning, and I could with difficulty find my way through the narrow streets and lanes I had to pass, till I came to the mart, where I was to set myself up to the highest bidder for my services during the day. As I passed along the empty streets I could not help reflecting on the loneliness and desolation of my condition, and the instability of human affairs and the strange inequality in the various states of men. In the quarter I had just left were thousands of human beings doomed, like myself to wretchedness and toil, and unable, even if they would, to extricate themselves from an atmosphere of degradation and sin. In that into which I soon came were splendid houses, whose inmates, like the gods on the top of Parnassus or starry Olympus, enjoyed and revelled in all the blessings of life, undisturbed except by imaginary evils, and these were of their own creation. Yet what peculiar merits did these possess to render them apparently the objects of God's bounty and abundance, or in what were the others deficient to doom them to the perpetual torments of poverty and despair? Was the Lord of the universe a partial or unjust judge, or did he frown without a cause on his innocent children? It could not be. There was, I justly concluded, wisdom, justice and mercy in His chastisements, which the future would sufficiently develop, and I bowed my head in meekness to the yoke which, doubtless for my own good, he then imposed upon me. 
               "I arrived at length at the exchange, where I found already a few ill-clad, shivering wretches, with pale faces and hungry looks, waiting to be employed, and assuming as cheerful and resigned a look as possible, I joined them. 
               "We soon entered into conversation with each other, but I could hear nothing but murmurs and complaints. What I heard from them almost disgusted me with human life, human pride, and human degradation. Several told me that they had been standing there for whole weeks together without meeting with a soul to employ them or even to glance at them, and if it had not been for the goodness of God, who supplied them some way or other with food,-they scarcely knew how,-they must have perished with hunger! There were several old men amongst them, and they complained that the young and active were always employed in preference to them; and again the young complained that they could not earn enough to supply the simplest wants of nature. 
               "The morning now began to get brighter and the exchange to be somewhat more frequented than when I first arrived. Many a smart, well dressed clerk, hurried past us going to his office, or neat dress-maker to her work, without even casting a glance towards the poor, despised laborers! We were joined, too, every few minutes by more of our brethren in misfortune, which rendered our chance of employment proportionately less. At length a very important little gentleman made his appearance among us. This caused a sensation on 'change and my companions crowded round him, touching their hats and putting themselves forward, each in hopes that he would be fortunate enough to be chosen. I alone had not yet learned those arts. The great man glanced around him with an experienced eye, and having picked out six of the stoutest young men he could find, he walked away, bidding them to follow him; but alas! I was not amongst the number. I had, however, many companions in misfortune, which they say is a consolation; but I cannot say I found it so, for there were several there whom I should like to have seen employed, even in preference to myself. One old man in particular, who, when the morning was already far advanced and there remained small hope of employment for that day, threw himself down on the steps of the statue in an agony of despair, wringing his hands and weeping most bitterly. I pitied him from my heart and tried to console him. I found that he had been a respectable farmer in his day in Ireland, but owing to the termination of his lease and the rack rent he was consequently forced to pay by his tyrannical landlord, he was soon reduced from affluence to beggary. 
               "'I would not care so much for myself,' said the old man, 'I can bear privation and suffering, but for my poor son and my wife and two daughters, who are in a state of starvation in our poor lodgings and unable to do anything, for they are only just recovering from illness, and God knows what will become of them! What makes the matter still worse,' said he, 'they have all been well brought up, and not accustomed to hardships or hunger till lately, and now they have plenty of both,' and here the poor old man was unable to proceed from weeping. 
               "'Here,' said I, 'take these two shillings. It is all I have in the world, except my new spade. But do take them, and as far as they will go procure food for you family. I have no one but myself to provide for, and I am young and able to work, thank Heaven!' 
               "'May Heaven reward you,' said the old man, his eyes beaming with joy through his tears. 'May Heaven reward you, and it will reward you for this! You have saved the life of a whole family and given gladness to the heart of a poor old man, who, with that whole family, will never cease to pray for you and bless you!' 
                
               "Having thus expressed his gratitude, he was preparing to depart when one of those men called navigators came up and addressed me, inquiring what I could do. 
               "I told him what I had been accustomed to, but that I had no objection to try my hand at anything he chose to put me to. 
               "'You are but slim,' he said, 'and hardly fit for the work, which requires strength and agility. It is wheeling barrows of mud across a plank in the docks, and requires a steady hand as well as head, for if you became dizzy or missed your footing, your brains would be dashed out instantly.' 
               "'I am willing to try it,' I replied. 'I think I have a steady hand and head too; but if I fail it will, at all events, be my own fault, and I alone will have to suffer the consequences.' 
               "'Well, I engage you; but mind you have been forewarned of the danger. I want another man.' 
               "'Oh!' said I, 'engage this poor man; I will vouch for his willingness to do all he can.' 
               "'What, that old man! why he would be of no use whatever. The person I want must be able to wheel the barrows in turn with you, for it would be too much for one to wheel the barrow every time. My plan is that one should fill while the other wheels, and that alternately.' 
               "'Well,' I replied, 'engage him at all events. I will undertake to wheel all the barrows, and he may fill them, which will be lighter work; and, moreover, if we do not do between us as much work as any two men you have in your employment, then you may stop it out of our wages.' 
               "'Well, with that understanding I will engage him. Come along both of you. I must tell you, young man, (addressing me,) that I have lost a man this morning already on the job you are going to undertake. But then, as the work is rather dangerous, I give higher wages than usual.' 
                
               "'Lost a man!' I inquired in amazement; 'what do you mean?' 
               "'It was entirely his own fault; he was careless and fell off the plank, and was killed; but there is not much danger if you take proper care.' 
               "We now arrived at the docks and were set to work. It was indeed a fearful undertaking, and few could be found to attempt it, except those whose circumstances were desperate, or who, like me, were almost weary of life, for I cannot conceal from you the fact that I was now quite disgusted with existence and almost hoped that that day might be my last on earth. 
               "The other workmen stared at us in amazement as we entered upon our arduous duties, and there was almost a suspension of labor for some time till they saw me overcome the difficulties of my dangerous position, which I will endeavor to describe to you. 
               "You must have observed that a large quantity of mud and sand is carried into and deposited in the docks with every tide. This would soon accumulate in such quantities as to stop them up altogether if it was not removed. There are certain men called navigators, or lumpers, who contract with the companies to remove it, but as they are generally very ignorant, and entirely uneducated, their method of proceeding is often awkward and unscientific. In this instance it was particularly so. 
               "The mud was raised up from the bottom by means of several platforms, one raised above the other, so that the men below threw it up a stage to those above, who again advanced it a stage, till it arrived at the top, where it was wheeled off in barrows, over planks most awkwardly arranged, which rendered it extremely unsafe for those who were employed in wheeling it, which happened to be my lot at this particular time. This plank was at least twenty feet from the bottom of the dock, which was quite bare underneath, so that the flags appeared and rendered a fall upon them instantly fatal. The plank, or rather planks (for there were two in breadth) were sufficienly broad for the purpose, but then they shook so, from the elasticity of the boards, to overcome which no means had been used, as to render it extremely perilous for any one to attempt to cross, even with an empty barrow. This I instantly perceived the very first trip I made, and I saw at once how it might be remedied with very little trouble and expense, so as to render it as safe as any other part of the work, for I had, both at school and college, paid sufficient attention to mechanics as to enable me to understand much more complicated matters than this. I therefore immediately went to my employer and told him how it might be remedied. At first he started as if in doubt, but being a man of an acute perception naturally, he very soon saw I was right, and instantly adopted my suggestion, which it did not require more than an hour's work to put into execution, with the aid of a carpenter and a couple of transverse pieces of wood, and this done, the labor afterwards became quite easy. 
               "Even the old man now ventured across with the barrow, which he did with the greatest safety, and the other men were astonished at the change which had been effected so suddenly, merely by the use of one upright and a couple of cross-bars, which they all said a child might have discovered, but which none of them ever dreamed of till they saw it before their eyes, and then of course any of them could have done it! 
               "My poor old companion was now in much better spirits, since he could relieve me, as he expressed it, by taking on himself a share of my toil, and something of the energy of youth seemed to have been awakened in his heart. We had not much time to talk, it is true, but occasionally we would exchange thoughts when we came in contact with each other and our taskmaster turned his attention elsewhere. On one of these occasions the old man said to me in a low tone: 
               "Look at that young man there on the bank; how attentively he gazes on our labor, as if he wished to be a participator in it!" 
               "What! that young gentleman?" I replied. "He a partaker of our toil! Fortune has been more favorable to him than to render misery and degradation necessary to prolong a wretched existence. And yet, when I look at him again, he does not seem entirely free from the common lot of humanity, sorrow and suffering. But what are the sufferings of the rich compared with the tortures of the poor! They are only as a single drop of water in the immense ocean; as one sand compared with the innumerable millions on the sea shore!" 
               "How deceitful are appearances!" said he. "I can assure you that the young man you see before you is more truly wretched at this moment, both in mind and body, than either of us, if that be possible." 
               "What," said I, "do you happen to know him?" 
               "Don't be astonished; don't look at him when I tell you that is my own son!" 
               "What!" I exclaimed, "dressed like a gentleman! while you and your family are starving, and while you are working here like a slave! Why, it is intolerable; and a young man, too!" 
               "When you know all," said the old man, "you will both love and pity him; but I cannot tell you now. You will come home to my lodgings, and share the meal which your own goodness has procured for me and mine, and as we go along I will tell you all; and the dinner hour will soon be here now." 
               "Presently the bell rang for dinner, and having slipped on my coat, I accompanied my new acquaintance towards his home; and while we went along, he told me the following brief history of his son, in explanation of what I had seen: 
               "In common with my other children, I gave this youth a good education in the time of my prosperity. As he was quick at learning, and seemed to have extraordinary talents, I resolved to bring him up to one of the learned professions, but before I could accomplish it adversity overtook me. I was not slow in informing him of his altered prospects, and he instantly determined on a plan for himself. 
                
               "'Father,' he said, 'I can easily foresee how affairs must turn out with you in a few years. I will therefore be no longer a burden to you, but endeavor to do something for myself; and I fear the time will soon come when both you and the rest of the family may stand in need of my utmost exertions. It is therefore better to try my luck in time, and if I fail I must learn to endure disappointment.' 
               "Though loth to part with my only son in whom I had placed all my hopes, I could say nothing to dissuade him from his manly purpose, so both I and his mother and sisters acquiesced in his wish, and though nearly heartbroken with grief, we suffered him to tear himself from our embrace. He came to England, and after many vicissitudes, he at last got an engagement as clerk in a merchants' office in this town, at a good salary, where he was happy to have it in his power to relieve our necessities; for already we were reduced to the utmost poverty, and but for him, God knows, what would have become of us." 
               "The moment, however, he found himself comfortably situated, he sent for us, and we all came over here two years ago, where we have lived ever since in happiness and comfort, with the means which he furnished us with till about three months ago, when, from over attention to business, he was taken ill, and forced to resign his situation. Ever since that time he has lingered and pined away, and we feared at first he would not be long spared to us. Having been so kind to us, he was unable to save anything for this emergency, and we were all involved in his calamity. First, poverty assailed us, and then disease, its usual attendant; and in a short time I was the only one left in health to minister to and comfort a poor and sick family. I had no other means of supplying their most common necessaries but the labor of my hands; and grateful did I feel to heaven when I could find employment, which from my age and weakness I found it difficult to get. All the little furniture and clothes we had by us are gone to supply us with food; and the only things left are those clothes which you saw on my son to-day, and these we cannot part with; for unless he has good clothes he would find it out of the question to obtain another situation." 
               "I think," said I, "the merchants he served so faithfully for two years, ought not to see him in want now, when he is prevented by illness from serving them any longer." 
               "Ah," he replied, "merchants have too much to think of to give themselves any trouble about a poor disabled clerk. When you cease to be useful to men, they, for the most part, cease to remember you. And though he has served them faithfully, no doubt they think he has been sufficiently paid for it already, and that he might have saved enough for casualties; so he might, if he had not had such demands upon him, but men who are prosperous attributing all their good fortune to their own exertions, seldom make allowance for the failures of the unfortunate, which they attribute to their negligence or extravagance. But, indeed, to do the merchants who were his employers justice, they are not aware of our actual state of suffering and poverty, or if they were I am sure they would relieve it. But my son, though poor, is of a proud spirit, and does not like the idea of stooping to ask charity, and only longs for the time to come when by his labor he can save his poor old father from poverty and toil. Did you see with what a wretched look of suffering and sorrow he looked upon my labor to-day? Ah! well I know how rejoiced he would have been could he have taken my place at that moment. I saw the tears trickling down his face like rain when he looked at me. His heart was like to break with agony and despair. But, poor fellow, it would kill him if he ventured on such hard toil after his recent illness; besides he has never been accustomed to this kind of labor, and I hardly know whether he could do it." 
               "But I hope," said I, "the merchants, at all events, will employ him again when he recovers." 
                
               "Why, I don't know that, it is doubtful; you see they were obliged to get one to fill his place, and they cannot well send him away; but I have no doubt they will do all they can to procure him a situation as good. But you know it is impossible to make situations; we must wait till they are vacant. If my wife and daughters were recovered, they could get a little by sewing, which would assist us; but just at present we are reduced to terrible straits." 
               "Well," said I, "if I can get work, you shall not starve, at all events, I promise you." 
               "The old man expressed his thanks rather by looks than words, as we entered his humble lodging." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               THE SUFFERING FAMILY. 
               FATHER! father!' exclaimed his two daughters as he entered, 'dear father, have you been successful? Our mother is very weak, and stands in need of some nourishment immediately, and we have nothing to give her!' 
               "'Here,' said the old man, 'go and buy her something directly,' at the same time handing his eldest daughter the two shillings which I gave him that morning. 'God has sent us this money through this young man, who has robbed himself to save us. Go directly and buy something for us also, for we are hungry.' 
               "She took a tin can and went out instantly, and in less than five minutes she returned, bringing two large loaves and her can full of tolerably good soup, for the whole of which she only paid one and sixpence, and there was quite enough to satisfy the hunger of all! Indeed for my part I felt as strong and refreshed after that meal, and even more so, than I had felt on former occasions after the greatest delicacies, and all the rest had sufficient, and there was even some left! It seemed blessed to our use, like the poor widow's oil and meal when it received the benediction of the prophet. 
               "Great was the change produced in this poor family even by this small relief, and the joy and happiness it diffused can hardly be described. When I entered hunger and suffering were depicted on the countenances of the inmates, and every appearance of the most abject poverty and distress was but too evident; but now a cheerfulness prevaded every face, and every eye was raised in gratitude-first to God, and then to me, when the old man told them, in fervent and grateful language, the manner in which I had given away all I had to them, and how I had assisted him in the burden and heat of the day, by taking upon myself the severest part of the toil. 
               "I was overwhelmed with thanks the most sincerely expressed that I had ever yet listened to, and they almost worshiped me as a divinity. The young man was as fervent in the expression of his gratitude as his sisters and father, and never in my life did I experience in my soul such tumultuous, such sublime joy, purchased, too, at so cheap a rate! Ah! I thought, if the rich and great, instead of spending thousands on a vain banquet or gaudy toy, would devote but a small portion of their princely fortunes to relieving the distresses of the poor, the sick and the unfortunate, how much greater would be the pleasure and happiness they would derive from it, than that which they now derive from their luxurious profusion, their senseless extravagance! 
               "'You see,' said the old man, 'what good you have done, what happiness you have created in a brief space of time, in one short morning! But I perceive you are just as happy yourself as you have made those around you. This, however, is but a small reward in comparison of that exceeding great reward that awaits you hereafter. In another world God will reward you eternally.' And here the old man's eyes filled with tears of gratitude as he seized me fervently by the hand. 
               "'My friend,' I replied, 'it is to Heaven alone your thanks are justly due, and not to me. Can you not trace the hand of God evidently in the whole of this affair? It seemed indeed mere chance that I went to the exchange this morning rather than to the dock; it seemed indeed a chance that I came out at all; but God directs the secret thoughts of men for his own holy purposes. He guides their footsteps to do his will, and you may be assured that had I not met you this morning he would have sent some other messenger of mercy to your relief. It is I, therefore, who ought to be thankful to Heaven for being so highly favored as to be the instrument of so much good with such small means; and I shall always look upon this day as one of the happiest of my life, though in the morning it seemed so gloomy and dull as to cast a shadow of grief and sorrow over my soul, such as never clouded it before, even in the most trying situations and most imminent perils.' 
               "'But surely,' said he, 'our gratitude is due to the messenger of good, next after the giver or sender, who I believe in all cases is no other than our merciful Father in heaven.' 
               "'Certainly,' I answered, 'but in a much inferior degree. Indeed we are sometimes too prone to forget the real giver altogether in our gratitude for the agent or steward. Sometimes men confer a favor on the impulse of the moment, or when they are very much importuned, or forced by shame or some such motive, and immediately afterwards are sorry for having done it. They sometimes part unwillingly with their money as if it was drawn by some invisible magnetic power out of their pockets. Do they really deserve any credit or gratitude for this? In all such cases it is God alone who is the giver, taking it from the rich and giving it to the poor; and it is to him alone the poor are to lift the beaming eye and the heart burning with gratitude and praise. But when the giver is actuated by the true and godlike feeling of charity, of love and sympathy for his fellow creature, then he is entitled to secondary thanks, as being a faithful and true steward of a kind and ever-bountiful Master.' 
               "It was now time for us to return to work, and I bade this family adieu, loaded with their thanks and their blessings; and we now pursued our labor with unabated zeal till the evening, when we received our wages, and each returned to his respective lodgings, hoping to see each other again on the morrow-for we were continued in the same employment till the job was finished, which was about a fortnight. 
               "Every day was passed in the same way till the end of this time, when the job was finished and we were obliged to seek work elsewhere. But as the season advanced we found it more difficult to procure; happily, however, the absolute necessity for it was greatly diminished to both, for the old man's family were now recovered from their illness, his son was again employed, and his wife and daughters were able to work; so that by their united exertions they were enabled to procure the necessaries and comforts of life, and to spare the old man the necessity of working at such an inclement season. I had the satisfaction of visiting them in comfortable lodgings, of seeing them well clothed, with plenty to eat and drink, and a cheerful fire to keep them warm. Their son was restored to his wonted health and spirits, and never was there a more cheerful or a more truly humble and grateful family to Heaven for their altered condition than this poor family at the time I am speaking of, and they continued to be so as long as I knew them. 
               "As for me the time drew nigh when I was to enter on my new employment. I did not exactly know the day fixed for the re-opening of the school, and I therefore wrote a note to inquire when the schoolmaster would expect me. 
               "I received an answer stating that he would be able to dispense with my services for another fortnight. This was astounding intelligence. Work was now become so scarce that I did not know where to find any, and I scarcely knew what to do. I had saved a little of my wages, but that was necessary to procure me some clothes and shoes, etc., for my outfit. What must be done? I had recourse to the advice of my old friend again, which was the same as before-namely, to remain quiet and never mind work. 
               "'Indeed,' he said, 'you can do nothing else, for there is no work to be had at this dull season of the year, so you must content yourself.' 
                
               "I was obliged, though sore against my will, to follow his advice; but I was not sure whether his mother would acquiesce in it, so I took the earliest opportunity of asking her, saying that if she would trust me for lodging and a little to eat for a fortnight I would pay her handsomely as soon as I got money. 
               "'Certainly,' she replied, 'for three weeks or a month, if you like. I think I have good reason to trust you.' 
               "I thanked her very sincerely, though I was at a loss to know what she meant by the last sentence, so I asked Jack's opinion. 
               "'Why,' said he, 'it means, to be sure, that she owes you more than that, for without doubt she has taken your money. Indeed,' continued he, 'mother wud take money of the Lord, if she could come at it at all, when she is in need of a drop, and that is pretty often. Now, to tell the truth, I think she wud like to pay it back, if she cud; at least she always says so when she stales mine, but I tell her she's a liar when she says so, and that she is a thief and intends to keep it. But this she always denies, and then says she, 'Jack, it's only a weakness I've got; I don't intend to do it.' 'You do, mother,' says I. 'I don't, Jack,' says she; and upon the strength of this, ye see, we quarrels sometimes; but, after all, I think it's only an amiable weakness of mother's, and that she doesn't intend it. At any rate,' continued Jack, 'I can assure you you shan't pay a far-thin' for sleepin' and eatin' here for a fortnight, or three weeks, or a month, for I guess you have paid the piper pretty well already.' 
               "'Well,' said I, 'we shall see when the time comes, Jack. At present it is not of much use to talk about payment, when there is no money forthcoming.' 
               "'Money, money!' said Jack; 'it's the root of all evil!' 
               "'Yet it is a root, Jack, that most people are fond of,' I replied. 
               "'Aye,' said Jack, 'that's very odd now, when one thinks of it. Everybody says as how they detest evil, and the parsons are constantly preachin' aginst evil, and sin, and the devil, and they says as how money's the root of all evil, and yet they all likes money, even the parsons themselves! Isn't it very odd when one thinks on it?' 
               "'It certainly is rather curious, Jack; for even, as you say, the very parsons themselves, who preach so much against it, are as anxious to obtain it as other men. But money, Jack, may be the root of good as well as evil, if it is placed in good hands. It has been called the root of all evil, I suppose, because it is so powerful an instrument to persuade men to do evil, when those who possess it would have evil done; but it has also been used as an instrument of much good, in promoting charitable institutions and relieving the distresses of poor or afflicted men. It is, like most other things, given to mankind for good, though often abused and perverted to evil purposes. But though it has undoubtedly been the root or cause of most evils, yet there are other roots or causes of evil besides money; so that that must not be taken in its literal sense any more than the same kind of expression by Saint Paul, when he said that all the Cretans were liars. It means merely that money is the root of most evils, as the other sentence means that the general character of the Cretans was that of liars.' 
               "'Why don't people say what they mean at wanst,' said Jack, 'without this humbug of explaining them?' 
               "'Well, Jack, that is a question I can hardly answer to your satisfaction. All I can say is that in every country there are particular modes of expression, and each person, besides, has a way of his own.' 
               "'Why don't they all speak out plain, like us, and then we wud understand their lingo?' asked Jack. 
               "'I can't tell that either, Jack.' 
               "So here our very interesting conversation ended for the present. 
               "Nothing worthy of notice occurred till the morning came on which I was to take my departure for Mr. Love-child's school. That long-wished-for morning at length came, and I rose early, in order to be ready in good time. My kind friend, Jack Sweetbriar, offered his services to assist in carrying my luggage (for he had made me a small box to put my clothes in), which was not a very difficult matter, as far as the coach, and we were both just on the point of leaving the house in triumph when the postman entered and brought me a letter. It was from Mr. Lovechild, informing me very briefly that he was enabled to dispense with my services altogether, without assigning any reason whatever! 
               "This was a blow to my cherished hopes. What was I to do now? What was to become of me? But, above all, what could this mean? I was almost in despair, so was my poor friend, who took almost as deep an interest in the matter as myself. At last I found a vent to my feelings in a flood of tears. 'Alas!' I exclaimed, 'was there ever such a poor wretch as I! Nothing I put my hand to prospers, and all my hopes are blasted as soon as they arise! I am now utterly undone, and know not what to do. May Heaven direct me, if indeed I am worthy of its direction; but I begin to fear that even Heaven itself frowns upon me, and has marked me out for destruction. What would you advise, Jack?' 
               "'Go down and ask the lubber what he means by it. You made a reg'lar agreement, and you can make him stick till his bargain, barin' and except he shows good cause why, or that you ain't quite sound and seaworthy like.' 
               "'Do you think I can make him abide by his agreement, Jack?' 
               "'Sartainly! Go down and threaten him with the law if he doesn't put you on his ship's books directly.' 
               "'Well, Jack, I think I will take your advice. Indeed I must know why he acts thus-without even assigning a reason for his conduct.' 
               "Accordingly I went down instantly by the coach, without, however, taking my luggage with me. I soon arrived at Lovechild House, and found the schoolmaster at home. He received me with one of his benevolent smiles, of which indeed he seldom divests himself, and to my inquiring look, rather than words, expressed himself very sorry that he must dispense with my services. 
               "'I think,' said he, 'I and my old assistant will be able to manage the business very well ourselves. Indeed I expected to have had a great increase of pupils this half [half year], but I have been somewhat disappointed-not more than four new boys having come, though six promised. This, you see, makes a great difference.' 
               "'Had I known this before,' said I, 'I might, perhaps, have been able to procure another situation; but not having heard of it till all the schools are supplied, I could not now look out for one with any prospect of success.' 
               "'I really was so much occupied that I never once thought of you,' he replied. 'But I will tell you what you can do.' 
               "'What is that?' I asked. 
               "'When you were here last,' he said, 'as I am an enthusiastic admirer of poetry and poets, I happened to ask you whether you ever wrote verses, and you were good enough to show me an elegy written after the manner of Gray, in Saint James's cemetery of this town (In my leisure hours I used to wander out there occasionally, and I believe scribbled some verses about it,) which I admired exceedingly. Now the people of Liverpool are very poetical, and they particularly admire anything that celebrates their own town, their wealth, their commerce, etc. There is a young friend of mine, the daughter of a Captain Butler (you must have heard of Ada, the young poetess), who has sold the second edition of one of her works to a bookseller here for a considerable sum, to my knowledge. Now it strikes me that if you could obtain a number of subscribers, and publish that elegy with a few other poems, which you have doubtless by you or might soon write, you would make a pretty good thing of it, and that you know would be much better than the drudgery of a school.' 
               "'Do you really think I could get subscribers?' I eagerly inquired. 
               "'Oh, nothing more easy in the world! Go first to the company to whom the cemetery belongs; get them to subscribe, and hundreds will follow their example.' 
               "'Indeed! I should like that amazingly! But where am I to find them? I do not even know the names nor places of abode of the proprietors.' 
               "'I will manage that for you. Go to Mr. Fitzsurleigh, the clergyman residing in the cemetery, and he will give you a list of the owners. Should he hesitate you may mention my name; he is my friend, and will do anything to serve me.' 
               "At that time I knew little of the world, especially of the literary world, and much less of my own claims to success as a candidate for poetical fame and emolument; but I was flattered by the opinion of a clergy-man and a teacher of some repute, who I thought must be a good judge of those matters, and could have no interest in the opinion he gave, and I resolved to follow his advice; I therefore thanked him for his kindness, and took my leave with the intention of proceeding direct to the abode of the Rev.Mr. Fitzsurleigh, in the cemetery, first, and then to the houses of the respective owners afterwards. As I was going Mr. Lovechild said to me: 
               "'Do not forget to let me know the success of your undertaking.' 
               "I assured him that I should acquaint him with it in due time, and departed. 
               "What a sanguine and hopeful creature is man! Though often disappointed, he eagerly grasps at every new project that is held out to him; but, like the drowning man grasping at straws, how often is he foiled in his hopes till at last he is driven to destruction at the moment when he fancies himself almost out of the reach of danger! 
                  
                      
                        "And thus from year to year is past 
                        In hopes which years succeeding blast; 
                        And though each hope like vapor flies, 
                        Yet not for aye its radiance dies. 
                        From infancy to boyhood led, 
                        From boyhood to the blooming prime, 
                        No sooner has one pleasure fled 
                        And left its register with time, 
                        Than we with ardor others seek; 
                        Changed through the object of our dream, 
                        'Tis now fair Beauty's mantling cheek- 
                        'Tis now the eyes with love that beam; 
                        But still the same result we find- 
                        Sad disappointment, care and grief, 
                        Dejection, sorrows of the mind- 
                        The bliss of life-alas! how brief! 
                     
                  
                
               "So it was with me on the present occasion. New visions of glory and profit floated before my imagination, and I put out my hand to seize them, as Ulysses did the shade of his mother; but, like that ghost, 'they flew from my grasp as a shadow or a fleeting dream.' 
                      
                        "'Thrice from my eager hand the shadow fled 
                        Like to a fleeting dream!'' 
                     
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               THE POETIC CHAPLAIN. 
               I SOON arrived at the cemetery and inquired for the abode of the good and pious chaplain. The dwelling of Mr. Fitzsurleigh was pointed out to me. It was a goodly dwelling, neat and comfortable, not far from the chapel, and I believe he receives good pay for doing little work; but then he is one of the saints. I entered, confidently expecting a kind-at least a civil reception, and asked of a gruff servant whether Mr. Fitzsurleigh was at home. 
               "'I don't know, but I'll go and see if you will give me your name or card, sir,' said that important personage. 
               "'I do not think he knows me by name, but my business is about the cemetery.' 
               "'Oh, indeed! sir, my master is at home. Please to walk in here, sir,' at the same time opening the door of a very neatly furnished parlor and ushering me into it with much pomp and ceremony. I took a seat, waiting the arrival of the holy man. 
               "He was not long in making his appearance; for, supposing I was come to bring grist to his mill, the reverend gentleman lost no time in coming down stairs. He entered the room and made a low bow, his eyes beaming with delightful expectations, as far as a most sordid and forbidding expression is capable of imparting such a feeling to others. 
               "'Your servant, sir,' he said, in most gracious speech but with no very gracious look. 
                
               "'Your most obedient, sir,' I replied. 
               "'Is there anything I can do to oblige you, sir? You have only to command me; I am entirely at your service.' 
               "'I have come,' I replied, 'to ask a favor of you, which if you would be kind enough to grant I should feel much obliged.' 
               "'Pray, sir, name it. I shall be extremely happy to do anything I can to oblige a gentleman of'-- 
               "'You have a list, I think, sir, of the subscribers to this cemetery,' I interrupted. 
               "'Yes, sir; would you wish to see it? Perhaps, sir, you would favor us with your name and patronage. It is a lovely valley of the dead! Nothing like it in Europe-so calm, so retired, so sweet a retreat; one would almost wish to die to be buried in it!' 
               "'Why, sir,' I said, 'your feelings are exactly congenial to my own; your enthusiasm is elevated even to the language of poetry! If I should form an opinion, sir, you are quite a lover of nature and of poetry, perhaps a poet yourself?' 
               "'You are right,' he replied; 'I am indeed a lover of the divine, the noble art of poetry. What can be more sublime and thrilling than the immortal strains of an inspired and enraptured bard! Indeed I must confess that my enthusiasm has carried me so far even as to perpetrate, or rather to attempt to perpetrate, a few verses.' 
               "'Indeed!' I replied; 'on the cemetery? It is a noble subject. How sweet and touching is Gray's 'Elegy in a Country Churchyard!' which of course could not afford such lofty thoughts and imagery as this beautiful mecropolis.' 
               "Certainly it is a noble subject, and one which I should like to see well treated. But my verses were not written on the cemetery-oh, dear no! but on a much more interesting subject still; one that was universally loved and admired by all who knew him. Poor fellow! nothing could save him from the ravenous jaws of death!' 
                
               "'Some dear friend, I suppose?' 
               "'Yes, but not of the human species, though a biped nevertheless. In short, it was on a very favorite and dearly beloved cockatoo! Would you like to hear the verses? I will read them for you.' And here, without waiting for my reply, the reverend gentleman ascended to his study and brought down a very ponderous-looking tome, which seemed to be filled with manuscript, both in prose and verse; and after coughing and hemming a good deal, and turning over the leaves again and again, he at length began to read his elegy on his favorite cockatoo. It was a very long one, and consisted, as he told me with an air of triumph, of no less than one hundred and twenty-seven stanzas! each stanza of eight lines! and it cost him, as he declared, many a sleepless hour, both in the composition and correction. I could easily believe him, for he must have been half asleep during both processes, for never did I listen to anything so dull and prosy. 
               "When he had finished reading, he looked at me for an opinion, but I declined giving one, saying that a work of such weight and importance, which had caused so many sleepless hours, ought not to be judged of rashly, and that I required time to reflect before I could pronounce positively. There is one merit, at all events," said I, "which it can boast of; there is plenty of it, and every one of its numerous images is exhibited in so many various points of view that he must be very dull indeed who cannot catch the meaning of the author." 
               "You have hit upon it, exactly," he replied, with a look of great satisfaction. "That is the very thing on which I pique myself, perspicuity; I have always been a steady advocate for, and let me add, a firm adherent to, perspicuity. It matters not how often you repeat the same idea; indeed the oftener you repeat it the better, if you wish yourself to be clearly and thoroughly understood. It is for that reason I admire the lucid language of the law so much; one idea is explained in so many different ways, and by so many varying expressions, that it is quite impossible to mistake the meaning. Indeed I remember when I was in my clerkship to Mr. Jenkins, (for I must inform you, if you are not already aware of the fact, that I studied law before I entered the church, a thing that every one ought to do who would acquire a clear, distinct, lucid and perspicuous style or manner of eloquence,) what struck my attention most of all was this very beautiful and perspicuous language, in which the wisdom of our ancestors deemed it right, fit and proper to guard and protect the rights, privileges, and immunities of the subject, by having the terms of the law clearly, plainly, and perspicuously expressed. Perhaps you may not be aware why I left the law, to which I was so partial, and entered the church. I will tell you; I was struck with the good which a new and improved style of preaching, borrowed from the law, would do if adopted by an intelligent minister, and as my clients were falling off, and as a friend offered me his patronage in the church, I thought my time and talents would be more usefully employed, and therefore I changed. But to return to the elegy, you are right, you are right! I think I may venture to say that it is indeed perspicuous." 
               "After this rambling speech, you may be sure I said of him, in my own heart, 'There is more hope of a fool than of thee.' Nevertheless, I gave him credit for some good qualities of heart, and therefore I did not quite despair of obtaining the favor I sought of him. 
               "But with regard to the cemetery," said I, "I suppose there are some eminent men among the subscribers; men of taste and judgment, who feel an interest in this new and beautiful burying ground, and who, therefore, would be delighted to hear it celebrated far and wide over the country." 
               "Yes," he replied, "we have amongst our subscribers all the wealth and talents of this vast and flourishing community, men who would do honor to any city in the world, and whose taste is excellent and liberality boundless." 
               "I am delighted to hear it," I said. 
               "Shall I show you the list?" he asked. 
               "Thank you, and I should feel obliged, in addition, if you would allow me to take a copy, and to put down your own name at the head of the list; you are well worthy of the honor. Indeed your liberality and just pretensions to be numbered among the votaries of the muses demand such a homage being conferred upon you." 
               "I protest, sir, I do not well comprehend you," he replied, with a look of surprise. 
               "You will be agreeably surprised when I tell you," said I, thinking I should quite overwhelm him with delight and amazement, "that I, too, am a poet. I have moreover written an elegy on your cemetery which will doubtless confer upon it a deathless fame." 
               "Indeed, sir," said he, with a very cold and indifferent look, at which I was thunderstruck. 
               "Yes, but as I cannot afford to publish it without aid," I added, "I am going to apply to the owners of the cemetery for subscriptions, who, no doubt, will be quite delighted to comply, and I have been recommended by Mr. Lovechild to come to you for a list of the subscribers." 
               "Indeed! so Mr. Lovechild recommended you to come to me, did he?" said the pious parson, with the look of a rhinoceros. 
               "Yes, and he said moreover (which he did,) that, being a poet yourself, you would be most happy to lead the way in the subscription." 
               "Oh, indeed! Mr. Lovechild said so, did he? Is this all you have to say?" said the pious man, his squinting eyes burning in their deep sockets with badly suppressed rage. 
               "Yes! this is all." 
               "Go back to Mr. Lovechild," said he, bursting out into a rage, which he was no longer able to control, "and tell him he is a fool and an ass for his pains. Is it for this I have spent my time? talking about nothing to a pauper, an itinerant beggar! Leave my house, directly," he shrieked, in a voice almost choked with fury; "leave my house, directly! How dare you presume to pass yourself off for a gentleman, and even have the impudence to come into my best parlor and sit down! Insolent wretch! begone. Halloa, John!" and then he ran to the bell and rang it with fury, as if the house was on fire. "Halloa, there, John, quick, quick! show this fellow the door. He is an insolent, presumptuous beggar! Show him the door, instantly!" 
               "Do not put yourself into such a passion," I said, scarcely able to restrain a risible emotion which took possession of me at that moment. "I can find my way out without the assistance either of your servant or you, Mr. Fitzsurleigh! by the by, a most appropriate name; but with regard to the list, Mr. Fitzsurleigh, do you refuse to give me a copy of it, Mr. Fitzsurleigh?" 
               "Leave my house, directly; John, put him out by the shoulder; he is insolent! He will rob; perhaps murder; put him out, directly; send for the police! Ho, thieves! robbers!" howled out the reverend and pious gentleman at the top of his voice, but before his alarm extended to a great distance, I bade him good evening and slowly walked out of the house, scarcely knowing whether to laugh or grieve for poor humanity. 
               "Here," thought I, "is a pretty specimen of the genus homo and the class sacerdos christianus, a little ugly pugnosed baboon, dressed up in a little brief authority, and in the sacerdotal vestments of the poor man's religion, gets into a violent rage at a fellow creature, and calls him pauper, beggar, robber, and murderer, because that fellow creature happens to be poor! as if poverty alone was the great sin against the Holy Ghost which can never be forgiven either in this world or the world to come! It reminded me of that remarkable expression of Sallust: "Paupertas probro haberi; innocentia pro malevolentia duci cpit," which so well describes the degeneracy of the people of whom he treats, which, from having once sought its dictators and rulers from the humility of the plow and the pursuits of rustic labor, and looked upon poverty in a private individual as an honor; had now, in a more depraved and luxurious age, begun in the beautiful and concise language of the historian, "to esteem poverty a disgrace, and to look upon innocence and simplicity of life as downright hypocrisy and malevolence." If this, thought I, is the practice of a class of men whose religion commands them to despise riches and the things of this world, and if this is the tone of feeling which pervades society, then let the degenerate nation look to itself, and beware lest its glory be departed and its power transferred to one more worthy of it, the great Republic of the West! 
               "With these and similar reflections, I retraced my steps back towards Lovechild-house. I entered it and found Mr. Lovechild at home. He seemed surprised at my sudden return. 
               "What!" said he, "have you not been successful?" "I here recounted the whole scene, not omitting the complimentary message which Mr. Fitzsurleigh had entrusted to my keeping for him, at the whole of which he appeared very indignant. 
               "Is it possible," he said, in seeming astonishment, "that Mr. Fitzsurleigh could have made use of such language? This is not to be borne! And he would not give you the list of subscribers to the cemetery? He had no right to refuse it, and I shall see into this matter, and perhaps make him repent his conduct sooner than he reckons upon. But now, with regard to your own business, what's to be done? you see I really have no occasion for your services; I am very sorry, but I can't help it." 
               "Well, then," I replied, "if you have not, you ought to have thought of that in time. It is not fair that I should suffer for your negligence; you must either find me another situation or remunerate me for my time till I shall be able to procure one." 
               "My dear," said Mr. Lovechild to his wife, who at that moment entered the room, and jerked her head towards me without looking at me, "my dear, what can we do with Mr. Hardy? you know, my love, we don't want him, and yet it is a hard case that he should be unemployed, for it seems he depended upon us, and did not look out for another situation." 
               "Well, Mr. Lovechild, I cannot help that; you are always making such blunders. You know as well as I do, Mr. Lovechild, that I have no separate room for him. If you think proper to keep a person for whom you have nothing to do, he must sleep where he can, with the boys, or any where." 
               "Would you have any objection, Mr. Hardy, to that arrangement, if we could so contrive to manage it?" 
               "Oh, not at all," I replied, quite delighted that there was some prospect of coming to an arrangement without appealing to law, for which I was little prepared, having only two shillings, a sixpence and two penny pieces in the world, and being moreover a few pounds in debt. "Not the least," I replied, "I am very easily satisfied with regard to accommodations, and am very willing to sleep in a room with a few boys." 
               "Oh, indeed! well, but you see, Mr. Hardy, I do not want your services at all, being well supplied with assistance already." 
               "It is very hard upon me," I answered, now as much depressed as I had been elated with hope a moment before, "to be thrown idle at the moment I expected to be employed, and I cannot submit to it; indeed I cannot afford it." 
               "I tell you what I will do for you, then," said Mr. Lovechild, "I will engage you, but I cannot give you near so much wages as I promised before. Schools are very uncertain things, Mr. Hardy, and as I engage you merely to oblige you, and not from any need I have of your services, I think you may be very well satisfied if I pay you at the rate of twenty pounds per annum." 
               "Twenty pounds!" I echoed. "That is indeed very little; but if I can get no more, of course, under my present circumstances I shall be obliged to accept it." 
               "Well, agreed; you can bring your luggage when you choose; this evening, if you think proper." So saying, Mr. Lovechild, with many smiles, bowed me very politely out of the room. 
               "Notwithstanding all the difficulties I had had to encounter, and the injustice of this proceeding, not to talk of its paltry meanness, I was so harrassed with poverty and the dread of poverty, that I was very glad to accept the situation, even on such disadvantageous terms, and I returned to town for my luggage, quite delighted, and in the highest spirits imaginable. My good friend, Jack Sweetbriar, was not at home; so I took my box on my shoulder and carried it with a gay heart down to the coach office, and in less than an hour I found myself safely domiciled, for the present, in Lovechild-house." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               THE SCHOOL-ROOM. 
               ENTERING upon this new species of employment (said Harcourt) I felt a degree of pleasure and satisfaction in my mind of which it would be difficult to convey an adequate conception to those who had not experienced the miseries from which I had just escaped. I hoped now to be useful to others, and this was to me a most gratifying reflection. I had long felt that my sphere of usefulness was not amongst the class who are doomed to toil and perpetual bodily labor, but rather amongst those whose pursuits in life, though still humble, were directed to the development of the mental faculties and the elevation of the moral nature of our species. But in this I was doomed to be sorely disappointed. 
               "To others whose prospects in life and whose walk in the same had hitherto been more elevated, such a situation as that which I now filled would indeed have appeared revolting and almost intolerable; but to me who had recently been inured to such cruel hardships, it seemed a paradise in comfort, and even luxuries. Everything was good and clean, and nothing was wanting to satisfy the reasonable wants of nature. What more could anyone desire? It is true there was hard work to be done, but what of that? It was just such as suited my taste and for which I was well prepared, if I had been permitted to do it in my own way; but here was the difficulty. 
               "During the first week of my sojourn at Lovechild-house house there was little to do but to ramble along the shore and over the country with the few pupils who had yet assembled. After that time we entered upon the regular business of the school. 
               "Although Mr. Lovechild had hesitated to engage me, because 'he had no occasion for my services,' as he pretended, the truth is, he would have required two more assistants in addition to me and the only one he had before, who was merely a writing master, to have done anything like justice to his pupils, who were very numerous, and I soon became perfectly satisfied that his motive in treating me in the humiliating manner he did, was no other than the paltry one of cutting off a few pounds from my otherwise very scanty salary. This at once gave me an unfavorable impression as to his moral character, which impression was deepened more and more every day. 
               "His false and hollow system of instruction and of moral discipline soon began to develop itself, and from the moment I became fully acquainted with it, I began to lose all hope of being useful, though I never ceased to employ all my energies to counteract its cruel and pernicious tendencies, for I conceived myself, in a certain measure, called to a trust of no small importance by Divine Providence; no less a trust than the education of many of my fellow creatures, at a time when every impression, whether good or evil, is indelibly fixed on the tender mind and gives it its own mould during the whole period of not merely this transitory life, but, perhaps, influences its happiness throughout an eternity of ages. Had Mr. Lovechild been a master potter or carpenter, an iron founder, or any other mechanical calling, and I employed under him as a workman or journeyman, then I should have considered it my duty to follow his directions implicitly, whether they were right or wrong, because I could thereby do no injury to others, my materials to work upon being inanimate and brute matter; but when I saw him entrusted with a charge, for the proper management of which he was totally incompetent, I felt I should be acting very wrong if I co-operated with him in ruining that whose loss would be so great, and, what is worse, so irreparable. I mean the rational mind of man. But it will be necessary to give you some explanation of his system. 
               "It was one of those modern inventions, or new lights, which the 'march of intellect' has introduced amongst us and which profess to teach everything within the compass of mental capacity to children and mere babes without the least coercion or pain; but, on the contrary, with the greatest possible pleasure and delight to the learners. Corporal punishment and everything like fear were banished as barbarous and totally unworthy the enlightenment and philosophy of the age. Kindness and mildness alone were the great principles and characteristics of this system as to discipline. 
               "I confess when I first saw this system on paper, I was rather struck with it as being very desirable, if it could be accomplished, of which I had serious doubts from my knowledge of human nature; which doubts my subsequent experience has not tended to remove, but greatly to strengthen. 
               "I soon perceived that the fear of punishment being removed, nothing was done, and that boys of the finest intellect were losing their precious time in idleness or worse, and I ventured to remonstrate with Mr. Love-child on the subject. When I had given the new system a fair trial and had clearly perceived the results, I one day went up to Mr. Lovechild and told him that after the lessons of the day were over I should like to speak to him for a little time on something of importance. Accordingly, that evening he was disengaged and he sent for me to go into his study. I went directly, and found him, with his usual smile on his countenance, ready to receive me. He seemed in very good temper and I entered upon the business at once. 
               "'I have taken the liberty, Mr. Lovechild,' I began, 'of requesting a few minutes conversation with you on a subject which gives me no little uneasiness.' 
                
               "'Well, what is that, Mr. Hardy, are you uncomfortable in any respect? Is your bed not to your liking, or have you any fault to find with your treatment, your living, or anything else? I am ready to do all I can to remedy anything of which you may have just cause to complain.' 
               "'I am quite happy,' I replied, 'and perfectly satisfied in every particular you mention. Indeed, I have not for a long time felt so comfortable, and I feel very grateful to you and Mrs. Lovechild for your kind treatment of me, which is more, perhaps, than I deserve. No, I have nothing to complain of as to myself, my uneasiness is quite of a different nature.' 
               "'What is it?' he replied. 'I am quite at a loss to guess; explain yourself.' 
               "'Why,' said I, 'it gives me much uneasiness to find that the boys you have placed under my care are not making that progress in their studies which I should wish, owing, as I attribute it, to the system you have adopted, and I should be much obliged to you if you would allow me to adopt another, and to my mind a much better, though not so novel a one.' 
               "'What! you would recur to the old, barbarous system of drudgery and labor, and reject all the helps and facilities which the superior skill of the moderns has imparted for the good of the rising generation? Why, that would be like renouncing our civilization and returning to the barbarism of our ancestors. My system has been propounded by Locke, improved by men of the highest talents and advocated by the philosophers of the Edinburgh Review. Why, Mr. Hardy, he who would propose such a thing must have very antiquated ideas, begging you pardon for the observation. But really I considered you a young man of more sense than to think of such a thing.' 
               "'I care not,' I replied, 'who has propounded or who has endorsed the system; I have no hesitation in saying that it is a bad one and will never succeed in practice, which is, after all, the best test of theories. What did Locke know of education? What do the philosophers of the Edinburgh Review know of it? What does any man know of it who has not been engaged in it? It is easy for men to promulgate visionary theories; but no theories, save those which are founded on experience and the nature of things, are really of any value. There is no royal road to the dead languages any more than to the mathematics. Ptolemy Lagus thought that some easy, golden rule might be invented to lead the royal mind through the abstruse labyrinth of mathematical science without subjecting it to the vulgar drudgery and toil of ordinary minds. No doubt he had formed a very plausible theory of it in his own mind; but how must this theory have been scattered to the winds when Euclid, who was no visionary, but a plain, practical man, declared to his royal pupil, bluntly, that there was no royal road to the mathematics?' 
               "'But you forget the difference in the respective ages. Euclid flourished, I believe, about two hundred and eighty years before the Christian era, and we live in the nineteenth century after that period. Surely this ought to make some difference.' 
               "'It certainly does make a difference, but that difference is by no means in our favor, for if the mind of an infant, as your favorite Locke says, is as a 'sheet of white paper' till it is filled with the ideas which are presented to it, and if the mind of an infant is precisely the same in that respect now, as that of Euclid must have been when he was an infant, in what other light can the immense storehouse of ideas which have been treasured up in every department of science and knowledge since then be viewed but that of a weighty burden which our minds have to bear in addition to what those of that age had to bear; and instead of allowing ourselves any relaxation or rest, would we not require additional mental exercise and discipline to enable us to carry the greater load which our peculiar circumstances have imposed upon us?' 
               "'That is the very reason why this rational system has been adopted. There is so much to learn in the present age that we cannot afford to spend seven or eight years, as formerly, in poring over dead languages, which, after all, are of little value when acquired. By the means of those close and literal translations which I use in my school, a boy may be made acquainted with the ideas of all the principal Latin and Greek authors in one-fourth of the time that was formerly employed, and then he will have much time to devote to other useful and important subjects, such as botany, chemistry, mineralogy, geology, etc. Is not this much more rational? On these pleasing studies the pupil will enter with delight; whereas, according to the old system, boyhood was spent in misery and continual torture, shocking to humanity. Nothing but the sound of the lash and the wailings and sobbings of the poor victims were to be heard from morning till night. But we have changed all these matters now. Nothing of the kind is heard at the present time, and the boyhood and youth of pupils of these enlightened days are passed in that ease and freedom'-- 
               "'For which they will suffer in maturer years,' I interrupted. 'All you have said is very plausible, and well calculated to arrest the attention of tender mothers and indulgent papas, but it can have no weight with those who are endowed with common sense, or who have the slightest knowledge of life or the nature of man. Is it not notorious that man generally is inclined by nature to the indulgence of the present moment, unmindful of the past and regardless of the future? This is particularly remarkable in boys and young people, who, having no experience of the world themselves, are placed under the care and guardianship of those whose duty it is to teach them the way they should go, that when they grow up they may not depart from it. Now what boy, except such a prodigy as Pascal, has ever been known to enter upon an abstruse and dry study of his own free will, and to persevere in it till he attains to the end? Not one in ten thousand! But then, you say, such dry studies are to be made plain, and easy, and agreeable. Then they are no longer studies at all, and are completely useless for the end for which they were intended. You have spoken of the dead languages, of learning them by an easy method; but why learn them at all? Might not the pupil as well read the Greek and Roman authors in translations?' 
               "'I do not know but that he might, except that it is fashionable for a gentleman to know something of the dead languages-to be able to understand a sentence or quotation occasionally. This is the only use I see in them.' 
               "'If that is the case I do not at all wonder at your adopting the new system,' I replied, 'it is quite in keeping with your views; but I hold quite a different opinion on this subject altogether.' 
               "'What might that be?' said Mr. Lovechild. 
               "'I have always looked,' I replied, 'upon the dead languages more as a discipline for the mind, a means to an end, than in any other light. I think we could very well dispense with most of the ideas contained in the classical authors, and even with the languages themselves, for any great advantage their acquisition per se confers upon us. Indeed I am of opinion that the time and trouble we expend in learning those languages and in reading those authors would be almost entirely thrown away had we no other object in view but the mere acquisition of words and phrases, or the ideas of the authors who wrote in them. But such is not the case. It is the very difficulty in mastering them, of which you seem to stand in such dread, the close attention, the diligent and patient research which we must employ in the pursuit-in short, the toil and excitement of the chase, not the dead game itself, which is our chief reward, which you and all who follow your system lose entirely by having the game hunted down for you, and nothing left for you to do but put it in your bag and walk quietly home, crammed with the fruits of other people's toil, and unable to digest that which you had gorged, and for which you had no appetite excited by healthy and manly exercise. This was Locke's error, and this is the error of the Edinburgh Reviewers, and of all such dreamers who forget or overlook the main business, and attack and harp upon something of minor or no importance at all. I say, and I assert it fearlessly, that the dead languages are worth nothing unless acquired with much labor and trouble, and that one page of an author studied thoroughly, according to the old system of analysis and synthesis, by the dint of labor and reflection, is of more value, for the essential purposes of education, than the whole circle of the classical authors, read in your reading-made-easy way, put together.' 
               "'Would you, then, have a boy spend seven or eight years in learning dead languages, when there is so much to learn beside?' said Mr. Lovechild. 
               "'I would have his mind most thoroughly disciplined by the best possible means in his early years; and perhaps there is no means so good at that time of life, or that would answer this purpose so well as those very languages against which we hear such an ignorant and inconsiderate outcry. For what, I would ask, can be done with a youth till he is fourteen or fifteen years of age but prepare him by a proper course of judicious training for entering upon that career for which the bent of his genius may fit him? Till that time, and perhaps later, it is impossible to tell how his genius may develop itself; and if his mind has previously been confused and dissipated on a multiplicity of varying pursuits, under the false name of sciences, we will find that it will have gained weakness instead of strength. I apprehend that instead of attempting to make him a universal genius prematurely, it would be better to concentrate his mental powers to one or two points, so that he might have it ready and in full vigor to direct it to whatever pursuit the great business of life may require, for it is impossible for one man to be perfect in such a multiplicity of pursuits as present themselves to the modern aspirant. In schools, particularly preparatory schools like yours, Mr. Lovechild, there ought to be one fixed standard of education for all, and that standard ought to be the classics properly studied, which are not only an excellent, perhaps the best, discipline for that early age, but also the best key to the arts and sciences, which the youth may one day be expected to study, and to the modern languages also.' 
               "'In my school they study the arts and sciences now, sir,' said Mr. Lovechild, proudly. 
               "'Indeed they do,' I replied, 'after a certain manner; but it is of that I complain. They will study nothing but mischief, Mr. Lovechild; and I would venture to say that not one boy in your school can answer me a single question unless I ask him in the precise words in which he got it off by rote. This is not learning, in my opinion, but loss of time. What they do acquire is mere dogmatism, the ipse dixit of others, without any exercise whatever of their own reason, which faculty, indeed, seems completely proscribed from the school altogether. You talk of doing everything by kindness alone! That would be very well if it were accompanied by firmness and a wholesome admixture of fear; but as it is it will not answer, I can assure you, and I, for one, protest against it.' 
               "'I have heard you very patiently for a long time, Mr. Hardy. Pray, how can this affair interest you? may I be allowed to ask,' said Mr. Lovechild, in a somewhat harsh, displeased tone. 
               "'Because I feel an interest in the boys intrusted to my charge, and, let me add, in the prosperity of my employer's establishment, which cannot be permanent if this system is persevered in.' 
               "'You really think so, conscienciously?' said Mr. Lovechild, with a look of inquiry which would seem to doubt my sincerity. 
               "'Most decidedly,' I replied. 'Do you think me capable of giving expression to sentiments which I do not feel?' 
               "'Oh, certainly not,' he answered, with a smile; 'but I tell you candidly I would advise you not to give yourself any more trouble in these matters; they belong long to me, and I am not in the habit of allowing my assistants to dictate to me.' 
               "'I do not wish to dictate to you,' I replied mildly; 'my object has been, if possible, to convince you of the utter futility of the method you have adopted and of the impossibility there is of it ever succeeding.' 
               "'If the parents of my pupils are well satisfied,' he answered, 'I think my assistant might easily be so.' 
               "'I have given your system a full and fair trial,' I replied. 'I have labored zealously to do all the good in my power, but I find my efforts useless. I hoped to prevail upon you to permit me to try my own method with my own class; but since you refuse me that favor, I must inform you that I cannot conscienciously undertake the duty any longer than the end of the present half year, after which it is my intention to leave; so I take the opportunity of giving you this early notice, that you may suit yourself in time.' 
               "'Thank you,' said Mr. Lovechild. And here the conversation ended. This took place only a few days ago. 
               "If I could have entered upon the subject of religious and moral instruction imparted to his pupils by Mr. Lovechild," continued Harcourt, "I would have shown him that he was equally at fault on that head; but the matter was too delicate to touch upon, and therefore I omitted it altogether. I could have shown him that his system was as false and hollow, applied to religion and morals, as it was in every other respect, and that the most unfavorable results must necessarily follow equally from both." 
               "And what is that system he uses in teaching religion?" I asked. 
               "Why," replied Harcourt, "if it may be called a system which is none, and has not even the likeness of a system, I would define it as that which is calculated to pervert the mind and the morals, and destroy the very essence of man as a rational and accountable creature. 
               "He teaches, both in the pulpit and in private, that man is not accountable for his actions; that he has no free agency, but is the creature of a blind and inevitable necessity; and, forgetting the beautiful language of Christ, when he took up a little child, placed him in the midst of the people, and declared to them that unless they became like little babes in innocence and purity, they could not enter the kingdom of heaven, he is constantly impressing on the minds of his pupils that they are born in sin, that their hearts are desperately wicked above all things, that they must be regenerated or born again or they cannot enter the kingdom of heaven, and that unless they are predestined from all eternity to salvation they must inevitably perish everlastingly. He tells them there is no good, but even sin, in morality, that it is as filthy rags, and tries to warn them against placing any confidence in good works, which, he declares, are often an abomination to the Lord, and the offspring of Satan!" 
               "This," said I, "as you must be aware, is not a doctrine peculiar to Mr. Lovechild; it is that promulgated by John Calvin, long adopted in Scotland, and of late years it has become very general in this country with a party in the church who style themselves Evangelists. They are the Puritans of the nineteenth century, and the only true and genuine saints of Christendom. This is the sect which declares that the morality inculcated by Addison in the 'Spectator,' however well adapted it might have been for the neophites of the age in which he wrote, is not suited to the loftier views of the more enlighted and spiritual Christians of the present time." 
               "I only speak," replied Harcourt, "from having witnessed its effects in those to whom it has been preached. It makes them either insufferably proud, as considering themselves the favored ones and the elect of God, or desperately wicked and abandoned, as despairing of all salvation because of their non-election from eternity and the absence of God's grace! These are its effects in adults; but when it is preached to boys and children it gives them a ready excuse for every error or fault they may commit. How often have I been answered, when reproving a boy for some misdemeanor, 'Well, I could not help it; it was not my fault. Mr. Lovechild says that we can do nothing of ourselves, and that we are not accountable for our actions, and he quoted scripture to prove it;' and when I have replied that indeed they were accountable for their actions, quoting several passages of scripture to prove the assertion, they have merely laughed at me in derision or scorn, exclaiming: 'What! I suppose you know better than Mr. Lovechild, who is a clergyman!' and thus I found it was no use to proceed any further. 
               "The result of all this is," continued Harcourt, "that they forget their duty both to God and their superiors, they are disobedient and contentious, and so completely unmanageable and refractory as to render it a difficult task to get through the day with any sort of pleasure or quiet. It is more painful than all to witness their hypocrisy when Mr. Lovechild appears, which is seldom. They are then as quiet and meek-looking as saints; but the moment he turns his back they show themselves, and all our efforts are totally inadequate to restrain or control them. To complain to him is of no avail, for he will not punish them; and if we attempt to do it ourselves, both he and his wife raise such an outcry as to give us no peace of our lives! 
               "These are my chief reasons," continued he, "for having given Mr. Lovechild notice to leave. As for myself I have been very kindly treated, both by him and his wife, except in the first instance, which I have described to you already; but his school is in such a state of insubordination and confusion, there is so little doing in it, or indeed that it is possible for the most zealous to accomplish under the circumstances, that I find it very irksome, and even painful, to remain any longer." 
               Here Harcourt ended his story. I took my leave of him with feelings of pity for his sufferings and admiration for his firmness of character and his constancy in suffering the ills of outrageous fortune. I left my sons with Mr. Lovechild, but in a few days I wrote to him stating that circumstances rendered it necessary that I should remove them at midsummer next, and I think you will agree with me that it was not without good reason. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               THE LANDING. 
               THEN Mr. Worthington had got thus far in his interesting story, it was announced to us that we were approaching the shores of England, and the weather having now become fine, we all went on deck to enjoy the scene. On our right rose the lofty range of the Welsh mountains, blue and shadowy on the extremest verge of the horizon. For some time no other object was visible. Soon, however, the low and level shore of Lancashire appeared on our left, which as yet presented no object of interest. By and by we could distinguish a cloud of smoke, as of a great city, and every moment it became more and more distinct as we approached. Now innumerable windmills presented themselves on the rising grounds, and next farm houses and country seats and villages along the shore in great abundance. But at that distance these objects appeared dull and gloomy, and not half so smiling or romantic as the villas and houses that ornament our own sweet bays and harbors, This I afterwards learned arose from the English houses in those parts being built with a dull, dark colored kind of brick, which gives a heavy appearance to the exterior of their dwellings, and to an absence of trees and shrubs along this line of coast; whereas in most places along the shore in Ireland, at least as far as I have seen it, the houses are neatly whitewashed and often embowered snugly in trees of the richest foliage, to which they present a pleasing contrast as you catch a glimpse of them through open vistas, tastefully arranged, in order to produce an effect while you enter the harbor or sail along the coast. Add to this that the Irish shore presents, for the most part, a romantic background of lofty mountains or rugged peaks, whose stony and frowning summits rise from a basement clothed in verdure or adorned with cultivated fields and gardens, villas and villages, where art corrects the exuberance of nature, and gives it a more humanized aspect. At other places nothing is to be seen but the solitary grandeur, the unreclaimed wildness, or the forlorn barrenness of mountain, marsh and moor, which impart an idea of vastness and gloomy sublimity not often to be met with elsewhere, and impress the mind with feelings more easily conceived than expressed. These natural beauties which we left behind us are sufficient to assure you that our ideas at the first glimpse of the English coast were not of the most lofty or sublime. 
               But then the element on which we were then gliding was every moment as we proceeded presenting us with additional proofs of the wealth, the commerce, and the industry of the people, the appearance of whose country did not fill us, by presenting a bold and prominent outline, with any enthusiasm or admiration. The sea was literally covered with shipping, and every object we beheld, whether animate or inanimate, seemed to be imbued with the restless, unromantic spirit of enterprise. It seemed that we were approaching a bold, industrious people, and this gave us a respect for their power and their talents. 
               Nothing can be more extraordinary than the difference which appears between the two countries, even at the first glance. In Ireland everything seems stationary and every one listless, and even in the largest seaports commerce seems to flag, as if its votaries were only half in earnest, divided between its paltry gains and the mere gentlemanly pursuits of pleasure. In England every one is in active and earnest motion, intent on his business, and that alone in the most systematic manner, till he has realized a fortune, and even then he pursues pleasure according to system; and this tendency to action communicates itself in idea with every object that meets the eye. 
               At length, after many soundings and much caution, (for it is a dangerous harbor, and it was almost low water as we were several hours behind our time,) we arrived at the mouth of the river Mersey, on which the town of Liverpool stands. We passed by the lighthouse, and in a few moments afterwards were alongside the pier, which was crowded with people who had come there from curiosity, as I thought, to gaze on our boat and its passengers, but who, in reality, were nothing more than the ordinary promenaders, who are to be seen in the same place every fine day, and our boat, far from being an object of attraction to them, was hardly noticed by any but the porters and hackney coachmen, and even these seemed very independent and regardless of our patronage. How different again in Ireland. There 1 have seen passengers almost plagued to death by the crowds of ragged, starving wretches, who have flocked around them on the landing, pushing, jostling, and fighting with each other, to get near them to carry their luggage, while all the honorable titles, such as your honor, your lordship, your reverence, etc., which they could think of, have been unsparingly poured forth to attract the attention of the stranger to the peculiar merits of each candidate. 
               Neither did we meet with any of those importunately persevering creatures who, in other countries solicit travelers to go to particular hotels or inns; not even one to present us with a card, and had we not been under the direction of a gentleman who was well acquainted with the place, we might have found it somewhat difficult to choose a suitable inn; but we had nothing to trouble us on this head. 
               What struck me on my first landing in England was the air of comfort which pervaded all ranks of the people. I seemed to have reached a happy land whence the demon, poverty, was banished, or where emaciated objects, the victims of starvation and disease, were removed altogether from the sight-such as in our own unhappy country mar, by the spectacle of actual suffering which they present in every possible variety, and at every step-the happiness which the sensitive or philanthropic might otherwise enjoy in the natural scenery, or in the resources with which a more bountiful Providence had endowed him individually. For who that possesses the common feelings of our nature can revel undisturbed in the gifts of fortune, while thousands of miserable wretches around him are suffering from want or disease? Even our own countrymen, transplanted to this genial soil, had undergone a great change for the better, both physically and morally. They seemed here to be well clothed, well fed, and in a certain degree to participate of that noble independence of mind which characterizes the English peasant, and points him out as the denizen of a free and happy state, but this is too apt to degenerate into insolence, with those unaccustomed hitherto to its enjoyment. 
               Notwithstanding that we had counted two hundred and fifty-seven merchant vessels, met in the bay, which had sailed by that morning's tide, yet the extensive docks were still so crowded with ships that, as I was told, scarcely one could be missed out of the mass, and that any one who had viewed the docks the evening before would be at a loss! to account for the fleet which we had met, whence it came. For upwards of three miles along the banks of the river a perfect forest of masts," dense as an American wood, presents itself to the astonished gaze of the stranger, and the bales of goods, hogsheads of wine, spirits, etc., heaps of iron, piles of cocoa-nuts, the masses of indigo, Brazil wood, logwood, and every species of merchandise with which the quays are loaded; with the innumerable hands that are employed in loading or unloading the vessels, the discordant jabbering of languages, the cries of sailors about to depart to foreign shores, or the cheers of those returning home; the weighing of anchors, the hauling of ropes, the turning of innumerable capstans, with the cheering songs of the sailors, the furling or unfurling of sails, the columns of smoke from the steamers, the clatter of their paddles in the water, the sound of the sledge and the hammer, with innumerable other sights and sounds, the one-tenth of which it would be impossible to enumerate, leave such an impression on the mind, first of inextricable confusion, then of regularity, order, and untiring industry, of commercial enterprise and prosperity unprecedented, that it is quite impossible ever to forget it. 
               Having got our luggage out of the steamboat, and ordered a coach, we proceeded to a first class hotel on Lord street, which we were recommended to by our new acquaintance, who also took up his abode at the same place. We had only arrived at the inn and arranged our plans for that night and the next day, when our friend, Mr. Worthington, impatient to see his sons who were at Mr. Lovechild's school, said that at some other opportunity he would take me with him and introduce me to Mr. Harcourt, but that at present he would leave me to accompany my father and sister, as they would doubtless be curious to see every thing worth seeing in the town, and he at the same time apologized to us for not being able to conduct us in person, and requested the landlord to procure us a faithful guide who would lead us at once to the most remarkable objects, and explain those things which required explanation, But we preferred sallying out by ourselves, as we should see quite enough that day to amuse us without the services of a guide, and as we had sufficient time to explore the place at our leisure, seeing that we would be a whole fortnight in the town, we should not require his guidance for the future. 
               Wherever we went we were struck with the signs of wealth and commercial prosperity. Whatever truth there may be in the theory of "the wealth of nations," Liverpool, and, I may add, the whole of England, has been able to arrive at the desirable result. Individuals and companies must certainly act on fixed and defined principles, but enterprise seems to me to be the grand secret of acquiring wealth. Without this no people, however enlightened on the theory of commerce or of wealth, can ever arrive at commercial prosperity. In the history of the past we find the most enterprising people the most prosperous from the times of the Phnecians down to our own period. The sea and the ocean have, in all ages, been the great and almost only sources of wealth to those nations and peoples who had sufficient energy and enterprise to avail themselves of the advantages to which they invite; may I not add that they have been the grand sources of social and political liberty? He who by his skill and perseverance, by his courage and energy, succeeds in buffeting the mighty billows of the ocean, and in exchanging the skill and productions of his native country for the rich commodities of foreign lands will not easily succumb to domestic tyranny. The same undaunted resolution which caused him to brave the sullen tempest or the burning clime, will impel him to the assertion of his just rights. His intercourse with the human family will give him extended views on things both human and divine; and while it enlightens his mind, will give strength and purpose to his resolution. Is a man a bigot in religion from a conviction that his own is the only true faith? let him visit foreign shores, he will there find people just as bigoted as himself, from the very same conviction, and if he has common sense, or the powers of reason, he will at once perceive that it is just as possible he himself may be wrong as the people amongst whom he has arrived. This consideration will induce him to think that man generally is a creature of circumstances, and by no means responsible for the faith in which he may have been educated; and this reflection will cure him of his bigotry, and render him more charitable towards his fellow men. Is he a political partisan, an admirer of the institutions of his own country and a despiser of all others? he will discover by travel that there is something worthy of imitation to be met with in other countries also, and that the political management of states and kingdoms goes on very well without one of the principles for which perhaps he would have shed the last drop of his blood; but if the institutions of his native land be really excellent, he will learn to appreciate them the more by contrast. 
               Thus it is that commerce is a great enlightener of men, by opening a wide field of knowledge and specution to their view; and hence, too, it has been, and will ever be, the political and moral regenerator of the nations when they are in danger of being extinguished by tyranny and despotism. It is the natural tendency of countries subsisting solely by agriculture to produce and extend the system of social and civil thraldom every where; and although in this state men may enjoy more peace and sluggish repose, yet in it they invariably degenerate into tyrants and slaves. The natural energy of the human mind loses all its force for want of that healthy excitement which commerce and the arts generate, and it sinks down into a species of listless torpor from which it rarely can extricate itself. Men, by degrees, from the natural indolence of their physical frame, come to prefer ease and sloth with slavery, their usual attendant, to freedom with activity, its necessary adjunct, when they cannot find a field of exertion adequate to the powers within them, rather than exert those powers gratuitously they prefer total inactivity and ease. 
               How clearly is this fact illustrated, not only in our own countrymen, who, by the by, are not differently organized from other men, but in all men in all countries, just as circumstances have been favorable or otherwise to the development of their energies. What a difference, for example, is to be traced between the Phoenecians of early times, when commerce and navigation flourished amongst them, when they planted their colonies along the shores of the Mediterranean, at Carthage, Hippo, Marseilles, Utica, the coasts of Spain, both within and without the columns of Hercules, when their trade penetrated all parts of the Palus Motis and Euxine, reached even the British Isles, and extended itself along the shores of the Baltic-what a difference, I say, is to be traced between them at that flourishing time and the same people afterwards, when they were subdued by the Persians and became tributary to the successes of Alexander and the Romans in turn. When their great source of wealth and power was cut off their industry and energy sank also, and they, from being the lords of the sea, became the slaves of their conquerors, abject and poor. 
               What was it that gave Athens such a preponderence in the affairs of Greece immediately after the invasion of Xerxes had been so nobly repelled by the united exertions of themselves and the Lacedemonians. Was it not the possession of naval power; and did not their influence and their wealth, and I may add, their military glory, fall with the loss of that power? for their little territory of Attica, and their silver mines at Laurium, through the means of which they had built their navies, could be of little service to them divested of all their colonies and ruled by the iron hand of thirty tyrants. 
               What shall I say of the Carthaginians, the Syracusans, and in modern times, of the Venetians, the Portuguese, the Spanish, the Dutch? Is not one history, with little variation, applicable to all? As long as their energies were kept alive by so ample a field as the ocean presented, so long did they acquit themselves like men, and enjoy those liberties and immunities which their noble exertions justly merited; but when, through luxury, remissness, corruption, or evil fortune, that field was irrevocably lost to them, did they not sink down to the condition of slaves? so that as each sank in its turn men marvelled what could have become of a people that once gloried in one or the other name. 
                
               Since circumstances make men, it is plain that those which call their activity and energies into virtuous and noble action, are the most desirable. No nation has ever yet become great or famous which did not strenuously cultivate those arts, by which an impulse is given to the human mind, and by which all its powers are likely to be brought into vigorous exertion. Man is so constituted that unless he be employed in useful or honorable pursuits, he will either become vicious and depraved, or he will sink down to idleness and abject imbecility. He requires a constant and powerful stimulus, or rather a series of stimuli, to keep him in action, and just in proportion as he is employed or not will he be happy or miserable. 
               Now, the question seems to be, which is the best mode of calling forth and keeping alive this tendency to action in man? Various nations have adopted various methods of attaining this desirable end with different success. The sagacity of one man discovered a means as extraordinary as it was successful of directing the common mind of a whole people to one paramount object, and of exciting an enthusiasm and perseverance to attain that object the most remarkable in the annals of the human race. Lycurgus, the famous Spartan law-giver, conceived and executed the stupendous project of reversing the order of nature, as it were, by eradicating the principle of selfishness in the Spartan youth and implanting in its stead patriotism and the love of glory. War and conquest were his principal aim; but no matter what the object in view, if a legislator can so inspire each individual with enthusiasm as to cause him to make that object his own, the summit of his ambition, the source of his happiness, the goal of his existence, then is he certain to have it executed according to his most sanguine wishes. But Sparta, in the time of Lycurgus, was a very small state. Rulers then had great power, and wise men and philosophers still more. In the constitution of modern society, the habits of thought, the notions of liberty are so changed since that period that we may never expect to see such a phenomenon on our globe again. If any king or ruler now attempted such an experiment, he would signally fail. Besides, even granting him success so far as his own kingdom was concerned, of what importance would he be with his iron money and his black broth in the eyes of other nations? Would these purchase the sinews of war or render him formidable to his neighbors? Could he wall round his capital city with the naked bodies of his new Spartans? Alas! so changed is the material and physique of war that the brave heroes would all inevitably perish, even before they could see whence their destruction came. I fear, however humiliating it is, we must look for permanent national power and prosperity to a different principle from that which animated the breasts of the Spartans. 
               And what is that principle? Must I write it? Yes, however unwilling, I must write down the great-and yet, after all things are considered, not very degrading-truth. It is selfishness, the only constant agent and perpetual motive in the universe! 
               Place before every individual an object to be attained by which he hopes to be aggrandized and enriched, and whatever difficulties may stand in the way, he will labor with extraordinary pains and perseverance until it is gained. The excitement and the reward only prepare him, merely whet his appetite, for further enterprise; and even if he fail he does not despair, but tries again and again. Having acquired wealth and importance, the fruits of his industrious exertion, will he surrender them without a struggle to the enemy? No! Having an important stake in the country, he will fight boldly to preserve it; nay, he will go forth to meet the foe, while he is yet at a distance, and sacrifice his own life rather than that his heirs should be robbed of their just rights by the rapacious hands of the plunderers. But the hardships he has endured in acquiring his riches, the labors he has undergone, and the difficulties he has encountered, have inured him to toil and danger, have inspired him with courage to fight and with hopes of returning, having purchased a glorious victory; and such confident hope is generally rewarded with success, because it calls forth proportionate action. 
               The very same motives will make him a loyal and dutiful subject, a supporter of the laws and a terror to evil-doers; they would also make him a tyrant were he not checked and controlled by a thousand circumstances which have raised a thousand others by the very same means by which he himself has been raised to wealth and consequence, and who have, therefore, rendered a monopoly of these good things impossible, though a community of them is attainable by all who have industry and talents to attain them. 
               But though he who is potentially a tyrant may love his country, yet he who is one actually cannot do so, because a tyrant cannot love his neighbor, whom, because of his tyranny, he rather fears and hates, and the love of our country, as Cicero beautifully expresses it, "embraces the love of our parents, our children, our relations and all our fellow citizens, without distinction." 
               The best way, therefore, of raising up true patriots, loyal subjects and well conducted citizens is to give to all who desire it or earnestly seek for it the means of possessing a stake in the country of their birth or adoption, and I know no way by which this can be done so well and so innocently as through the means of commerce open to the enterprise of all. 
               I am the more convinced of this since I have seen with my own eyes the effects which such a system has produced in this country and in this city particularly, and when I reflect more closely on human affairs and the capabilities of men, my hopes for the regeneration of our own dear native country begin to revive. 
               When I reflect on the position of Ireland, so admirably adapted to commerce, its innumerable harbors, its navigable rivers and noble lakes, I cannot help thinking that nature intended it as a commercial country of no small importance. Moreover, the spirit, courage, intelligence and capacities of our countrymen offer a powerful guarantee that if they had once the means in their power they would not be last in the race of competition with the best of their neighbors; and why should they? Have they not as much sagacity and perseverance as other men? Have they not as much energy and strength of purpose? Have they not as much resolution and hardihood to perform whatever they undertake? Yes, and much more of those qualities than most of their neighbors, even where their opportunities have been but very small. 
               It has often been dwelt upon as a stigma on our country that the people are indolent and trivial, inattentive to the business of life, unsteady and uncertain in their resolution and vacillating in their purposes; that the peasantry are lazy and filthy, ignorant and superstitious, and a thousand different causes have been assigned for their abject poverty, amongst which not unfrequently figures their natural indolence and their recklessness about their condition. But men are often deceived in their reasonings on the subject, because they do not take a sufficiently wide and extensive field of inquiry, but content themselves with things as they appear on the surface. 
               That all the appearances and vices above described and objected to the Irish character appear to the eye of the stranger in Ireland, I will not attempt to deny; and that many more exist, I will freely confess, for that man must be devoid of all truth who would attempt to gloze over that which ought to be diligently inquired into, till the cause of the evil is detected and the evil itself eradicated. 
               But is it not evident that this torpor and listlessness, this seeming indifference and apathy, this want of energy and steady purpose, etc., are common, and have been common, to all people so situated, and have I not shown that nations once the most renowned for their enterprise and energy, who were in fact the envy of the world, sank down to a state of torpor and listlessness quite as bad as that of the Irish as soon as the cause which had aroused and sustained their energies ceased to exist. What has become of the Phoenecians and Athenians now? What of the Lacedemonians and Syracusans? What even of the Romans themselves, once the lords and masters of the world? Whither is the glory of Venice, queen of the waters, departed? Whither that of the Portuguese and the Spaniards? And what of greatness, of grandeur of character, of respect, of ambition, has that departed glory left behind it amongst the numerous people whom it once elevated to such a height over the nations of the earth? Are these people much superior now in character or principles to the Irish people? I think not. Yet the Irish never have had the advantages which they possessed but shamefully abandoned to more powerful or more virtuous competitors. 
               The Irish require the stimulus of manufactures, commerce and capital to excite and sustain their energies, without which they must ever be slaves. Such a disproportionate multitude, distributed over and depending exclusively on the soil, must necessarily keep the great mass poor. A few despotic landowners, the most merciless and tyrannical of any others on the globe, feed upon their thews and sinews, and treat them as the most abject slaves, who dare not even complain, because that would bring utter ruin and misery on themselves. In England landlords are humane from two causes: first, from a dread of public opinion, which is loud enough to make itself heard over the whole kingdom, and feared by the most powerful in it; and secondly, because manufactures and the immense commerce to which it gives existence and support, open various channels for the speculation of the capitalist or the exercise of talents, which relieve the land from that competition to which it would otherwise be subject, and allow the farmers a respectable and honorable subsistence from the soil which they cultivate by opening a home market for all they can spare. Thus the English have innumerable objects of enterprise, worthy of their utmost ambition, to keep their energies awake, while the Irish have only one, and that a most hopeless and heartless one. How, therefore, can it be expected that the latter, with all these disadvantages against them, can be other than what they are or be compared with the former in steadiness and perseverance. 
               But in this country (and I have now been here sufficient time to form an opinion on the subject) wherever the Irish are employed they exhibit quite a different character. They are both strenuous and persevering, and almost always give perfect satisfaction to their employers. They are honest and industrious, and peculiarly trustworthy, as fewer defaulters have been found amongst them, according to the numbers employed, than amongst the same number of the English or any other nation, a proof that the character by which they are distinguished at home is the natural effect of their condition and by no means peculiar to them as a people. But there is a good time coming for Ireland, as her own bard beautifully expresses it: 
                      
                        "The nations are fallen, but thou still art young; 
                        Thy sun is but rising when others have set; 
                        And though slavery's cloud o'er thy morning hath hung, 
                        The full noon of freedom shall beam on thee yet!" 
                     
                  
                
               The above reflections were suggested to me by the walk which I took the day after my landing in Liverpool in company with my father and sister. At our return we found Mr. Worthington waiting dinner for us. He was highly pleased to witness the feelings of delight and astonishment which we could not help expressing at the wealth, the commerce and flourishing appearance of England or of that small but important portion of it which we had merely had time as yet to glance at. He smiled when I inquired whether London presented such an appearance of wealth and prosperity as Liverpool, and whether it exhibited that absence of poverty and suffering which we had remarked with such pleasure in all around us, and he answered: 
                
               "Yes, indeed, its commerce is as great as, if not greater, in proportion to its population, than that of Liverpool. Its appearance of wealth and grandeur is increased in a ten-fold proportion because it is the capital of the empire, the seat of the court, and in the season the residence of the nobles; but I am sorry to add that it does not present to the eye of the stranger the absence of poverty and suffering, of wretchedness and human degradation, which you have remarked in this place, though when you have been here a little longer and examined it more closely, you will also find enough to satisfy you that there is no country, however prosperous, free from the common lot of humanity, sin and suffering. Though I might add that whatever of actual suffering and misery and degradation meets the eye here, or even in London, is that which has been brought on by the depraved passions and vicious inclinations of the sufferers rather than by the pressing necessities of the times; that, in short, nearly all the miseries we endure in England are the effects of our very prosperity, of which we boast so much. For there is not a man or family who are able to work but can procure sufficient employment with good wages at least for a greater portion of the year, and if they were prudent and frugal they might then lay up sufficient for the time during which they would be unemployed or other casualties, and if any are unable to work through infirmities or accident, an ample provision is made both for their support and their health by the laws of the country independent of the charity of the rich, which is often very extensive and useful. 
               "But luxury introduced into a country soon extends itself like a plague amongst all ranks, and the humblest classes, from their want of education, are likely to be the greatest sufferers by it. In times of great prosperity instead of saving their earnings for the evil day, they spend them in riot and debauchery, leaving the future to take care of itself, illustrating by their example that passage of Scripture which says,' Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof,' and hence it often happens that from enjoying the very luxuries and pleasures of life they are hurled at once into the utmost distress and poverty, when from their previous habits they are the least capable of bearing such privations. The love of dress, which I believe is not entirely peculiar to our females, but which the lower orders have been able to gratify more than any other people, has done much mischief to the morals of this country by corrupting the female heart and rendering it callous to everything but external appearances. In short," he added, "the commercial prosperity which you seem to admire so much has its drawbacks as well as the poverty of your own country, which you so much deplore, for we should remember that virtuous poverty is better than wealth accompanied by vice." 
               "True, sir," I replied, "but there is little virtue, I fear, in the poverty we endure, seeing that it is by no means voluntary, but compulsory, and if I were about to choose a wife I think I should prefer one who had gone through the ordeal of temptation unscathed to one whose virtue had never been placed in any jeopardy whatever." 
               "A very sensible remark,' he replied; "but strangers do not generally look upon our manners and habits with that discernment which you seem to be endowed with, nor can they very well understand, at first view, either the causes or the consequences of that free and unshackled liberty which we grant to our females before marriage, and hence they are sometimes unjustly severe upon us for appearances which I confess seem to tell against us, but which in the end will be found to accord with the principles of reason and good sense. 
               "In most other countries parents keep a constant and suspicious watch over the conduct of their daughters, from their earliest years up to the very day of their marriage, when they consign them to the equally vigilant and perhaps much more jealous care of a husband who has never learned to place that confidence in their love and virtue which a freer intercourse before marriage would have enabled him to test. The wife who feels herself a morally responsible agent does not like to be watched thus, like one who cannot be trusted out of sight; she therefore feels a just resentment at such treatment, and since she cannot alter it, she determines sometimes to avenge herself by justifying the very suspicions which were entertained of her. But this she contrives to do in a cautious, intriguing, underhand way, either under the mask of religion or in some other way which her ingenuity suggests, and for which her previous education has well prepared her. But in England our course is different. We first of all imbue the minds of our daughters with correct principles. We teach them to be open and sincere, to despise secret intrigue and coquetry, and to act in all respects and under all circumstances as rational and responsible beings. We take care to point out to them the inevitable consequences which the slightest deviation from the paths of honor and virtue will entail upon them, both as maids and as matrons, and leave them at liberty to act and to think for themselves. If, under such circumstances, they from giddiness, passion, depravity, or any other cause, forget themselves, and what they owe to honor, to their parents and to virtue, the bond which has hitherto united us is severed forever. They are allowed to pursue their own course and to go to destruction their own way. And is it much to be wondered at that amongst the humbler classes, where a good education and the inculcation of sound principles are out of the question, but yet where the liberty of intercourse between the sexes is greater still than amongst the middle and higher classes, that many females, thus severely tried, should be found wanting, that the thoughtless should be ensnared by the seducer, or that the vicious and depraved should fall victims to their passions, that vice should prevail, and that consequences to be deplored should arise, especially where these natural causes are fostered and encouraged by a very unwise and injudicious law, which holds out a premium to crime and a bribe to female prostitution, instead of stigmatizing it with the brand of disgrace, and punishing it with the severest penalties?
                     It is to be observed that this was spoken long before the present poor law was ever thought of.
                  
                
               "But, on the other hand, as you have very justly remarked, those who go through this fiery ordeal unscathed are indeed, and deserve to be, objects of veneration, respect and love. The lover of such a woman can safely rely on her promise, and the heart of her husband can repose confidence in her virtue. She will be the prudent and happy mother, the cheerful, loving and industrious wife, the tender nurse in sickness, the unflinching sharer of poverty or distress. In short, she will be an angel on earth, to console and smile away the ills that attend on frail humanity. 
               "Thus we have two classes or characters of women, more distinctly marked and separated from each other by a better defined and more insuperable barrier than can be found in any other country. I mean the right-minded, pure and virtuous; and the silly, thoughtless and depraved. Nor is it any wonder, when the nature of their education and the temptations to which they are exposed are taken into consideration, that the latter should be more numerous than the former, on account of the superior numbers of the class to which they belong. But the number of the former is so great and influential, their conduct is so excellent and exemplary as to procure respect for the whole sex, and call forth the gratitude and praise of all good and wise men, and happy indeed is that man whose lot it is to be blessed with such a one for a wife." 
               While our venerable friend was thus descanting on the virtues of his fair countrywomen I could not help reflecting on the charms and far-famed virtues of our own bright-eyed beauties-the fair daughters of the Emerald Isle, who yield to none on the globe for attractive charms and winning grace, and I began to get weary of listening to the praises of others whom I did not know, and whom I could not consider equal to those with whom I was so well acquainted. I fancied that the old man was exaggerating from partiality to his own country, and I could not entirely assent to his doctrines on that subject. But I have since found everything he uttered to be perfectly true; and, without in the slightest degree depreciating our own incomparable women, I can safely say that the English ladies are as high-minded, as virtuous, as faithful in their love, as true wives, as prudent and excellent mothers, and as beautiful and accomplished as any ladies on the face of the globe, not even excepting our own. Alas! I fear I have found some among them too attractive for my weak philosophy. But of this anon. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               THE INTRODUCTION. 
               AFTER we had examined the chief objects of interest in and around Liverpool, I took occasion to remind Mr. Worthington of his promise to introduce me to his friend Mr. Harcourt, in whom we all felt much interest. 
               "I shall have great pleasure in gratifying you on that head," said he. "I am going down to Bootle tomorrow, to see my boys again, and if you wish to accompany me you are welcome. Besides, I should like to invite Harcourt to dine with us here as soon as he is free from his present engagement, which will be in a week, and it would be well if you became acquainted with him, as well as your future charge, in the mean time." 
               "Is he going into a similar situation when he leaves his present one?" I inquired. 
               "No," replied Mr. Worthington, "he expects an engagement as clerk with a merchant. The truth is, he is so thoroughly disgusted with teaching that he will have nothing more to do with it. Indeed so far back as last Easter I offered him the care of my own boys, which he declined, not only because he felt unwilling to revisit the scene of his first misfortune, but because he dislikes the profession." 
               Next day I accompanied Mr. Worthington to Love-child-house, and was there introduced to his friend Harcourt. I was struck at once with his appearance and manner. In his countenance he had the marks of a high order of ability-it might be called genius, and I found his mind stored with every kind of learning. We soon understood each other as well as if we had been acquainted for years, and as there was no reserve on either side we soon became fast friends. 
               While Mr. Worthington was engaged with his children Harcourt proposed a walk along the beach, to which I consented, and we enjoyed a delightful conversation for nearly two hours, during which, amongst other things, I asked him about the characters and attainments of my new pupils, to whom I had just been presented by their father. 
               "You are very fortunate in having met with such boys to begin with," said Harcourt. "They will give you no trouble; they are already well broken in, and you have only to go on in the track that has been marked out for you. They have all been well grounded in the principles of grammar, and have read a good deal of the classics; and the eldest is just now beginning to manifest a taste for science, which you will feel a pleasure in cultivating. I have done all I could to prevent them being ruined by the pernicious system of my employer; but I fear if they were to remain here six months longer their case would be hopeless, though they have by nature excellent dispositions." 
               "As to religion," said I, "how would you advise me to proceed?" 
               "Teach them all the great truths of Christianity," said he, "which you will find, however, they understand in a great measure already. Let them read the Bible constantly, and study the lives and follow the examples of the primitive Christians and Patriarchs, and they cannot err; but do not teach them dogmas, which, according to our weak judgments at least, seem to compromise the justice and mercy of God, and to set bounds to his goodness. Impress constantly on their minds the moral duties which Christianity so emphatically inculcates, and endeavor to render them just, honest and pious men, loyal subjects, and useful citizens of a free state." 
               By this time we were summoned into the house, as Mr. Worthington wished to return to town. I requested the favor of Harcourt's company to dinner, in which Mr. Worthington joined me, and we at length, after much persuasion, induced him to accept the invitation as soon as he could get away, and then we bade him adieu for the present. 
               "Well," said Mr. Worthington, when we were on our way homeward, "what do you think of Harcourt?" 
               "Very highly indeed," I replied. "I have been quite charmed with his conversation and manners. I have seldom met with a young man of such penetration combined with such good sense and erudition. It would seem that his whole life has been spent in reading and meditation, and the study of mankind." 
               "And yet," said Mr. Worthington, "he is as accomplished as he is learned; but this I have told you already, and besides you will have an opportunity of judging soon for yourself-at least of some of his accomplishments." 
               "Which do you mean?" I asked. 
               "His skill in music and his deep, melodious voice, and the art with which he manages it. I once heard him, but it was in his days of hope and love, and I shall never forget it." 
               "But do you think," said I, "we can induce him to sing? I fear his misfortunes will render him unwilling to indulge in song." 
               "Why not? Sorrow may find an adequate expression in song as well as joy. It has a language peculiar to itself, and often gives a touching pathos to the melody which no feeling of delight could impart. If he has not lost the use of his voice we will make him sing; that I promise you." 
               When we arrived at our inn we found that my father and Ellen had gone out towards the new cemetery, so we too followed them thither, where we found them meditating on the final lot of all mortals in that sweet valley of the dead. We told them the result of our visit and that we expected to see Harcourt at our inn that day week, which intelligence gave them both evident satisfaction. 
               The interval between that day and Harcourt's visit was spent in exploring every place in and about Liverpool, in delightful excursions on the river, sometimes over to Birkenhead, at others to Woodside and New Brighton, and the evenings were spent telling stories or singing the melodies of our country, in which Mr. Worthington took a deep interest. Ellen has a sweet voice and sings her native melodies with deeper feeling now, that she sings them in a strange land, accompanying herself sometimes on the piano, sometimes on the guitar or harp, which last is her favorite instrument, as it is mine also, and I joined in the concert sometimes with my flute, at others with my voice, and thus the time passed very pleasantly. It was now, too, at Mr. Worthington's request, that my father recounted the principal circumstances of his own life, which were to me so much the more interesting as I had never heard them before, and as they happened to one so deservedly dear to me, and I regret that at present I cannot find time to relate them to you; but at another more favorable opportunity I promise you that I will tell you the whole tale, in which I am sure you will be as deeply interested as I and my sister have been. Indeed, Mr. Worthington, who was almost a perfect stranger to us then, was moved even to tears at the recital, which was one of an extraordinary nature and differing in one essential point from most narrations of this kind-it bore the stamp of truth and reality. 
               At length the expected day came and our friend Harcourt arrived. He looked very sad and melancholy, but we did all in our power to cheer and comfort him. At last we succeeded so far as to draw him into conversation, and when he once warmed with his subject, he seemed to forget his woes and to launch out into an ocean of ideas through which he steered with remarkable skill and dexterity. The spirit of antiquity was upon him and he was not restrained from pouring forth its impulse by the presence of my sister. In fact, he at once perceived that she was not only interested in the subjects, but intimately acquainted even with all their details, which both surprised and delighted him. He looked upon her as a sort of prodigy and seemed to think it strange that one so young and handsome could have devoted so much time to books and the severer studies. He felt awed in her presence. 
               After dinner, Mr. Worthington proposed, as usual, a song, and called upon Ellen to sing his favorite melody, "Cathleen Mavourneen," (the words of which had been recently written by Mrs. Crawford and the melody composed by Mr. Crouch, I think,) which she sang with even more than her usual feeling, accompanying herself on the harp of her country. Poor Harcourt was so deeply affected that the tears flowed down his face and over his fingers, when he attempted to conceal them. His emotion was deep and strong. The recollection of the past seemed to crowd upon his memory and afflict him sorely. It was overpowering, too much so for him to endure. My father perceived it and softly whispered Ellen to cease. She did so; but Harcourt perceiving what had been done and at once understanding the cause, begged that she would proceed. It affected him, he said, with a tender melancholy which was rather pleasing than otherwise, and he hoped we would bear with him if he vented his feelings in tears. They would relieve his mind of a great burden, he said, and he should feel more happy afterwards. She continued, and his tears flowed even to the end. She ceased, and he awoke as if from a dream. A spell had bound him, but it was one of a transitory nature. When the cause which produced it ceased, the effect was no longer outwardly visible, and he soon resumed his wonted serenity and repose. 
               After a little time, Mr. Worthington said that we were all highly obliged to Miss Montague for her song and hoped that she would now, as she had won that right, call upon some person able to recompense her in a slight degree for the pleasure she had given. 
                
               She then said that she would take the liberty to call upon Mr. Harcourt, as she understood none there was so well qualified as he to give the company that pleasure which Mr. Worthington expected from the exercise of her privilege. 
               "A very bad call, I assure you, Miss Montague," said Harcourt with a melancholy smile. "It is now so long since I waked the tuneful lyre or yielded to the inspiration of the sweet muse, that I almost forget whatever little of craft in that way I once was master of. However, as you have so well won your title to command, it would be treason to disobey; but I would take it as a favor if you would allow me to accompany myself on your harp. It will enable me to remember the air." 
               So saying, he sat down to the harp, and having waked a most soft and soul-thrilling prelude, he began in a wild and melancholy strain as follows: 
                      
                        "Oh, wouldst thou have me sing, lady, 
                        When my heart is like to break? 
                        My lyre is mute; each string, lady, 
                        Mourns for its master's sake! 
                        For I have felt the power of love, 
                        And still his pangs I feel! 
                        Ah! thou wouldst not his strains appease, 
                        Whose grief no time can heal! 
                     
                      
                        "Dost thou command? I must obey, 
                        I cannot thee refuse. 
                        Those smiles which o'er thy features play 
                        Must needs recall the muse; 
                        For so my love was wont to smile, 
                        Thus beauty decked her brow, 
                        Thus she would all my cares beguile, 
                        Methinks I see her now! 
                     
                      
                        "Ah, fleeting shade! The lovely spring, 
                        In gaudy robe of flowers, 
                        Shall soon again rich fragrance bring, 
                        To bless the verdant bowers; 
                        But never shall the cold, damp clay 
                        Restore my love to me! 
                        Vain world, adieu! false joys, away! 
                        I come, sweet love, to thee!" 
                     
                  
                
                
               The touching pathos with which he sang, the deep and sweet melody of his voice, and the truth of the sentiments contained in the song with their applicability to the singer, made a powerful impression on all present. Ellen in particular was moved to tears almost as copious as Harcourt had shed at her song. In fact, a casual observer would imagine there was a sympathy between these two which, if they were longer together, might lead to something more-perhaps it might, for who can tell what time and opportunity might effect-but I could easily perceive that there was nothing like love manifested by either. The truth is, Harcourt was then too vividly impressed with the image of her he had lost to admit the bare idea, and Ellen was not of a caste to be overcome by the impulse of the moment. Besides she had, like most young ladies, determined to be satisfied with nothing less than the conquest of an entire unsubdued heart to herself, and not to be content with the spoils of another, however glorious. This I knew to be her feeling and her pride. But what has love to do with resolution? He laughs at stubborn pride, too, and subdues everything to his own purpose, when he wills it. 
               When I perceived that our little party was now become so moping and melancholy, I began to sing a light and gay air for the purpose of rallying them, and dissipating the cloud which seemed to envelope the festal board. I succeeded but partially, for notwithstanding all my efforts, I could perceive that a tendency to sigh prevailed, especially with our two sentimentalists. There is a something sacred in music, associated with our graver and more solemn feelings, which forbids the idea of levity, and leaves upon the mind impressions of a solemn and sublime character which are near akin to worship, though the object is vague and undefined. It is the mysterious sympathy of nature which, through that medium, connects soul to soul by a pleasing bond of union, unseen, it is true, but no less felt by all whose souls are attuned to the same divine harmony. This sympathetic cord still continued to be heard, even by myself, notwithstanding the effort I made to arrest it in its vibration. It was too impalpable to be stayed by the touch, and it still sent forth its thrilling harmony which penetrated all hearts with its etherial tones, and all our efforts were ineffectual to recall our own souls from the ecstacy into which they had risen, at least for that evening, and the company at length separated for the night, penetrated with emotions which none could explain or analyze but in which each loved to dwell. 
               Several evenings were spent in this manner, during which Harcourt was a constant and a welcome visitor, for he had now left Mr. Lovechild, and was to go to his new situation in a merchant's office in the course of a week, during which time Mr. Worthington had arranged that we should all remain in Liverpool for the sole purpose of enjoying his society as long as that was possible. Harcourt and I, accompanied by Mr. Worthington's sons, my new pupils, who had now left school for good, made several excursions to various places in the vicinity, during which time I had an opportunity of observing the character of my new friend more closely; and the more I knew of him I admired and loved him the more. He spoke to me of my sister without reserve, expressing his admiration of her beauty, talents, and accomplishments, but never showed the slightest symptom of any thing bordering on passion; and when I have spoken to her, I have been surprised to hear the same encomiums unreservedly expressed with regard to him, and with the same absence of passion or emotion. This seemed to me somewhat extraordinary, because Harcourt was a young man in every respect whom I thought it impossible for any one to know and not to love; for I felt certain that had I been a lady I must have loved him. And on the other hand, I always considered my sister most amiable, and such a woman as most men would find it difficult to avoid highly admiring at least; but in Harcourt's case his indifference was easily accounted for. In her's it was not so very easy, because I knew her heart was not pre-occupied by any absorbing passion. What does love depend upon if not on beauty, grace, and accomplishments? And yet I believe it depends upon neither one nor the other, but is the most capricious and unaccountable thing imaginable. 
               It seems very strange, but yet it is no less true, that we may meet with many women both beautiful and accomplished, who can leave in our minds no lasting impression, and at most but a transitory emotion; while again we may meet with one perhaps neither beautiful nor accomplished, who at the very first glance will teach us that she is the only one who has a right and a power to command our affections and make the happiness or misery of our being; whose idea we cannot banish from our minds, do what me may. I am almost inclined to think that there is a little invisible god, who goes about shooting his arrows, not blindly, but in spite, at those unfortunate beings whom, for some hidden cause of his own, he wishes to subject to misery and torture, since often the parties are not adapted for each other, while he suffers others, who seem born to make each other happy, to go at large, unscathed, or wounded, separately, and made to pine for objects which they are never deemed to enjoy, or if they do enjoy them, which turn out entirely contrary to their hopes and expectations. 
               Of this last class, in my mind, seemed Harcourt and Ellen. They appeared to me born to make each other happy, but the little god had not shot his arrows reciprocally from their eyes, and therefore all their other qualities and fitness were in vain. Would that it were otherwise! for he is just the sort of husband that would be calculated to make Ellen happy, and she him; and he is such a one as I should delight to call brother. 
               But if I was disappointed in this respect, I had the satisfaction of gaining Harcourt's entire and most devoted friendship; for even in the short time we had been acquainted, we became so attached to each other that it was not without feelings of pain we looked forward to the moment when we must part. Indeed this feeling was shared, though in a less degree, by both my father and Ellen, and also, I may add, by our common friend, Mr. Worthington, who were all deeply interested in Harcourt's fortunes, and both loved and admired him for his social qualities and accomplishments, and the natural goodness of his heart. 
               Although we had been favored with a song by Harcourt, we were all very anxious to hear him recite some larger piece of his own composition, especially that elegy of which we had already heard so much, and accordingly on the last evening of our stay in Liverpool, when we were all dull enough at the prospect of parting with him so soon, I ventured to request that he would favor us with the recital of that piece, if he remembered it. But he declared that he had been so disgusted with the treatment he received concerning it, and the humiliation he had been obliged to endure from the Rev. Mr. Fitzsurleigh, that he had never given himself the trouble to think of it since, and had quite forgotten it, but that he had no objection to recite another piece of still later composition, which was founded on a true circumstance that he met with one night during a violent thunder storm in the outskirts of the town. 
               This piece he read to us, and its recital was true to nature, and produced all the effect which it was intended it should, and when it was ended the applause that followed was spontaneous and hearty. Mr. Worthington was warm in his commendation of its spirit as well as of its style and versification; remarking that he wondered much Mr. Harcourt did not devote himself exclusively to the cultivation of the muses, for which, he said, he seemed intended by nature. 
               "I thank you for your good opinion," replied the latter, "but the truth is, I have not sufficient confidence in my own powers to induce me to cultivate so barren and thankless a study as poetry. Besides, I am told, and indeed I have had some experience of the fact, that it requires money as well as talents to bring one into notice as an author in England; and above all, a poet who is poor has no hopes of meeting with anything but scorn and contumely, let him sing ever so sweetly. The booksellers cannot afford to purchase anything which is not supported by a name, and if you apply to the public for subscriptions they treat you in the light of a genteel beggar. The history of our literary men proves this. What poet has ever succeeded in the world as an author by his own poetical merits alone, and unaided either by purse or by party, or by powerful friends, which is the same thing. Even Pope was obliged to descend to stratagem, and write himself into notice by way of criticising his own works. But this is not confined to England. Cervantes, when he saw Don Quixote neglected by the public for a considerable time after it was published, was obliged to write a pamphlet to prove to his countrymen that it contained some things worthy of notice. 
               "What was the answer of a stage manager, no less a person than Garrick himself, to Smollett, with regard to his tragedy of the Regicide, which he had promised to bring out from time to time, but never kept his word? I will give you, as nearly as I can recollect it, that answer in his own words, prefixed to the Regicide, which was afterwards published: 
               "'In short,' says Smollett, 'after sundry promises and evasions, in which he practised upon me the whole art of procrastination, I demanded his final answer with such obstinacy and warmth that he could no longer resist my importunity and refused my tragedy in plain terms. Not that he mentioned any material objections to the piece itself, but seemed to fear my interest was not sufficient to support it in the representation, affirming that no dramatic composition, however perfect, could succeed with an English audience by its own merit, but must entirely depend on a faction raised in its behalf.' 
               "But this is so notoriously the case in every department ment of literature, except that which evokes the strong and degrading passions of humanity, that it would be quite superfluous to dwell upon examples. The rule is so general that it would be difficult to find a single exception to it. And as for patronage from governments, no man need expect it, unless he condescends to be their tool and their instrument in every degrading task which they may think proper to impose upon him; and even if he is so base as to yield to these conditions and support his employers through thick and thin, he is but indifferently rewarded, and looked upon with great coolness when he has done his best, and spent his energies in their service. Smollett's treatment by Lord Bute is a sufficient proof of this. But there are too many such instances." 
               "But," said my father, "surely the public are become more enlightened since the times you mention, Mr. Harcourt, which are nearly a century ago. A vast change has taken place in the condition of the mass since then. The classes which were then rude and uncultivated have now become refined by the march of education, and are not only readers but critics. Surely the accomplished poet has a better chance of success now than he had at that period, as he can be appreciated by those who formerly waited for the dictum of the critic before they ventured to read, or to whom reading was not accessible at all." 
               "I very much question whether such be the case," replied Harcourt; "for though literature is now accessible to a greater number, the general taste is not so well cultivated. Men have directed their attention to things useful rather than to things ornamental. The powers of steam and of machinery have usurped the throne that was once occupied by polite literature, and the energies of the rising generation are directed into an entirely different and novel channel. 'What wonder, then,' as the poet expresses it- 
                  
                      
                        "'What wonder, then, that we behold 
                        Such prodigies as ne'er of old 
                        Could, from th' existing state of things, 
                        Have donned their scientific wings, 
                        To mount up to the very skies, 
                        To which so many now arise? 
                        What wonder, too, that such a train 
                        Of thought as fills the poet's brain, 
                        The idle dreamings of the muse, 
                        And all the grace she can infuse, 
                        Should now be driven from the stage 
                        In this utilitarian age, 
                        When naught but vapor can go down? 
                        'Tis now the lion of the town, 
                        And he who glory hopes to gain 
                        Must follow in its puffing train!'" 
                     
                  
                
               "But," said my father, "which do you think more valuable and more calculated to promote the happiness of mankind-an exquisite taste for the beautiful and ideal, or an acquaintance with and control over the material world, and in a certain degree over the elements of nature? It seems to me that the power and dignity of the human mind is greatly enhanced and elevated in our estimation when we behold it exercise such mastery over matter as was formerly attributed to the gods alone. Ulysses received the winds in a bag from olus, who is represented by Homer as 'a friend to the immortal gods,' and as having been 'constituted the steward of the winds by Jove himself, to arrest their fury or let them loose on the world when he thought fit;' and by Virgil in like manner-  
                     
                         
                           "'Tu das epulis accumbere divum, 
                           Nimborumque facis tempestatumque potentem.' 
                        
                      
                     NEID I, line 79. 
                  
                
               "'Thou,' says olus to Juno, 'grantest me the privilege of reclining at the table of the gods, and makest me lord of the storms and tempests.' What Jupiter made olus the godlike power of invention has made thousands now; if not the 'stewards of the winds,' at least 'lords of the storms and the tempests.' It appears to me that all learning ought to have some object in view besides mere speculation, and that the man who employs his time and his talents either in original invention or perfecting those made by others deserves as much if not more praise than the mere scholar, who indeed may surpass the others in taste, but must be acknowledged to be his inferior in usefulness." 
               "That, again, is a question which might be worthily disputed on both sides," replied Harcourt; "for who can appreciate the amount of good done by the poet and philosopher to mankind, in a moral point of view? Who can calculate the humanizing effects of Homer's works alone on the civilized world? and who will deny that the Iliad and Odyssy of that immortal bard are as great and as perfect monuments of the human mind as any inventions that have ever sprung from man? To minister to the physical wants of man is praiseworthy; but of what essential advantage would this be unless his moral faculties were cultivated and provided for also? That physical activity is good for us we cannot deny; but, after all that can be said on the subject, let me ask what physical enjoyments can for a moment be compared to those of the mind? Discovery may extend our knowledge and our dominion over nature, but it also multiplies our wants. And who is the more independent man-he who has many artificial wants to be supplied, or he who has acquired dominion over himself, to whom his appetites obey and not command? Who has the most time for contemplation-for true and purely intellectual enjoyment? And who, in fine, more promotes the happiness of his species-he who exhorts them to be sober, wise and contented, or he who points out to them the whole earth and gives them the means of ransacking it for the gratification of their insatiable appetites and desires? Matter alone and what is called economy and mere utility are not the elements of happiness, but rather the contrary, because they teach men to think of nothing but their physical wants, how they may best supply them to the exclusion of the more necessary wants of the mind. I grant that, duly regulated, nothing can more promote the temporal happiness and comfort of our species than the knowledge of living, the means of defending themselves from the inclemencies of the weather, and of passing rapidly from one place to another; but the greatest danger to be dreaded is that men will not content themselves with moderation, but will be incited by ambition and the love of gain to turn those inventions and discoveries to their own use and the gratification of their appetites, and thereby become slaves to the very elements which it has been their boast to control. 
               "Besides, if we devote ourselves exclusively to physics we shall in a certain measure stifle, and by degrees annihilate, the better portion of our being. We shall lose instead of advancing in our civilization and refinement, and all those exquisite pleasures which by a cultivated taste we are privileged to enjoy will depart, and barbarism and immorality will usurp their place and lead to another long succession of dark and benighted ages. The universal spread of literature is so superficial that it will soon be absorbed or evaporated altogether by the all-devouring, all-dissipating mass of ignorance and corruption, like the sheet of waters which the overflowing Nile pours on the plains of Egypt, which, when absorbed or evaporated, leaves nothing but filth and slime behind it." 
               "I beg your pardon, Mr. Harcourt, for interrupting you," said my sister, "but I hope you will excuse me when you hear my reasons. I must remind you that this is our last evening in Liverpool, and perhaps the last we shall have the pleasure of your company for some time; I hope, therefore, you will not take it amiss if I endeavor to improve that short period as much as possible, nor consider me too selfish in so doing. I am, I need scarcely tell you, an enthusiastic admirer of music and song, and it is therefore natural that, instead of this discussion, I should seek to turn the current of our thoughts into another channel. We shall have time enough to hear arguments hereafter. Any one can argue, but few can sing; may I therefore request that you will favor us with one more song before we separate?" 
               "It will give me great pleasure, Miss Montague," replied Harcourt, "if my humble efforts can give you any satisfaction or add to the hilarity of this little company; but I think it would have been more pleasing to us all if you had volunteered a song yourself, Miss Montague, as you are much better qualified to give delight than I can pretend to be." 
               "You will have your call," said Mr. Worthington, "and you, I have no doubt, know how to exercise it with prudence. When you have finished your own song you will be entitled, if you thing proper, to call on Miss Montague for one." 
               "Very well," replied Harcourt; "that will certainly be an additional inducement for me to sing, if I can prevail upon her to favor us afterwards." 
               So saying he began and sang a sweet melody, which left a lasting impression of his power on all who heard it. 
               When he had finished his song he called upon Ellen, who complied in the following soothing strain, which seemed to shed a balm into the weary and lovesick heart of the bereaved youth, for which he expressed his thanks in the most warm and grateful manner. Ellen's song was entitled "The Lover's Consolation," and is as follows: 
                      
                        "The evening is calm and the heavens are bright, 
                        The nightingale's song rises high; 
                        Oh, would I might spring to yon regions of light, 
                        And rest from my cares in the sky! 
                     
                      
                        "For soon shall the storm overshadow this scene, 
                        And the songsters sweet voice must depart 
                        To climes more congenial; but where can I screen 
                        From its fury the shrine of my heart? 
                     
                      
                        "In love? It may fail! In friendship? Alas! 
                        Oft friendship is naught but a name! 
                        If the spirit would seek true repose it must pass 
                        To those regions from which it first came! 
                     
                     
                      
                        "To those regions of bliss, where constantly spring 
                        Sweetest flowers on the banks of pure streams; 
                        Where minstrels immortal their melodies sing, 
                        And summer eternally beams. 
                     
                      
                        "Where the wretched repose and the weary find rest, 
                        And the wicked to trouble shall cease; 
                        And what though the spirit a while be opprest, 
                        It will dwell there forever in peace!" 
                     
                  
                
               This was the termination of our evening's amusement. It was now late, and Harcourt having expressed himself highly gratified with the attention we had paid him, bade us farewell and departed. We were to leave Liverpool at an early hour next morning; so, having made the necessary preparations for our approaching journey, we retired to rest. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               WORTHINGTON LODGE. 
               ON the following morning, which was the twenty-fifth of June, we bade adieu to Liverpool by coach, my father, sister and Mr. Worthington inside, while I and my three pupils rode on the top, pleased to have an opportunity of seeing the beauties of the surrounding country as we passed through it. Oh, what rich, green fields on either side of the road, immediately on clearing the town, and what a prospect from the hill. The whole country was like a well cultivated garden. But this, I thought, was in consequence of the vicinity of so large a town, and I expected that the appearance of the interior would deteriorate as we advanced; but such was not the case. It even increased in beauty and richness as we passed through Prescott, St. Helens, Warrington, and crossed the bridge at the last mentioned place into Cheshire; and as we proceeded through that fertile pastoral country, scenes of the most lovely description were presented to our delighted eyes. Undulating hills and rich valleys, watered with clear streams, meadows with fine crops of hay partly mowed and partly mowing, with the sweet scent of the newly mown grass, fields of corn waving in the gentle air and others filled with large, well-fed cattle and snowy-fleeced sheep; then orchards and farm-yards and the contented faces of the laborers in the fields, the clean and comfortable look of the cottages by the wayside, and the absence of all poverty and suffering- these presented to my mind a picture which I had never even dreamed of in my wildest imaginings, and I exclaimed to myself: "How can the Irish absentee landlord look upon such universal happiness and contentment without blushing for the rags and filth, the misery and distress, the beggary and starvation which are staring him in the face at every step he takes in his own ill-fated country?" It is no wonder, my friend, that the English are a peaceful and anti-revolutionary people. They have nothing to gall them or produce discontent. They are as happy as a people need wish to be, and any revolution in the state must bring ruin to the meanest laborer, for even the meanest laborer has a deep interest in the well being of the community, as to that cause he is indebted for the plenty and contentment and the independence of character of which even he is an example, while to every Irishman, except the privileged few, no change could be injurious, because no change could possibly lower his condition in the scale of civilized man, or diminish his physical wants and comforts, which at present are as badly supplied as is consistent with his very existence. 
               Since then I have traveled through many parts of England, and I can safely say that I have never yet seen anything at all approaching to poverty or misery, even in the very lowest classes, unless in large towns, where all those evils have been brought on themselves by their own folly and improvidence; but to compare the physical suffering in England with the wretchedness, misery, degradation and disease that are the rule in Ireland, is a farce. Indeed, I should say there can be no comparison at all, for that which in England would be considered suffering or distress, would actually be accounted luxury in Ireland. 
               At length late in the evening we arrived at our journey's end, in Warwickshire, on the banks of a beautiful river, the Avon. Worthington Lodge is an old building of the Elizabethan era and is delightfully situated at a short distance from the river. The grounds are tastefully laid out, and there is an air of neatness and elegance, and, if I may use the term, adaptation, about the tout ensemble of the house, garden, grounds and park which displays a correct taste rather than greatness of conception in the planner and architect and landscape gardener, whoever they may have been, who had the management and direction of those works. There is little or no effort after ornament, but all is plain and neat, as becomes a country gentleman of moderate fortune; nothing ornate or meretricious, though everything is well arranged and in its proper place. 
               Of the building itself the entrance hall is by far the most beautiful part and the most attractive, as it contains the pictures of the Worthington family for upwards of three centuries, with the various armorial bearings and the trophies of war or of the chase won at different times by its various members. Next to this the library and dining-room are the most elegant and tasteful, the former having its shelves loaded with excellent books on every subject possesses, for me at least, the greatest attractions. 
               The park is stored with fine deer which browse up boldly to the very windows of the hall on that side next the river; but the conservatory and pleasure grounds are inclosed from their incursions. There is a boat on the river which at this place, opposite the house, is broad and deep. There is close by an aviary containing beautiful specimens of English and other birds, and the greenhouse and gardens contain many rare and beautiful plants and flowers, which are a great source of amusement and instruction to those who are fond of the delightful study of botany, either as a scientific pursuit or merely as a pastime. At the distance of half a mile across a bridge is a rural village; there, in a very beautiful cottage, with a garden and two fields attached, my father and sister are very comfortably located, and I often walk over to see them, sometimes three or four times in the day. The road to it is through a shady grove, up a steep hill, having ascended which I have a beautiful prospect before me of the village and the surrounding country for several miles, which is indeed delightful. 
               Our reception at Worthington Lodge was everything that could be desired and far beyond anything we had anticipated. Mrs. Worthington had been dead for several years, but Mr. Worthington's two daughters having been informed by their father of our coming, were ready to receive us, and their reception was most cordial and gracious. They are both young and beautiful girls and ladylike, and in a short time my sister and they seemed mutually pleased with each other. Indeed, from that time to this, they have been inseparable companions, for my sister spends in their company almost every moment she can be spared from her attention to my father, and he again and Mr. Worthington are excellent friends. In fact we soon became like one family, so kind and benevolent were our patrons, and so easy in their manners that they always contrived to appear the obliged parties, even when conferring the greatest favors. 
               I found my pupils docile and tractable, and at the desire of their father I pursued that course which I deemed would be most conducive to their real improvement in knowledge, the knowledge of things as they are and not as they are seen through the glasses of other men, which is properly called learning, and differs from knowledge in this, that it is only one, and often a deceptive phase of knowledge, whereas knowledge itself is all that a man can know of any particular thing or science, from the closest investigation of it by himself in all its bearings. Now, it is evident that a person accustomed to this kind of investigation will be extremely cautious in admitting things on authority, but will be inclined to examine the grounds of the fact itself, and thus be able to satisfy his own mind that such and such things really are so and so. I pursued this course and soon had the satisfaction of seeing its successful results in the rapid improvement of my charge in many departments of useful knowledge. 
                
               Thus our time passed most agreeably and profitably for a whole year without any interruption to disturb the calm tranquility of our philosophical and pleasing pursuits. My father's little cottage in the village was now become beautiful in the extreme, for it was surrounded with the sweetest roses I ever beheld, which were peeping in at the windows, as if desirous to be gathered. The shrubs and flowers on the little lawn, tended and watered by the hand of my sister, throve well, and the kitchen garden, which was superintended by my father and occasionally by myself, was very productive in vegetables and fruits; and thus we enjoyed altogether the largest portion of happiness perhaps that falls to the lot of human beings in any sphere of life. My father and sister dined with us at the Lodge very often, always when there was company, and Mr. Worthington introduced us to all the gentry of the neighborhood, with most of whom we were now on terms of intimacy, and we were often invited to their parties, and every attention was paid to us by the kind and considerate families in the neighborhood, as well as by that with which we were more immediately connected. 
               But true happiness, alas! is a plant of brief duration. One beautiful morning (it was in June) I rose early, as was my custom, to take my morning walk and commune with the beauties of the opening day. The sun was not yet risen, but Aurora was ushering on his ray with her rosy fingers pointing back towards his chariot of fire. The hills were tinged with the first blush of day, and the valleys yet sleeping in their shadowy repose. The shrill clarion of the cock awoke the slumbering echoes, and the lowing of the cattle, as they were driven to the dewy pasture, resounded from hill to hill, mingled with the cackling of geese and the clamor of the hungry tenants of the roost. The swan, with his taper neck, rode proudly on the broad river, and the swallow skimmed its surface with joyous wing. The blithe mower whetted his scythe in the meadow and swept the fragrant hay, and the milk maid sang as she filled her pail from the distended udder of the cow. The fragrance of the hawthorn blossoms mingled with that of roses and fruit trees in full bloom, and all nature was young and fair, rejoicing in the strength of the new born day. The cheering voice of the lark floated far above me in the clouds and fell on my ear with a melody grateful as the songs of angels. I walked slowly along, drinking into my delighted soul sights and sounds of celestial beauty and harmony, when lo! a sight more beautiful than all the others burst upon my astonished gaze all at once round the winding path I was treading on the borders of the grove. It was more like what we conceive of angels in our dreams than anything bearing the human form. A young and beautiful being, she seemed not more than sixteen, for the blush of the first dawn of womanhood was fresh on her cheek as that on the new born rose. Her hair was of purest golden hue and fell in graceful ringlets over her neck and shoulders, a natural veil, beneath whose folds her snow-white bosom heaved and swelled as if inspired with emotions of delight from the contemplation of the witching scene before her. 
               I gazed upon this lovely being until my heart was indeed "charmed away," for I have been able to think of nothing but her image ever since. Her form, her features, her sweet smile, recur to me in my visions by day, and my dreams by night, and peace and happiness have fled from my heart. No longer do I rejoice in the society of my sister or my father, as heretofore, but I wander moodily and sad through lonely places, and pine away in the contemplation of one dear idea. My former energy is gone, and all who knew me hitherto are struck at the great change which a short time has produced. It is in vain that I call up reason to my aid; she refuses to perform her accustomed office, and shrinks back affrighted at the fearful aspect which my passion presents, as if afraid to encounter it. I know not what to do, for I fear I shall be quite unable to hold up against the load that oppresses me. Now it is that I know what love really is, formerly I scoffed at and defied him as an impotent pretender; now I feel that he not only is, but that he is powerful, or that my own heart, which I once deemed strong, is weak. But you will say, "take courage, there is hope for you yet; persevere and you may win the love of her who has so wounded you like a stricken deer." My friend there is no hope either of winning her love or abating my own deep, heartfelt passion! Twelve months have passed away since the fatal moment I first saw her, and my love, instead of diminishing, has increased continually, though I knew too soon the fatal fact that she was "engaged," even then, and that her heart was given to another long before she saw me. I have struggled with my passion, but in vain, and what can I do now? I feel that my services are but a poor recompense now for the kindness of our friend and patron, Mr. Worthington, and to remain any longer a dead weight upon him, and all belonging to me, I cannot endure. My mind has become so entangled in the mazes of a hopeless passion, that I cannot apply to my duties with that earnestness which I could wish, and I cannot reconcile it to my conscience to remain not only inactive, but absolutely torpid in a place where both gratitude and common honesty demand the most active and assiduous attention. I have, therefore, made up my mind to leave this place with my father and sister, and rush once more into the great world, and trust in Divine Providence for the result. He will never forsake us; and perhaps time and a diversity of scene may make some favorable change in my mind and feelings. Forget her I never can, nor do I wish it; but some alleviation of my mental sufferings is necessary for my very existence; and this I can only hope for by fleeing far away from her presence. My dear father is well nigh heart broken, my sister is little better; yet they both agree with me in the propriety of the course I am about to adopt. Of two evils, they say, it is better to choose the least, and they have therefore preferred ferred seeking for a scanty subsistence with me to running the risk of losing me altogether in order to secure a temporary good. Mr. Worthington says nothing; he must have penetrated into my heart long since, and there discovered the cause that deprives me of all my wonted energy and him of my services. He regrets the circumstance, but seems tacitly to acquiesce in the plan adopted for a remedy, whether my father and he may have talked the matter over, I cannot say, but one thing is certain, that both seem to feel the necessity of the step I am about to take. As you are ready on all occasions to give me the benefit of your sound and friendly advice, might I beg the favor of your aid at this trying moment, I shall be impatient to hear from you. Write soon, I beseech you, if you value the happiness of your friend. 
               You will ask me why I did not inform you sooner, and also you will wish to know something of the family and condition of the lady who has so innocently been the cause of so much pain to a whole family. As to the first question, I think I have answered it already. It is partly because I wish to give you a regular history from the beginning of every thing that has befallen us, and partly from a desire to divert my mind from my own sufferings, while I described the unmerited sufferings and the magnanimity of another. For he that is unfortunate loves to dwell on the misfortunes of others in order to alleviate his own hard lot by the consolitory reflection that he is not alone in his sufferings, and that there are others who are yet more unhappy than he, or perhaps he finds a pleasure in retarding the narrative of his own misery for a season, and therefore seeks as a means to that end some history that may, in a certain degree, correspond with his own. 
               As to the second point, I will most readily explain it. The lady is the daughter of the clergyman of this place, the youngest of three, the two elder being married. During the first year of my residence at Avondale, she had been at school at some distance from home, I believe in the neighborhood of London, and had never been at home, otherwise I must have seen her at church, or at Mr. Worthington's, where she has since that time been a frequent and a very welcome guest. The morning I first saw her I was taken by surprise; I had never heard of any one in the neighborhood at all so beautiful. Indeed I afterwards remembered to have heard a dispute between the two Misses Worthington, when the name of Eliza Waltham happened to be mentioned, whether or not she ought to be considered handsome, one saying that she might, and the other that she was far from it; and I thought there could not be much beauty where there was room for doubt, but when I saw the lovely object of their discussion I was astonished at their want of taste, for I instantly considered her the most beautiful creature I had ever beheld. 
               That very day I mentioned to my sister the rencounter of the morning, and she immediately told me that it could be no other than Miss Waltham, who had returned from school the day before, where she had finished her studies, and that she had been introduced to her the previous evening. 
               "And why did you not mention it to me before?" I said, with an eagerness which told but too plainly the interest I took in the fair stranger. 
               "Indeed," said she, "I never thought of any such thing. What can it affect you to know that yesterday evening I was introduced to such or such a lady? But what do you think of her; do you consider her handsome?" 
               "She is the loveliest being I ever saw," I replied, "and I do feel a great interest in every thing that concerns her." 
               "Why, Edward, you are in love," said Ellen, with a smile. "Beware, and remember our circumstances." 
               "She is not rich," I exclaimed, "heaven be praised, and I can see no great obstacle in the way of our union." 
               "What, two poor people marry!" said she, laughing aloud. "How absurd you are getting; dear Edward, I really thought you had more sense." 
               "I can work for both," I said, with a serious look, "and as long as I have health she shall never want." 
               "But how do you know whether she can love you, or whether she may not be already engaged," said she. 
               "Engaged!" I exclaimed; "impossible. So young, so lovely; where could she have met with a man capable of appreciating her worth? Mention not the hateful word; it cannot, it must not be." 
               "Her father," said Ellen, "though a clergyman, is a prudent, a worldly man, and he will doubtless look out for a match of some substance for his daughter. The other two, I understand, had many offers, but he would not permit them to accept of any but rich men, though the oldest dearly loved a young man of great worth but little property; but her father prevailed upon her to accept a retired tradesman, advanced in years but abounding in wealth, and she did so, though it is whispered she has never been happy since." 
               "And never deserves to be!" I exclaimed. "How could she think of marrying a man whom she could not love, merely for the sake of paltry gold? She deserves the worst that can happen to her, and her old, wretched father deserves to be put in the pillery for forcing her to do it." 
               "He had some difficulty," said my sister, "for his daughter had a willful disposition enough, but he overcame her by perseverance, and she consented at last." 
               "And how could the man who married her think of receiving her hand when he knew her heart was devoted to another?" 
               "He has since found ample time and cause for repentance," said she. "But take you my advice and give up all idea of this girl, for you cannot succeed, and if you should you must marry her against the will of her father; and that, you know, would be a very unfortunate commencement of life." 
               "That I would not wish to do," I replied; "but if she could love me I would marry her; for though her father should hesitate to give his consent, he would be reconciled to it at last, when he found that I should do everything in my power to conduce to her happiness and comfort." 
               "Nothing but money can satisfy a man who loves nothing but money; so that is hopeless," said she. "Besides, I hope you are too honorable to think of robbing a parent of his child. How would you like such treatment if you were a father?" 
               "If I was so unreasonable as to thwart and mar the happiness of my child," I replied, "I should deserve worse. In short, such argument is useless, and I am determined to have that maiden for a wife, or it will break my heart, and I want your aid and assistance in the attempt. You have been introduced to her; you will have frequent access to her-you will be her companion! For my sake gain her friendship and confidence. Speak to her often of me, and enable me to enjoy her company. I shall ever be grateful to you. But remember, whether you aid me or not, my mind is made up. I must have that girl to wife, or I know not what will become of me!" I said in a tone which excited her alarm and pity. 
               "Dear brother," said Ellen, "do not talk so seriously. You surely cannot seriously mean what you say"- 
               "But I do, most assuredly," I interrupted, "and nothing can turn me from my purpose. Will you be my friend and assist me, or my enemy and do nothing? Say at once, for I cannot endure half measures!" 
               "Allow me to speak to our father on the subject," said she, "and then I will tell you what I will do." 
               "Not a word, if you value my peace, for if I am thwarted in this suit I am undone, and I know my father will never consent." 
               "Well, Edward, I must ever, you know, be your friend; but if you would be guided by me you would not persevere in this matter, for I have a presentiment that"- 
               "What do you mean? Do you know anything militating tating against my success more than you have already stated?" 
               "No, certainly; but my fears for your peace and happiness, from the known character of the father, suggest many obstacles." 
               "Well, then, do you but introduce me to her as soon as possible, and leave the rest to me." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               THE DILEMMA. 
               ACCORDINGLY, that very day, while my pupils and I were walking in the fields and culling flowers, we were met by the ladies, as if by accident-the two Misses Worthington, Miss Waltham and my sister. I was so much embarrassed at their approach that I could hardly utter a syllable. I blushed deeply, and instead of bowing to Miss Waltham on my introduction, I stood staring at her, as if she was something frightful. My sister began to rally me on what she called my absence of mind, and the other ladies smiled, as if they all knew my secret already. I could not find words to enter into conversation, and the ladies passed on. When they were gone I felt the awkwardness of my behavior most acutely, and could almost have punished myself for my stupidity. What opinion could Miss Waltham entertain of me? I thought; and the reflection was more than I could endure. 
               I knew she would dine at the Lodge that day, and I resolved to conduct myself more gallantly, if possible. At all events I determined not to appear awkward or embarrassed in her presence on any account. It was one of my maxims-I can scarcely tell on what principle-to proceed in my courtship with caution and with a slow siege, but not to attempt a regular assault. I thought it would be best to assume an indifference at first, and lead her on by degrees, as it were imperceptibly ceptibly, into the meshes of love, and then to take her by surprise. 
               The dinner hour at length arrived. I took considerable pains to dress that day, that I might appear to the best advantage. With a trembling heart I entered the dining-room, where I found the party already seated at dinner. There was an empty chair-it was next to Miss Waltham! What an opportunity! Nothing could be more fortunate! I sat down beside her. My heart flew to my lips. I felt it palpitate rapidly; any one might have heard it at the other end of the room but for the clatter of knives and forks. For some time there was very little spoken; all seemed intent on doing justice to the viands. The ladies seemed to have got a good appetite from their morning's walk; even the divine Miss Waltham ate more than I thought was seemly for one so lovely and arial. I was the only person who could not eat. When the edge of the general appetite was somewhat blunted, conversation was called in to enliven the repast, and Mirth and Laughter came tripping in soon after. All were gay and smiling; I alone was dull and moody. 
               "I am afraid," said Mr. Worthington to me, at a pause in the conversation-" I am afraid, Mr. Montague, you are not very well to-day. I have observed you have eaten very little, and your accustomed vivacity seems to have departed. Is there anything the matter?" 
               "Only a slight headache," I replied. "It will soon be gone. I think it is owing to the heat, we have had such a very warm day." And then turning to the young lady by my side, I whispered (I wished to enter into conversation with her, but could find nothing else to talk about at first)- 
               "Don't you think, Miss Waltham, that we have had a very hot day to-day?" 
               "Sir?" said Miss Waltham; and she raised her fine, large, blue eyes, whose rays penetrated my heart and put me quite hors de combat.
                
               "Don't you think," I whispered again, but in a still less distinct tone than before, "don't you think we have had a very hot day to-day?" 
               It was impossible for the young lady to understand me; but thinking that I had asked her to take wine, she replied after a moment's reflection: 
               "With pleasure, sir." 
               "This is lucky," thought I; so I filled her glass and pledged her, and then I felt my strength and courage revive in my heart, and words to give expression to some of my ideas. I asked her about the last new novel. She could almost repeat it by heart. The characters of the various personages there described became a fruitful theme of conversation, and all my vivacity began to return. The young lady discussed the merits and demerits of the work with a keen and critical discernment, and I made the delightful discovery (to a lover) that her mind was as cultivated and accomplished as her person was elegant and her features beautiful. Then we entered upon other departments of knowledge: botany, geology, and modern discovery, and I found her equally versed in all, and intelligent in her conclusions and reasoning. We seemed now to understand each other; our spirits could commune on congenial subjects, our eyes met in mutual confidence and esteem, and we were all-sufficient for each other, without even dreaming or caring that any else were present. This is a delightful feeling, and who has not experienced it at some time or other of his life? And who that has once experienced it can ever forget it? It is congeniality of mind, after all, that constitutes the principal charm and most enduring bond of human affection. 
               The cloth was removed-dessert came; but still we were both unconscious of all that was passing around us. We did not even notice the nods and winks of the young ladies to each other, with reference to us chiefly, nor that we were observed by them. Time flew too rapidly; and when the ladies rose to withdraw both Miss Waltham and myself seemed to feel that it was too soon. 
               That night I slept little and early next morning I arose to enjoy the cool freshness of the morning air. My steps were spontaneously directed to the spot where I had first seen Miss Waltham. Hope suggested to me the idea that I might see her there again, but I was deceived; she did not appear. The morning was as clear and bright as the last, but its beauty was shed in vain to my ungrateful eyes. She was not there, and every object in nature seemed insipid. I walked to and fro in a sort of feverish, impatient excitement. I knew not why. At length I bent my steps towards the church; her father's vicarage was hard-by. Perhaps I might catch a passing glimpse of her form gliding through the trees or at her chamber window. I passed through the gate of the church-yard and along the pathway which wound through the narrow resting places of the dead, and wondered whether any of the silent sleepers underneath had ever loved like me. The sexton and his assistant were the only persons visible, and they were pursuing their vocation in digging a grave, and lightened their labor with a song. I was now drawing near to the vicarage house. There was round the garden a dense hedge of thorn cropped close, and I thought I perceived something like a female figure in the garden, on the other side; perhaps it was she. I stole near to the spot softly, just to feast my eyes with one look and then to retire. I came to a little opening and looked cautiously in the direction of the figure; it was indeed Eliza Waltham, but she appeared deeply distressed. She held an open letter in her hand and the tears rolled down her cheeks. What could this mean? Could it be that she had a lover? And if so, could he have the heart to treat her ill? No, no! the letter must be from some school-fellow whose little misfortunes called forth her sympathy; she is weeping for the woes, real or fancied, of another. And this thought raised her still higher in my estimation. She folded up the letter, walked up and down amidst the flowers that bloomed around her then took it out again, read it over, kissed it and wept, and this she repeated several times. How extraordinary dinary, I thought, that she could act thus with the letter of a friend. What if it should be from a lover? And this thought overpowered me. I withdrew in haste, lest my feelings should betray me, and I went directly and told all I had seen and all I feared to my sister. 
               She, poor girl, felt deeply for my state of mind and endeavored to console me all she could. 
               "As to the letter," she said, "do not allow that to disturb you, my dear brother. There are a thousand causes to which her distress may be attributed besides that particular one which you dread; but still I would have you prepared for the worst that can happen. Do not suffer yourself to be engrossed by this fatal passion. Consider the ruin it may bring, not only on yourself, but upon all who are affected by it. But I will endeavor to ascertain the true state of the case. I will for your sake do that which in any other case I would scorn. I will gain her confidence and let you know the result, for the sooner this affair is elucidated the better for all parties." 
               So saying she left me and I proceeded to my daily task with an anxions heart and impatient for the time when I should know the worst. 
               In the meantime Miss Waltham was a constant visitor at the lodge. She took a particular pleasure in conversing with me on subjects pertaining to literature, science and art. Her taste was exquisite and her reading extensive for her age, and her mind was almost universal such as characterizes genius. She never betrayed the least embarrassment in our intercourse, and often, while we walked together in the garden or the fields alone, I have been surprised at her simplicity and trustfulness and the total absence of everything like passion, while I was burning with the most ardent love. She seemed to have no idea that there was any difference in our sexes, or the least cause of restraint in conversation. Her love of nature was, or seemed to be, the one predominant feeling of her heart. You may conceive the happiness I enjoyed in the company of such a woman. The more I knew her the more I esteemed and loved her, both for the qualities of her mind and the graces of her person. How often have I been on the point of telling her I loved her! How often have the words trembled on my tongue! But the fear of offending her and of losing her society, perhaps for ever, deterred me for a long time. I was a frequent guest at her father's table, and the old man loved and confided in me. Paradise itself did not possess more joys for its first happy inmates than I derived from this delightful society. I could have been content to enjoy it for ever if I had not been driven to madness by the force of passion. 
               One lovely evening I had dined at the vicarage; my sister was one of the party; and after dinner a walk in the garden was proposed. I offered Eliza my arm, which she accepted; my sister took that of her brother, an amiable young man just returned from a voyage to India, where he had gone in an Indiaman in the capacity of midshipman. There were two newly married couples present also, who accompanied us, and we each diverged into different walks. There was at the farther end of the garden a wicket that led into the cornfields and shady lanes, whither Eliza and myself directed our steps. It was a favorite walk, as it abounded with many specimens of wild flowers which we were in the habit of examining. We walked along the lovely pathway. The sun was setting and tinged the whole western sky with purple and gold. The surrounding country was bathed in a sea of mellow light, and the fragrance from the closing flowers that had drunk of the dew and were drooping their heads to rest, was soothing without being too powerful. We gazed upon the sky and the earth alternately, and could scarcely decide which was the more beautiful. We thought each derived beauty and magnificence from the presence of the other. 
               "Thus it is," said I, "that man, when smiled upon by the sweet countenance of woman, derives softness and interest, while she is strenghtened and invigorated by his care and support. God has so arranged the universe, and all things therein has he so blended, that nothing of itself is useful or beautiful; but all things derive mutual support, strength, beauty and usefulness from each other. How happy are those human beings who meet together on earth so as to be a mutual support and comfort to each other during their mortal existence! How happy is the man who can find a partner to sympathize with him in his suffering and rejoice in his joy! Their two souls blend into harmony like yonder distant horizon with the green earth; they are all in all to each other, and all creation pours forth its sweets for their enjoyment and pleasure. In every object of nature they can recognize a blessing sent from Heaven for their good, and they can raise their souls together to the throne of God and bless Him for his bounty. They feel no want nor fear of want, because they can trust in Heaven, and in the daytime they can labor without pain and at night repose sweetly together in the certain confidence that Heaven is their protector, and that at last it will be their resting place and their home forever. How blest, my dear Eliza," I ventured to say, at the same time pressing her hand gently in mine, "how happy should I be to meet with a congenial soul such as I have described! How truly blest if you would deign to smile upon me; if you would condescend to favor my suit, to accept the offer of my heart and my hand, to be my friend, my love, my all!" 
               While I spoke her eyes were cast on the ground, her lovely cheek was suffused with a deep blush, and a sigh, which I at first considered a good omen, stole from her gentle breast; but when I came from general principles to particulars, when I applied the remarks which I had made to her and myself individually, the case was materially altered. She started as if from a sweet dream, withdrew her arm as it were involuntarily from mine, and raised her eyes with an expression of the greatest possible surprise to my countenance and encountered my look with a fixed and steady gaze, where displeasure and reproof, with a mixture of sorrow, were but too plainly written. The tale was at once told; the mystery unravelled, and my doom sealed in that one look. Without uttering a syllable she turned back and left me alone to my sorrow and despair. I had not presence of mind to even offer to accompany her, but stood riveted to the spot like a statue. 
               From that moment to this, and it is now two months, she has not spoken to me, except when common politeness and civility and appearances demanded it, and I have lost entirely the pleasure of her society. 
               As soon as I recovered from my stupor, I hastened after her. I entered the garden nearly about the same time as she did, so that nothing extraordinary was perceived by the company, with whom we now mingled, and returned all together to the house. I soon made some excuse to retire, and taking my sister with me I directed my steps towards our home. 
               Ellen was not slow to perceive the state of my mind and she easily divined the cause. I told her the whole circumstance as I have detailed it to you and she sympathized with me even to tears. She then told me that she had that very day heard from one who had a right to know that Miss Waltham was engaged. It was from her own brother, who told her the fact during their walk, and who, it appears, at the same time, was talking some soft nonsense into my sister's ear, and as he is a very nice young fellow I really believe he has made an impression upon Ellen's heart, though she will not confess it; but she is altered in manner ever since, and I sometimes detect her sighing deeply and even shedding tears; but she says it is for my sake and that of my poor father, who, having heard the whole affair from her, was ready to break his heart with sorrow. 
               "If it be true," I replied, "that she is engaged, as her brother says, I am indeed undone! I will immediately give notice to Mr. Worthington, and leave this part of the country altogether, for I cannot endure to see her the bride of another. Perhaps a change of scene may alleviate my sufferings, if not, then welcome be the hand of death quickly. But for you, my dearest Ellen, and my dear father, I should even now seek the tyrant in his den and invite him to his prey before the time, but"- 
               "Forbear the wicked thought, my dear brother. Heaven is merciful and will send you consolation in due time. You must have the courage of a man, and not yield yourself up a victim to despair. Both my father and myself will willingly concur in any plan that may conduce to your happiness, and if you cannot endure to live here we will accompany you wheresoever you wish." 
               "Well, then," I replied, "go and ask him what we had better do. Tell him a11 about it, and say that I cannot live here any longer than is absolutely necessary to enable Mr. Worthington to procure a successor to occupy my place. I think two months from this time will be sufficient. With my father's permission, I will give him notice this day, and we will all proceed together to London, at the end of the time mentioned." 
               She went to consult my father, and in about an hour returned with his permission to act as I thought proper, and saying, "that he approved of my plan, as that which was most likely to conduce to my happiness now and hereafter." 
               That very evening, therefore, I gave notice to Mr. Worthington to leave him in two months; at the same time expressing my grateful acknowledgments for his kindness and friendship for nearly two years that I had known him, and declaring that as long as I lived it should never be obliterated from my mind. My excuse was that I could no longer discharge my duties towards his children as I could wish, and that I had a desire to try my fortune in London, whither my father and sister would accompany me, where we should endeavor to establish ourselves as well as we could. 
               "I shall be happy to assist you in every way I can," said that worthy man; "my interest, my credit, and my purse are at your service; use them freely. London is the best theater for the exercise of your talents, I admit, though of course I am sorry to be deprived so soon of your valuable services, but I am grateful that you have favored me so long with your presence. My sons have profited much by your instructions; more even than I thought it possible for boys of their age to accomplish under any mode of discipline, or though endued with any talents; and I am indeed agreeably surprised at the result. Their religious instruction, too, has not been neglected, and as long as they live they must feel grateful to you for the sound and pure principles of Christianity with which you have so thoroughly imbued them. Even I confess that I have profited much both by your reasoning and example, and I owe you a debt which it would require a whole life to repay." 
               From that time to the present I have done all in my power to continue the good work I had begun, but my efforts have been fruitless, my mind is paralyzed, and my whole soul absorbed by a devouring passion which never relaxes its hold for a moment. 
               I have seldom seen Miss Waltham since; or if I have, her manner towards me has been so altered as to render the meeting painful to both; by degrees she withdrew altogether from the Lodge and has kept her own house closely, under pretence of illness, and indeed at last she became ill in earnest. 
               This is the last week of our stay at Avondale; my next letter will be directed from London. Poor Miss Waltham is getting worse daily; her life is even despaired of. To-day I have had some conversation with her physician, who is very doubtful as to her recovery. This, however, must soon be decided, as she has not strength to bear up against her disease much longer; it must soon take a turn one way or the other. I keep this letter open purposely to let you know the result, for I am determined not to leave till that is known. My sister is still her best friend, and has been most assiduous in her attendance on her. The whole neighborhood is in great excitement on her account. Both rich and poor adored her, and her loss would be deplored by all; her father is distracted with grief. But no one knows the disease under which she is suffering, or if her physician does, he keeps it secret from us all. 
               'Tis Friday, and Miss Waltham is pronounced out of danger; to-morrow we bid adieu to Avondale. As soon as we are settled in town I will write again and let you know our address and prospects. I hope you will write to me as soon afterwards as possible; a letter from you now would be particularly acceptable, as it would tend to alleviate the Innumerable sorrows with which we are surrounded; the pain of parting from dear and well tried friends, of leaving a place and objects we love dearer than life itself, and the uncertainty that attends our future home in the bosom of a great metropolis, where not a soul is known to us-these are matters that require the sympathy and consolation of a friend. I am overpowered with my feelings; I can write no more at present, and what I have written is nearly blotted out with my tears! Alas, what sorrows are crowded into one brief space of time. But it is unmanly to complain and noble to endure with patience. Adieu, dear friend; may Heaven preserve you from the cares and woes that have plentifully fallen to the lot of your sincere but unfortunate friend. 
               
                  EDWARD MONTAGUE.
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTEE XXVIII. 
               THE SURPRISE. 
               
                  LONDON, May, 183- 
                   
                     To FRANK DUNWOODY, ESQ. 
                  
                
               AFTER the lapse of an eventful month I address you once more. This great Babylon, is indeed a miracle of grandeur and magnificence; of filth, depravity, poverty and distress; of piety and crime; of every thing good and evil, of which the human mind can form a conception. There is a continued stream of people in all the principal streets, so that it is difficult to make way through the mass, and the thoroughfares are absolutely choked up with vehicles, the noise of which is stunning to the ear, and gives one such a feeling of endless confusion and chaotic din as to drown every other sensation. The traffic must be enormous. 
               We are located in a small court leading into one of these thoroughfares in the city, and though the rent of the place is high enough, the place itself is very small though comfortable; but it is so confined amongst brick walls and tiles as to give one the idea of suffocation. What a contrast to the open air, and the beauty and verdure of the country. I wonder why any one who can afford to live in the country can think of remaining in this pent up, close, and unhealthy city. And yet I have already seen many, very many, well dressed men and women, who make it their chief residence. It is said that they even prefer it to the country. But I pity their taste, and can have but an indifferent opinion either of their delicacy or their morals. None of us like it; my father says it will kill him if we remain, and my sister cannot live without the sight of green fields and flowers. But necessity must reconcile us all to our lot; as yet we have been able to do nothing but look around us, and lose our way; and I think it will require us some weeks before we can explore even a small portion of the vast metropolis. 
               I have not had time even to think on any subject since our arrival. We have heard that Miss Waltham is much better. Her brother Henry, the sailor, called upon us yesterday. I am at a loss to know how he found us out. He is going out again to India in a few days, and found our address, he says, by accident. My sister blushed very deeply when he entered, and there was an embarrassment on both sides which was very interesting to look upon. He has been with us almost constantly since. He says we are the only family he knows intimately in town, and therefore he takes the liberty of calling. But I think there is another cause which time will more fully develop. 
               As yet I have been able to look out for no employment, and I wander about the streets, sometimes with my sister, but often alone. One seems lost amidst the masses of human beings that crowd every part, and it is a matter of astonishment how they are all supported, or find employment. But the greatest wonder of all is, why they delight to congregate together and live in such narrow, confined cells and streets when there is plenty of room for them in the open and glorious country. In the principal streets there are fine shops and warehouses, and therefore it is easy to see the means of existence which their inhabitants possess; but there are immense numbers of small streets running out of these and intersecting each other, which are tenanted by countless myriads of human beings, of whom it is impossible to say whence their support is derived. They are all seemingly poor, or at least in that condition, and they have no employment evident to the eye of a stranger. There are, however, a multiplicity plicity of trades and callings, of which I know not even the names, which the concourse of men has rendered necessary for their health or comfort in a large city that could not be required in the country; but a great portion of the persons here described live, as I am told, in the best way they can, by their own ingenuity, by preying upon their fellow men in various ways. But I have something to tell which will surprise you much. 
               Only ten days ago I was obliged to go into the country a distance of some fifteen miles on business. It happened to be the day before the races at the place (Epsom) to which my journey was directed, though I knew nothing of it till I arrived there. I took my place on one of the numerous coaches that run to and fro, and was fortunate enough to get a front seat, occupied by three men already, and I made up the number it could hold. The man who sat next me was dressed in a black fustian or serge jacket, with sleeves of a different color, and I took him to be an hostler, or stable boy, attached to some family, and proceeding to join his master; the person next to him was dressed like an upper servant, and the third looked like a dandy lackey who was making the best display he could with his master's cast off clothes. He also sported a number of flash rings on his fingers, and seemed anxious to personify the second-hand gentleman, if indeed he might not pass with some people for the first. To me they all appeared the servants of some nobleman or gentleman who had gone on before in his traveling carriage and left them to follow by the coach. The person next me was very humble in his demeanor, and always seemed to address me with diffidence and with the most profound respect. I was at first plagued with his talking propensity, but when I got a little accustomed to him I found him a practical philosopher, and was rather pleased with some of his observations and reflections which were very ingenious. 
               Soon, however, we arrived at the outskirts of the town. My new acquaintance, pointing to a public house on the roadside, whose sign was "The Elephant and Castle," said in a whisper to his two companions, "that is our house; we must stop here." So saying he called to the coachman to stop; and, taking a bundle which was folded in a red handkerchief, he got down, and having bade me a good day, he and his companions entered the public house. 
               When I arrived at the place of my destination I found I must remain in the town all night and the greater portion of the following day before I could have the business for which I came settled, owing to the bustle and confusion of the races, which were to commence on the following day. As I had nothing particular to do next morning, and as the race course was close to the town, I determined to go there to while away the time, though I am by no means a frequenter of such places, nor do I approve of them, either for amusement or morality. I sauntered about the course for some time, looking at the various shapes and forms which our plastic nature delights to assume in the motley group of human beings that were congregated together, all with the avowed object of enjoying a holiday, but many for the express purpose of plying those trades of deception and fraud to which they had been educated, in order to gain something to themselves from the simplicity or folly of their fellow creatures. 
               I sauntered about for some time, diverted by the scene, which is, I believe, nearly the same in all countries; when feeling at length somewhat fatigued, I entered a booth or tent for refreshment, and sat down to rest my limbs over a cup of coffee. I had not been seated more than ten minutes when repeated shouts of "Murder! murder!" in a wild and piercing shriek were heard from the adjoining tent. I ran out alarmed to ascertain the cause. There was a crowd of people assembled around a man who was lying on the ground, bleeding profusely and over him bent a young and handsome woman, in an agony of sorrow! It was she who had called out "Murder!" and the young man lying in the tent was her husband! Poor thing! she was the very image of woe! Her husband had been stabbed in the side by a wretch with whom he had a slight dispute about gambling, and a surgeon who happened to be on the spot pronounced the wound mortal. Indeed the young man expired in a few minutes. The villain who had perpetrated the deed was held in custody by some countrymen till the police should come to take him to the station house, and he seemed quite unconcerned about the sufferings he had inflicted on two young and innocent victims. I could not help starting with involuntary surprise when I caught a glimpse of his countenance, as he raised it to scowl on the crowd that surrounded him with their execrations. It struck me that I had seen him before, but I could not recall the exact place or time. At length his eye caught my glance. It was instantly lit up with a look of recognition! He smiled with a faint and sickly grin. It could not be misunderstood. It was the very man who had been my companion by the coach the day before, and who had seemed such a meek and mild philosopher! I now scanned his person with a keener and more searching scrutiny. He was advanced in years, low, strongly built, and seemingly once of a powerful and athletic frame. He had a sinister and forbidding look, and a mischievous expression, and seemed just such a person as would not shrink from the perpetration of the worst of crimes. There were a couple of strong-looking, athletic men who seemed to take an interest in his fate, but they kept aloof as if afraid to avow themselves openly his friends. These followed after the crowd, in dogged and sullen silence, as the police dragged the culprit to the black hole. 
               I inquired into the particulars of this fatal affair, and found that the prisoner was a well-known desperate character of the black-leg or swell-mob fraternity; that he was a most consummate tactician at thimblerig and all other cheating games; that he had inveigled the deceased to bet largely on the game, and had cheated him most palpably; that the latter, a spirited young countryman, not choosing to be robbed of his money before his eyes, had remonstrated with him, but was surrounded by a number of swells, and in the scuffle that ensued he was stabbed in the side by the prisoner, whose knife was left sticking in the wound; that the deceased had been married only a few days, and that his young bride was inconsolable for her loss. 
               "This," thought I, "is melancholy enough;" but you will form some conception of my surprise, astonishment and indignation when you learn that the murderer, the wretch with whom I had conversed on the coach so familiarly, and of whom I had formed so good an opinion, was no other than the infamous and abandoned McArdle, of whom you have already heard so much in the unfortunate Harcourt's history! Yes, my friend, he has confessed to all his crimes, and especially the injury which he did to that young man! As soon as I was made acquainted with these particulars I went to the magistrates, informing them that I knew where Harcourt was to be found, and they immediately requested me to dispatch a letter to him in all haste, which I did, and as soon as it was possible I had the pleasure of meeting him in town. He and I started immediately for the town of Epsom, and presented ourselves before the magistrates. We were requested to accompany them to the jail, to see if Harcourt could recognize McArdle, with a view of being a principal witness on his trial, which was to take place in a few months. He had no difficulty in recognizing one whom he had such good cause to know and never forget, and nothing could exceed the feelings of disgust and antipathy manifested by him as he entered the cell of the murderer. 
               The prisoner at first seemed hardly conscious of our presence, so absorbed was he in his own feelings and reflections. At length he started as if from a dream, and springing towards Harcourt, fell on his knees, imploring his forgivenesss in the most piteous language, exclaiming in good English and free from all brogue: 
               "I know, Mr. Harcourt, that I must now die, for the proof of my guilt is too evident to admit the slightest hope of escape, and well deserved is the punishment which the justice of Heaven demands. But I could not die before confessing the deep wrong which I have done you, in the vain hope of aggrandizing myself and bettering my humble condition. To effect my purpose I committed crime after crime; but the more I involved myself in guilt, the more did my necessities press upon me, till at last I am reduced to the deplorable condition in which you now behold me. 
               "In order to deceive you," he continued, "I told you a tale partly true and partly false, for a purpose which I will now explain. 
               "Norah, your nurse, was indeed confined at the time I stated; but it was she who brought forth the stillborn child and not the strange lady, who was in reality your mother, and is, for I believe she is still living. Your father perished by my hand, in the way I have already described to you. The strict injunctions and the oath by which your mother bound us to conceal from you every circumstance concerning your birth till you should be of age, and the impossibility of your having any communication with your mother or family personally, rendered it easy enough for me to form the scheme of self-aggrandizement which I was not slow to conceive, and which might have succeeded but for the too great subtlety with which it was executed. 
               "I took an early opportunity of creating a misunderstanding between your mother and your guardian, who never in fact knew the real circumstances of the case, and the whole management of your education, etc., necessarily devolved upon myself. It was agreed between your mother and me that I should, at the end of every year, produce the certificates of your attendance at school, with the reports of your tutors, in order that she might be enabled to judge of your progress, and she then furnished the funds to pay the master, with the other incidental expenses incurred on your account. These funds passed through my hands, and I took good care that they should in their passage contribute something of their superfluity to my own private vate use, which, joined to the liberal salary allowed to Norah and me by your mother, furnished us the means of living not only comfortably but luxuriously. Thus the time rolled on, and no one could be better pleased with the turn affairs were taking in the world than I was. But at length you approached towards manhood, when the guardianship of your mother, according to the settlement made by your father before your birth, should cease, and you should be your own master. I knew you detested me, and I clearly saw that there was much danger to be apprehended from the moment you should arrive at your majority; my calling would then be gone, and my life of ease and luxury would be at an end. I therefore quietly conceived the design of deceiving you before it was yet too late; but, on the other hand, lest I should be too premature, I anxiously waited for the moment of your attaining your twenty-first year, as any act of yours before that time I knew would not stand good in law. I determined to excite your curiosity on the subject of your birth and parentage to the highest possible pitch, and then to execute the scheme I had so long meditated, which was to secure to myself not only a competence but a splendid income for life, independent of the world, by forcing you to sign a bond in my favor. I found much difficulty in inducing Norah, who loved you dearly and who valued your happiness more than her own, to acquiesce in my scheme; but at last, by force of argument, but more by threats, I induced her to comply. But no sooner had she sworn than she began to repent; and the poor creature could get no repose either by day or night, for thinking of you and your sufferings when you should be made acquainted with the fictitious story of your birth. She pined away with sorrow and remorse, and raved about you in her dreams, and at last became so affected by her thoughts and fears as to cause me considerable alarm for the consequences. This was more particularly the case after you left her for a tour on the continent. She then raved incoherently about you night and day, saying that you were betrayed and ruined by those who ought rather to protect you, and by this means she caused me much serious alarm. I tried all I could to convince her by reasoning; but finding this of no avail, rather than be baffled in my plan of avarice, I formed the design of taking her off by poison, and I soon executed it, for in less than a fortnight from that time she was a corpse! But I had taken my measures with such precaution as to avoid the possibility of detection. 
               "Things were in this state when you returned. What was my surprise when I heard your voice at my cottage door on that morning; but what was my horror and despair when you directly accused me of the crime of which I was guilty, but which I thought was completely hidden from human observation! Had it not been for a lucky, I should now say a Providential accident, I would have had your murder to add to the dark catalogue of my crimes. 
               "But finding from your language and manner that it was only mere conjecture on your part, or the vain phantom of a dream, I succeeded in reasoning you out of it and extricating myself from suspicion which, if excited at that time, must have led to a discovery that would have been fatal to both myself and my prosperity. The feeling, too, that your life was necessary for me, tended to allay the dreadful impulse that I could scarcely resist of taking away your life at the earliest opportunity. 
               "When I told you that I alone knew the secret of your birth, it charmed you as if with a spell and neutralized for a time the hatred that rankled in your breast against me. I promised you an explanation, and the time and place were agreed upon for the purpose. You came on a dark and dismal night to a wild and lonely heath. You were entirely in my power. Oh! how I longed to plunge my knife into your heart! but your existence was necessary to me. Your property was so settled that I could get nothing if you were removed. It was only during your own life that I could profit by you, for when you ceased to exist all would go to your next heir. This alone prevented me from gratifying the earnest desire of my soul, which was, above all things, to steep my hands in your blood. 
               "I had taken care to prepare documents to convince you of the truth of what I said. They were all forgeries; but the deed which I induced you to sign was drawn out without a flaw; it was all correct. The one-half of your income was mine as long as you lived. But an overruling destiny thwarted all my schemes. You were in love; I knew it, but had not calculeted its effects, and the news I told you instead of humbling you to the dust and bending you to my purposes, drove you to distraction. You disappeared from the world, and all, even I, believed you were dead; but a protecting hand was held over you. You were preserved to reap the reward of your virtues! You are now a rich noble; you inherit the ample domains of your father, and your mother still lives to bless and welcome her long lost son to her arms! Go, and may you be happy! but, oh! before you leave me say that you forgive me! Let that word of mercy fall from your lips and I shall yet die, if not happy, yet at least not so wretched, since I have unburdened my mind of its load of guilt!" 
               "Wretched man!" said Harcourt, "I forgive you; but tell me, I pray you, where shall I find my long lost, my unknown and surviving parent, and I will not only forgive you, but bless and pray for you?" 
               "In the kingdom of France and the province of Lorraine. She was happily married there, but her husband is dead and she will receive you with open arms and acknowledge you to be her beloved, her first born son!" 
               "Her name?" said Harcourt with eagerness. 
               "Her name is the Marchioness of Dumont." 
               "Oh, Heavens!" exclaimed Harcourt, "it was then she whom I saw at Paris. My heart told me so, for it yearned towards her with a child's instinctive affection. I could have fallen at her feet and kissed the hem of her garment. And her son-she has a son?" 
                
               "Yes, the young Marquis of Dumont." 
               "The same," said Harcourt. Oh! nature, thou art ever true to thyself; thou art the great teacher of the human heart and dost unite congenial souls together in bonds which neither time nor space can sever." 
               When Harcourt ceased speaking McArdle held out his hand to him, who did not reject it; but taking it in his he bathed it with his tears, and then we all knelt down as if by an irresistible impulse and poured forth our hearts to God in prayer, humbly entreating him to pardon the weaknesses and infirmities of our frail nature and to cover the trespasses and sins of the wretched being before us with the mantle of his salvation. The prisoner wept and sobbed aloud, and the feelings by which he was absorbed seemed those of a sincere and true penitent. 
               It appeared, too, from subsequent confessions, that he had been engaged in many robberies and murders since his resources had failed by the disappearance of Harcourt, and amongst the rest that he had planned, though he was not actually engaged in, that one for which Harcourt had been tried and condemned, and that it was one of his gang who was taken and executed for another robbery who confessed that it was he who was guilty of the particular one in question, and that Harcourt, who had then assumed another name, was entirely innocent. 
               I have just snatched a few moments to write the above, but Harcourt and I are now so busily engaged in investigating this affair, that I have not time to write any more for the present. At the earliest opportunity I will resume the subject. 
               
                  Yours, ever, etc., 
                  EDWARD MONTAGUE.
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               FOR DEAR LIFE. 
               
                  LONDON, July, 183-.
                
               TWO months have elapsed since my last, for which delay, if it were necessary, I would apologize, but it will be sufficient for your friendship to know that I have been busily engaged since that time. A wonderful change has taken place in the prospects of our family in that brief space of two months. But I will pursue my usual course and tell you the whole regularly as it occurred. I know you like this method best, and it always gives me pleasure to endeavor to gratify you. 
               I did not think, when I first saw Harcourt, after I had heard his story from Mr. Worthington, that I was likely to become so intimately connected with him in so short a time. The more I knew of him, I liked him the better. Such true and genuine nobility of soul it has never been my lot to meet with in any man. I felt a deep interest in his fortunes, I confess, without ever dreaming that his prosperity could affect me otherwise than to confer that pleasure upon me which all properly constituted minds must feel, when true merit and virtue meet with their reward. The zeal which I disinterestedly manifested in his behalf and the friendship which I certainly have always entertained for him, have called forth his warmest gratitude, and he declares that hence forward we shall be as brothers. Already, as you shall presently see, he has done much for me-but I am anticipating. 
               When the confession of McArdle was published in the papers, it excited general interest in all who knew Harcourt, and indeed in others who knew nothing whatever of his history. Amongst the first class Mr. Worthington was in no small degree gratified to find that he was at length likely to be re-established in his rights. He came to town for the express purpose of offering his congratulations and assistance, and showed himself ready to make any sacrifice of time, or money, or interest to serve him. His experience and advice were of great importance. He suggested that Harcourt should have another interview with McArdle, for the purpose of regaining the deed which the latter had urged him to sign, and to secure, if possible, the two men who had acted both as witnesses and intimidators on that occasion. I now recollected, from the description of those men, the two athletic, ill-looking fellows whom I had noticed on the race course when McArdle was taken up for the murder, and I had little doubt but those two were the very same who had witnessed the deed in the old shed on the common. I communicated my suspicions to Harcourt and to Mr. Worthington and they agreed with me in the correctness of my surmises. We therefore thought it best that these men should first of all be secured, and we procured a warrant for their apprehension, which it would be easy to effect, as they were seen loitering about the neighborhood of the prison where McArdle was confined, for we began to suspect, from certain reports we had heard, that McArdle's repentance was not sincere and that he had made the confession with a view of saving his own life, through the interest of Harcourt, for he fancied his own testimony would be necessary to establish the identity of Harcourt and to have him reinstated in his rights. And, indeed, it seemed to be so; but he could withhold it if he thought proper, for his mere confession was not sufficient for that purpose; there must be legal proof to amount almost to a demonstration, and this was the grand difficulty that was to be overcome. 
               It was, therefore, agreed that the sincerity of the culprit's repentance should be put to the test, and, accordingly, Harcourt, with Mr. Worthington and myself, set out for the town where McArdle was confined in order, if possible, to regain the deed and to secure the witnesses, whom I would be able easily to recognize if I should happen to see them loitering in the neighborhood of the prison. 
               When we entered the cell of the murderer he seemed somewhat startled at our sudden and unexpected appearance, but soon recovering from his surprise, he assumed a face of woe and repentance and began to accuse himself for his cruelty in having injured so kind and good a young man as Mr. Harcourt, and to implore his forgiveness anew and the mercy of Heaven. 
               Mr. Worthington then began to question him as to whether there were any person now living who could swear to the identity of Mr. Harcourt besides himself (the prisoner). 
               "There is no one," replied the latter, "except his own mother and myself who can bring legal proof of his identity, and her testimony alone, according to the law of France, would not be sufficient, so that he is entirely depending on me for those proofs which will not only restore him to a loving, dear parent, but enrich him besides with the accumulated property of his deceased father." 
               "But," said Mr. Worthington, "you are doubtless ready to give those proofs as some atonement to the young gentleman for the injuries you have done him, and which you seem to deplore with such remorse?" 
               "Life is sweet," said the prisoner, "and I require a longer time for true repentance than the law, if I am convicted, will allow me. I wish to live, for I am afraid to die, and those proofs will be given only on one condition-that every exertion be used to spare my life." 
               "You have a deed or bond," said Mr. Worthington, "which you forced this young man to sign under false pretences, will you restore that bond?" 
                
               "What use would that be to anyone if I die?" said the culprit. "But it would be of considerable service to me if my life is spared. I cannot restore it under any circumstance. All I can do is to restore this young gentleman to his property, of which by that bond I am entitled to the one-half during his life, and this I will do only on the condition that my life is spared and I am restored to my liberty." 
               "How can you expect so unreasonable a condition from those who have no power to confer it?" said Mr. Worthington. "You know that the law must take its course on all and will not turn aside from its straight-forward path for any man." 
               "Well, then," said the prisoner, "let the law take its course and let Mr. Harcourt try to regain his birth-right by the course of law, without my aid, and see who will be the gainer by this means." 
               "Do you know two men named Bernard Flanagan and Phelim O'More?" said Mr. Worthington. 
               "They were the witnesses to that bond and its depositories," said the culprit in a deliberate tone, "and honest men they are as ever were engaged in such a transaction." 
               "Are they?" said Mr. Worthington; "so much the better, then, for they are taken, and have turned king's evidence against you, and promised to produce the bond." 
               (A messenger had just come to say that the men whom I had previously marked out to the police were secured, and had turned king's evidence against McArdle and confessed every thing.) 
               "Indeed!" said McArdle, with a look of incredulous contempt. "I wish you joy of your acquisition; but you will not be able to frighten me so easily as you suppose." 
               "Halloa, there," cried Mr. Worthington to the officers outside, "bring in those two men, directly." 
               In another moment the two quondam associates of McArdle were ushered into his cell, and at the first sight of them all his presence of mind forsook him; he changed color, his lips were compressed and livid, his limbs shook with rage and fury, and his countenance betrayed all the diabolical feelings of his heart. He would have torn us all to pieces if he could, but his rage was impotent. He stretched his chain to the full length, like an enraged mastiff, but there he was obliged to stop; his fetters were too strong for him, and we laughed at his vain efforts with derision, which drove him completely mad. He raved, kicked, stamped, and foamed like a fury of hell; and unable to endure the disgusting spectacle any longer, we left him to vent his rage to the cold walls and to gnaw his guilty heart with black despair. 
               When the two new prisoners were examined, and the hope of pardon as accessories was held out to them if they would confess, they told us in the presence of two magistrates the whole truth from first to last; the real history of McArdle and Norah, and the course of guilt they themselves had pursued under the direction of the former. The following is a brief outline of McArdle's early history which I abridge from their more ample detail. 
               McArdle, (they said) was the son of poor but industrious and pious parents, who labored hard to give him a good education with a design of bringing him up for the church, (meaning the Roman Catholic church.) They spared no pains to execute this design, and labored night and day to accomplish it. It was a foolish enough undertaking, for the boy, instead of learning his books, was, from his earliest years, busily occupied in learning every evil practice to which he seemed formed by nature. His progress, therefore, at school was slow in learning but rapid in mischief, and he grew up an accomplished though hypocritical blackguard. His poor parents were entirely blind to his faults, and persevered in their original design, notwithstanding the earnest advice of all their friends and relations to the contrary. At last he picked up as much Latin as to allow him to pass muster for the college of Maynooth, where he entered, and for some time conducted himself with such address as to gain the good opinion not only of his tutors for good behavior, but also from his fellow students for the versatility of his character and the great power he possessed of amusing. There it was, (continued the men) that we, amongst others, made his acquaintance, and an unhappy circumstance it was for us that we ever met with him. 
               In due time his character began to develop itself, for, notwithstanding his cunning, he could not escape observation at all times. Many of the students began to miss money from their desks and pockets, which was a rare circumstance indeed in that establishment, and suspicion fell first on one and then on another, but never, at least for a long time, on the right one. But this circumstance caused much ill will and distrust in the college, and a vigilant watch was kept up by many with a view of detecting and exposing the secret marauder. 
               A secret committee was established for this very purpose amongst a few of the senior boys, and it was agreed that the members should keep watch in turn. It happened, (said Flanagan, who was the chief spokesman) that I was one of the persons chosen on that committee, and it fell to my lot to keep watch during the first week. For several days I was unsuccessful, and was beginning to get heartily tired of my appointment, till at last, when my time of watching was almost expired, I had the misfortune to detect the villain in the very act. 
               I had secreted myself in a kind of cupboard in which I had bored a few small holes to look through and admit the air, and from whence I had an extensive view of a whole suite of dormitories, so that if any one passed into a room not his own, I could instantly follow and see what he was about. 
               It was on a Sunday; every one had gone to mass except McArdle, who had staid at home under pretence of being unwell, and now thinking all secure, he sallied out of his own room in his night-gown and cautiously entered the apartment of one of the richest students in the house. I followed him closely and looked through the key-hole. He went to the youth's desk, drew a skeleton key out of his pocket, opened it and took out several pieces of money, some in gold and some in silver. He eyed the gold for some time with a greedy look, and put it into his pocket, but immediately took it out again and contented himself with taking a few tenpenny pieces in silver. He then went to another desk and was about to go through the same process, when, forgetful of his superior strength, and ignorant of the desperation of his character when roused, I pushed open the door with a shout and seized him by the collar. At first he was amazed and terrified, but suddenly recovering his self-possession, he seized me by the throat, which he squeezed with such violence as not only to stop my voice but my breath, and to deprive me of all sensation. After a brief struggle I fell senseless on the floor. 
               Perceiving now that he had proceeded rather too far, he relaxed his hold, threw some cold water on my face, and applied a bottle of hartshorn to my nostrils, when I began to exhibit some symptoms of returning animation. At length I recovered my senses and found that I had been rather too hasty in my zeal, for which I nearly paid the penalty of my life. 
               McArdle stood beside me with a diabolical grin on his countenance, for a few moments, without uttering a syllable. At length he condescended to address me. 
               "I think," said he, in a calm but firm tone, "if you did not know your man before you have good reason to know me now, and for the future. All I have to say to you is this, that if you ever presume to utter a single syllable about what you have seen I will strangle you, as sure as you were born." 
               I trembled at the determination of his look as he uttered these words, and was silent, fearing that he might put his threat into execution that very moment, and I have often wondered since, seeing the desperate deeds he has committed, with the greatest coolness, that he did not do so. He continued: 
               "You are silent; if you do not speak, I will throttle you on the spot, this instant." 
               "For heavens sake," I said, "spare me, and I will never tell any one." 
               "Swear," said he, at the same time presenting me the breviary, "swear this instant that you will not." 
               "I swear, solemnly," said I, taking the book and kissing it, "that I will never open my lips on the subject." 
               "That is not sufficient," said he, "you must take this key and open that box, (pointing to the one which he was about to open when I interrupted him) and become involved in the same crime by taking there-from a portion of money, not too much, lest we should be suspected, and if you conduct yourself according to my wishes, I will make you a partaker of the benefits to be derived from an acquaintance with one who knows how to live; but the instant you breathe a syllable of what you have seen to a human being, that instant your doom is irrevocably sealed." 
               I had no alternative but to do just as I was told, and accordingly I continued for a length of time the unwilling accomplice of a wretch whom I detested, and my companion here, Phelim O'More, was taken in exactly in the same way, with one or two others. We continued our depredations to such an extent as to render us intolerable; and we contracted such habits of dissipation and debauchery, which this ill-gotten booty furnished us with the means of indulging in, that, by degrees, we became so hardened in guilt and depravity as to render any change not only distasteful to us, but almost impossible. We took the utmost precaution to avoid detection, and if any one was cunning enough to outwit us we bullied him into the same league, and soon made him as wicked and as desperate as ourselves. 
               At length an unforeseen accident was the cause of the whole plot being discovered at once, and caused our disgraceful exposure and expulsion from the college, with the utter ruin of our prospects and the loss of our character. One of the "gang," as it was termed afterwards, fell sick, and being pricked in his conscience, made a full confession of every thing. The next day we were all formally expelled and driven out upon the world to prey upon society, for which we were already admirably qualified. 
               The first thing McArdle did (for he has always been our leader and adviser in mischief) was to lie in wait for the youth who had confessed, and the first time he made his appearance after his recovery McArdle met him in a lonely field, at some distance from the college, and in open daylight, with his own hand, strangled him on the spot. 
               This deed of bloody vengeance having been done, the next consideration was how to gain a living. Various means were suggested and tried in their turn, but none of them were sufficient to satisfy our inordinate wants. Money was wanted, and money must be had by some means or other, it little mattered how. Highway robbery and often murder were perpetrated, till at length we became a pest to the neighborhood, and were proclaimed in the hue and cry. We then found it necessary to leave the country altogether and fly to England, where it was resolved to adopt a totally different course of proceeding. McArdle in a moment saw into the confiding simplicity of the English character, and instantly formed the resolution of gulling the over-credulous John Bull. 
               There happened at that time to be a great outcry in England against Popery, and particularly against the new college of Maynooth, which had been but recently established, and the system of theology adopted in that seminary as a text book was an ample theme of discussion amongst the fire-brands of intolerance and the Exeter Hall orators of those days. McArdle knew how to take advantage of the times as well as any man, and he saw at once the steps he should take to effect his purpose. He thought he would make an excellent Protestant in England, where his abuse of the Maynooth system, coming from a student who from "conscientious motives" had withdrawn from the Roman Catholic church altogether, could not fail to turn out to his advantage. He therefore proposed to turn saint, and abuse Popery and Maynooth, which were the surest roads to the hearts and the purses of the pious English. We were to do the same. 
               Accordingly, on our landing in England he made inquiry for the most zealous fire-brand against Popery amongst the clergy, and to him he went with native confidence and a holy fervor, to offer his services in the good cause, at the same time stating his opportunities of knowing everything connected with the Maynooth doctrine and discipline, and actually carrying a copy of Dens' Theology with him, which he had stolen from the Professor of Divinity, and which it seems was not to be had for love or money by any but the initiated. He was received with open arms by the holy man, to whom O'More and I were introduced in a similar character. We were invited to dinner, and treated with the utmost hospitality, and at night prayers were offered up by the pious clergyman for the success of the crusade against "Anti-christ" and "Jezebel," and a thousand other "harlots," which the three holy and disinterested missionaries of the true faith were about to undertake forthwith! A day was appointed for a meeting, at which McArdle was to lecture; but as the subject was one of great delicacy, all females, and even boys under seventeen, were to be carefully excluded! In the mean time McArdle prepared himself for the occasion; and although he was no great orator, he knew human nature too well not to be assured that the success of an orator depended more on his theme being in itself agreeable to his audience than on any ornaments of language which he could invest it with. 
               At length the important day came. There was a large assembly of grave and mysterious-looking men-indeed mystery was the order of the day; and the ladies could hardly be made to comprehend what sort of religious meeting that could be at which their presence could possibly be improper. Their curiosity was so excited that it is said many disguised themselves in men's clothes in order to gratify it! 
               What passed cannot be recounted to ears polite. Suffice it to say that the doctrines-taught in Maynooth were read out aloud from Dens, in the original Latin; and though few comprehended the meaning, yet from what they were able to glean from the half-explanations, the hints and inuendoes of the learned theologian who edified them with his profound lecture, they seemed highly gratified. They shook their heads and clapped their hands; but, what was best of all, they made a large collection to defray the expenses of the pious and zealous missionaries who devoted their time and attention to the good cause, and we pocketed a good round sum from that speculation! We all laughed in our sleeves when our backs were turned, and lived merrily till the money was spent, and then we went to work again, each taking a separate route, with a warm letter of recommendation from the zealous clergyman to whom we had first offered our services; and thus, under assumed names, we made the tour of England very agreeably, being feasted and entertained wherever we went, not only by the clergy but by the nobles of the land! and we might have been as happy as princes had it not been for an extraordinary quality appertaining to each of us. We seemed centers of attraction for everything precious and valuable, wherever we went. Silver spoons, gold snuff-boxes, plate, watches and money had a wonderful affinity for our pockets and persons-so much so that at last we attracted the attention of the police. Somehow or other McArdle contrived to escape to Ireland with a nice young girl whom he enticed to follow his fortunes, while we were sent on an apprenticeship of twenty-one years to that agreeable and flourishing colony of Botany Bay, where having faithfully served our time, we returned to this country only a few years ago; and somehow or other (homogeneous bodies will meet!) we met McArdle here after he had served an apprenticeship of the same length of time, but much more agreeably, in cheating and deceiving you, and after so long a fast we all felt a strong appetite for the same sort of food with which our boyhood and youth had been nurtured; or, to speak without metaphor, we felt as ready for all manner of roguery, villainy and mischief as before! In our free intercourse with the accomplished artistes in the colonies we had learned many useful and dexterous practices, which we now longed to apply to useful purposes, and opportunities were not wanting to gratify our desires. 
               McArdle's wife, Norah, (for though they were not married she went by that name,) began to be troubled with certain qualms of conscience about Mr. Harcourt, and also because she was not married to the man with whom she had so long lived in illegal intercourse. She was a good, kind-hearted creature, but weak in mind and subject to fears about a future state, and she had not that affection for the good things of this world which McArdle wished; and, altogether, he thought it would be safer to get rid of her, and amongst other things we assisted him in this also. 
               When she found herself on her deathbed she requested McArdle, by all that was sacred, to procure for her a priest of that church whose ordinances she had so long neglected, to whom she might confess her sins and receive from his hand the last rites of her church before she expired. She also wished to be united in the holy bonds of matrimony to the man with whom she had lived so long in a state of sin. He having foreseen this, had taken care to provide vestments, etc., for one of us, whom she had never seen, and introduce him to her as a priest, which character, from our early education, it would be easy for us to assume without the least fear of being detected. O'More was the person chosen to attend her, and he was instructed by McArdle that if she intrusted him with any written document he should pretend to take a copy of it, which he was to make her sign, and McArdle gave him a written paper which he was to substitute for that copy. This was the paper which he showed you in the shieling on the common on that night we witnessed the bond which you signed in his favor. 
               Then O'More took up the story: 
               "After a general confession of her private sins, Norah told me your whole history and the designs of McArdle against your peace and happiness, which she implored me by everything sacred to prevent, which I promised faithfully to do. She then handed me a paper written in her own hand, and signed by herself in my presence, which she requested me to witness by putting my name to it. I did so. It was your history, Mr. Harcourt-an account of your parentage, education and prospects, particularizing certain marks on your person, known also to your mother, by which you could be identified any where amongst a thousand, and she entreated me to search you out and give it into your own hand without telling her husband or any other person of it; for if I did, his cunning would be sure, she said, to defeat my object and hers, which was to do justice. I promised to do this also, at the same time giving it as my opinion that it would be safer to take a copy of it, which I could keep, and which must be signed by her also. To this she acquiesced, and I pretended to write a copy; but instead of doing so, I merely read it over from the paper given me by McArdle, which I substituted for the copy, and she signed it without perceiving the fraud. I folded up the two documents separately, and then at her request I called in McArdle and performed the mock ceremony of marriage, after which poor Norah soon breathed her last, seemingly relieved in mind, but still uttering the name of Harcourt as long as her lips were capable of motion. 
               "As soon as the breath left her body I gave McArdle the paper which I had induced her to sign, carefully keeping from him all knowledge of the original document written in Norah's own hand and witnessed by me, prudently thinking that perhaps I might one day or other turn it to good account, either by humbling his pride when he should discover that he was in my power or aggrandizing myself by betraying him to the injured party." 
               "And what have you done with that document?" demanded Mr. Worthington. 
               "I have it still and can produce it if I can thereby obtain pardon," said O'More. 
               "Not only shall you obtain pardon," said Harcourt, "for that is secured to you on the conviction of McArdle by the very terms of king's evidence, but you shall have a handsome annuity for life, which will place you beyond the reach of want and leave you no temptation to crime, if you wish henceforth to live as an honest man." 
               "And my comrade here?" demanded O'More. 
               "He, too, for your sake and the sake of justice shall have an employment that will secure him a comfortable living for life and his pardon on the same conditions as yourself." 
               "Well, then, here is the document," said O'More, at the same time putting his hand into a secret pocket inside his waiscoat and taking out a small paper parcel carefully folded and sealed. 
               Harcourt eagerly took it, opened it, and instantly recognized the handwriting of his beloved nurse. It was just such a document as O'More had said, and a sufficient legal recognition of Harcourt's person and rights in any court of law or tribunal of Europe. We were all highly delighted at this lucky turn of fortune and willingly recognized the directing hand of an all-wise and merciful Providence in this as in all the affairs of men. There was no longer any doubt or difficulty in his case and his course was now as plain as noon-day. 
               When McArdle was made fully acquainted with these facts, his frenzy and despair knew no bounds. He endeavored to commit suicide, but was too carefully guarded by his vigilant keepers, who removed every means of self-destruction far from his reach. 
               Soon after this he was brought to trial, and his guilt being proved by many witnesses, not only for the murder of the young man at the races, but for that of his wife and several other persons, he was found guilty, condemned, and, after the lapse of a short time, executed. He died as he had lived, a hardened and unrepenting sinner-a terrible warning to bad men that justice, though slow, is sure to come at last, and that all the wiles and snares of cunning man cannot avert the inevitable consequences of a guilty and depraved life! 
               May the great Ruler of the universe preserve us from the first step of sin and crime, for when a man has once set his foot on the evil path he may find it difficult, nay, impossible, to retrace his steps, and may be hurried on, step by step, till he plunges headlong into that abyss whence there is no return and where pain and woe must be his everlasting portion. 
               His legal documents and witnesses to his identity being now irrefragable, Harcourt at length came into the full possession and administration of his inheritance; and a noble one it is, for during the whole of his minority, notwithstanding some ill management and peculation on the part of agents, it had gone on steadily accumulating, and he now found himself master of a very large sum of money in the public funds, as well as an unincumbered hereditary estate. 
               As my father has had great experience in financial affairs and the management of property, he was recommended to him by Mr. Worthington as the fittest person to whom he could entrust them, and as a man on whose integrity and honor he might safely rely. As he is still in the vigor of intellect and has been long wishing for some such employment, it is just the very thing that suits him, and the old man seems to have entered into a new state of existence, so delighted is he with the aspect which affairs have assumed. He has recommended Harcourt to purchase a fine estate that is for sale in Ireland, and has received from him a carte blanche, in order that he may effect that object. He is even now negotiating about it, and it is hoped that in a few days the treaty will be concluded; and shortly afterwards he and my sister are to start for Ireland in order to take possession, while Harcourt and I proceed direct to the continent in order to have an interview with his mother and take formal possession of his estates in Lorraine and to arrange all his affairs in that province. After which we purpose returning to England for a time and then visiting Ireland, the beloved land of our birth. This is the plan we have fixed upon for the present. When anything important occurs I will write and inform you. In the meantime letters addressed to me at Paris will be forwarded. 
               Hoping soon to hear from you, I remain, my dear friend, ever truly yours, 
               
                  EDWARD MONTAGUE.
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               AN EPISODE. 
               
                  LONDON, -- 
                   
                     TO FRANK DUNWOODY, ESQ. 
                  
                
               WE have arrived here once more after an absence of several months. I received your last kind letter in Paris, but I was so much occupied then and since, that I had no time to answer it till this moment. You make many inquiries about how I like France, how Harcourt was received by his mother, brother, sister, etc., all of which I must answer very briefly at present. I will give you a fuller detail when I see you personally in Ireland, which I hope will be the case very soon. Two months will be sufficient for us to do all our business in London, and then we will set out for our dear native home. Oh, how my soul rejoices at the bare thought! The sight of mountain, bog and heather; the breathing of the pure air of my native hills, even the very rags and poverty of my poor countrymen, will be refreshing to me after the pomp and splendor, the wealth and the vain pageantry, the pride and display with which I have been so long dazzled. And the simplicity and purity of our rustic nymphs, decked out in the best of finery, health and modesty, will, indeed, be delightful after the gaudy, gilded and painted forms which vice assumes in this most licentious of capitals. But of this by and by; I must now answer your questions briefly, as I have said. 
               I like France and I like the people. They are gay, it is true, but they are kind-hearted and possess many amiable qualities, amongst which the domestic affections are not the least conspicuous. Love and glory-national glory-are their grand characteristics, and these are never the feelings of a selfish or a grovelling people. I take it that there is a great affinity between their national and individual character and that of the Irish; but I have not been sufficiently long in the country nor had I sufficient time to spare to enable me to form a just judgment of them. 
               Nothing could exceed the kindness or enthusiasm of the reception which Harcourt met with from his mother and relatives. It is beyond my powers of description, and I must, therefore, leave you to fill up the chasm by your own imagination, while I content myself with stating that I never witnessed anything half so affecting. He was instituted into the possession of his father's property without any difficulty, and was recognized and hailed by a grateful people as the lawful representative of a noble and honorable race of ancestors. 
               Having spent some time in arranging affairs in Lorraine, we proceeded to Paris, accompanied by the Marchioness and young Marquis of Dumont, with his sister and her husband, who was already known to Harcourt, from having encountered him in the Louvre when he visited Paris some years ago, as has been already stated. His name is de Barron, and his lady is indeed a model of grace and beauty. She is Harcourt's half sister, and he may justly be proud of possessing such a sister. They have been married two years and have one fine child, a little girl, who bids fair to be very handsome. We were introduced into the first society in Paris, presented at court, and even invited to the royal table. In fact, every possible attention was paid to Harcourt, and on his account, to me also, and it was with no small regret that we found ourselves obliged, after the lapse of a few short weeks, to withdraw from a society in which we had experienced so many agrments, such polite attentions; but business, inexorable business, called us to London, and here we are once more cooped up amongst brick walls and half suffocated with smoke in this beautiful month of May. But they tell me it is the season, i.e., the time when all the great and fashionable folks of the country leave their beautiful seats, that are just bursting forth in all the luxurious loveliness of paradise, for the dust and smoke, the blacks, filth, noisome stench and unhealthy air of a great, overgrown, mammoth of a capital! Is this credible? Would anyone in his senses think it possible? Yet the fine equipages that are appearing in great numbers in the parks, in Regent street, Bond street, Piccadilly, St. James and the other principal streets of the west end confirm the truth of this otherwise highly improbable story. Coronets and escutcheons, gold laced cocked hats, and long poles, splendid liveries and court dresses, show that the levees and drawing-rooms have commenced and that the campaign of fashion and frivolity has been entered upon. This will continue till the end of summer and then the fashionable world will retire into the country, or to the different watering places, or disperse themselves in search of novelty and amusement over every country in Europe. 
               I have had a letter from my father and one from my sister. They are both in high spirits-my father particularly, who seems to be now in his natural element. The estate in Ireland is purchased, and the house is undergoing repair, and as soon as it is ready we intend to start and take up our abode permanently, and there commence our labors of love. 
               It may not be uninteresting to you to hear something of a conversation which I had with Harcourt a few days ago. It refers to his own feelings and that part of his history with which you are not acquainted. I mean during the time he resided with the merchant in Liverpool. 
               This merchant was not only a man of business, but a keen discerner of character. His brother, who resided in America, was a partner in the firm, and there had an establishment fully as extensive as that in England. They were the largest ship-owners in the country, and their trade was principally with the New World. Their counting-house in Liverpool was an immense room, in which not less than eighty clerks were constantly employed, and where the master himself spent no inconsiderable portion of his time. 
               When Harcourt entered this establishment he was struck not only with its immensity but chiefly with the regularity and precision with which business was conducted, and the order and decorum that prevailed in every department. The genius of commerce, as he himself expressed it, seemed to hover around and inspire him. He beheld in the quiet and orderly scene the elements of greatness and national glory, and from that moment he entered into the spirit of his new vocation with zeal and enthusiasm, resolved to explore its secret laws and penetrate its most hidden recesses. But he had no small difficulty to encounter, both from his own ignorance of and inexperience in business, and from the envy of the mass around him, who could neither understand his zeal nor comprehend the motives by which he was actuated. They, for the most part, pursued their dreary and irksome tasks like mere automatons; and when the hour of deliverance from it came, they endeavored to forget everything pertaining to their duties till the returning day summoned them back to their desks; while he, on the other hand, took a delight in his employment, entered into its spirit, and in the hours of relaxation studied its theory and principles so thoroughly that he was in an incredibly short period of time complete master, not only of the routine and the details of his office, but also with the higher and more noble power by which the whole machine was set in motion and regulated. 
               Such a congenial spirit as this could not fail soon to attract the attention of his patron, who, as I have already stated, was a man of the world, and well versed in a practical knowledge not only of things but of men. He had early accustomed himself to penetrate the human heart and there read the motives that govern men's actions, and all the nice shades of character within. Where the honorable and the virtuous have to pass through the world by the exercise of their abilities in a dependent station it is truly fortunate for them to meet with such a man as this; but the dishonest and the intriguing will instinctively quail before his searching eye, and, conscious of evil intentions, will slink away to seek a less discriminating master. 
               From one of the lowest desks, which it was necessary for him to occupy at first on account of his inexperience, Harcourt soon found himself transferred to the very head of the establishment; and in a short time afterwards he was consulted on every important subject by his patron, who found his advice so excellent and his sagacity so unerring as to be utterly astonished. He already regarded him as a man of genius, as well as prudence and perseverance, and showed him every mark of favor and attention. 
               Harcourt declares that when he left Mr. Lovechild's school, though he had labored there six months incessantly both day and night, yet so small was the pittance of wages he received that it was scarcely sufficient to pay for necessary clothes, etc., to fit him out for his new situation! At this time he owed Mrs. Sweetbriar (who, you will recollect, is the woman with whom he lodged when he first came to Liverpool) a few pounds for board and lodging, for his money had disappeared by some mysterious means several weeks before he got employment in the school, but after a labor of six months he was unable to pay her a farthing. In his new situation, however, by the considerate kindness of the merchant he was soon furnished not only with the means of paying off that debt but also of laying by a sum for a future day. 
               "As soon as I got my first quarter's pay," said Harcourt, "I went instantly to Mrs. Sweetbriar's, to pay her what I owed and to thank her for her kindness; for though I had a suspicion that I really owed her nothing if justice was done to me, yet as I could not prove it, and as, moreover, both she and her son had been remarkably kind to me when all my money was gone, I really felt very grateful towards them, and hastened to show that gratitude in the only way in my power. But what was my surprise and astonishment when I found that she would not accept of a single farthing! 
               "I only give you what I justly owe," said I, "and I beg of you to accept it." 
               "You owe me nothing," she answered; "I have been very well paid already." 
               "How is that?" I said; "you have only been paid so and so. I owe you for several weeks' board and lodging; besides, I am much indebted, too, for your kindness, and on that account I hope you will accept this trifle." 
               "Not one farthing!" she replied; "I am paid all I shall be paid, so ask me no more questions, nor give yourself any more trouble about the matter." 
               "I do not understand you," I replied. "Is John at home? I want to see him." 
               "Ah, if you want to see poor John you must cross the sea! He left me a fortnight ago." 
               "What!" I exclaimed: "again exposed himself to the same kind of dangers from which he so narrowly escaped! I really thought he never would have ventured out again." 
               "And I, too," said the poor woman, wiping her eyes with her apron; "but he and I quarreled," said she, sobbing bitterly, "and in my passion I did not spare him, so he has run away and left me alone and"--She was here stopped by her tears, and for a long time could not utter a word. 
               "And what provision has he left you during his absence?" said I when she recovered a little. 
               "The half of his pay, as usual," said she; "but besides-I will tell it you, though he begged me not; yes, I will tell it you-besides that he has left me another fourth, and kept only one-fourth to himself, on the condition that I shouldn't never ask nothing of you," said the poor woman, "and I promised I wouldn't, and, what's more too, I'll keep my word, that I will, though I should starve for it, and never drink a drop of anything again in my life." 
               "Noble boy!" said I; "he has the soul of a prince, and we must drink his health in a bumper!" So saying I went out to a spirit merchant's in the neighborhood and brought in a large bottle of the best Geneva or gin, and filling out a glass for her and a small drop for myself, we drank to John's good health and safe return. She then entered into a long history of his virtues and goodness, saying that there wasn't such a kind-hearted, good-natured, well-disposed lad-no, not in all Liverpool! in which I fully agreed with her, though she led him a most wretched life when he was with her, for she was incessantly scolding and quarreling with him. 
               "What ship is he gone out in," said I. 
               "The Nancy, of Liverpool, Captain Green," she answered. 
               "What," I said, "why that is one of our ships, and I shall be your paymaster as soon as the money is due; but come to me at any time and you shall not want. Besides, I think I can give him a lift with my patrons. However, I will try what I can do for him, and even if I fail do not blame me." 
               "God bless you," said Mrs. Sweetbriar, "and prosper you, for you was always ready to do a poor critter a good turn," and upon this she began to weep more and more. I knew this to be her way when she had taken a drop too much; so, wishing to be excused from witnessing her tender feelings, I rose to depart. 
               "Stop a moment," said she, "I have something to tell you; your goodness and kindness makes me confess it." 
               "What can this be?" thought I. 
               "It was me that did it," she said, in a wild kind of hysterical scream, at the same time sobbing and crying most piteously. 
               "Did what?" said I, not comprehending her meaning ing or recollecting any thing about her thievish propensities. 
               "The money," she said; "when you was here I went into your room at night and took it out of your pocket when you was sleepin, to buy a drop of gin-oh, gin, gin-why did I ever drink gin? But then I hoped to be able to pay you agin some day; I didn't take it with a design to steal; John told me I did, and I said I didn't; so it was that that made us quarrel, and him to leave me-oh! oh! dear me!" said she, bursting out into a long wail. 
               I took this opportunity to leave the house, and I felt sorry that I had given her the means of excitement to such a degree; but I knew it was so habitual to her that she would have found means some way or other to get a drop of what she loved, and this consoled me. 
               I took the earliest opportunity of speaking in such high terms of approbation to my patron of the honesty and other good qualities of John Sweetbriar as not only to get him a material increase of pay for the present, but a promise of constant employment and promotion for the future if he continued to conduct himself as he had hitherto done. 
               Thus nearly a year passed away, during which I had little time to reflect on the past, so much was I absorbed with the duties and the interests of the present, or if I ever dwelt on by-gone scenes, it was only as a confused and unpleasant dream, or as if the occurrences had passed in a different state of existence. I felt, however, that as far as regarded the sex, my heart was completely sealed up against every thing like passion for the future. The speculative studies, too, of the early period of my life in which I then so much indulged, appeared to me now vain, frivolous, and unsatisfactory. I felt that they were not sufficient to make the mind completely satisfied with itself, and that a life of exertion, of real utility to our fellow men, and of perseverance in those pursuits which are calculated to promote human happiness, is alone worthy the powers and the genius of the immortal and responsible soul. Instead of the shadowy dreams of those visionary times, I now grasped the substance, if not actually, at least in prospect. I was preparing myself actively for a harvest of which I hoped soon to reap the fruits. Books, indeed, and study I still loved, but they were such alone as treated of useful subjects, geography, commerce, and modern history, that splendid system of science entitled "The Wealth of Nations," which the unwearied genius of a great economist has left us, and those other systems of political and domestic economy which modern philosophers alone have invented and developed; these, and such like books, formed the chief subjects of my meditations in my leisure hours, and their principles and theories were proved and tried by the actual experience of the following day. Thus, in a short time I acquired a large fund of useful and important knowledge, which I employed with my whole zeal and powers, exclusively to promote the interests of my employer; and thus I felt as happy as circumstances and the memory of past scenes would permit. 
               I have said that about a year passed in this agreeable and useful state of healthful excitement, when a circumstance occurred which gave a new turn to my thoughts, or rather, perhaps, I should say, directed them into an old and dangerous channel. 
               It happened at this time that my patron, from too much anxiety and over exertion, was taken ill. His malady was of a low, nervous, but by no means a dangerous description. His physician said that he only required repose from his severe labors and mental tranquility to restore him to his health, and that therefore he must remain in the house and not give himself much concern about business for some time. It was essential at least, he affirmed, that he should not engage for the present in the more laborious duties, however anxious he might be to hear how affairs were going on, which alone could be permitted to him with prudence. 
               At first there was some difficulty in carrying these peremptory decrees into effect, for my patron would infallibly perish if he were not permitted to hear the results of business, however he might be persuaded to dispense with the detail. It was at length arranged that a confidential clerk must lodge with him in the house, with whom he could confer on all occasions, and who would be ready every evening to entertain him with a full and clear account of the business of the day. This it was thought would gratify without oppressing him, and thus he might gradually be brought round to his original health and spirits. Unluckily for me I was the person chosen to fill this office. 
               From the peculiar nature of my position it had ever been a principle with me to avoid all association or acquaintance with those in whom I might be likely to feel too deep an interest. Of a warm and susceptible temperament, I mistrusted my own heart, and therefore took as much care as possible to save myself from the consequences which any imprudent levity would necessarily entail upon me. But especially since the fatal passion which absorbed me, for the adored but lost one who died for my sake, my care and watchfulness over myself were redoubled, though I felt this was almost unnecessary. Still an instinctive monitor warned me to beware, and when the announcement of this new change of position was made to me I absolutely trembled for my safety, though I scarcely knew why I did so. It is true I had heard my patron had an amiable family of two daughters, but what was there in that common circumstance to startle or alarm me? I could not account for it, but such was the fact; and though every soul in the counting house envied my good fortune, and would have esteemed himself most happy to be in my place, yet I would have excused myself from the honor if I could have done so with any show of reason, or without appearing very ungrateful. 
               There was not, however, any time left, either for reflection or remonstrance; the change must be made immediately, whether I was prepared for it or not, and accordingly on the very evening I was made acquainted with the decision I was forced to take up my abode in the merchant's house, which I did accordingly, though with rather a bad grace. 
               It was, however, a very quiet and retired family into which I was now inducted as a member rather than a dependent. It consisted of Mr. Brown, his wife, two daughters grown up, and a son who was as yet only ten years of age, and so extremely delicate as to prevent him being sent to school. Mrs. Brown was a very nice, pleasing lady, of mild and retiring manners; her two daughters, though not handsome, were interesting in appearance and highly accomplished. They were both little in stature, and about the respective ages of eighteen and twenty. The elder would be considered the handsomer of the two by most people, because her features were more regular. She was also more genteel in appearance, being more slender and delicate than her sister, who was inclined rather to plumpness. They had beautiful hair, which was neatly arranged, and their manners, though not exhibiting the tournure, as they call it, of the great world of fashion, were correct without being awkward or restrained. They all received me with politeness, but yet with a manner which left me to feel my position and their superiority. Whether this arose from my own consciousness of the fact, or from their behavior, I cannot positively say; I think, on reflection, that it was more likely to proceed from the former than the latter cause. I forgot to mention that they were at tea when I entered the room, and there was a gentleman there, a visitor of their acquaintance, and a clergyman, who so engrossed the conversation as to leave very little for me to do in that way. They did not introduce me to this inveterate little talker, and I was glad of it. As soon as tea was over, I arose and went to the little study appropriated to my use. It was adjoining my patron's room, and was furnished with a desk, a stool, some chairs, a carpet, and a good collection of books; in fact it seemed a small library. I was soon afterwards summoned into the merchant's room to give an account of the business of the day, which I did with so much precision and perspicuity as to cause him evident satisfaction. 
               Next morning I was up early, as usual, arranged my books, and read till eight o'clock, when a servant came into my study (or office perhaps I should rather call it) to announce to me that breakfast was ready. I descended to the same room where I had taken tea the evening before, and there found the two young ladies ready, seemingly waiting my arrival. I bowed to them very politely, and they returned my salutation with great courtesy and without any of that stiffness which I fancied I remarked in their conversation the evening before. Their mother had not yet come down. The eldest officiated at the head of the table, and was very affable in her manner and conversation. All the time she talked a great deal, and well on every subject; but the younger was more reserved, whether from bashfulness or pride I could not then guess, or from a natural reserve of disposition. When she did speak her remarks were very just and sensible; but her large, languishing, dark eyes spoke volumes whenever she opened them or raised her modest glance from the ground, which was seldom. Indeed there was a sweetness of expression in her countenance which was at once pleasing and fascinating, and she was evidently one who would improve and gain upon one the more he knew her. This I saw at a glance, and instantly determined to be on my guard; for though I knew well the immense distance there was between us, I also knew too well that love unfortunately regards not the distinctions of fortune or rank, but shoots his fatal darts blindly and indiscriminately amongst the sons and daughters of men for his own diversion, regardless who may suffer or perish by his cruel and inconsiderate sport. Another fact I knew also from experience-that young girls, like vain and inconsiderate Cupids, often hurl the fatal darts that lurk in their eyes indiscriminately criminately at whatever game presents, just to whet them and try their efficacy by keeping them in practice, cruelly regardless of the stings they inflict and the fatal wounds which they often make on the unfortunate victims of their thoughtless play. These considerations, with the consciousness of my own weakness, induced me to put on a seemingly impenetrable armor, and to assume a callous indifference which unfortunately I did not possess. As soon, therefore, as I had finished breakfast I rose, bade the ladies good morning, and, seemingly to their disappointment, left the room for my own desk, though it yet wanted half an hour of the time when it was necessary to go to the counting house. I was now summoned into my master's room, to receive directions for the day, and having carefully noted these down I departed. 
               I returned in the evening in time for tea-for, owing to my close application to business, Sunday was the only day I could dine at home-and found everything as the day before, with the single exception of the clergyman. I was now obliged to rack my invention to find talk for these ladies; but I soon found that if I made a good listener it was all that was required of me after starting the subject, which, though trifling, was a considerable effort for one who was absorbed in cash book and ledger, and in systems of economy, in shipping, with their customs and freights, and matters of this kind, which I found it difficult to lay aside, even for a brief half-hour. However, I was soon relieved even from this burden, for the ladies found subjects for themselves, so that I became the happiest man in the world, having nothing to do but look and nod my head, while my mind was roaming about-at one time in New York, at another in Quebec, now in my counting-house, and again in my study; at one time philosophizing with Adam Smith, at another sympathizing in the hungry terrors of Mr. Malthus, but entirely regardless, or affecting to be so, of the beautiful languishing eyes, which became the more energetic in their artillery as I seemed the more impenetrable: and, like the Liliputians against Gulliver, they hurled their arrows with the greater vehemence when they found my most vulnerable parts were protected against their pungency. There is an inherent pride in woman's heart which cannot endure that her charms should be viewed without emotion, and that pride will urge her on to take revenge of the hapless wight who presumes to look upon her with coldness and indifference. It will impel her to pursue her game with the cunning of the fox, till she has laid it bleeding and prostrate at her feet; and then, if it has yielded itself an easy prey or shown itself an ignoble and dastardly creature, she spurns it as the lion does the carrion, and leaves it a victim for the wolves and the dogs. But if it evade her cunning or boldly oppose her aggression, she often becomes the victim of her own pride and love of revenge, and, like the jealous Procris, receives in her heart that mortal wound which she intended for her enemy! And who will say she is not justly punished! 
               I not only knew this to be the case, but my feelings and my happiness, not to mention my interest, all directed me to regulate my conduct accordingly. I had experienced already too much of experimental love-making without seeing my way clearly before me, and I determined never again to fall a victim to those pangs which accompany it, unless I saw how my happiness was to be realized. I was not in a mood to offer myself as the target for young ladies to practice their arts upon, and as I had not the slightest design upon them I wished to be left to my wonted quiet and repose; for this reason I always retreated from the combat if I was assailed, offering no resistance nor returning a dart, but retiring calmly and unhurt with my shield over me to defend me from those of my enemy. 
               This plan I continued for several months, without taking the slightest notice of certain glances and feigned sighs, inuendoes and hints, which were hurled against me, more in sport than in earnest I am confident at first, but which, from their want of success, excited a little pride and chagrin, till at length they looked serious, as I imagined. 
               Arabella was the name of the elder of these two young ladies, but she had already tried her strength in more than one instance, and had come off triumphant, having brought the victims suppliant to her feet, and then with cold-hearted levity forsaken and spurned them. The younger, Lucy, emulous of her sister's success, and eager to try her unfledged arrows on the first that offered himself, in order to go through the same process, that she might be thought worthy of honor in the eyes of her sex, singled me out for no other reason, I believe, but because I was the most suitable victim for the experiment; for you must know that the young ladies in this country are thought nothing of amongst their equals unless they can triumph in a number of victims, just as the young American savages are not admitted to the rank and privileges of men till they have a certain number of enemies' scalps to show. 
               "And 'my master's fair daughter'(the younger) Miss Lucy,(not 'O'Dogherty') scemed now trying very hard to 'bore a hole in the heart of (not Paudheen O'Rafferty)'-you know the allusion?" he inquired. 
               "Yes," I replied, "it is from the well-known old song called 'Paudheen O'Rafferty,' and commences thus: 
                      
                        "'When I was a 'prentice, living in Drogheda, 
                        Minding my work, then just as I ought to be, 
                        My master's fair daughter, Miss Biddy O'Doherty, 
                        Bor'd a hole in the heart of young Paudheen O'Rafferty.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "Precisely," said Harcourt, "and my case became at last something like that of the 'prentice of Drogheda;' for, though I resisted with all my power, what will not a persevering pair of languishing black eyes perform? The truth is that by degrees I could not help looking into them, just to see what they were like, and my curiosity, I fear, might have proved too much for my philosophy but for a circumstance which I will now narrate to you." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               THE PARTY. 
               IT became apparent to Brown & Co., the firm by which I was employed, that my services were indispensable to them, now especially, as Mr. Brown, the head of the firm was slow in regaining his wonted strength and energy, and they had resolved to offer me a junior partnership in the establishment, which, of course, I accepted with joy and gratitude. 
               And to celebrate this event with due clat and ceremony it was also resolved that a great ball and supper should be given at the house of Mr. Brown, and cards of invitation were sent far and wide, and preparations on a grand scale were assiduously set on foot for the occasion. 
               Though by no means friendly to such exhibitions I resolved to endure the infliction of this one as heroically as possible, especially on account of the deep interest manifested in it by the two Misses Brown, and particularly by Miss Lucy, who seemed to make it a point that I should enter into the scheme with my whole heart and acquit myself therein as became one who would be "the observed of all observers," and in the honor of whom it had been undertaken. 
               For this reason I exerted myself as much as possible to render it a success in every respect, and I assisted in the preparations with all the zeal and skill of which I was master, for I had understood that strangers from a great distance had understood that strangers from a great distance had been invited and that I might even have a chance of meeting some of my old friends and college acquaintances, and this gave me an additional impulse to give the affair as much clat as possible, for I had by this time entirely thrown off my reserve and boyish fear of being looked down upon because of my humble birth and connections, having fully realized the great truth that "worth alone makes the man." 
               The magnificent mansion of my friend and partner was one of the finest in the city and well adapted for the display of wealth, luxury and taste, and no cost was spared in furnishing every article which should conduce to the end in view, the comfort and happiness of the numerous guests who had been invited to participate in its boundless hospitality. 
               About nine o'clock in the evening the guests began to arrive and dancing commenced soon after. I had the honor of dancing with the two Misses Brown in succession and then with several other ladies to whom I had been introduced in the course of the evening, and all seemed joyous and happy and "merry as a marriage bell." 
               Somewhere about ten o'clock, to my delight and surprise, the names of Charles Cumming and William Hamilton were announced. Could it be possible? Were these my friends of yore, of the days of youth, of innocence and love? Yes, the same; and the joy of the meeting was mutual and sincere. William Hamilton was the fellow-student who had accompanied me on my continental tour as far as Lyons, where we parted and whom I had not seen since, and Charles Cumming, as you are aware, was the brother of one whose love and memory could never be obliterated from my soul, in which that love now burned more intensely than ever. 
               When the first transports of joy were somewhat abated, I introduced my two friends to the Misses Brown, who seemed highly delighted with the young men at first sight, for not only were they handsome, well formed and graceful, but that night they were dressed most brilliantly in their splendid uniforms, Charles in that of a captain of the guards, of which he had become a member since I left Avondale, and Mr. Hamilton in that of the navy, in which he was now a lieutenant. 
               I had heard of the effect of a uniform upon the female heart, but had never witnessed it so palpably as on the present occasion; but what the cause of infatuation might be on the otherside, I could not then by any means imagine. The Misses Brown were neither beautiful, nor showy, yet their influence on these two officers was palpable and the impression on both sides seemed mutual as it was instantaneous. 
               What could this mean? Are these girls mere heartless flirts, and Lucy especially, has she been playing with my feelings all this time? There is surely some mystery here which I should like to fathom. What can it be? 
               In the whirl of excitement with the new-comers it seemed that I had been entirely overlooked or forgotten. The two couples danced again and again without thinking of anyone else, and I stood looking on in perfect bewilderment, when another familiar name was announced and sounded in my ears like a message from the other world. 
               "Sir Frederick and Miss Cumming!" Good God! what did all this mean? Was I dreaming or awake, or had the excitement driven me crazy? I mechanically turned my eyes in the direction of the door and there saw-oh! is it credible?-yes, there I saw the same elderly gentleman enter with the same beautiful creature leaning on his arm who, on a former similar occasion, had made such an impression upon my heart. There, unless my senses deceived me, stood Sir Frederick and Charlotte Cumming, looking exactly as they did in the happy days gone by. It must be a dream. I put my hand to my forehead to feel if I was awake. I rubbed my eyes; still the figures remained. Yes, they approached me. Then the dead do revisit the earth! I am deceived by some phantom, remembering the scene in the Palais Royal at that moment and feeling ashamed of my weakness, for there might be others in the world bearing a strong resemblance to Sir Frederick Cumming and his daughter. This reflection alone sustained me and kept me from sinking to the earth as on the former occasion. 
               Before I had time for further reflection the figures were close upon me. Sir Frederick stretched forth his hand and said, with a smile: 
               "Mr. Harcourt, I am delighted to meet you once more. Permit me to present you to my daughter, Miss Charlotte Cumming. Charlotte, this is Mr. Harcourt." 
               "Mr. Harcourt," echoed Charlotte with a low courtesy and a vacant look in which there was no trace of recognition. 
               "Pardon me, Sir Frederick," I stammered, "I am utterly bewildered. Can you tell me what all this means? Am I really awake or is this a dream, one of those strange and wild fancies which have so often disturbed my rest?" as I returned the courtesy of Miss Cumming with a low bow. 
               "I am aware of it all," replied Sir Frederick. "You have been misled by a newspaper paragraph to the effect that Charlotte was dead. That report had gone forth and was not contradicted; but she had only fallen into a swoon or rather a trance, and slowly recovered, to life, but not to reason. She has remained in the condition you see her ever since, perfectly childish, oblivous of the past and careless about the future. All our efforts to restore her to herself have been useless. We have traveled over Europe, consulted the best physicians, but all to no purpose, and there is only one hope left for us, and that is in the influence which your presence may have over her. Mr. Worthington has told us of all your sufferings and sorrows, your noble and heroic endurance of the same, and the innate grandeur and beauty of your character; and he has talked this matter over with us and with your new partner and our physician, and they all agree that this experiment may be worth trying. This party has been gotten up for the purpose and the whole plan pre-arranged; that you were not consulted may appear strange to you, but this will be explained to your full satisfaction hereafter. At present I will place my daughter in your hands; she is quite passive. Please ask her to dance as at the party when you first met her, and act in all respects as you did on that occasion, and we hope the result will prove satisfactory." 
               I immediately bowed to the lady and asked the honor of her hand for the next dance. She placed her hand in mine without uttering a word. We danced and she seemed pleased, but as yet she failed to recognize me. We danced again, and this time she seemed to enjoy it more and appeared to return the pressure of my hand. I took her into the refreshment room, where she partook of cake and a glass of wine, after which we danced again. The music and the exercise seemed to animate her more and more. A party of singers was practicing in an adjoining room; she led me by the hand and we joined it. My voice mingled its tones with the others, and the moment it struck upon Charlotte's ear she started as if from a dream. She seemed for a moment bewildered, and I stopped singing. 
               "Go on! Oh, please go on!" she said softly, with a sweet smile, as if unwilling to lose something that delighted her. 
               I resumed and she seemed all attention. My voice now gradually swelled into a wild, pathetic strain well known to her, for it was an air which I used to sing to her in the days of happiness and love. Her whole being seemed absorbed by it. A new light beamed from her eyes-a light which I recognized well. She heaved a deep sigh and the tears flowed abundantly down her cheeks. 
               "Thank Heaven!" I exclaimed, "she is awaking to life, to reason, to love." 
               "Love, love!" she murmured, "yes, dearest Harcourt, I shall never cease to love! But must we part? Oh, I fear it will kill me! Do not, oh do not leave me! stay, stay!" and here she flung her arms around my neck in an agony of sorrow; but becoming conscious of the presence of others, she stared around in amazement. "Where am I!" she exclaimed. "Is this all a dream; oh, dearest Harcourt, what a dream!" 
               "Dearest!" I exclaimed, "our long dream of sorrow has ended in a glorious awakening." 
               "Has my father then consented?" 
               "Yes, my love, and now at length we have met to part no more; but I will explain the whole affair to you hereafter. Now your friends await you. Let us seek them in the adjoining apartment." 
               I now led her into a private room where I found her father, brother and the Misses Brown, who had witnessed the whole affair, ready to receive us with delighted feelings. They crowded around us and welcomed the lost one to life and love with showers of kisses and congratulations, to which she responded with transports of joy and gratitude. 
               Oh! my friend, would that I could impart to you even a small portion of our sensations on that happy night. As for myself, I felt like a parent who after a long and dreary pilgrimage on earth meets his long lost child in Heaven-one in whom all his affections had been concentrated, whom he had seen torn from him by the relentless hand of death after an agony of suffering. His soul had long yearned to meet that dear one; he had long watched and waited, but the dawn was slow in coming, so slow that he had begun to doubt whether it should ever come, whether, indeed, there was an immortality, a life beyond the grave! But when at length that blessed dawn bursts upon his sight in all its glory, and he sees his loved one arrayed in the brightest robes to receive and welcome him, the clouds that overshadowed his hopes disperse and he awakes to the reality of bliss unspeakable in the presence of his darling, the light of his eye and the joy of his heart. 
               And I am assured that the feelings of Charlotte, my beloved one, were, on this awakening, equal in intensity to those of the lost child on its reunion with its father in the skies. 
               These were the blissful feelings that possessed our souls on that happy night. 
               Was not this a glorious consummation for us all? Did not the concentrated bliss of this one hour compensate for all the sufferings and sorrows of the past? Did we not appreciate these blessings the more because of, and in contrast with, those very sufferings? Ah, let us never repine at the frowns of fortune so long as we can trust to the smiles of Him who holds our destinies in His hand! 
               The whole secret now came out. I had been the victim of a plot. The demure Misses Brown had been engaged for some time to the two young gentlemen to whom I supposed I had introduced them for the first time. Lucy had practiced her arts upon me to try my loyalty as well as her own, although it was a hazardous experiment, and she smiled archly at the happy result of her strategy; but as for me I felt relieved of a great weight. I had not loved, I could not have loved her, for my heart was pre-occupied, and I dreaded for her sake lest she should place her affections on one who could not reciprocate, and thus become a bankrupt forever; but she was too prudent for that. 
               My ideas of marriage are singular, perhaps erroneous. I have always been strongly impressed with the conviction that true marriages are made in Heaven, and that we have an ideal of the partner allotted to us engraven upon our souls, which ideal will one day be realized, if we have only trust and patience to wait for the opportunity. Hence love at first sight is oftener in accordance with our instinct than with our reason, and the teachings of instinct are by no means to be disregarded. Opportunity may sometimes bring young people together, and there being no antagonism, they may fall in love or imagine they do when it is nothing more then the effect of animal magnetism, under whose delusive impulse they marry, and find, when too late, that they had been premature, and it is not until their heart's ideal at length appears that they feel the full weight of their chains and deplore their folly. 
               The prejudices of birth and family in the minds of Sir Frederick Cumming and his son seemed to have been dispersed by the light of reason and experience, and they no longer stood opposed to the happiness of Charlotte, but joyfully gave their consent that her hand should be conferred upon him who had so long been in possession of her heart, and it was arranged that the nuptials should be celebrated at Cumming Hall as soon as circumstances would admit, and in the meantime it was determined by all parties that nothing should be made public, and that the Cumming family should not return to Avondale till within a few weeks of the appointed time, but should remain in Liverpool enjoying the congenial society of their friends there and the benefits of the sea air and sea bathing during the brief season that now remained. 
               As I walked to the counting-house next morning after the party, my heart was tumultuous with joyful emotions, not on account of my unlookedfor worldly prosperity, or that I now entered the master where so late as yesterday I had been the humble employee, but because of the blessing which was soon to be conferred upon me in the hand of one who had been the sole object of my early love; and when I reflected on the wonderful chain of circumstances that had connected all these things together, I could not help concluding that the hand of God was visible in the whole affair, and my grateful heart swelled in love and praise to his holy name, and blessed him for all his mercies. 
               When I entered the counting-house and noticed the envious feelings displayed in the dark looks of most of my late fellow laborers, merely because of the preference shown me by Mr. Brown, I wondered what they would feel when they learned that I was elevated still higher above them-even to be their master. But again, on deeper thought, I concluded that whatever their feelings might be interiorly, I should never be able to detect them on the fair and smiling outside; such excellent dissemblers are men when it suits their interests. 
               My letters were usually directed to me at the counting-room. Amongst many others, I found one from you awaiting me on this eventful morning. It was that in which you informed me of McArdle's confession, my true parentage, and the real nature of my prospects. This was another stroke of fortune whose favors as well as frowns never come alone. What was to be done now-communicate the joyful news to my friends at once, and receive their congratulations? This was my first impulse, but another consideration withheld me; I thought it better to wait till the result was fully known, and no doubt remained of the truth. Making urgent business as my excuse, that very evening I took leave of Charlotte and my wondering friends and started by the mail for London, and you know as well as I how I have been occupied since. 
               "Happy man," I exclaimed, when Harcourt had concluded this interesting episode to his history, "you have at length found the haven of repose after the violence of the storm, while I am still tossed on the great ocean of uncertainty, without a pilot or a star to guide my bark through the darkness and the storm." 
               "What, in love?" said Harcourt; "why should you wish to conceal this from your friend? Let me hear the story of your woes and my experience in that line shall be at your service, and may be of use." 
               "And hereupon I related the whole story of my love, just as I have to you, and at its conclusion he said, smiling: 
               "Is that all?' 
               "All!" what would you have more? Was there ever so hopeless a case?" 
               "Tut, tut; I see you are but a novice in these matters, and have but an indifferent knowledge of the sex if you can suppose that a young girl in the first bloom of womanhood and conscious of her beauty, would spend her time, as Miss Waltham has done with you, merely for the sake of science and literary pursuits. Believe me, there was a stronger attraction and a deeper passion concealed beneath this mask. As sure as you live, that girl loves you, and you alone." 
               "You really think so? This gives me new life and revives hope in my heart; and even for this you are entitled to my heartfelt thanks and my blessing. But oh, if your opinion should be verified, how shall I ever be able to express my gratitude, or make it manifest by my actions?" 
               "Let me manage the affair for you, and I will prove it beyond a doubt." 
               "How so?" 
               "No matter; I have thought of a plan for ascertaining the true state of Miss Waltham's affections, and with your consent I will put it into execution." 
               "You have my full consent, provided only that it be not distasteful to the lady, nor calculated to give her offense." 
               "On the contrary she must, under any circumstances, be gratified. Business will detain us here a few days longer, after which we will pay a visit to Avondale under altered circumstances." 
               Here our conversation ended. In a short time I hope to let you know the result of Harcourt's experiment. 
               
                  Your sincere friend, 
                  EDWARD MONTAGUE.
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               THE STRATEGY. 
               
                  WHITE-FAWN INN, Avondale, 
                   
                     FRANK DUNWOODY, ESQ. 
                  
                
               HERE I am, only at the distance of one mile and a half from the temple that enshrines the idol of my soul; and yet I must not approach it to offer my devotions, but must worship at a distance in silence and sorrow! I go in my walks to a neighboring hill, where I sit for hours gazing on the spot which holds all that is dear to my heart. I gaze upon the trees, the windows, the garden, the lawn, and everything connected with that dear spot, with feelings of envy because they are blessed with her smile and her presence, while I must remain in the back ground, unnoticed and unthought of-unthought of, did I say? Ah, would that it were otherwise! 
               You will naturally ask, "Why is this? Why do you not advance boldly, and convince yourself at once of the truth, if that be possible, and relieve your mind from the agony of doubt and suspense?" 
               Ah! my friend, have you ever known what it is to love? Are you aware that to have no longer anything to hope for is indeed to have nothing to live for, and that death is preferable to despair? And yet human nature shrinks from death as from an enemy-as from something hideous and frightful that is about to take away its being and consign it-it knows not where! 
               I am indeed at this moment in most awful and appalling suspense. My very existence depends on this critical moment. I weigh the chances, and find them against me; and I have made up my mind already as to the course I shall pursue. There is only one left for me, and I leave you to judge what that will be. But I will explain myself more fully. 
               When we arrived at this inn, a week ago, Harcourt made me acquainted with the whole scheme which he had planned for my happiness or misery-to ascertain whether my deep and enduring affection for Eliza Waltham was returned or not. 
               We were to put up at a retired and unfrequented inn, at some distance from the village of Avondale, and assume each a disguise which he brought for the purpose, and remain there under assumed names, so that no one might suspect either our real characters or motives; and as Harcourt, during the time he remained in the neighborhood, had had very little intercourse with the people, and none at all with the family at the parsonage, he undertook to go to the village and endeavor to ascertain, first from the gossip of the public house attendants everything he could about the Waltham family generally and about Eliza in particular, and then, if possible, from her own maid, with whom he proposed forming an acquaintance by way of sweetheart, what were the feelings and dispositions of that young lady's heart towards his friend, or whether her affections were really devoted to another. 
               The first attempt was successful in proving that, so far as outward appearances went, the young lady gave little encouragement to the numerous admirers who were attracted by her beauty and accomplishments, and that in fact, from what could be judged, she had no favorite lover among them. Some indeed had heard of a childish attachment which she was reported to have formed with a young gentleman who was for a season her father's pupil; but as he had long since gone abroad, and no correspondence was kept up between them, it was supposed it had fallen to the ground, like many other such early follies. 
               When Harcourt returned that evening to our inn and related all he had heard in the course of the day, it elevated my spirits a little, which had been so terribly depressed with nervous anxiety that I was ready to faint when I saw him approach. 
               Next day was Sunday, and he proposed that we should both go together to Avondale church, where her father preached, and where she was sure to attend. 
               "You will thus," said Harcourt, "have an opportunity of seeing her again, and I, perhaps, shall be able to ascertain which is her maid, and perhaps introduce myself to her." 
               "But I am afraid," I replied, "that I shall be known, for having long been accustomed to go to that church, there is scarcely one in the village who would not recognize me." 
               "Oh, never fear that!" said Harcourt. "I will so disguise you that even I could not recognize you myself if I met you in the street." 
               "Well, I shall be very happy to place myself under your hands." 
               Accordingly, the next morning was employed in dressing me out in such a disguise as indeed it would be impossible for any one to know me through it. When I looked at myself in the glass I felt the greatest confidence that I might go any where without danger of recognition; and yet when I entered the village and met many whose faces were familiar to me, I could not help shrinking back with fear lest I should be discovered notwithstanding my disguise. Harcourt laughed at my weakness and encouraged me both by word and example to go on boldly and fear nothing. I obeyed; but though I said nothing at the time to cause my friend pain, yet my conscience told me I was doing wrong. At best, and even for the most innocent motives, I do not like-I never liked-disguise; but when I reflected that I had spent all that morning of the holy Sabbath, which ought to be dedicated to meditation and prayer, in disguising my person for the worldly motives which prompted me, I could not inwardly applaud myself for the act. We ought not, I thought, to do even the most disinterested and praiseworthy duty by unworthy means, and this made me uneasy as I pensively walked to church on that sweet Sabbath morning. 
               The bells were ringing with a solemn but pleasing harmony, inviting His creatures to the house of God, to offer up their prayers and praises for His bounties to men. It was a lovely harvest morning, and the fields were groaning under their golden treasure, which was in some places reaped and gathered together in abundant shocks; in others as yet waving with full ear, inviting the sickle of the reaper, and filling the farmer's heart with gladness and joy. On all sides the country people, dressed in their gayest attire, and most of them browned with the sun, and bearing on their hands and countenances the marks of their rural toil, were moving in reverential silence towards the house of prayer, as to a common center, to offer up the tribute of their grateful praise to the bountiful Lord of the Harvest. As we entered the retired village we were struck with the reverence for the Sabbath which was there manifested by the stillness and quiet that prevailed in every direction. All the shops and ale-houses were closed, and not a soul was to be seen in the street save those only who were hastening towards the house of God. The churchyard was soon gained; there every thing was familiar to me-the low stile, the graveled walks, and the tombs. Indeed I could see no change, except that it was more thickly peopled by the silent dead than when I last saw it. I could hardly refrain from bowing to my old friends, the sexton and his assistant, who were standing at the belfry door, and to the village schoolmaster as he drove before him his little flock of neatly dressed, clean and well-behaved boys; but I remembered that I was not now myself! 
               We walked round the church, examining the new accessions of inhabitants which had taken up their eternal dwelling in the densely peopled churchyard, and communing in spirit with the old, till we arrived opposite the house of the clergyman. The hedge was the same as on that morning when, through a small opening in one of its angles, I had detected the tear on Eliza's cheek as she read a letter. The garden was the same, except that it was a little farther advanced in the season, and everything there appeared exactly as it was wont in former times; but the divinity that sanctified and gave a value to all, in my eyes-where was she? No doubt we should see her approach presently, before the bell should cease and prayers should begin. There I stood, riveted to the spot. The little bell had been ringing for some time, and every moment I hoped to see the parsonage door opened. It wanted only three minutes of the time that prayers should begin. But where was the clergyman? Mr. Waltham had not yet passed! At length the door was thrown open, and a tall, thin man, dressed in a surplice, advanced rapidly towards the church door. He was young and handsome. This, thought I, must be Mr. Waltham's curate. He himself will most likely preach, though I knew he always used to perform the whole duty himself. Can anything be the matter? I fear all is not right here! 
               I communicated my suspicions to Harcourt, but before he had time to reflect a carriage drove up to the door in great haste. A gentleman alighted from it and ran rather than walked into the house. I knew him; it was Doctor H. What could this mean? Was any one ill there? and what if it should be Eliza Waltham herself! This thought overpowered me. I detested the disguise which prevented me from rushing into the house and inquiring. Indeed I would have gone had Harcourt permitted me; but he withheld me, saying that I was mad and would ruin all. There was no one near of whom I could make inquiries, and at Harcourt's earnest request I turned with him to go into the church, where service had already commenced. 
               As we walked down towards the church door the sound of the organ and the voices of the singers, rising up to Heaven from the midst of perfect stillness ness and falling gratefully on the ear, together with the scene I had just witnessed, and the undefined and vague fears that scene had inspired, produced a deep and solemn impression upon my mind and made me hasten to unite my feeble voice in prayer with the congregation inside. We entered and took a seat on one of the benches appropriated to the parish poor (for we were dressed like them) and listened to the beautiful and impressive liturgy of our church with feelings of the most heartfelt devotion. How sweet, how solemn, how sublime are the words in which we acknowledge our transgressions: 
               "I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me." 
               And the humility of posture and the earnestness of language in which we implore pardon and forgiveness! 
               "Enter not into judgment with thy servant, O Lord, for in thy sight shall no man living be justified!" 
               And again: "We have erred and strayed from Thy ways like lost sheep," etc., and in the litany, "O God, the Father of Heaven, have mercy upon us, miserable sinners," etc., with innumerable other passages, all of the greatest simplicity, but at the same time of the sublimest pathos and most appropriate form of address, from an humble and dependent worm of the earth to the Omnipotent Ruler of the universe. Would that the spirit of this beautiful liturgy were more generally felt! 
               The clergyman read with a clear, impressive voice, as if he felt the full force of every word he uttered, and both Harcourt and I were so completely overcome with the intensity of our feelings that we wept. This might have been occasioned partly by the circumstance that we had not attended church for several Sundays previous, being disgusted with the display and hypocrisy of a London congregation, and the rapacity of those who had anything to do with the pews, who made the temple of God a "den of thieves rather than a house of prayer." 
                
               When at length he came to the collect "for all conditions of men," in which it is usual to pray for anyone that is dangerously ill, I almost sank to the ground with emotion. My heart beat audibly while he was reading it and I was only relieved of extreme suffering when he came near the conclusion to these words: 
               "Finally, we commend to thy fatherly goodness all those that are afflicted or distressed in mind, body or estate, especially him for whom our prayers are desired." 
               Which assured me that whoever the sick person might be it was not, at all events, she for whom I had felt such fears, and this greatly consoled me, though it was evidently one in whose weal or woe she must feel a deep interest-her father. Which, indeed, we afterwards found to be too true, by inquiring after the sermon was over. 
               It appeared he had been suddenly taken ill that morning, only an hour before church time, and already his life was despaired of. It was an attack of apoplexy, for he was of a plethoric habit, and his family were thrown into the utmost consternation and alarm, none of whom ventured to leave him for a moment, even to go to church. The clergyman who officiated was one of the neighboring parish, who had been sent for on this pressing emergency. 
               After service we returned home with humbled and subdued feelings, impressed deeply with the power of God and our own weakness and insignificance, and the slight tenure by which we enjoy life and happiness. I at least felt no longer inclined for masquerade. 
               "This is an awful occurrence," said Harcourt in a low voice as we left the church-yard, "and to happen at this moment, too, is extraordinary." 
               "It is a lesson for us," I said, "if we are wise, not to indulge in such levity on the Sabbath. Indeed, I think masking on any day is not proper." 
               "Do you really? Well, I am sure I have incurred a sin gratuitously, for it was entirely for your sake I proposed it." 
                
               "You are very kind and your intention is excellent, my dear friend, but I confess I have not felt comfortable or happy all day, and I think it would be better to take some other means to attain our end. The best way is to go openly to work at once and make her an offer in my own character." 
               "But this will entirely defeat your object. If I understand you properly, you have been always anxious to know whether she loved you for your own sake merely and not for any change in your circumstance and it will be impossible for you to ascertain this if you throw off your disguise, in which I cannot see the least harm. My impression is that her father, this very man who is now on the bed of affliction, perhaps of death, has exercised a powerful influence over her mind, as you say he did over his other daughters, and prevented her giving those indications of preference openly for any whom she knew he would not approve, for evident reasons, however she might indulge the idea of them in her heart of hearts. Why, I have known girls in such circumstances to be so completely cowed and bullied as not even to venture to breathe their thoughts to their most intimate friends, scarcely to their own hearts, so much have they been under the habitual terror of parental control, and from everything I can learn, this has been the case with her. Indeed, I was told yesterday in the village that she must marry anyone her father pointed out to her, however she disliked him. Now, my advise is that we retain our disguise a little longer, at all events, and I will go tomorrow again and make inquiries as to the health of her father, and if he is not actually dead or dying, I will endeavor to ascertain something of the posture of affairs." 
               "Very well," I replied, "I am satisfied to follow your advice, and I hope it will turn out well, but to-day's omen looks very bad." 
               "Very good, you mean to say. What could favor your object better than for her father to die?" 
               "God forbid," I replied, "that I could wish to derive rive advantage from anything which must desolate her so cruelly. I had much rather suffer myself than see one so dear to me in sorrow." 
               "You are too sentimental by half, too careless of your own happiness and too attentive to that of others. You must know that such extreme delicacy of feeling is seldom appreciated, even by the object of it, and that a man who makes the happiness of others the object of his life loses his own, and is looked upon either as a hypocrite or a fool by the rest of the world, who do not possess such feelings. A woman will never give you credit for forbearance on the ground of consulting her happiness. She will attribute your delicacy to weakness or indifference, and I am inclined to think not unjustly, for where the passion of love is strong, no consideration either of prudence or fear of inflicting injury will deter it from the attainment of its object. A woman will sooner forgive you for violence or deceit, practiced to gain her person, than she will for that delicacy which is shocked at the idea of hurting her feelings or bringing her into difficulties. True love revels in difficulties, and no woman is worth seeking who would not follow her lover as cheerfully into the obscurity of a cottage as she would into the splendor of a palace. Do not be scared at trifles, all stratagems are admissible in the warfare of love, and that which we are practicing is at least an innocent and harmless one." 
               "I alluded only to her father's present illness," I replied. 
               "Which may turn out to your and her advantage," said Harcourt. 
               Next day he went again to the village. Mr. Waltham was still in a precarious state and little hopes were entertained of his recovery; but he was not in immediate danger. He might even get over the present attack (the second), but the next would be sure to carry him off. 
               "When I left the vicinity of the parsonage house," said Harcourt, telling me in the evening of that day's adventures, "and had got into the church-yard, near the lower gate, I met a pretty little girl who seemed to be going direct towards the place whence I came, and supposing her to be one of the servants there, I ventured to ask her how her master was to-day" 
               "He is something better, sir, thank you." 
               This is well, thought I. She is Mr. Waltham's servant; perhaps his daughter's maid. 
               "What is the opinion of Dr. H.?" I continued; "has he any hopes?" 
               "I believe not, sir," said she, going on. 
               "Stay a moment," I said, "I want to make some other inquiries." 
               "I havn't time now," she replied, "for my young mistress sent me in all haste for some leeches to apply to master's temples." 
               "Well," said I, "go, by all means, with the leeches, but I would take it as a favor, a very great favor, if you would permit me to see you again soon-very soon-for I have something to say to you which concerns your young mistress, and perhaps you, too, more than you imagine." 
               She looked astonished, scarcely knowing what to think of me, or whether I was serious or not. I assured her most solemnly that I was in earnest. She then said that she would be passing that way in half an hour, when she could stay a few moments to speak to me. 
               "Well," I replied, "I will be on the look-out for you; do not fail to come." 
               I sauntered about the church-yard, reading the rude epitaphs on the tombs, and looking at my watch every moment in hopes to hasten on the time; but the more eager I was to urge it on, the more did it seem inclined to remain stationary, like a rusty donkey or mule which no spur or goad will impel when the fit of obstinacy takes possession of it. At last the half hour came, and although I placed myself in a position to observe every thing that was going on near the parsonage house, no girl nor any one else made an appearance for another half hour, when I began to lose all patience, and to prepare to take my departure for that time; when lo! the front door opens, and a female form comes forth gently, as if in expectation of seeing somebody. She advanced towards the spot where I was standing, which was in a recess at the south end of the church, and when she was near enough, I sallied out from my hiding place to meet her, for I now perceived it was the same I had spoken to before. 
               "Is this the way you keep your appointment," I said, "I thought you would never make your appearance." 
               "What, you here yet! I had no idea you would have staid so long. Indeed I quite forgot all about it, for we have had sad work at the vicarage!" 
               "What! Mr. Waltham worse?" 
               "No, but he fainted with the loss of blood, and poor Miss Waltham thought she was going to lose her father, and oh, what she suffered; for a while she seemed worse than he, though God knows he would not be a great loss to her!" 
               "But she is recovered, I hope." 
               "Oh, yes, and he is much better since the leeches." 
               "That is well; but I want to speak to you about your young mistress, on the part of one who loves her dearly; my good, my kind master!" 
               "What, has he changed his servant again? ah, you will soon lose your good, kind master, as you call him." 
               "Lose him! how, my pretty little black-eyed beauty; is your mistress going to rob me of my treasure? Nay, he will still be mine, my sweet Susan, (I had learned her name in the village) though he may be your mistress's too, and then you and I will be near neighbors, you know," and here I threw my arms round her neck and kissed a very pretty pair of pouting lips. 
               "Get along, Mr. Impertinence, and tell your master that we don't covet either him or his man at the vicarage, either now or hereafter; and I think if he had any sense he might know that much by this time. My mistress has made up her mind never to marry, at least till--; but no matter; and even if she does, she will choose a man of a different stamp altogether; that I know-so take that in your hand as you carry no staff." 
               "And you, my sweet Susan, I hope you are not so cruel as your mistress. If so, I am sure you will break many an honest valet's heart as your mistress has many of their master's, I would be bound to say." 
               "Hold your tongue in your head, or teach it better manners when it speaks of my mistress. She breaks no hearts, but wishes to remain in peace; and above all, she despises the man who depends on his money and attempts to purchase her against her will of a father who is as miserly as an old Jew, and forgets sometimes that his children have feelings which may be hurt. But my young mistress has too much spirit to be trampled upon, and if Mr. Henry was at home, or some one else I could name was in the neighborhood, Sir John, your master would not dare to act as he does." 
               "Sir John --! Sir John --! Let me remember. Why, do you know, Susan, I have been so short a time in my master's service, that I quite forget his other name. I have a very bad memory, sweet Susan, and I am beginning to think it is muddled by your presence, love. But tell me my master's other name!" 
               "You cannot surely have forgotten Sir John Vapering, of Vapering Hall?" 
               "Sir John Vapering, Susan! But there you are wrong; I am not Sir John Vapering's servant, Susan. I am the servant of your mistress's other lover, Susan." 
               "What, of Bond's, the old stock broker's son, who used to fancy himself in love with my mistress when he was at school here, and indeed spread about a report that they were engaged? Why, I thought that young scamp was out in India! Is he returned, then? He might as well have staid there for aught my mistress cares about him." 
                
               "There you are out again, Miss Susan; Stocks isn't my master, neither! Can't you guess, now, who is? Your mistress had a favored lover once, I think, Susan, if you remember; and one who loved her dearly, too, and though absent for some time, still loves her with the fondest devotion." 
               "I don't think my mistress ever gave any man reason to believe she loved him; though to tell the truth, there was a gentleman, (but he is too poor to keep so respectable looking a servant as you seem) to whom she was partial, but I am sure she never told him so." 
               "Looks speak often when words are silent, Susan, as the poet says- 
                      
                        'Expressive silence oft will speak 
                        In language where mere words were weak;' 
                     
                   and it often happens that two feel they love each other when neither will venture to confess it, perhaps not even to their own hearts. There are certain causes, Susan, which make people afraid to indulge a passion which they know might not be approved by those whom they wish to please, and this, more than any thing else, makes them endeavor to stifle the voice of nature within them, which, however long smothered, will burst out at last, and rage with more than primitive violence." 
               "Then you know my master!" 
               "No, Susan, but I know something of human nature." 
               "What, you can tell fortunes! I wish you would let me know mine." 
               "That I will, Susan," said I, looking at her hand. You are beloved by an honest man, who would fain make you his wife, if he could." 
               "Is he a young man or a widower? now I will try your skill." 
               "Let me look again at the lines of your hand; you have just asked me an important question, and one, as you remark, that is well calculated to put my skill to a severe trial; so you see it is necessary for me to examine closely into this affair. One, two, parallel for a space-one falls off, and another crosses!-much younger, dark hair, little, handsome!-the first dark, too! all right! Now I am ready to answer your question. Ask me again, Susan." 
               "Is he a young man or a widower that loves me?" 
               "That you love, or loves you, which? 
               "Both!" 
               "Well, then, Susan, I should say, taking the above facts into consideration, that you are loved both by a young man and a widower, Susan." 
               "Well, I know that, but which is to be my husband; which do I love?" 
               "Why, Susan, you are a prudent girl, I know from these marks. You wouldn't like to marry a man that has got no place of settlement for you, and from the kindness of your disposition you are fond of children." 
               "I have always been thought so." 
               "And would make an excellent nurse, where kindness and attention are necessary." 
               "'Tis for that very reason he wishes to have me." 
               "You will marry the widower, Susan!" 
               "As I live," said Susan, in astonishment, "he is a conjurer! Well, after that! How could you know?" 
               "Ah, that's another thing! But you see, at any rate, that I know something of human nature, which proves to you pretty distinctly and unequivocally, Susan, that I know all about your mistress's love for my master, and my master's love for your mistress, their walks in that field, the proposal he made to her-and all about it! But tell me, Susan, what could have induced her to fly off in a rage that evening he proposed to her, when at the same time she loved him dearly, and was sorry even while she was running away and looked angry-eh? You see I know her very feelings!" 
               "Aye, that's the very thing that vexes her, and for which she has blamed herself ever since. The truth is, she hardly knew what she was doing at the time. It was sudden and unexpected, and she didn't know what else to do. She was very young, only a child, but many a salt tear has she shed since. 'It was entirely my own fault,' she would say, 'for driving him away with my rudeness and cruelty, in return for his kindness and love; yet I think if he had loved me sincerely he would have returned-at least I should have heard from him; but he is silent! I do not even know where he is, and I feel desolate and unhappy.' Then she would talk of the happy evenings they used to spend together in the fields and lanes, gathering flowers and fossils, and reading poetry; and she has often and often led me over these places and fancied she was walking again with him! then she would turn round suddenly, and covering her face with her handkerchief, would burst into tears. Poor girl! I have pitied her from my heart, and tried to comfort her by saying he would perhaps come again, but she could not believe it. 'No, no!' she would say, 'he forgets me! I shall never see him again! but I deserve it all, for I have brought it on myself by my own folly! I am sure he loved me once, and I thought he was not likely to change; but there is no confidence to be put in men-they are all deceitful! I shall never look at one again to love him. My life is a blank, and I can only look to the grave for happiness and repose!'" 
               "But perhaps," said Susan, starting suddenly, as if in doubt-"perhaps this is not your master neither. What is his name?" 
               "Mr. Edward Montague," I replied. 
               "'Tis the same," said she. "And where is he now? Does he still love my mistress?" 
               "He has never ceased to love her most tenderly-most devotedly; but he was induced to believe, from the representation of her own brother and from another circumstance which I will tell you presently, that she was engaged, and that of course was a sufficient reason to prevent him intruding on her notice." 
               "Such was the report, as I have told you; and though she always contradicted it most flatly, yet her brother, in common with several others, believed it true. But what was the other circumstance you mention, that induced him to think her engaged?" 
               "He, by mere accident, saw her reading a letter one morning in the garden, and as she read she wept bitterly. But that was not all: she read it again and again, kissed it, and wept anew! which, joined to the report that he heard soon afterwards, confirmed him in the belief, which nothing would shake till I by my magic art convinced him that she loved him and no other man." 
               "You were right. What an extraordinary man you must be! But I fear it is not proper to talk with you, as you must have connection with things not to be mentioned." 
               "No danger in that, Susan. But I hope your mistress will now be convinced of my master's enduring and long-tried affection, and consent to make him what he deserves to be-happy in the possession of her hand." 
               "I fear it is now too late. She has given up all hopes-all ideas of the kind, and withdrawn her dependence on man and placed it on Him in whom there is no variableness nor shadow of turning. Besides, at this awful moment, when she is in constant dread of her father's death, I fear I cannot even mention it to her." 
               "Why not? There is a sanctity in love which gives even a dignity to sorrow. I would have this thing brought to an end as quickly as possible. I know how it will-nay, how it must end. So we must all work together to accomplish the decree of fate. These two are to be united in the bands of holy matrimony." 
               "But my mistress has no fortune, and your master is poor." 
               "No matter; let loving hearts be united, and trust in God for a blessing." 
               "What would you have me to do?" 
               "Advise your mistress to give my master an interview as soon as her father is sufficiently recovered to admit of it. I shall be in this place to-morrow, about the same time, for your answer. Be sure to meet me. Adieu." 
               And here Harcourt waved his hand like one having authority, who must be obeyed, and departed without waiting to receive her answer. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               THE FLUNKEYS. 
               JUST as he was leaving the churchyard and entering the principal street of the village, a splendid carriage, with footmen in magnificent livery, and a gentleman inside, dashed past him at a furious rate. It turned the corner and drove up to the vicarage door before he had time to collect his thoughts. He instantly turned back, to ascertain, if possible, who it might be, but though he ran across the churchyard as fast as he could he was not able to get up in time to have a full view of the gentleman, who was just entering the door as he arrived. All he could gather from the slight glimpse that he caught of his back was that he was a gay-looking and highly fashionable young man above the middle size, and seemingly in the bloom of youth; but he now determined to ascertain more of his character from the servants outside, who remained with the carriage, waiting till their master should think proper to leave the vicarage; and as Harcourt was on that day dressed in one of his own servant's liveries, he found it no difficult matter to enter into conversation with his brethren of the cloth, though he observed that at first they rather looked down upon him, fearing lest he might not, like themselves, appertain to the aristocracy, and that they might therefore demean themselves by holding any communication with him. However, approaching the carriage with a knowing look and a familiar nod, as if to give them a hint that he was not much their inferior, he ventured to break the ice, assuming a pompous and important tone: 
                
               "Good morning, my friends; foine day." 
               "Very foine day," answered the footman, with an air of great condescension. 
               "You are Sir John Vapering's people, I presume," said Harcourt. 
               "We ave the onor to happertain to is hestablishment," answered the footman. 
               "I thought as much! Such a splendid turn-out as this could hardly belong to a mere country squire. There is a smack of the fashionable world about the whole concern that one might look for in vain amongst the rude fox-hunters of the country. The horses, the livery, the build of the carriage-everything reminds me of dear, dear London! but most of all, the genteel, high-bred appearance of the gentlemen in livery shows at once to an experienced eye that they belong to the aristocracy!" 
               This touched the right string; in fact it acted like magic, for the haughty muscles of the menials instantly relaxed, a smile irradiated their intellectual countenances, they exchanged glances at each other, a whisper and a nod, and the next moment they were each shaking Harcourt by the hand in a most cordial and friendly manner. By a few idle words he had gained the affections of two great men of a great man. 
               "Ow delighted we are," they both said in a breath; "ow delighted we are to meet with a Christian man in this ere wilderness of eathens. Is it long since you left town?" 
               "Only a few days ago. When did you come down?" 
               "Honly last Saturday, and we are heartily tired of this dull place already. There is no society, no amusement, nothin but a set of dull, clod oppers has knows nothin whatsomever of polite life. But I ope," said the coachman, "you are going to make some stay in the neighborhood. You will be quiet an acquisition, and we should be extremely appy to hadmit you into our select society." 
               "I am extremely obliged to you, gentlemen, but my master is such a wild blade and knows so little of his own mind that it is quite uncertain how long he may remain. He is the very devil for the girls and he has scented a very pretty one in this neighborhood, and his movements will pretty much depend on his success there. The truth is, he is sure to succeed, for few women have yet been able to resist him. But I believe your master is a stranger also in these ere parts?" 
               "He has been ere about two years, living on an estate which he purchased in the neighborhood. It is next neighbor to Sir Frederick Cumming's, if you appen to know anything of that ere gentleman. There was formerly only a cottage there, but he has built a very foine ouse in the new fashion and called it after his own name, Vapering Hall. It was reported that the former owner hanged himself, and that his ghost-ha, ha, ha!-that his ghost appears at times in the ouse, but this is hall ould women's tales to frighten the country clods. We of the west end knows better. The modern himprovements in philosophy as taught us long since that there is no ghosts-ha, ha, ha!" 
               "And your master visits at the vicarage?" 
               "Visits! do you think he would condescend to visit parson folks and the like? Not he, he is too much of hawt tun for that! no, no! The fact is he is only fishing for gudgeon-ha, ha!"-and here Jehu winked most knowingly at Harcourt and then at his companion. 
               "I understand you," said Harcourt. "He is pretty much in the same predicament as my own master, I guess. Has the parson got a daughter?" 
               "Aye that he as, and as pretty a piece of furniture as ever a man clapt his eyes upon, and they say as good as she is andsome; poor thing, I pity her!" 
               "I see; and your master has clapt his eye upon her and is paying his court to the father in hopes to gain the daughter. How does he succeed?" 
               "Hush, hush!" said they both in a whisper, and with a great variety of winks, nods and gestures, "it is all a secret, nobody knows nothin about it, that is very few knows, you hunderstand!" 
                
               "Perfectly! but you needn't be afraid of me, I am all right, you know, besides I am quite a stranger in the place and can feel no hinterest one way or the tother. I am well used to this ere sort of thing. God bless you, I ave assisted at half a dozen of helopements already and at as many clandestine marriages." 
               "The devil you ave! Then you would just be the very thing for Sir John, for blow me if I don't feel raether awkward on the occasion," said the footman, "having never had much practice in that ere way." 
               "Then Sir John intends to force the lady to elope with him?" 
               "For goodness sake don't speak so plain," said the coachman, and then turning to his fellow-servant, he said in a whisper: "I thinks, William, as how we may as well tell this gentleman all about it." 
               "Oh, if you mistrust me in the least I beg you will not say another word on the subject; indeed, I would rather not hear it, having no interest whatsomever in the matter, and if anything should be spoken hereafter, you might blame me for it," said Harcourt with a look of great indifference and turning as if about to leave them. 
               "Stay, stay! we do not mistrust you, and beg your pardon for heven hinted sich a thing, but then you see it would be as much as our places is worth if it was found out, and that will be some excuse for us." 
               "Certainly," said Harcourt, "you cannot be too particular and ought to know your man well before you trust him in so himportant an affair." 
               "Well, then," said the coachman, "the truth is that Sir John as deceived and ruined many a fine lady before and undoubtedly intends to do the same to Miss Waltham now. He is no saint, though he as contrived to happear so to her father and to the simple people in the neighborhood, by attending regularly at church when he is ere, and making great professions of piety and religion; but the lady doesn't like him, it is hevident she even detests him." 
               "May I ask you," said Harcourt, "how you come to know all these secrets? Does your master let his servants into his mysteries?" 
               "No; but there is a little bird that lets me into other people's mysteries, and hearts, too; and there is a way of coming at his secrets too, ha, ha! isn't there, William?" 
               "I should think so," said that functionary in a long, drawling key peculiar to himself. 
               "I hunderstand you," said Harcourt; "alf a hint is enough for me, for you must know I am a bit of a conjurer and understand uman natur. Show me your and, Mr. Coachman, and I will give you a proof of my skill." 
               "I'll bet you a pot of Hoare and Delafield's best porter," said the coachman, "that you don't tell my fortune true." 
               "Done," said Harcourt; "but I forget myself, you are too great a philosopher to believe in occult powers." 
               "Nay, nay! a bargain's a bargain and a bet's a bet, and thou I don't believe exactly in ghosts, that's no reason why I mayn't believe in gipsies and conjurers." 
               "Well, give us your and, old fellow. Ha, what do I see! one, two, cross-gone-another-dark, little, handsome, black eyes and sweet countenance! Appy man, you are not yet forty and already you ave been blest with a wife and family. Stay, don't stare so! I aven't done yet. You will soon be ground over again in the mill of matrimony and come out a new and younger man by ten years, and sich a sweet little wife, too! I envy thee, thou appy, appy man! 
               "William," exclaimed Coachy, "did you ever! Well, I'm blowed if that don't take the shine out of everything I"- 
               "Stay," said Harcourt, "I avn't done yet. I can even tell you her Christian name; she is called Susan, eh, isn't it so! Aye, you see I knows what's what, and more than that, too; she doesn't live quiote a hundred miles from the spot you stand upon this moment." 
               "Before God," said William, the footman, "he must have dealings with-, but I daren't mention who." 
               "Here's my and!" said Coachy, "I'm blowed if you ant the nicest chap I hever met with either in Lunnen or out of Lunnen! and if we don't drink the pot of porter together, and another and another into the bargain, I'm blowed!" 
               "Well, now," said Harcourt, "you see it is easy to account for your knowledge of other people's secrets; but how have you been able to come at your master's, that I confess puzzles me." 
               "As you are such a good conjurer," said William, "in other things, I should think you moight know this ere too." 
               "Why, do you suppose a conjurer knows everything? No, no! he must see the person's hand and read his fortune there, or else his countenance, and there read his disposition; but I thinks I can easily tell even this if you answer me one question as to Sir John's disposition. Is he troubled with absence of mind and a bad memory?" 
               "You have hit at once, by Gosh!" 
               "Well, then, it is easy for me who has gone through every branch of the sarvice and among the rest has been own gentleman to many a worthy gentleman, it is easy, I say, for a person possessing such experience to riddle this problem without the aid of conjuring, which I will put aside for the present." 
               "How can I find out the secret? Is it not evident that every gentleman has got friends or acquaintances?" 
               "Certainly! at least there is few that havn't of some kind or other, and God knows they would be better without any at all sometimes, our own hopeful master for example, William; what a wretch is that ere what writes, William, eh!" said Coachy. 
               "Well, don't you see, there it is at wanst," said Harcourt. "When a man has friends or acquaintances ances, and they is at a distance, he writes to them and they writes to him again in answer." 
               "Ha, ha, ha!" roared the two liverymen at once. 
               "Again, you see, if he is absent in mind, its very lackly when he has read the letters he may throw em where his gentleman can get a peep at em." 
               "Ha, ha!" cried the coachman, "did you ever?" 
               "No, never!" responded the footman. "Ha, ha, ha! isn't it very odd, ha, ha, ha!" 
               "And then the gentleman has wun partickler, dear friend, who he lets into his master's secrets, but hunder a most solemn promise to tell nobody; and that friend most likely as another friend to whom he tells the secret hunder the same hobligation, and thus it extends to a few, only a few, confidential members of the gentleman's household, from wich of course it rarely escapes, unless, indeed, some one of those friends as a dear friend in the ousehold of some other gentleman or lady in the neighborhood; and then, you know, at last the secret is confined to the faithful keeping of a few faithful friends in a couple of very respectable establishments, within only a few miles of each other, and is just as safe as if it was still confined to the bosoms of its original proprietors." 
               "Ha, ha, ha, William! I declare I'll burst right out with laughing! What a funny devil this ere is, and how fortunate we was in meeting with im; wy, if he stays any time in the neighborhood he will keep us all alive during the dull hours we are hobliged to rusticate!" 
               "Well, now, gents, ant I pretty near the mark, by mere guessing, without troubling my familiar on every trifling occasion? I think I have hit upon the way in which you came by your information; and now that we have made all things plain, what if you would proceed and tell all you know. I can now give full credit to what I hear." 
               "What, do you mean to accuse us of-?" 
               "I beg your pardon; no, no! nothing of the kind! I merely meant to say that now we would understand each other better." 
               "Oh, well, if you meant it in that are way, all right. I thought you were too perlite to doubt our word." 
               "Decidedly so; how could I ever think of such a thing?" 
               "Well, then," continued the coachman, nodding his head, and winking with an air of great mystery, "I have it from very good authority on both sides, that the young lady doesn't like Sir John half so well as her father does, who is very desirous that she should become Lady Vapering and our mistress. He 'as preached and preached to her till he was tired about it, as I well know, from very good authority, but she always steadily refused to listen to his advice, or Sir John's addresses, hunder various pretences, putting 'im off from time to time, till Sir John became quite impatient, and determined to carry her off by force, if ever he could get a hopportunity, and for this purpose kept up a correspondence with a decayed gentleman not very far from here who would not stick at murdering a man, (some says he 'as murdered more than one) if he was well paid for it! Sir John, of coose, has never 'ad the slightest idea of marrying her, though he 'as persuaded that greedy old wretch, her father, to believe he would, and nothing will persuade him that Sir John is what he is." 
               "What," said Harcourt, "has any one ever attempted to persuade him?" 
               "Many and many a synonomous letter 'as been written to him about it, (for none of us dares mention it openly, we should lose our places, and perhaps be murdered into the bargain,) but he laughs and scoffs at them all, and throws them into the fire, as calumniousness; and Sir John still persuades him of his upright and honorable hintentions; but we knows better, don't we, William?" 
               "I should think we do," said William, in his usual droning style. 
               "Well, would you believe it? yesterday old Waltham ham had a fit; (I wish the devil had taken him away in it.) And no sooner did he get a little better than he sent a note to Sir John! I think, William, you have got a copy of it." 
               "I should think I had," responded William. 
               "Hand it out here, then, and let this gentleman see it." 
               "I thought you wished me to slip it into Susan's 'and for her mistress? you know it was for her sake we copied the letter." 
               "Yes, but this gentleman won't keep it a minute." 
               The copy was produced; it is as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "MY DEAR SIR JOHN:-
                            
                           "It has seemed good to Divine Providence to afflict me again with the same dangerous stroke as before. I feel that I have not long to live; but before I go hence, it is the wish of my heart to see my dear child settled in life-to see her become the wife of so good and worthy a man as Sir John Vapering. She has hitherto proved too much for us; she has resisted both my advice and command; nay, even my threats. There is some strange mystery in this, for in all other respects she has ever been a most dutiful and obedient child. Her heart is tender, and I feel convinced that what she would not grant to either authority or advice, she will now yield to the dying request and entreaty of a father whom she still loves. Come over in all haste, that we may converse on the subject. 
                           
                              "Your sincere friend, 
                              "HENRY H. WALTHAM. 
                               
                                 "To Sir John Vapering, Bart." 
                              
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Well," said Harcourt, "that is most abominable! An old wretch of a father wants to take advantage of the solemnity of death to make his daughter miserable for life!" 
               "But you havn't heard all we know, yet," continued the coachman. 
               "Before my master received Mr. Waltham's letter, he had 'eerd of 'is illness, and immediately wrote to his diabolical companion all about it, rejoicing in it, as it would put Miss Waltham entirely in his power, for, as he remarked, she had no friends to protect her, and moreover was poor, and he 'ad made up his mind to carry her away by force, if she did not consent to go by fair means, at the same time requesting his friend to come with all 'aste to assist 'im, saying that he would have his carriage ready to receive the lady, and 'orses stationed all along the road to bring them to town with all speed. So you see we are to be hengaged in this good work, which we do not much like." 
               "Then you are not your master's friends in this particular project," said Harcourt. "You are perfectly right, for it is a cruel deed." 
               "We shouldn't think so much of it if the lady liked him, or if she wasn't so good and so kind, or perhaps if she 'adn't a good friend in one who is dear to some of us," said Coachy, with a knowing wink, "but she detests him, and it is said loves another." 
               "Aye! who is that?" 
               "An honorable gentleman, though poor, a Mr. Montague; but he 'as been long absent, and knows little of the dangers she is exposed to, or if he did, and loved her, he would hasten to rescue her from the fangs of such a wretch as my master." 
               "Then you really feel an interest in this young lady?" 
               "Who can doubt it? We would do any thing we could to serve her." 
               "Well, now, you are honest fellows, and I admire your honorable and upright characters, and for that ere reason I will not conceal from you that my master is that same Mr. Montague you mention, that he is near at hand, and still loves Miss Waltham as fervently as ever; that he is determined to rob that ere fox, your master, of his prey, and save the young lady from destruction, and it is on that errand that I am here to-day." 
                
               "Indeed! you astonish us!" they both exclaimed, together; "but we hope you will not betray us." 
               "Do you think I could be such a villain? on the contrary I honor you, and you may be assured that my master will reward you well if you give us your valuable assistance in this affair; and not only that, but your own consciences will reward you in having done what is just and proper." 
               "But your master, poor man, has little to give away; thou that is of small consequence to hus; but we fear that he will be ill able to resist the great wealth and wickedness of Sir John Vapering, even on fair grounds. But do you not see plain, that even while we are talking here, he may at this moment be gaining an advantage hover 'im which no power could hafterwards resist? For if Miss Waltham is once weedled to promise at the request of her dying father, Sir John will be able to lay a claim wich no one can resist till it is too late." 
               "We will resist force by force, and surely when the world are made acquainted with Sir John's real motives they will applaud us for it. Has Miss Waltham been made acquainted with Sir John's secret designs?" 
               "We have taken good care to let her know every thing through Susan, except this last, wich we 'ave not 'ad an opportunity of doing." 
               "Well, then, no threats or entreaties will prevail upon her to promise, even should her old father die with rage on the spot." 
               "William," said the coachman, "there is Susan; go to her directly, and tell her all. Give her the copy of that ere letter, and beg her to let her mistress know every thing. I must keep the box, as I fear my master will come out, every moment." 
               "Poor Susan came stealing out with her apron up to her eyes, crying and sobbing bitterly, as if her heart would break. William beckoned to her to approach under the hedge, where he was standing, when he drew out the letter and began to tell her the whole circumstance, entreating her to go directly to her mistress with the news, but she stood still and sobbed, and wept the more, and was utterly incapable of speaking in answer to their urgent and earnest entreaties, to tell what was the matter. At last, having recovered a little from her emotion, she said, with a mournful voice, interrupted by sobs: 
               "No, it is all of no avail now; it is all over! My mistress is undone. She has consented to marry Sir John, and she will break her heart." 
               "What! said Harcourt, who by this time had come to where she was, is it possible she could do such a thing, after knowing Sir John's intentions towards her?" 
               "She stated that openly to her father, and accused Sir John of such intentions to his face, in the presence of her father, but they both ridiculed the idea as absurd, and the vile calumny of some secret enemy, until they almost convinced her it was entirely false, and her father begged and entreated as a last dying request, that she would consent to marry Sir John. 'My dear father,' she said, 'I entreat you do not urge me to this act. I cannot love Sir John; I never can love him; he knows it, and knowing it, why does he persist in this suit? It would be base prostitution to marry a man I could not love, for any consideration of a pecuniary nature, and would only tend to make both wretched for life.'" 
               "'Foolish girl!' cried her father, 'you talk like a child! Love him! That will come with marriage, as it does in most cases. But you are obstinate. You will neither obey my commands nor listen to my entreaties-not even my dying request! But beware! a terrible vengeance awaits the disobedient child! I will give you just five minutes to make up your mind-either to marry Sir John or to bear the dying curse of an outraged and injured father! Choose for yourself, and there is the watch before you.' 
               "During these dreadful minutes," continued Susan, "the poor girl was almost in despair. She attempted to throw her arms round her father's neck, exclaiming, 'Father, you will not-you cannot curse your child!' but he repulsed her with anger and remained silent. At last the awful five minutes were drawing near to a close. A terrible suspense followed! and when the minute hand of the watch passed the last fatal point, the old man, with his gray locks flowing over his shoulders in wild confusion, fell down on his knees, exclaiming, 'You have made your choice!' then raised his withered hands to heaven, about to call down the curse of God on the head of his innocent child, when she, poor thing! driven almost to distraction with terror and amazement, exclaimed in a wild agony of despair, 'Father! father! hold! Do not-oh, do not curse me! I will marry Sir John-I will do anything! but oh! do not curse me, I beseech you, my dear father?' and then she sank down senseless on the floor. From that time to the present she has been out of one fainting fit into another, and has completely lost her reason! Oh, it will kill her!' said the poor girl, weeping bitterly, 'I'm sure it will! She will never get over this shock!'" 
               "Did you tell your mistress, Susan, that Montague was come?" said Harcourt. 
               "No," said she, "I hadn't time; for just as I was going to tell her, that wretch, Sir John Vapering, came in and ruined all! But here he comes! Oh, the villain! how I detest him!" 
               So saying she stole away into the house by another door, while Sir John came out in seeming high spirits and with a malicious grin on his countenance, by which he seemed to exult in the idea that if he had not been able to enjoy his victim, he at least had succeeded in breaking her heart. 
               This monster of iniquity entered his gilded chariot, and ordered his servants to drive home with an air of as much composure is if he had just performed some deed of humble charity, and with as much indifference as if there was no God in heaven to punish the sins of the wicked and depraved; and Harcourt was left standing there alone in utter astonishment at all he had heard, and scarcely knowing how to act for the future. He loitered about the place, however, till he had learned that Miss Waltham was somewhat better, and then he came back to the inn and told me all that had happened. 
               My grief and indignation knew no bounds while I listened to the last scene in particular, and it was with the utmost difficulty he could prevail upon me to desist from going that moment to chastise Sir John Vapering for his abominable cruelty and villainy. My impulse was to go to his house and cane him on the spot, and then to leave my card, that he might take his own measures. But Harcourt pointed out the folly of this measure, saying that it must fail, and give Sir John an additional triumph. "For you may be sure," said he, "that you would find it a difficult matter to cane him in his own house, where no doubt he always entertains a set of bullies to do his work for him; and besides, you must reflect that such rash conduct on your part might deprive Miss Waltham of all protection in the time of need. No, no; nothing but stratagem will do now. You must still remain quiet here in your disguise, and I will go again to-morrow and make inquiries. I promise you, too, that, if possible, I will make Miss Waltham acquainted with your presence, and ascertain what is her wish as to your future plans. I will try to convince her fully of Sir John's perfidy and the folly of sacrificing herself to such a monster-merely to gratify a sordid and doating father! In fact I will leave nothing undone to promote your interests, and if we cannot succeed at last we must blame fate, and not ourselves for want of exertion, and this is one consolation." 
               "May Heaven reward you, my dear friend!" I exclaimed, "for your unparalleled exertions in my favor. Surely there never was such true, disinterested friendship known between man and man! But for your wisdom and prudence I should have been much more wretched even than I am. As yet there is some ray of hope while she is not completely in that monster's power; but had you not withheld me, I, too, should have been in his power before long, and that would have been an additional triumph to his malignity. But Heaven will direct us, and all may yet be well." 
               Next morning early-that is, to-day-Harcourt again sallied forth on behalf of his friend, and left me here alone, an idle spectator of this extraordinary warfare, in which I take such an interest, and in which my blood boils to be more actively engaged. But "the prudent general succeeds better than the fiery soldier," it is said. Perhaps both should be engaged here; for, when great deeds are to be done, boldness and decision, in my opinion, often gain the victory. 
               I remain, my dear friend, in the most wretched state of impatience and suspense, ever sincerely yours, 
               
                  EDWARD MONTAGUE.
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
               THE STRUGGLE. 
               
                  AVONDALE, --
                
                
                  MY DEAR FRIEND: 
                  I HAVE now to give you the sequel of this extraordinary history. No doubt you have been surprised at my long silence, nearly three months having elapsed since my last letter; but I will now endeavor to explain the whole affair as it occurred. 
                  I think I mentioned in my last that the next day after his first conference with Susan, and all that occurred in the house while he was talking to the servants of Sir John Vapering outside, Harcourt set out again towards the village, for the purpose, if possible, of seeing Susan again, and ascertaining how both Miss Waltham and her father had passed the night, and whether she had made the young lady acquainted with all that had occurred. He went to the same spot where he had seen Susan the day before; but though he remained there till long past the appointed time, Susan did not make her appearance, and he was obliged at length to come away, totally disappointed for that time. All he could ascertain from the reports in the village was that both Miss Waltham and her father were in a very precarious state. He then directed his steps towards Vapering Hall, in hopes of being able to meet with either the coachman or footman, whom he had found so communicative the day before; but here again he was doomed to be disappointed, having been told that both had gone out early with the carriage and their master, and that it was quite uncertain when they would return. In this posture of affairs he was obliged to return somewhat chagrined but not entirely disheartened, and I was doomed to remain still in the same wretched state of suspense as before. 
                  "What is to be done?" I said, almost in despair, when he had informed me of his ill success. "Had we not better put off our disguise, and go at once and consult Mr. Worthington on the subject? I know he will be happy to assist us in every way he can." 
                  "I would much rather it could be done without his aid. He is a neighbor, you know, to both parties, and most likely would not like having his name mixed up with such an affair; besides, he is a father and has daughters of his own, and it would not be seemly to involve him in the matter at all. No, no; we must depend on ourselves alone, and stand or fall by our own exertions." 
                  "Well, at all events," I said, "I wish to take a more active part in the business, and not remain here, laid up like a vessel which is no longer of any use. I cannot endure this painful suspense, and I must be acting, even though I should do harm." 
                  "You can come with me into the village to-morrow, if you like. My only fear is, that if we were both to be seen loitering about there often suspicion might be excited and our cause injured; whereas one disguised in a livery like this may long go backwards and forwards before he is noticed. Our main point now is to ascertain whether Miss Waltham has been made acquainted by her maid with what has occurred. I should suspect she has been too ill to admit of Susan imparting to her anything so calculated to excite her mind as the intelligence of your arrival or the diabolical machinations of that monster, Sir John Vapering." 
                  "I fear it is now too late, for she has promised to marry Sir John; and I know that she will keep her word, even though she should suffer death in consequence." 
                  "What! though made aware of his villainy?" 
                   
                  "Why it appears that she is half convinced of his innocence already, and she may therefore unguardedly place herself in the power of the wretch." 
                  "You must recollect that she knew nothing of your presence then. She even fancied you had forgotten her, and under these circumstances what could a poor, lonely girl do in the hands of such a pair of villains?" 
                  "If it were possible by any means to convince her father of Sir John's real motives perhaps we"- 
                  "That would be impossible. There is nothing in nature more stubborn or obstinate in its own opinion than an old man, except perhaps an old woman. He has had too much experience of the world and has lived too long in it to suppose it possible that anyone living can set him right, and he gives himself credit for too much sagacity to leave any doubt on his own mind as to his foresight and his powers of discerning men's characters. If all Sir John's domestics, with you and me in our real characters, and Mr. Worthington, with half a dozen other gentlemen of the neighborhood, were to swear solemnly, in his presence, that Sir John was a bad man, nay, if we were to place Sir John's own letters before him as a demonstration, he would not believe it. He would say it was a conspiracy of envious wretches to blast and ruin Sir John's character, merely because he (Mr. Waltham) was partial to him. There is not the slighest hope in such a character. The mischief must actually be done and the ruin accomplished before he will believe it." 
                  "Why, you seem to know him better than I do." 
                  "As I said to Susan and her sweetheart, I know human nature. The only chance of opening his eyes in time would be to induce Miss Waltham to urge on the wedding with Sir John, and then if he declined (which he would be sure to do) her father might thus be able to get a glimpse of his real character." 
                  "But what if he should take her at her word!" 
                  "He never intended any such thing; but supposing he should, then it would be our time to act boldly and come in to the rescue. But that will not be necessary." 
                  "I am beginning to think that would be an excellent plan. There is only one drawback." 
                  "What is that?" 
                  "Sir John might find excuses sufficient to satisfy the father for deferring the marriage." 
                  "True! I didn't think of that, for as long as the father lives, Sir John may be certain that the ceremony would be performed in his presence, or at least openly in his own church; but as soon as Mr. Waltham died, Sir John would have a pretext for removing her and then get one of his bullies to perform it in a private way, as he has done many others already." 
                  "But why might not Sir John contrive to possess himself of Miss Waltham even while her father lives, since he is such a villain?" 
                  "There is not the least danger of that, for though he is a villain, he wishes to appear reputable in the eyes of the world, and any outrage of this kind would drive him completely beyond the pale of society, at least for one whole season. But he is too cunning to expose himself thus. He will go to work after another fashion. I have not the least doubt but that he has induced her father to appoint him sole executor and guardian to the young lady after his death, and thus he will have a double claim upon her." 
                  "Why, if that's the case, there is not the least shadow of hope for us. We are utterly undone!" 
                  "Stay, stay! the father still lives, and if we can prevail upon her to disregard his threats openly, or else to consent to a private marriage with you, all will be well. Then, you know, her husband will be her natural guardian. This is your only hope, that I can see. But there is no time to be lost, for her father is in imminent danger and may be called off to his long account at any moment." 
                  "Alas! I fear it will be no easy matter to induce her to adopt either of the courses you have suggested." 
                   
                  "Well, it will be time enough to despair when all means are tried." 
                  Thus our conversation ended for that night. We determined both to set out for the village next day, and then went to bed; but as you may well suppose, my anxiety suffered me to sleep little, and in the morning I arose unrefreshed and feverish, and having dressed I went to Harcourt's room and roused him up also, and when he had dressed and we had breakfasted, we both sallied out together towards the village. 
                  The morning was unusually clear and bright, but scarcely had the sun appeared above the horizon when a thick fog began to arise from the valleys, and it soon became so dense around us as to render objects invisible at the distance of a stone's throw before us. We pursued our way till we entered the village without meeting a soul, and even there no one was stirring as yet. We passed on till we arrived at the churchyard, but so dense was the fog now become that we could scarcely see two yards before us, and it was even a difficult matter to find our way to the vicarage. When at last we got to the gate, we could not see the house, though it was only a very short distance from us. The gate, however, was not locked and we entered the garden without being perceived. But what was our surprise to find that the inmates were stirring and that there was an unusual noise, as if of female voices weeping. 
                  We advanced still closer to the windows and heard distinctly the stifled sobs of a female in deep distress and the voice of another trying to comfort and console her. 
                  "Why did your not tell me this before?" said Miss Waltham (for it was no other) to her maid. "If you had, nothing under Heaven would have induced me to give a promise of marriage to that monster of iniquity, even if my father had cursed me with his dying breath. What could avail a curse so unmerited and even so criminal? Surely it would rather fall on the heads of those who caused it to be invoked than on the innocent head of her who was the object of it, or even the poor dupe himself of Sir John's artifice, who, not knowing what he did, pronounced it! Alas, alas! how wretched and unfortunate I am! Just at the moment assistance was at hand I have been doubly betrayed by a sordid father and a vile seducer, for he has now put me completely into his power by naming him his executor and my guardian!" 
                  "Did I not tell you how it would be," said Harcourt in a low whisper. 
                  "Hush! listen!" 
                  "Do not weep, my dear mistress," said Susan, herself sobbing and weeping all the time, "kind Heaven may yet send you some means of deliverance!" 
                  "Alas! I almost despair of all aid. The physician says that my father cannot live many hours, and then I shall be obliged to leave this roof and go wherever my guardian and future husband pleases to send me. Husband! did I say? vile betrayer and seducer, who would seek to destroy the daughter of a man who, however weak in other respects, had one quality which he ought to respect-a blind confidence in him. I wish, Susan, I wish you had kept your appointment with Montague's servant yesterday." 
                  "It was quite impossible; I hadn't a moment to spare; but no doubt he will be here again to-day, and perhaps his master with him. May I say that you will grant him the interview he desires?" 
                  "May God direct me! I scarcely know what to do; I am encompassed by enemies." 
                  "All Sir John's servants are your friends." 
                  "Yes; but did you see that fierce-looking monster he brought with him yesterday morning? I shuddered as I gazed upon him!" 
                  "He is more like a ruffian than a gentleman." 
                  "Yet they say he was once a great man, but that he is fallen off. Oh! he looks as if he didn't much mind what he did. Susan, dear Susan, I cannot tell how I shall feel on seeing Montague again; but it consoles me in all my sorrows to know that he is faithful, that he has never ceased to love me. Ah, it was all my own fault, all! but if he knew how I have suffered for it since, I am sure he would forgive me, poor dear Montague! If I could have known all this before, how it would have relieved me of a fearful weight of sorrow! Would that he was here this moment!" 
                  "Your wish is granted, my beloved Eliza," I said gently, "he whom you seek is here before you! Be not terrified, love, it is no illusion. Your own, your long lost Montague is here and has heard all! Forgive me, love, it was purely accidental, for having reason to fear the machinations of bad men, I and my friend here have come to keep guard over you, and if we have overheard your precious avowal do not blame us, we could not help it. Besides, it does honor to you and to your whole sex." 
                  On hearing a man's voice under her window she started in surprise and fear; but when she learned who it was and how we came there she regained her self-possession and replied: 
                  "It is, it is indeed Montague! Well, since you have overheard my sentiments concerning you, let me tell you I am rejoiced at it. There has been too much of misunderstanding between us already, which has caused equal pain on both sides, and the present is not a time to stand on ceremony. You know, then, how I am situated?" 
                  "Perfectly, and am come to offer you the only means of escape that can be devised," and here I recapitulated all the previous reasonings of Harcourt and myself on the subject, and urging her to avail herself of the offered means of escape from the clutches of her cruel and heartless betrayer. 
                  "But my father! How could I leave him for a moment? No, no, impossible!" 
                  "Are you aware of Sir John's intention as soon as your father is no more?" 
                  "Susan has told me all, but I cannot believe he would dare to act in so outrageous a manner." 
                  "You little know him, if you suppose so. Had you heard all I know of his character, you would think differently. It is time now that you should consult your own happiness; you have been too long at the mercy of others already." 
                  "Well, I am willing to do anything consistent with my duty to my father, whose dying couch I never will forsake!" 
                  "She cannot," said Harcourt, "besides you have neither license nor clergyman, even if she could consent to your wishes on the instant." 
                  "Then what's to be done?" 
                  "You must wait till you see how matters may turn out, and if her father should recover a little, you may have time to procure the necessary document and the clergyman, and then you will be safe." 
                  "Will you agree to that arrangement, my dearest Eliza?" 
                  "But I have told you that my father is not expected to outlive the day, therefore there will be no time. All you can do is to be at hand, and if Sir John should dare to offer any rudeness, or to urge me away from home against my will, you can then interfere. I shall know where to send for you. But retire to a short distance now. I expect Sir John will be here soon, and as the mist is beginning to clear away, I fear you will be discovered if you remain much longer. Adieu! may Heaven protect you! Do not go far away from me, Montague, I entreat you, I may soon stand in need of your protection." 
                  "We shall be in the porch of the church; Susan knows the spot," said Harcourt, and then we retired as quietly as possible to wait the course of events. 
                  We were not more than ten minutes in our new position when Sir John's carriage drove up at a furious rate to the vicarage, as he had been in the habit of calling every morning since Mr. Waltham's attack, to ascertain how he was; but this time he was accompanied by a stranger, a man not so tall as himself, but a great deal broader and stouter-built, no doubt the same as accompanied him the day before, at whose appearance Eliza said she had shuddered. This was no other than the decayed gentleman who corresponded with Sir John, and of whom the coachman had said that he would do anything, even commit murder for money. We could not see his face, however, at this time, as they both quickly entered the house. 
                  They remained upwards of an hour within, during which time Harcourt ventured out to talk to his old friends, the servants, who, however, were either more reserved this time or else they had nothing to tell more than they had already communicated, for they said that the stranger had been closely closeted with Sir John for several hours daily, and that no written communication had been seen, which was very likely, and, therefore, that they had been unable to penetrate any farther into Sir John's secrets. 
                  "But it seems strange," said Harcourt, "that neither Mr. Worthington nor his daughters, nor any of the gentlemen in the neighborhood, call at the vicarage to see Mr. Waltham in his illness. He used to have many friends; they seem all to have neglected him! Can you account for it?" 
                  "There is a coolness between my master and the gentlemen in the neighborhood, and since 'e has become such a favorite at the vicarage they 'ave dropped off. The truth is they don't much like 'is goings-on there," said the coachman. 
                  "I see!" said Harcourt; "they begin to smell something!" 
                  "The Misses Worthington used to be always with Miss Waltham, and she with them; but my master contrived to separate them. Do you know wat 'e reported?" 
                  "How should I?" 
                  "That one of the Misses Worthington was jealous because he visited at the vicarage, and hactually persuaded that ould dotard of a parson that it was true." 
                  "Indeed!" 
                  "Yes, and since that time there 'as been a coolness between the two families." 
                   
                  "Have you any reason to suspect that Sir John will use violence towards Miss Waltham if her father should die?" 
                  "I 'aven't the least doubt of it," said the coachman, "both from his letters and his former hexploits. It is quite sartain he will." 
                  "Then we shall take care to prevent it." 
                  "Mind 'ow you act, for it is reported that 'e is made hexecutor to her father's will, and guardian to the young lady, and for that reason 'e will 'ave the law on his side; so mind what you are about. I wish you success, but I fear you and your master will be defeated. Money and power will be too strong for poverty and right. Besides, he will be well armed and well attended, of that you may be sartain, and it will be no easy matter to resist 'im." 
                  "I hope neither you nor your fellow servant will be on his side, but rather against him?" 
                  "The only thing we can do in the case is to give him no real assistance, but to be easily knocked down! You understand me! but indeed we don't know yet wether we shall be employed in the matter at all; we rather think as how none but perfect strangers and desperate characters will be engaged in it." 
                  "When do you think the attempt would be likely to be made?" 
                  "The very night after her father's death! 'e will wait no longer, I can assure you, for then 'e will have a pretence for removing her from a lonely 'ouse, and wen he has accomplished his designs the poor young lady will be too anxious to 'ide her shame, and too fond of 'oping that he will marry her, to make a noise in the world about it. He will find means to clear himself in the eyes of the public, you may depend upon it. He is no novice in these 'ere matters!" 
                  The coachman had scarcely uttered the last words when Susan made her appearance at the front door. She came running out as fast as she could to seek us; but when she saw Harcourt at the carriage she stopped. 
                  The moment I saw her I ran up, regardless of consequences sequences, and breathlessly asked her with a hurried voice: 
                  "What news?" 
                  "My master's dead!" said she, rather gaily for such a solemn occasion. 
                  "And how is your young mistress?" 
                  "As well as could be expected; but Sir John says that she must instantly leave the house of sorrow, and go with him to his aunt's, in whose care he says he will place her till after the funeral and the reading of her father's will, and she is preparing to go." 
                  "What! is she willing to accompany Sir John?" 
                  "You know she cannot refuse her guardian! but it will be your business to insist upon her remaining." 
                  "I understand you. It shall be done. Go and tell your mistress not to fear, but to prepare to accompany Sir John, her guardian." 
                  And Susan returned to the house when she had whispered something into the ear of her sweetheart. 
                  "She wants me to assist you against my master, but I don't exactly see 'ow I can do that prudently," said coachy, "unless the footman, William here, would join me; and then, you know, we should both be sent off together, perhaps to prison! Besides, that thick, stout gen'lman with my master is the very devil for strength and hagility, and it would require 'alf a dozen of us to face him alone! It's an ugly job! I'd rather have nothing to do with it at all." 
                  "I should think so," said William, "and so would I, too." 
                  "Well," said Harcourt, "do you at all events remain neutral, and we will try to manage these two men ourselves." 
                  "What the deuce do you mean, Harcourt?" I exclaimed, my Irish blood boiling in every vein. "Would you advise these knaves to forsake their hopeful master! They're d--d rascals if they do! No, no! let the courageous gentlemen in livery here join their fellows out of livery, and if we two, single handed, don't thrash the whole batch of them in a good cause, then, I say, we neither of us deserve the hand of the fair or virtuous, and, moreover, may we never obtain it!" 
                  "Bravo! bravo!" said Harcourt. "Here's my hand and heart! I hardly gave you credit for so much spirit; but I wronged you, grievously wronged you. But we have no weapons." 
                  "Never mind weapons! Furor arma minstrat! Rage furnishes arms! We shall supply ourselves from the spoils of the enemy." 
                  "But whether shall we await them here or go into the house?" 
                  "Meet them more than half way. But come, it is time we advanced; they will be coming out directly." 
                  As we proceeded through the gate, up the gravel walk that leads through the flower garden to the house,Harcourtsaid: 
                  "Did you observe how those men changed color while you spoke? I never should have thought that such great, fat, sleek fellows as those could be such cowards!" 
                  "How could you possibly think of asking the assistance of such dastards? Why, one good man would beat a couple of dozen of them." 
                  "I gave them credit for more pluck than they possess. But here, let us lie behind these shrubs and wait the approach of our antagonists." 
                  We had hardly well placed ourselves when the front door opened and they made their appearance, Eliza weeping and supported by a gentleman on each side. As they approached we had a full view of our antagonists-both large, stout, determined-looking men; but the stranger certainly presented the most repulsive features I ever beheld. Poor Eliza looked timidly around her in all directions, in expectation of seeing us approach. But we suffered them to pass, and when they had gone on a few paces we rose from our concealment and followed them. 
                  They had got almost to the gate when, hearing heavy footsteps behind them on the gravel walk, they turned round to see what it was. We both took off our hats at the same time, and bowed very politely, saying that we wished to know where Miss Waltham was going. 
                  "With her guardian, my worthy fellows," said Sir John, with a condescending nod. "Have you any commands from your masters for her?" 
                  "You are Sir John Vapering, I presume," said I. 
                  "That is my name." 
                  "Well, Sir John, you will excuse my freedom; but I am an old follower and friend of the family, and I feel a deep interest in Miss Waltham's happiness. May I be allowed to suggest to you, Sir John, that I do not think it quite proper that this young lady should accompany you at present. Her father's breath has scarcely left his body, he is yet warm, and you hurry this young lady away, without allowing her time even to weep for him or superintend the last rites of the funeral. You might wait, at all events, till he is buried and his will is read, that your authority as guardian may be known and recognized." 
                  "Oh, this is your advice, is it? Thank you! I am very much obleeged to you!" said Sir John, with a contemptuous curl of the upper lip; and then he began to walk on towards the carriage. 
                  While I was thus addressing Sir John, the other ruffian took out his glass, adjusted it to his eye with great deliberation, and examined me with a vacant stare, half curiosity, half indifference; at one time drawing his head and shoulders back to a great distance, at another sticking his glass almost into my face; sometimes pushing his head to the right, at others to the left, that he might examine me fully. At last, when he had completed his survey, and Sir John began to move on, he turned away from me to his companion, exclaiming, with a considerable effort to overcome the vis inerti of his contempt, "Sir John, how demned curious!" 
                  "Stop, villains!" I exclaimed, with indignation amounting to fury, "if you don't listen to reasonable advice, you will listen to this!" at the same moment I drew my fist and gave Sir John such a box on the ear as left him sprawling at my feet! At that instant Harcourt attacked his companion, but not being either so expert or so powerful of frame as I, and having a more accomplished customer to deal with, instead of knocking down, he was knocked down at the first blow, and his antagonist instantly came to attack me with fury, and flushed with success; but I parried off his blows with the greatest ease till he completely exhausted himself with fruitless rage. 
                  "Oh," said I, calmly, "we shall have time enough to decide this contest. You are out of breath; rest yourself a little and get cool, or you will have no chance. I do not wish to take any advantage of you." 
                  This made him ten times more furious than before, and he assailed me with redoubled vigor, but with the same success. 
                  "Well," I said, "you know, if you will not take advice, you must take the consequences," at the same time I fetched him a blow that leveled him to the dust, where he remained some time without offering me the slightest annoyance. 
                  In the meantime Sir John regained his feet, but he reeled from the effects of the blow. He called as loud as he could, "murder! murder!" and commanded his men to come to his assistance instantly and take me prisoner, but before they came up Sir John was sprawling senseless again from the effects of another blow. Harcourt now came to his senses, but he was bleeding profusely at both mouth and nose, so I ordered him to take Miss Waltham into the house, and as soon as he could get the blood staunched he might come out again if he chose. 
                  William, the footman, was the first of the men who made his appearance. He looked round, and when he saw his masters lying on the ground and bleeding, he was going to run away again, when I called him. 
                  "Come here, William, your master will never forgive you unless you get a wound in his service and defense. For your own sake, therefore, I must draw a little claret." So I struck him on the mouth with the back of my open hand and the blood flowed in a copious stream. He roared out with pain, and the tears trickled down his cheeks. When he at last found words, he turned up his great gooseberry eyes towards me with an supplicating expression and said: 
                  "I should think you moghtn't have struck quite so hard." 
                  It was now Jehu's turn, but he seemed not to like the idea of it at all. He shrunk back like an urchin at school who was going to be caned. 
                  "Come on, Coachy," I said, "I'll be easy with you for Susan's sake," and I merely gave him a slap on the cheek, so as to leave the marks of my fingers. 
                  "Now," said I, "take these valiant gentlemen and place them gently in the carriage, and recommend them to take a nap when they get home, and if they have a stomach for more of the dose in the morning, or within a month, give them this, it is my card, and will let them know where to get satisfaction in any way they like it." 
                  By this time they began to show some signs of life and motion, but they did not manifest a desire for more of the same sort at that time; so, having seen them placed in the carriage, and fairly off, I turned on my heel and went into the vicarage. 
                  Never was a victorious general received with more joy and enthusiasm after a pitched battle than I was after this little skirmish. Harcourt was in amazement. Eliza almost overwhelmed me with compliments, and Susan was in ecstaties, only she hoped I hadn't quite killed her coachman. 
                  "Oh, no," I replied, "he has come easiest off of all the precious lot for your sake, Susan; but to say the truth, he is hardly worthy of you. But now what are we to do? Harcourt, will you advise us, for you have the more cunning head, though, perhaps I may claim the palm in boxing and the like, but that is of small value compared with wisdom and deliberation." 
                  "I hardly know that," said Eliza, "what would we have done but for your strength and courage just now? Wisdom and cunning are not always sufficient to protect their possessors from the violence and power of the wicked and profligate. It is requisite sometimes to have force to oppose force." 
                  "I must confess," said Harcourt, "that I have only half known your character. I have hitherto considered you rather speculative than practical; more philosophical and ideal than useful or active. I always gave you credit for a sort of passive courage, but I had no idea that you were endued with that mighty energy, that resolution of purpose, and that rapidity of execution which characterize true heroism so clearly exhibited in your conduct this day. Why, the very glance of your eye, and the posture of your body, were sufficient of themselves to terrify ordinary men. I can now, for the first time of my life, form some conception of the achievements of heroes, so much out of the common way, which I looked upon before as fabulous and absurd. I can well account for the feelings of that band of Roman soldiers who were afraid to attack their general, whom they had undertaken to kill, till they had lured him into a place favorable to their designs. Why, he would not have left a man of them living had they not hurled down rocks on his head from behind. He was a hero, and they were only common men! What was it but the lightning glance of heroism that unnerved the barbarian's arm, who had entered the prison of Caius Martus to cut off his head? or the voice of that hero exclaiming- 
                        'Dost thou, O man, dare to kill Caius Martus?'
                      which seared the Gaul's heart and struck the sword from his hand? But what is most inexplicable in this matter is, that I could not detect this latent quality in the breast of my friend." 
                  "Pooh! pooh!" said I, "you quite overrate both my prowess and perhaps my courage. Why, it cost me only a couple or three blows altogether, and the most ordinary mortal would have done that, and more too, for such a prize," at the same time glancing at Eliza, who stood by my side. 
                  "What you esteem so little is the very thing I admire most," said Harcourt. You have completely beaten and humbled to the dust two strong, powerful and proud men, with apparently little effort to yourself; and though an ordinary man would doubtless have attempted as much for such a prize, yet he would have failed in it as certainly as he attempted it." 
                  "Well, well, let that subject drop for the present, and let us deliberate how we are to act for the future." 
                  "I have only one more observation to make on this subject, which is this; I believe few persons know their own powers, either mental or physical, till they are tried and those powers are called into action." 
                  "Do you really think so? Well, now, I differ with you, not entirely, but in part." 
                  "In what respect?" 
                  "I believe that though a person may not know the exact measure of his own powers till those powers are put to the test, yet I also believe that whenever great powers, either mental or bodily, exist, there also is a consciousness of possessing such powers, which consciousness gives confidence or courage to the individual and causes him rather to seek than shun the means of putting those powers to the test, and of calling them into action. Some men have asserted that all men naturally are cowards; some women assert that all the sex are frail, but this is only the assertion of a few individuals of both sexes who make themselves the models of the whole race. It is not a proposition assented to by all. Hence the danger of taking universal propositions of this kind for granted without duly reflecting on the nature of the propositions and the persons asserting them. Now there is no doubt that if these two propositions had been thus qualified they would have been strictly true. I mean if the persons who originally promulgated them had written thus: 
                   
                  "All men, constituted like me, are naturally cowards." 
                  And again- 
                  "All women, constituted like me, are naturally frail." 
                  "But the error consisted in predicating of all men and of all women qualities or defects which were confined to a class, and that particular and, let me hope, very limited class, to which they themselves belonged; for as there is consciousness of strength, so there is of weakness, and as the one imparts confidence or courage, so does the other mistrust and cowardice." 
                  "But how is it possible that a noble quality of this kind could have veiled itself so long from one who thought he knew human nature?" 
                  "I thought you were to confine yourself to one observation; but since you put the question I will endeavor to answer you. How is it possible that a man of penetration, and one who has studied human nature, could avoid perceiving, in the course of his experience, that it is the poor and needy who, to hide their defects and poverty, assume the appearance of possessions and importance to which they have no just claim? Have you not observed, too, that it is the upstart, the would-be gentleman, who is always loudest in his claims to gentility, and most particular and punctilious in exacting deference and respect even from those who he is conscious in his heart are his superiors? Did you ever know a real gentleman sound the trumpet of his gentility before him, and tell the crowd to make way for a gentleman? The real is always distinguished from the counterfeit by its intrinsic simplicity and the total absence of all pretension, while the latter is always dazzling the eyes with its brilliancy; but when you look a little below the surface, just through the plating, you can distinguish the base metal within; when you take it in your hand it is greasy, and if you attempt to make it sound, the leaden echo falling heavily on your ears assures you that it is an imposition! In the pure metal you do not see one quality thrown out prominently into relief, the other being cast into the shade, but all blending harmoniously and unobtrusively together in the same body. In the counterfeit you see the best put outside, to deceive, or rather you see a false covering only, while all within is of a different stamp, and anything rather than what it would have you believe. I think this is a sufficient answer for a man of observation." 
                  "I confess," said Harcourt, "that I have yet much, very much to learn, and that I have been rather premature in assuming to myself credit for penetration and a knowledge of human nature; but you have given me a well-deserved rebuke, and henceforth, I promise you, I shall be more moderate in my pretensions." 
                  "Nay, my friend, I assure you I did not mean any of my illustrations to apply to you; but it appears you think otherwise, and that is a very good reason to believe that they were wanted. Remember the proverb, 'If the cap fit,' etc. And indeed to be candid with you, my friend, the only fault I have ever been able to perceive in your character is that very one to which you allude, namely, assuming to yourself a thorough acquaintance with human nature, and taking credit to yourself for a power-a peculiar power, I may add-of penetrating into its recesses. Now, the study of human nature requires a whole life-even the long life of a Nestor or Tiresias; or, to go to more authentic records, of the antedeluvian heroes, would not be sufficient to learn it thoroughly. The longer we live, therefore, we shall know it the better, that is if we continue to study it; but in all our knowledge, which at best is but limited, we cannot form too modest an estimate of ourselves, our abilities or acquisitions; and, believe me, we shall be thought more of for having the courage-stoicism, perhaps, is the word-to conceal our powers or talents from the world till a proper opportunity offers to exhibit them to advantage, than if we parade them every hour in triumph before the faces of men, when neither their display nor their exercise was called for." 
                  I had scarcely ended speaking when Harcourt seized my hand, and, like one possessed, threw his arms around me and embraced me tenderly, exclaiming: 
                  "Never was man so blessed in a friend! In every respect you astonish me! Your moral courage is not inferior to your animal, and your wisdom and philosophy are superior, if possible, to both! The relation in which we stand to each other, the"- 
                  "Indeed, Montague," interrupted Eliza, "he deserves all your kindness and attention! Even this familiarity between you delights me; for never was there a more faithful, a more honest, or a more devoted servant!" 
                  "What! Eliza!" I exclaimed; "is it possible you are still ignorant of his station and quality? Yes, yes; I quite forgot to tell you. What a strange oversight! But have you never heard the name of Harcourt? Surely you must remember, my sweet love-you must remember hearing of a near neighbor of yours once by that name?" 
                  "What! he that lived where Sir John Vapering lives now, who suddenly left the country and went no one knows whither, and for whom poor Charlotte Cumming almost broke her heart!" 
                  "The same person now stands before you!" 
                  "Oh, Lord!" cried Susan, in a kind of scream; "they say his ghost walks even now in"-- 
                  "It must be when I am asleep then, Susan," said Harcourt, laughing, "for I can tell you that I cannot spare it at any other time." 
                  "But explain this mystery, dear Montague," said Eliza. "I am quite bewildered and"-- 
                  "I will explain it all in due time, my love. It is a long story, and at present we have more important work on hand." 
                  "I think," said Harcourt, "it would be best to place Miss Waltham under the protection of Mr. Worthington, till after the funeral at all events, lest some attempt might be made by Sir John to recover possession of her person in the meantime, or at least till her sister arrives." 
                   
                  "Does she know what has happened?" I inquired of Eliza. 
                  "All she knows is," replied Eliza, "that my father has been very ill; but she has never been once to visit him, nor has she even written to make inquiry after him. I cannot help thinking that Sir John has been at work here too, and either intercepted the letter or else changed her mind by some diabolical contrivance, for no one could be more affectionate or devoted than she was previous to our acquaintance with him." 
                  "The best way would be," said I, "to send a servant with a letter directly, to acquaint your sister with all that has happened, and I have little doubt that she will hasten to the house of mourning as soon as she hears it." 
                  "And I," said Eliza, "cannot think of leaving it till the remains of my father are conveyed to the tomb." 
                  "Well," said I, "we will remain with you and protect you, for I cannot think of again exposing you to a danger similar to that from which you have but just escaped. We will remain, and if Sir John should make any further attempt I trust we shall know how to repel it, and disappoint him as we have done before." 
                  "Thank you," said Eliza; "that is what I particularly wish-that you should remain. But I should also wish that the Worthingtons were again my friends and disabused of the unworthy opinions which they have been induced to entertain of me through the same base agency. You would therefore do me a favor if you would go to Mr. Worthington and explain to him everything that has happened, and I am sure that both he and the young ladies are too generous not to be at once reconciled to her who has never ceased to be their friend." 
                  "I will undertake that office with the greatest pleasure," said Harcourt, "and I think I may venture to promise you that my mission will not be unattended with success." So saying he immediately set out for Mr. Worthington's, leaving me alone with my beloved Eliza, to console and protect her. 
                   
                  When he was gone we remained together, talking of the past and scarcely conscious of the lapse of time till the shortening day came abruptly to a close without bringing back Harcourt or a soul to the vicarage, except a few old women of the neighborhood, who had offered their services to arrange the affairs of the funeral; but we did not think much of company, as we were now all and all to each other. Miss Waltham's only servant man had been sent some hours ago with a letter for her sister, and there was not any likelihood that he would return till late at night, as he had a considerable distance to go; but even if he and half a dozen other men besides had been in the house they could not have prevented what followed. 
                  I was so completely absorbed in the delightful feelings of the present moment and in the prospect of consummate happiness for the future, that I had neglected all precaution to secure the prize for which I had risked much and suffered more already, and to protect which I would freely sacrifice my own life. It never once struck me that Sir John would be so utterly desperate and regardless of consequences as to make any new attempt, and I therefore remained in a state of perfect security, although on the very brink of a precipice, as you shall see presently. 
                  It was perfectly dark, though we had not yet called for candles, being satisfied with the light which a good fire, blazing cheerfully, afforded. We were sitting together, my arm thrown round her slender waist and her head reclining on my bosom in all the confidence of youthful love and hope, when the parlor door was thrown open suddenly and in burst more than a dozen of strong, powerful men, well armed, and masked in such a manner that it was impossible to catch a glimpse of their features. Eliza screamed wildly, and then falling back on a sofa fainted away. I instantly sprang to my feet, seized the poker, which was the only weapon within reach, and stood upon the defensive, and demanded in a fierce tone what they wanted, or how such disguised ruffians could dare to intrude thus rudely into the house of mourning! They shrunk back at the sound of my voice, but I received no answer. Two of the most determined now advanced towards Eliza, over whom I stood in a posture which showed I was determined to defend her to the last drop of my blood. I told them in a voice furious with passion that if they advanced a single step further it was at their peril. The hands of the whole party were on their weapons and the two first continued to advance. Without saying another word I sprang forward and with two quick blows levelled the two foremost ruffians to the floor. I raised my arm again to repeat the blow on those who followed, but the moment the stroke was about to fall a pistol was fired, the shot passed through my right shoulder and I fell senseless to the ground, and when I awoke to consciousness I found myself in a new and strange scene. 
                  My wound was a bad one, bringing on a long and dangerous fever, from the effects of which it was for a considerable time doubtful whether I should ever recover. When at length, however, I was pronounced out of danger, the following particulars of what occurred after falling that evening were related to me by my friend Harcourt, who never for a moment quitted my couch: 
                  "When I went to Worthington Lodge," said he, "I found that the family had gone out in the morning, but were expected home every minute. I was induced to wait in hopes that they would soon arrive, till at last night came on without bringing them back, and then I resolved to join you and go back on the following day; but just when I had got as far as the gate, I met their carriage returning, and both Mr. Worthington and the young ladies insisted on my going back to the house with them, which I did. Here I entered into a full explanation of everything that had happened and of the cause of the estrangement between their family and the Walthams, and the diabolical agency of Sir John Vapering in that matter, till I convinced both father and daughters that Miss Waltham was more to be pitied than blamed in that whole affair, and so completely reconciled them that they proposed instantly to accompany me to the vicarage, in order to condole with and offer their services and sympathy to the poor, bereaved and persecuted girl in whose happiness they once took so deep an interest. 
                  "We had got as far as the vicarage gate when we heard the noise of several joyous voices behind us, who seemed to be hastening in a carriage to the same place whither we ourselves were proceeding. We all felt this levity of conduct was untimed on such a melancholy occasion, but we had scarcely time to reflect on the matter when the carriage drove up and its occupants alighted. They were seven or eight in number, all young men gaily dressed in naval uniform or such as belongs to midshipmen and lieutenants of the East India Company, and amongst the number the Misses Worthington instantly recognized the features and voice of Henry Waltham. The mystery was soon explained. He was entirely ignorant of his father's death or even his illness; had that day come from town to make merry at his father's house and in the company of his beloved sister, because he had been left a large fortune by a rich uncle in India, in which she also was to be a sharer, and he had invited down a number of his young naval friends to enliven the happy occasion; but what was his astonishment and sorrow to hear that his father was no more and that he must now put on the garb and the countenance of mourning and woe instead of that of joy. The change that was wrought on the whole party was as sudden as it was extraordinary, and it affected us much to behold it. Mirth and laughter, with the high exultation of good fortune and splendid prospects, gave way to tears and the utmost distress prevailed where all was lately so joyous and so gay! 
                  "But scarcely had this explanation been made when we were all suddenly alarmed by the sound of a pistol in the vicarage, followed by wild screams and the utmost confusion and uproar. What could this mean? It instantly struck me that Sir John was again at work, and I as briefly as possible explained the matter to my friends. Dirks and pistols were instantly glittering in the dim light of the stars, and, having placed the ladies under the protection of their father, we advanced without a moment's delay. Our object was to surround the house and permit no one to escape, to take them alive if possible, if not to shoot them on the spot. 
                  "But when we got to the house our prudence forsook us; no one could think of remaining outside. But finding the front door open we rushed in ple-mle, hurried on by our unbridled impetuosity! How can I describe the scene? We burst at once into the room in a body. There we beheld you lying bathed in blood on the floor. A ruffian, muffled and with blackened face, had seized Miss Waltham, who had fainted away, and was dragging her, with her hair dis-hevelled and her dress in confusion, towards the door. We did not give them much time to prepare for their defense, but being afraid to use fire-arms lest we should kill the lady or you, we plied our weapons, I a huge club, which I had picked up in the kitchen, and the young sailors their deadly dirks. Several of the men were laid prostrate at once, others leaped out of the window, and were either killed or maimed for life, and others attempted to force their way down stairs, but in this they were foiled, for they were either wounded or taken prisoners, so that not a man of the gang escaped. 
                  "Our first care now was to attend to the lady and to you. Miss Waltham, after a good deal of difficulty, recovered from her fright, but we found you in a dangerous state. You had bled a great deal and seemed so weak as to leave us little hopes of your ultimate recovery. We however stanched the blood and sent for a surgeon, who dressed your wound, after which we had you removed to Mr. Worthington's, where you have remained ever since till very lately in a precarious state, and had it not been for the devoted attention of Miss Waltham and others, it was scarcely possible that you could have recovered. 
                  "Our next duty was to examine into the state of the wounded and the prisoners. They were all disguised, but we unmasked them. We found Sir John Vapering's principal bully mortally wounded. Sir John himself had leaped out of the window at the first alarm, but was so frightfully mangled as to present a most hideous and disgusting appearance. He lived long enough to hear that Eliza Waltham, whom he had sought to ruin, had now become a rich heiress, and being driven to madness by this news, the exposure of his conduct, and the approaching ignominy of a public trial, he died by his own hand in prison only a few days ago, an object of horror and contempt to all and a beacon to those who wish to avail themselves of such examples to avoid the shoals on which he was so awfully shipwrecked." 
                  "But where is my dear Eliza?" I exclaimed. "One look from her would be more efficacious in restoring me to health than all the remedies which the faculty could prescribe. I long to see her and to thank her for her tenderness and devotion!" 
                  "Why," replied Harcourt, "she was so unremitting in her attentions to you, whom no remonstrance for her own safety could induce her to quit for a moment, that she at length, owing to her delicate frame, became so exhausted, that she could bear up no longer. She was obliged to yield at last and is at this moment suffering on a sick bed for her praiseworthy devotion. But she is recovering fast, and I trust will soon be able to bear an interview with you." 
                  "Oh! why, my dear friend, did you permit her to endanger her precious health and life for my sake?" 
                  "I tried all I could to dissuade her, but it was of no avail, and I found that there was less danger from permitting her attendance upon you, however injurious to her delicate constitution, than there would be in depriving priving her of the pleasure and mental relief which such a duty seemed to confer upon her." 
                  I now recovered rapidly, and soon Eliza also had recovered sufficient strength to deprive an interview of all danger. We met, and as there was now no obstacle in the way, I entreated her to name a day for our union as soon as the time of mourning should be past. She did so. Marriage settlements have been drawn up and all things are waiting for the time when I shall be made the happiest of men! In the mean time she is to remain under the protection of Mr. Worthington, while Harcourt and I proceed to Liverpool and thence to Ireland, to arrange some affairs that require our immediate presence. 
                  I should have written to you long since had I been able, but my wound and the state into which I was thrown afterwards, prevented even my dictating a letter to another for you, or even of thinking on the subject at all. We start in a few days for Liverpool and soon after for "Old Ireland." I will write the first opportunity. In the mean time believe me to remain, etc., etc., 
                  
                     EDWARD MONTAGUE.
                   
                
                
                  P. S.-Harcourt has just received a letter calling him to London on important business. I must accompany him. This will detain us for a short time, after which we shall proceed on our journey to Ireland. I may write you in the interval. 
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
               NECTAR AND AMBROSIA. 
               
                  LONDON, --
                
                
                  TO FRANK DUNWOODY, ESQ. 
                  YOU perceive we are returned to this large wilderness of bricks and smoke, though sorely against our will, for both Harcourt and I are most anxious to get away, as you may well suppose; but business which brought us here will not permit us to leave for another week at least. In the meantime I cannot be idle, I must employ myself some way or other; I therefore fly to my pen to divert my mind from itself, and thus you have only a species of selfishness to thank for the trouble and expense my correspondence puts you to-trouble in reading and answering my letters, and expense in paying the postage. 
                  I have received a letter from my father complaining of my sister's conduct. This is novel. He says that she is of late become quite obstinate and headstrong! "Would you believe it," he adds, "she has actually refused a most excellent offer of marriage from a gentleman of property, who is young, amiable and handsome, without assigning the slightest reason for so doing. Was ever anything so preposterous? She says she does not wish to marry at all! This is a pretty piece of business." 
                  I could not help smiling when I read this paragraph in my venerable father's letter. Poor girl! "She does not wish to marry at all!" We shall see! I fancy I can unravel this seeming mystery, but I shall for bear for the present, and confine myself to requesting the old gentleman not to torment her any more on the subject by urging her to wedlock against her will. 
                  Have you ever seen an author? I mean a real flesh and blood author, a poet, a novelist, a historian, or any other kind of great and famous writer? I was introduced to a whole posse of them the other evening. I'll tell you how it was. 
                  My friend Harcourt received an invitation to dine with a gentleman celebrated for his patronage of literature and the arts, and himself no mean amateur in both. He refused the invitation, alleging that he went no where without his friend. The consequence was that a servant was sent express to me with a very polite note requesting the favor of my company to dinner at Mr. Hartly's, to meet a small party of literary gentlemen the next day. I readily accepted the invitation, because I was not only anxious to see something of that famous class of men, whom I had not yet met in general company, but I thought it would tend to divert my thoughts to subjects in which I could take an interest and make some compensation for the frivolity and worthlessness of what is called society, (I suppose by the rule of contrary, like lucus a non lucendo.) 
                  Accordingly the next evening Harcourt and I found ourselves seated at the splendid table of our host, and surrounded on all sides by the great luminaries of the age, men indeed who belonged as much to posterity as to the present generation. It was evidently a great favor to be admitted into such select society, for we were almost the only persons who had not acquired fame in those noble pursuits which confer an immortality on their illustrious votaries. For myself I sat in silent awe, as if I was in the presence of demigods, and employed myself in stealing occasionally a glance at the features and external characteristics of men whose minds were known to be of so profound and etherial a nature. It was easy enough to see the innate divinity in the physiognomy of most, but it was extraordinary also to observe how its powers were modified and influenced by the material mould in which it was imprisoned, and to witness in the traces of thought, the struggles of mind with the passions of matter. Most of these men were already known to me by their writings, but for the most part their presence gave me quite a different idea of the men from that which I had already formed of them from those sources, and in some cases I was much disappointed to find that the real man did not come up to the ideal which I had conceived of him. But on the other hand, many surpassed that ideal, and seemed capable of much more than they had ever given to the world. In these there seemed to be an immense storehouse of genius running to waste, which they knew not how to squander, however prodigal they might be. But whether this proceeded from inactivity or diffidence in their own strength it was not easy to say. These impressions were formed of the company at a glance before we had yet commenced discussing the good things that were placed in such profusion before us. 
                  During dinner there was but little conversation. Most of the persons present seemed to know each other intimately, and there was nothing like ostentation of language or flashes of wit attempted, and an ordinary observer could hardly distinguish between these great men and those of his own class the "fruges consumere nati" of general society. 
                  There were three great poets present, the worthy representatives of the three kingdoms of the United Empire, amongst which our own dear fatherland honorably maintained its rank and its ancient glory. There were several dramatists of great merit, and not a few distinguished novelists, amongst whom the youngest was not the least conspicuous for his faithful and yet novel delineations of character and nature. There were two famous painters, two historians, and an actor of great eminence, with a few youthful aspirants whose names have not yet become familiar to the public ear. These, with ourselves and our host, composed our little select society. There were no ladies. 
                  When the cloth was removed, a general and animated conversation ensued, which must have been a rich treat even to the wise and great themselves, who are accustomed to this kind of fare. I leave you, therefore, to judge of the delight which we, who were mere novices and strangers, derived from it. I could compare it to nothing but a clear fountain, springing from a rock on the top of a high hill, and as it flowed at first slowly along the valley, was joined by other streams equally pure, from other rocks equally elevated, until at last it swelled into a majestic river, which sometimes rolled along its unruffled course through the plain, at others rushed an impetuous torrent, foaming and hissing over rocks and precipices, but still retaining its waters clear and unsullied, and adorning its banks with verdure and surpassing beauty. 
                  It would be in vain for me to attempt to give you even a specimen of the conversation; for though I might give you some faint idea of the words spoken, and the sentiments uttered, yet you must feel with me that the spirit of the discourse, the fire of the eye, the energy of soul beaming on the countenance, the gesture which is often so eloquent, are utterly incapable of being translated or communicated. These are the subtle spirits which evaporate in the process of transfusion. They are too light and etherial for our dense atmosphere of ink and paper, and to be at all conceived and known must be caught as they rise from their native retort. Yet I may let you taste some of the residuum, the earthy particles, which alone my memory retains of that brilliant essence; and if it, like casks long imbued with the flavor of wine, still retains the precious odor of what it once contained, you have a right to be very thankful, but even of this I am doubtful. 
                  Amongst other subjects discussed that evening, one struck me as particularly interesting, both on account of its own inherent interest, as of the various and opposite opinions it elicited from the eminent person-ages who took part in it. It was on the "Tastes of the Age," a question which, like all others touched upon, was introduced casually. Some one happening to say that the tastes of the age were influenced and directed by the great writers of the age, others maintaining, on the contrary, that the great writers of this and every other age were influenced by its tastes, and this led to a discussion which branched out into many ramifications, and embraced a great variety of subjects. I will only give you a summary of it, distinguishing the poets, novelists, historians, etc., by numbers, one, two, etc., merely for the purpose of convenience, and not from any classification according to the respective merits of each individual of a class: 
                  
                     First Poet.-"It appears to me self-evident that master writers fashion the minds, as master tailors do the habits of their customers, according to their own pattern, and mould, and that the world must receive both, just as their caprice dictates, or else be content to be adorned with fig leaves in a primitive manner, and to feed upon the mast and husks of literature instead of its rich and native fruits." 
                  
                     First Historian.-"I really do not see the application. It seems to me that we might be very well content with that form of habit which satisfied our fathers and grandfathers, and that the ample stores of the ancient sages in every department of literature ought to enable us to dispense with many new-fangled inventions and conceits without much inconvenience. We see even at the present day whole nations who have not changed the costume of their ancestors, and who hand it down from generation to generation as an heirloom to save posterity from innovation and the corruption of depraved taste, and perhaps it would have been well for the interests of society and morality had they retained their pure and simple literature also." 
                   
                  
                     First Novelist.-"If that had been an established principle amongst mankind from the beginning we should have had no improvements whatever in anything, but remained stationary both in physical and mental necessaries and luxuries. We should have had no variety of character or costume, no diversity in society, but a sameness and monotony which would have offered no materials to exercise the ingenuity of man, and many professions which have long since become honorable would have been lost to mankind for ever. In fact the human race would have remained stationary, and instead of enjoying these blessings of civilization and refinement, this learned and elegant conversation, we should at this moment be munching our acorns under the shade of some huge oak, or playing hide and go seek, like apes, amongst its luxuriant branches." 
                  
                     First Painter.-"I dare say the rude figures and uncouth hieroglyphics on the Egyptian monuments were, at the time of their execution, considered master-pieces of art; but who that had once seen the godlike figures that breathed on the canvass of an Apelles, or the living marble that burst from the chisel of a Phidias or a Praxiteles, could endure to return to those rude efforts of a barbarous age?" 
                  
                     Second Poet.-"Who that had once read the divine numbers of the Monian bard, or looked upon the soul-stirring scenes of schylus, Sophocles or Euripides, would be satisfied with the utter barrenness of preceding bards or the rustic Bacchanalian songs which even the imperfect improvements of the wandering Thespis no little elevated?" 
                  
                     First Historian.-"I am not an advocate for the total suppression of innovation or improvement, gentlemen; all I contend for is that it ought to be kept under certain restrictions, and not be permitted to run riot. The arguments which you have brought forward from the ancient painters and poets before the Homeric age, and in rude times, ought in justice to be applied to the ages succeeding that of those great masters; for perhaps it might be found that Homer, Apelles and Phidias as far surpass in excellence those who came after them as they are acknowledged to have excelled those who went before, and that, judged by these standards, the poets and painters who have succeeded would be found just as deficient as those who preceded them. There seems to be a point of perfection which the human mind cannot pass, and hence it is necessary to ascertain that point as clearly as possible, and make it the guide of our exertions and the standard of our taste in all things of the same kind. The clearest proof of this is, that the best poems of every language are those which have taken Homer and Virgil for their models; and hence it is that the greatest writers in every age have been able to influence the taste of their own and succeeding ages only so far as they have conformed to that universal standard of taste which has been raised by those great masters, for all ages and for all countries." 
                  
                     First Poet.-"That is not exactly the argument. I take it that we are here speaking of the power of genius to create a standard of taste, and not speaking of a standard that already exists; and I think, if we examine our own literary history, we shall find ample proofs of such power existing. Where did Shakspeare, for example, find a model for his immortal dramas? Where but in the resources of his genius, which enabled him to draw directly from the stores of nature? Was he influenced by his age-that is, the writers who went before him, and the opinions and feelings which they made current, so much as he influenced his age-that is, those who were made acquainted with his writings, whether they were his contemporaries or his immediate successors? for I believe it will be conceded that the age of an author is that in which his writings become known to the public, where alone his opinions, if they have any power at all, can come into operation. The age in which Milton lived, for example, was not his own age as an author, but those which followed he made his own; and this was the case with Homer. Granting this, then, I think it cannot be denied that Shakspeare's creative genius influenced his age and that it will influence every age till a greater' than Shakspeare arise to put him out of countenance. If that had happened in the following age his setting glories would have been thrown into tie shade and dimmed by a more brilliant luminary; and it is only because such intellects are few and far between that we exalt them into standards of taste for the world, and circumscribe the beauty and teeming fruitfulness of nature. According to the canons of the Stage-rite, such a person as Shakspeare never could exist and according to those critics who judge by his rule and plummet such men, if they did exist, ought to 'give us no pleasure, because they choose to do it in their own way This is the very cause, too, which throws daring and elevated genius into another age from that which ought to possess it. Frigid and injudicious critics, judging by the maxims of their age the current opinions and rules handed down to them, either by an Aristotle, or a Johnson, or a Pope, dare not admire or commend anything eccentric or irregular, however brilliant, and thus the glory of just appreciation is often lost to their age and reserved for a more worthy posterity. The age, too, is frequently incapable of judging of an author who is far in advance of it. This happened particularly to Milton, though perhaps politics had more influence in clouding his luster than any other cause. 
                  "Again: Dryden had influence enough in his day to introduce insipid rhyming tragedies on the stage, according to the principles of the French school, to the exclusion of Shakspeare and the legitimate drama; and Pope, in his turn, gave an impulse quite his own to toe literature of his time, asserting the great principle, hardly to be controverted, that genius, however it may choose to show itself, may scorn the bonds and letters that bind ordinary men, and carve out a new and untrodden course for itself where it can command the inferior minds of its own age, and according to its powers make inroads into the domains of the future." 
                  
                     Third Poet.-"You have forgotten or omitted the strongest proof of your argument to be met with either in ancient or modern times. I mean that consummate genius whom we have all seen, and whose untimely end we have all deeply and sincerely lamented. He was more fortunate in meeting with the just appreciation of his age than most men of genius have been, which, however, may be attributed to accident, for it is very probable that his great and original powers might long have lain dormant and hidden even from himself, had they not been called into action by the stimulus of the Edinburgh reviewers. We all know what influence he has had on his age. He rose upon the poetical horizon with the rapidity and luster of a comet, whose light throws all lesser stars into a total eclipse. "While he continued there his brilliancy increased, and men gazed with astonishment and admiration! Even their reason began to vacillate, and they fell down in worship before this literary divinity! They would acknowledge no other god of their devotion, and looked upon all who worshiped any other as idolators! In their frantic enthusiasm it was not sufficient for them to elevate and adore their own idol, but they, like other votaries and bigots, would dethrone and break all others to pieces. Pope, the divinity of a former age, was assailed by them; his godship was disputed, and they were actually compelled to consult their own oracle as to the truth or error of their judgments, and were only satisfied when he assured them that Pope, too, must be 'numbered amongst the prophets?' Do, I blame them for this? Far from it, for I was as great and enthusiastic an admirer of the noble bard as the most devoted of them. I only bring forward these facts as an additional illustration of my friend's argument to prove the overwhelming power of genius, which, like Midas of old, turns everything it touches into the richest, treasure; but, like the same hapless miser, it is alas! often consumed by its own-excess of wealth! How we would spurn with contempt the wretched critic who, while we were carried away in ecstacy by the impetuosity of the ambrosial stream of song, would frigidly offer us his rule and line to measure the depth and quality of the current, in order to ascertain whether we ought to be pleased! Our feelings towards him would be the same as towards the groveling pretender to taste who, while we gazed upon a most magnificent scene of wild wood, and stream, and 'cloud-capped hill," with rocks thrown in wildest confusion; on rocks, till their peaks seemed to pierce the distant heavens, would tell us that we ought not to be pleased, because the scene before us was not in strict accordance with the principles of landscape gardening! When an author carries us away without leaving us any power of resistance we maybe sure that he possesses great strength and genius, and at least give him credit for their exercise, as far as our own feelings are concerned. The only true standard and guide in all matters of this kind is Nature. Her stores are inexhaustible, and he who knows how to draw upon them skillfully, and touch the strings which she has implanted in the human breast, need not fear of success though his mode of operating may be peculiar to himself." 
                  
                     Second Novelist."The great enchanter of our age, whose recent loss also we have to deplore, is another proof of the truth of this theory. He has shown himself a consummate master of nature and of the human soul, and intimately acquainted with the hidden springs that regulate the actions of men, and with the means of working upon their feelings and sympathies." 
                  
                     Second Historian.-"It appears to me that there are many glaring defects in Scott's writings. His histories, especially, are little better than romances; but leaving these out of the question, and following him into that province which is considered so peculiarly his own? We can detect there many great and important errors even for romances or novels. It will be admitted, that every work of fiction ought to have some fixed design and inculcate some great moral lesson son, rather by inference from the characters described than by dry moral precept, just as we may learn wisdom and prudence from the pages of history, where nothing but the bare facts are stated. Now, I think this has been too much neglected by Scott, whose whole powers seem to have been employed merely to enchant the imagination with magnificent pictures, or to awe the soul by wild and unexpected situations, so that when you have gone through his novels, which you could not resist, you generally feel that your time has been, in a great measure, misspent, and that you have learned very little for your pains. From which of them do you rise with those chastened and elevated feelings, that improvement of heart, that love of virtue and detestation of vice which occupy your mind after the perusal of such works as the Vicar of Wakefield? Not one, that I remember. Yet this it is, after all, which stamps a permanent value on the labors of the philosopher and philanthropist, whether he be a poet, historian, painter, or novelist, and will render him the friend of man in every age and hand his name down with gratitude to a distant posterity!" 
                  
                     Second Novelist.-"Though I cannot deny your inference, yet I would dispute one of your premises, for I think it is quite sufficient if a novel interests the reader without tending to corrupt the moral feelings. I grant that it would be better if it could always be made to improve the mind; but, if, from the very nature of the subject, that is not always practicable, a novel ought not to be condemned because it has not the effect of a sermon. To soothe and cheer the depressed or over-anxious mind, to allay feelings irritated by too close a contact with the world, and to enable us to pass an hour in a species of enchantment, an ideal world, a state of temporary oblivion to the cares of the real world and the evils of life, is no small boon bestowed upon us by the novelist. And all this Scott has done. Nay, more. He has painted many characters worthy of imitation for their fidelity and good qualities, and has very often, indeed in most instances, done practical justice to all. For many of his defects there is one great excuse, namely, the haste with which the story was conceived and written, which precluded the possibility of great precision in language or a labored style; but I think, taking everything into consideration, his countrymen, Europe, the world and posterity ought to feel themselves deeply indebted to him. But what is best of all, his life, his whole being, was one great, one glorious moral, and that he has left, too, as an example to the world and a noble heirloom to posterity!" 
                  
                     Third Novelist.-"I cannot conceive how it is that novelists are attacked, even by the judicious, for not making all their characters either altogether immaculate or so bad as riot to possess one redeeming quality. One would think it sufficient if they took men as they found them, compounds of good and evil, and actuated by human passions like common mortals, sometimes conquering, sometimes conquered by them. There are certain weaknesses, too, which they must not possess in common with their kind, and if it be one of those weaknesses, vanity, for instance, which impels them to travel about the country in search of nothing, people call them fools and say they are introduced without any apparent object, though it is well known that it they are good for nothing else, they, at all events, make people laugh, which, it seems, is considered nothing in these utilitarian times. And if the novelist introduce a good, honest character, though of eccentric habits and deportment, in a subordinate station, as a faithful servant or humble friend, and show his consistency and uprightness throughout the piece to the edification and amelioration of all persons, he only receives subordinate praise, as if it was not just as difficult to paint a character in that line of life as any other, and because he neglected to make the great man everything which it is conceived a great man ought to be. This one-sidedness of view is not fair, to say the least of it." 
                  Here the company showed a disposition to smile at the ingenuity of the last speaker, who, in generalizing, was very artfully drawing out his own defense for having written a work (his first, and a facetious one it is,) which had been the subject of the very criticisms which he condemned. 
                  
                     Third Dramatist.-"In this question it is very likely that the truth may lie somewhere between the two extremes, for the author of the age may be influenced by its tastes in his desire to minister to them, and those tastes may, in turn, be influenced by him when he gains the attention of men and takes a more original ground. This was evidently the case with Molire, who pleased at first by following preceding writers, and then led his age along with him by pursuing nature after his own fashion. But, however this may be, I think it will be acknowledged that the critics of this age, at all events, have not shown themselves the best judges of its current literature, and often make themselves ridiculous by the absurdity and dogmatism of their decrees. It is a pity that men of such moderate capacity do not content themselves with a more becoming and decorous demeanor. If they had a little more modesty they would be sure to obtain their object with much less trouble." 
                  
                     Young Poet (who had sat an attentive listener till now).-"They are the most impudent set of men on the face of the earth! I am astonished at the effrontery of the whole class and. wonder that the fate of the Edinburgh Reviewers, in the case of Lord Byron, does not deter them from their audacious attacks on young and aspiring geniuses whom it is impossible for them to comprehend. We do not require critics, because the public generally are much more competent to judge of literary merit, and much more honest to give a just decision than these hired charlatans, these assassins, who stab in the dark and seek their own safety under the impenetrable darkness by which they are enveloped. I have no patience with them." 
                  
                     Third Painter.-"The greatest objection to public criticism seems to be this, that one professed critic writes down his opinions indiscriminately on almost every branch of literature and art, though naturally he may have an exquisite perception of beauty or excellence in one single department only, and perhaps not even in one. True taste, or that inherent perception of the beautiful which we designate by that name, requires to be well cultivated in order to enable it to judge of what is excellent in anything that comes within the range of observation, and human life is too short to permit the most gifted taste to be thus disciplined in so many different departments. Though all may admire a beautiful painting, yet who but a painter can judge correctly of its beauties or its defects, or unfold the principles by which the one was produced and in violation, of which the other resulted? Who but a musician can understand the noble harmonies of the great masters, or dive into the mysteries, a thorough acquaintance with which has enabled those masters, by collecting and combining natural sounds to touch the chords of the human soul and make it respond to their empire, whether they choose to raise it into the wildest emotion or lull it into repose? Authors and artists ought to be judged by authors and artists only, and not by the arrogant hoi-polloi of criticism. Let all men be tried by their peers." 
                  
                     Actor.-"If that was the case I fear I, for one, should soon be reduced to a deplorable condition, for my brethren, to a man, think themselves much better actors than me, and wonder what the public can see, or applaud in me." 
                  
                     First Poet.-"And so it would be, perhaps, with all professions, for after all, though the assertion may seem paradoxical, authors and artists are not the best critics even in their own departments, and supposing them to be perfectly candid and disinterested, I think they are more inclined to value their own performances and think less of others than either deserve. We have all, perhaps, had just cause to complain of critics in our time, but notwithstanding all their faults they must be acknowledged to be a very useful class of men. It ought to be remembered that poets do not write for poets only, nor musicians for musicians, nor do painters work for painters, nor actors for actors, but all for that great nondescript compound, the public; and the public does not wish or care to be told by critics why this or that work will please them, but simply whether it will do so or not, and it is very strange if such respectably educated men as most critics are do not know that much of a poem, a work of art, or an actor. Hence it is that the criticisms of the present age are more frequently just and reasonable than angry authors will allow, and that the public at large is greatly benefited by them, and not only the public but young authors themselves, whose first productions, for the most part, are defective enough without having the puny bantlings spoilt by injudicious and cruel indulgence. 'He that loveth the child spareth not the rod,' is a proverb as applicable to those (I was going to say unnatural offspring of the brain) as to the natural children of the body. This is sufficiently illustrated by that celebrated and just criticism in the Edinburgh Review so much talked of, for it not only corrected a willful and spoilt child of nature, but it gave a sublime and immortal poet to the world. My Mend here has talked of the learning and study that are necessary to educate even natural, inherent taste, to Enable it to judge correctly of the labors of the painter, the musician, the poet, etc., but he seems to forget that all men are constantly studying their master and model, i. e., nature, from their very infancy. Why can I not judge of a beautiful painting as well as I can of a beautiful landscape or a lovely countenance? and cannot I feel emotion from the happy combination of natural sounds in music because I do not know the exact process of that combination? Then, according to this theory, no one ought to have been delighted with the beauty and variety of flowers, the harmony of light and shade, the brilliancy of color and the other properties of light before Newton analyzed that body and dissected its beam into seven primitive colors. We are all critics by nature, more or less, for we judge of everything that comes within the range of our observation and conceive of it a certain impression or idea, whether it be agreeable or disagreeable, and I think the world ought to be grateful to those patient and laborious characters who take the trouble to make themselves better acquainted with most things than their neighbors, merely for the pleasure of warning those neighbors what to avoid and pointing out to them what they ought to choose." 
                  All seemed to acquiesce in the feelings and reasonings of the last speaker, and no one offered any further argument on this subject and so it dropped. Others were taken up and discussed with animation and freedom, and with the greatest good humor and politeness; but though I have treasured up many valuable observations in my mind, I cannot at present find time to communicate them. I have given you the above merely as a specimen of the intellectual feast, though it is but the crumbs gathered by the beggar Lazarus from underneath the rich man's table. 
                  When the party broke up late at night, or rather early in the morning, both Harcourt and I felt that we had a been admitted to the table of the gods and partaken freely of their nectar and ambrosia. The remembrance, as that of a pleasing dream, still floats on my imagination. 
                  
                     Yours, 
                     EDWARD MONTAGUE.
                   
                
                
                  P. S. I hope my next will be dated from Ireland. 
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI. 
               OLLA PODRIDA. 
               
                  CASTLE HARCOURT, Ireland, --.
                
                
                  TO FRANK DUNWOODY, ESQ.: 
                  WHEN Henry Waltham understood that Harcourt and I resolved to visit Ireland, he expressed his determination to accompany us, and we offered no opposition to his desire. In a few days after the date of my last letter, therefore, having bade a temporary adieu to friends we dearly loved, we all three started together from Avondade. Harcourt and Henry Waltman were happy at the prospect of meeting those whom a long absence had rendered doubly dear, while I alone was sad and dejected in parting from all I loved, but my sorrow was alleviated by the hope that in a few months we should meet again to part no more. 
                  Harcourt expressed a desire, not merely from idle curiosity as will be seen, to trace, as far as that were possible, his former route from Avondale on that eventful night when he had bidden an everlasting farewell, as he supposed, to one whom he loved most tenderly, and as it would make little difference to us, we willingly acquiesced in his wish. 
                  Accordingly we started early in the morning, on foot, and passed through the thicket where he had torn his clothes, his hands, and his face, which must have been more from carelessness or indifference than the density of the brambles and boughs, for this time we passed through without any such effects. We could not, however, by any efforts, find the house or cottage where he had sought refreshments after his fatigue, nor the other where he had encountered the house-breakers, and for his attempt to save which he had so nearly sacrificed his life. But we at length came to the town where he had been imprisoned, and put up at the very inn where he had lodged the night succeeding his reprieve. The landlord of course did not know him, but he spoke of him with the most kindly feelings, and said that the townspeople had often since talked about him, and showed that they would be pleased to hear of his being alive and happy. 
                  "You may tell them," said Harcourt, "that he is not only alive, but well and happy, and what is still more extraordinary, very rich! and that he will never forget their generous kindness towards him while he lives. But," said he, "do you not know me? I am that person who called forth the pity, the humanity, and the exercise of active benevolence from the good people of this truly enlightened and charitable town, and as a mark of my esteem and regard, and the most effectual means of expressing my gratitude in a manner that I know will be most agreeable to their feelings and character, I will fund a sum of money for the express purpose of relieving those unfortunate wretches who may hereafter be situated as I was then, who, though innocent, may be robbed of all means of support by that very law which ought to reward and protect them, and I will give it to your town for this purpose forever. I would thank the people in person if I could find words to express my gratitude, but I will rather leave them to judge of my sincerity by my acts than by words." 
                  Whilst Harcourt spoke the good landlord seemed utterly amazed. He begged and entreated him to remain a little while in his house till he could acquaint his fellow townsmen with his arrival, to which Harcourt would not then consent, but he promised that at a future specified time he would do himself the honor of calling upon him, and when Harcourt had made him a handsome present we set out again in the direction of the farm house, where out friend had experienced such kindness and belevolence when he most stood in need of it. 
                  You may conceive the surprise and pleasure of the farmer and his family on seeing Harcourt and learning the fortune at which he had arrived, but it beggars all description. Poor Janet was almost frantic with joy, and John Downshire, the shepherd, and the other farm servants were in ecstacies. The farmer's youngest daughter alone was sad. She was still unmarried and evidently retained her affection for her early love; but Harcourt made amends to her as far as that was possible for his inability to bestow his heart. He gave her a rich dowry, which, in a short time, as we have since learned, procured for her a very eligible match in her own neighborhood. The farmer was presented with a beautiful hunter, and Janet and John Downshire got handsome and valuable presents. In short every one of the servants was made to rejoice, and our arrival among them occasioned a species of jubilee which it was delightful to look upon. 
                  It was with difficulty that Harcourt could tear himself away from this place, and not until he had promised to visit them again, and when we departed we were all loaded with blessings for his sake. 
                  We now hastened on to our journey's end, and soon arrived in Liverpool, where Harcourt was received with open arms, and we for his sake. He found his destined bride perfectly recovered and anxiously expecting his return, and their meeting was indeed one of pure unmixed love. He could not bear to leave her any more, and as he must of necessity go on to Ireland he resolved to take her with him as his wife. Accordingly the ceremony took place in a day or two and every thing was prepared for our departure. Previous to starting, however, Harcourt took us with him to see his old friend, Jack Sweetbriar and his mother. Jack, we found, had returned from America, and by the interest of Harcourt was now promoted to a lucrative post, and Harcourt provided the means of educating him so as to fit him for it. He then settled a small annuity on his mother to enable her to procure a little of her favorite beverage daily without subjecting her to the temptation of stealing; but he so regulated his bounty as to render it impossible for her to go beyond the bounds of moderation. 
                  We heard that Mr. Lovechild and his system had completely failed, and that the Rev. Mr. Fitzsurleigh of St. James' Cemetery, was as surly and sordid as ever, but he was driven from his holy office and again practicing law, illustrating the proverb that "the mills of the gods grind slowly, but they grind exceeding small." 
                  The morning previous to our sailing for Ireland, I received a letter from my father containing the satisfactory intelligence that not only had fortune favored him in his new speculations, but that he had recovered all the property which he had lost, and that now he was a richer man than he had ever been in his life before. This gave me no small pleasure, as it placed me, in a certain degree at least, on an equality with Miss Waltham, and would render my sister no contemptible match for her brother Henry, for it was now evident that he visited Ireland for no other purpose than to make her an offer of his hand; his heart he had given to her long ago. Indeed he no longer made a secret of it. Why should he? and I knew she was tolerably well disposed to lend a favorable ear to his vows, even when he was still poor. How much more would she be so now that he had become unexpectedly so rich. People say that true love is very disinterested and quite regardless of circumstances. Perhaps it is, but it can afford to be much more disinterested still when it knows that it has little to risk by the profession of such a sentimental creed; but if it ventures on marriage without the necessary means and appliances, and without all due and proper precaution, the more fool is it, say I. 
                  We arrived in the "Green Isle" without any accident dent, and Ellen was "very glad to see Mr. Waltham," and Mr. Waltham was "very glad to see Miss Montague." Indeed they seemed to be quite at home with each other, and to require or care for little other company! We left them by themselves as much as possible, and the result was that in a day or two there was terrible sighing and most distressing looks on both sides, as if their owners wished to come to an explanation on the subject of their contemplations-not with each other, they had done that already! but with my father. Here was the difficulty-for he had given his suffrage to another! But they had good friends in Harcourt and me. By our means their utmost wishes were soon gratified, for we never ceased entreating, importuning and tormenting till the old gentleman had given his consent, when all was happiness and smiles. 
                  Harcourt found his affairs arranged entirely to his satisfaction; and his lady, who is a most amiable and delightful creature, was highly pleased with the preparations which had been made for their reception. 
                  You know the gallantry and enthusiastic nature of our countrymen, from the peer to the peasant, and what a lively impression of gratitude even the imputed kindness of a landlord and the lenity or benevolence of an agent leave upon their hearts. Both the conduct of my father as agent and his representations of Harcourt's character as a good landlord amongst the tenantry called forth the most lively demonstrations of joy and gratitude, not merely from his own tenants but from thousands of others in the neighborhood of his estate, who had heard of his virtues. The moment, therefore, that it was known that their landlord with his lady should visit them they commenced their preparations for their reception, and they were most anxious in their inquiries to ascertain the precise time of their arrival, that they might be ready to show them every respect. Of course my father encouraged this feeling, though he kept it secret from us all. 
                  What was the surprise of Harcourt and his lady, therefore, on approaching their new mansion, to find themselves greeted with the enthusiastic cheers of thousands of grateful people! Their horses were taken from their carriage, and they were drawn to the door of their splendid mansion in triumph, where servants dressed in magnificent liveries, with a venerable steward at their head, were drawn out ready to receive their lord with every demonstration of profound respect and the most devoted love-a love which already burned in their bosoms as strongly from anticipation and hope as it does in those of more phlegmatic and less sensitive people from years of experience. 
                  From motives of modesty and humility Harcourt wished to suppress this demonstration, thinking himself unworthy as yet of such love from a people whom he had had no means of serving hitherto, but in whose happiness, nevertheless, he had long taken a deep interest, and he whispered his feelings to my father, asking his advice. 
                  "By no means," said he, "attempt to suppress this feeling, so natural to the Irish people. They have little but their affections to give away, though by nature bountiful, and it would be a pity to deprive them of a pleasure of so innocent and praiseworthy a character. Perhaps you may think this exhibition mere hypocrisy or blarney, because they have not yet had the means of judging of your character; but if so you are mistaken. I can assure you that they are a people who would scorn to act in this manner if they were not fully persuaded that you are worthy of it. Your character is known to them; I have made them acquainted with it, and it is from their confidence in your kindness and integrity that they thus act. A truly good and benevolent landlord is so rare in Ireland that when one at length appears, or is even likely to appear, the tenants are intoxicated with joy and know not how to express their gratitude, the extravagance of which is often exhibited so as to produce even a ludicrous effect. Had you come here unknown, or with a bad character before you, your reception would have been quite different, I assure you. This people can be sullen and sulky when they are ill treated, and they often resent the cruelty and insults of wicked landlords and brutal agents in a fearful manner!" 
                  In the evening there was a bonfire, and the whole country round was illuminated with torches. Thousands of men, each carrying a lighted torch made of bog fir, were to be seen hastening to Castle Harcourt from all sides, preceded by bands of music, and accompanied by women and girls dressed neatly, and in a short time they all assembled on the green in front of the house. It was a beautiful and highly picturesque sight, and presented an admirable moral lesson. At a given signal they all advanced to the window where Harcourt and his lady were standing, and raised three such cheers as I suppose neither of them had ever listened to before! Harcourt addressed them from the window in a speech full of humanity, sense and kindness, and ordered some barrels of beer to be distributed among them, to drink his health and that of his bride. Three other cheers, louder than the last, responded the thanks of the assembled multitude, and then they retired, blessing their benevolent landlord and his "amiable and beautiful angel lady," and extolling them to the skies. 
                  This scene impressed Harcourt and his lady with higher ideas of the moral excellence of the Irish people than they had hitherto conceived of them, for they justly remarked that a people who were so susceptible of the noble feeling of gratitude must, notwithstanding their many defects, be good at heart and capable of higher things and loftier sentiments than is generally supposed, and from that moment both determined to devote themselves and their energies to promote their happiness. 
                  But they were terribly shocked when they saw a little more of the poverty and wretchedness of the country. It was a source of continual uneasiness and sorrow to them, and it was a long time before they could familiarize themselves with the contemplation of the fearful suffering humanity exhibited in that most degraded and most cruelly injured and oppressed portion of the habitable globe. Their horror was unbounded at the bare thought that such a state of wretchedness could exist anywhere within the precincts of the British Empire, so much extolled for its greatness, its power and its humanity, and their bosoms burned with indignation to think that man could so cruelly tyrannize over his fellow man, in a Christian and civilized country! 
                  No sooner, therefore, were they comfortably settled themselves in their new mansion, than they commenced their labor of love and true Christian charity, not the mockery practiced by the clergyman of the parish-a fair specimen of his class in this unhappy land. This reverend gentleman was of course very pious. He derived a good living from the miseries of a people who spurned his spiritual instructions, and while he freely distributed Bibles and religious tracts amongst them from his zeal for religion, he most rigidly exacted his tithes to the utmost farthing or sheaf, and frequently sent his myrmidons to strip the last stack of the poor sick peasant, and when he had taken his tenths out of the heart of it and left the remainder good for nothing and exposed to the storms of heaven, he has sent a religious tract-what could be better than one written to illustrate the patience of Job?-to console the poor man and his family for the loss of their daily bread! 
                  Such was not the piety and Christianity of Harcourt and his lady. On the contrary, though the word religion was seldom heard from their lips in pity for wretches who had suffered so cruelly in its name, its essence and true spirit were exhibited in their lives and daily conduct. The most active, yet judicious charity towards the poor and the wretched were practiced constantly without any ostentation. In the first place they let out their lands to their tenantry at a reasonable rent, which encouraged them to cultivate the soil, that they might enjoy at least some of the fruits of their labor, and not be compelled, as heretofore fore, to give up all to rapacious landlords, and still more grasping and rapacious parsons. The result of this action was soon visible in the improved condition of the lands and its cultivators, who were no longer afraid, as formerly, to exhibit their prosperity, for you know as well as I that if a poor farmer had been more than ordinarily industrious, and by that means had saved a small sum of money, he was obliged to conceal it and appear poor, both in his dress and living, lest his landlord, hearing of his prosperity, should raise his rent, which he would be certain to do to the utmost farthing if he thought the tenant able to pay, and even beyond the starving point if he was made aware of such a phenomenon! This is one cause why the Irish seem poorer than they really are, and is a sufficient explanation of that peculiarity in their character, which subjects them to the charge of dissemblers and hypocrites. But who are to be blamed for this, the enlightened teachers or the apt, though destitute scholars? The question answers itself. 
                  Then the crowds of wretched, half-starved laborers for miles around were kept in constant employment at fair, though not high wages, for great caution was necessary in regulating this department, as high wages might lead to temptation and excess; the principal object was to keep them employed and to teach them how they might lay out their earnings to the best advantage; to suppress, if possible, the love for ardent spirits, and to introduce some of those domestic improvements and comforts which are so essential to the English laborer's happiness, and to provide for which he must be comparatively sober, thoughtful and considerate. 
                  It was made a general rule not to relieve any able-bodied, idle, vagabonds or beggars, to encourage their idleness and profligacy; but to set them to work and pay them regular wages, if they showed themselves worthy of it. But if, as many of them did, they preferred a wandering, vagabond life to honest industry, then they were at liberty to go where they pleased. Thus beggars were gradually got rid of altogether, for they are a class of people having such extensive inter-course amongst themselves and so communicative to each other, that they all know pretty well the houses where they are likely to ply a prosperous trade and the contrary. The old, the sick and the maimed were provided for in a house which Harcourt had built expressly for the purpose, with an hospital attached; but even here there were no idlers amongst the inmates, except those who were incapacited from all labor. Work suitable to the age, sex and the strength of each person was provided for them, on the same general principle that regulated all our other proceedings at Castle Harcourt, viz.: that "idleness is the root of all evils, and that it is perhaps the only state or mode of existence in which man may be said to be truly miserable and shut out from all enjoyment." 
                  The private history of individuals, however interesting, dwindles away to nothing compared with the common weal of a nation, and hence it is that writers who have inculcated principles by which any considerable number of our race has been materially and permanently benefited, have deserved well of mankind and are justly extolled to the skies. Those who endeavor to act upon these principles, as far as their own limited sphere and example enable them to do, are not altogether unworthy of some regard. 
                  Both Harcourt, my father and myself had seen too much of the operation of the poor laws in England, to have the remotest wish to see them introduced into our own country (for I need scarcely tell you that nothing was done by Harcourt without consulting my father and me previously, and he, for the most part, acted upon our advice.) Yet we saw clearly that some system for the relief of the poor, or rather by which their labor and energies could be properly employed and directed for their own benefit, was absolutely necessary for the very existence of the people, and we have, therefore, entered upon a set of experiments as detailed above. The great object and desideratum is to relieve the very poor and indigent chiefly through their own exertions, according to an organized system, without overburdening the great mass of small farmers, who are only one degree or shade removed from absolute pauperism. Now, if in England the enormous burden of the poor rates is bringing hundreds down from the state of rate-payers to that of paupers, how much more fatal would even a small additional burden be to the rate-payers in Ireland, who are mosty bent to the earth by the burdens which they have to endure already? Besides this, the greatest evil which we would have to dread from the introduction of the English system, would be that it saps the very root of morality and virtue, for it holds out a premium to licentiousness by too liberally supporting the offspring of sin and of shame, and encouraging a multitude of low women in the practice of evil, when they are not made to feel the consequences of their abandonment of duty and of virtue. When such as these are brought up in the faith that they have the funds of a whole parish to call upon, let them act how they may, and, indeed, as a last resort, they very soon reconcile themselves to the shame of adding their burden to the general load, till at last instead of becoming a disgrace, it is considered a kind of merit because it is so common with their neighbors and their whole class. And this dissoluteness and indifference on the part of the female soon extends to the men also, who, indeed, are the greatest sufferers in the end, for the parish makes them accountable for an evil which ought more properly be charged to the account of the women, for men are by nature prone to ask for favors, and it is supposed to be the duty of women to refuse them; but if they are found so open and accessible, it requires much restraint and philosophy in our forward sex not to fall into temptation. 
                  And yet you will be as much surprised as I was when I tell you that I found the men of the lower order in England much more cautious and virtuous, as it is called, than the women of the same class. To me, who had been accustomed to find our own country girls not over prudish or formal in outward show, it is true, but strictly virtuous and honorable in all essentials, this seemed at first extraordinary and unaccountable, and I must confess that it led me into some serious errors, which I should not have fallen into had I known the ground better. But a little experience and reflection were sufficient to explain to me the cause, which every one of common sense or discernment must attribute to the truly erroneous principle and practice of the present system of poor laws, as I have already hinted, and not to any inherent immorality in the people more than is common to the whole race.
                        This has been in a great measure remedied by the provisions and principles of the new poor law, recently adopted and now in general practice; but I, for one, fear it has come too late. The disease has gone on too long, and is too deeply seated in the system-the heart and vitals of society, to be eradicated by mere words and forms of expression. It ought to have been guarded against years ago by precaution and legislative foresight. As it is, however, all has been done that could be effected under the circumstances, and the country ought to be grateful even for so much.
                     
                   
                  All poor laws, and other laws, ought to be framed on this one broad, general principle, that man is an accountable being, not only to God but to his fellow man and his country, and that if he expects society to do any thing for him he also must do something for society; that to entitle a man or woman to be relieved by their fellow men they ought to be virtuous, as far as that is possible, and that after they are relieved they should manifest their gratitude in lessening the burden by their exertions, instead of considering that they have a legal claim to be supported in idleness for the future. I mean to say, that if people do seek public relief, instead of exerting themselves previously to avoid the necessity of it, access should only be had to it under circumstances both painful and humiliating, except only to those who are old and incapacitated by sickness or other infirmity from exerting themselves in their own behalf, and these ought to be supported with all care, tenderness and bounty. 
                  Harcourt soon perceived that the people had a most unconquerable hatred of two things, namely, tithes and Protestantism, for the one was so closely associated with the other in their minds that he found the two ideas were completely inseparable; and what wonder when the parishioners never heard of or saw their rector except when he sent his bloodhounds to rob them of the fruits of their labor; not that the rever-end gentleman did not preach in the parish church-he was very attentive to the forms and ordinances of religion, but then his parishioners were of a different faith, and left him to pour his zealous loathings of Popery and Papists to the empty walls and a few of his immediate dependents whom he had schooled into all that demureness of look and sanctity of exterior and expression which are so truly characteristic of our meek and humble modern saints. As the living was in the gift of Harcourt, and had been purchased with the estate, he endeavored to mollify the reverend gentleman a little in his exactions and cruelty with regard to his tithes, but in vain! He still continued in his pious course, distributing tracts and exacting tithes, till death arrested him while yet in his bloom, and made way for a more mild and merciful successor! for Harcourt made it an express condition on his conferring the living on the succeeding rector that he should accept a compensation instead of tithes, which he himself would take of the people in the form of rent, and pay him a certain fixed sum annually. Another indispensable condition was, that he should distribute no tracts among the people, nor annoy them in any way whatever by urging them to adopt the tenets of a church which was their greatest enemy, and robbed them of bread and almost every blessing which bountiful Heaven bestows on man; for though Harcourt is himself a true Protestant in every sense of the word, and a real Christian, yet he does not think that circumstance a just cause for forcing his religious opinions down the throats of other men, nolens volens. He thinks it better that the religion of men should rather be inferred from their practice than from their creeds and professions, and that if there ever be a chance of the Irish people becoming Protestant at all, it must be by kindness and benevolence exercised towards them, not by preaching to them a speculative creed while the very doctors and preachers of that creed are the great enemies of their temporal happiness, and actually rob them of the very means of existence. 
                  I had now remained some months in Ireland, assisting Harcourt to arrange his affairs and just make a beginning of that course which we were all determined to follow up with such zeal, when, having at length found time for relaxation, I began to long for the presence and smile of one who I knew would be rejoiced to engage with us heart and hand in the circle of duties which we had marked out for ourselves. I had prepared a beautiful cottage for her reception, only a short distance from that in which Henry Waltham and Ellen were to reside with my father as soon as they should be united, for it had been arranged by Ellen that she and I should be married on the same day. 
                  "We have been good friends," said she, "in adversity, and I hope we shall not forget our love and our sympathies in the day of our prosperity." 
                  She showed this sufficiently when she even permitted her lover to quit her for a time and accompany me to England, which contained my heart's treasure, that I might remove it to its appropriate shrine, where it could receive the entire homage and devotion of my heart. 
                  Accompanied, therefore, by Henry Waltham I soon arrived at Worthington Lodge without accident or any occurrence worthy of notice, where I found my beloved Eliza waiting anxiously for my arrival. It would be vain to attempt to describe our meeting. She seemed now, if possible, more lovely in my eyes than when I first saw her, and I could not be satisfied in gazing upon her ripe, luxurious charms. Mr. Worthington was not only delighted at our arrival but expressed a desire to accompany us to Ireland, and be present with his two daughters, who were very much attached both to my beloved Eliza and to my sister Ellen, at the double bridal. An additional reason was-to view the magnificent scenery in our neighborhood, which they had never seen, and to make his daughters acquainted with the natural beauty and richness of our far-famed isle. This determination on his part was to us a species of pleasure and delight which we had little anticipated, and added much indeed to the happiness and joy of the approaching event. 
                  The ladies were not long in making their preparations. Mr. Worthington made arrangements for the proper conduct of his affairs during his absence, and in three days after our arrival we were all ready to start again. 
                  We were requested by Harcourt and his wife to call at Liverpool and invite Arabella and her sister, with their husbands, to Castle Harcourt, which we did, and they, too, accompanied us across the channel, so that we were a large and jovial party. We arrived here only two days ago, and the nuptials are to be celebrated this day week. Will you, my friend, favor us with your company on that occasion? Nothing in the world would give us all greater pleasure; besides, it is so long-so very long-since I have seen you that a sight of you now, and especially on so joyous an occasion, would do my eyes greater pleasure than any other, however brilliant, that could be presented to them. Do come, my friend, I entreat you. I will take no excuse whatever. But for fear you should not be induced purely for my sake, I will mention inducements. Consider, I pray you, the English beauties that will be of the party. The two Misses Worthington are lovely, now that they have unfolded their charms into full and perfect womanhood; and there will be one or two other English ladies, whose names I will not mention, but whose beauty and accomplishments are most attractive, I can assure you; and you may remember that you hinted in one of your letters, when I had mentioned Miss Julia Worthington's spirit and dash, that you would like to have the "taming of that shrew," and that you had no doubt you would be as "successful in that respect as Petruchio was of old with her great prototype in the play." Remember also that you have now an opportunity of proving your powers, if you think proper. 
                  I will say no more at present. By the by, I almost forgot to tell you that Lord Hare and Colonel Bond, of your regiment, who were also our schoolfellows, will be of the party, with a few more gentlemen and ladies of this neighborhood, whom you do not know, and that we intend to have a "a rale ould Irish weddin'," or rather two in one! so do not fail to come. 
                  Adieu! au revoir, my dear, dear friend, with ten thousand best wishes. 
                  
                     Ever yours, 
                     EDWARD MONTAGUE.
                   
                
                
                  P. S.-I am almost frantic with joy and the anticipation of happiness. 
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVII. 
               CONCLUSION. 
               
                  ROSE COTTAGE, --.
                
                
                  TO FRANK DUNWOODY, ESQ. 
                  MANY a true word has been spoken in jest. I little thought when I invited you to my wedding twelve months ago, that before the year was ended you should be the husband of the redoubtable Julia Worthington. I wish you joy, my friend, and am only sorry that I can not avail myself of your kind invitation to come and see you and witness your exquisite happiness. The truth is, my dear Eliza has just presented me with a fine boy, and is doing well; but of course it would be impossible for me to leave her at present. When she is quite recovered we will come and spend a few months with you at Swan Park. So you have sold out. I am very glad to hear it, and only wish that you could fix your residence somewhat nearer to us and make one of our truly happy society. Oh, my friend, if you could see the change that has been wrought in the physical and moral condition of the people here in so short a space of time your benevolent heart would rejoice within you. But when you see it you must form your own conclusions. I might seem to exaggerate if I attempted to describe it. 
                  You must have heard that Harcourt has had an heir born to him some weeks ago, and my sister Ellen Waltham has a fine girl. 
                  Have you heard what has happened to the younger Miss Worthington, and all since my wedding? What a lucky wedding that was. She lost her heart that day to the noble Lord Hare, and is going to be married very shortly. I have it from her father, from whom I received a letter a few days ago. What do you think of that? 
                  I must now tell you an anecdote. You may perhaps remember a circumstance which gave me a good deal of uneasiness at the time, and which I have already told you in one of my former letters. I allude to the morning that I looked through the garden hedge at the vicarage and saw the then Miss Waltham reading a letter over and over, and weeping bitterly as she read, and I attributed her emotion to love. I have discovered the cause lately; she told me herself one day when I mentioned it by mere chance in conversation with her, and what do you think it was, my friend? I will tell you, and I think the circumstance must give you a high opinion both of the heart and feelings of my beloved and invaluable wife. It was a tale of distress that affected her tender and benevolent young heart. A nurse whom she tenderly loved had unfortunately married a brutal drunken wretch of a husband, who both abused and starved her, and Eliza had often before rescued her almost from the jaws of death. At this particular time, however, when she was appealed to with the utmost urgency, she had not the means of affording that prompt relief which was required. This was too much for her; she reflected what could be done, but in vain. She then took out the letter and read it again with tears in her eyes; again she racked her invention in order to devise some means of relief for the poor woman, but in vain, and thus she continued reading, weeping and reflecting alternately for a considerable time. At length she resolved to appeal to her father; she did so, but to no purpose. All she could say was not able to extract a farthing from the miser. At last the happy idea struck her of applying to Mr. Worthington in this emergency. No sooner had she made her tale of distress known to that excellent man than he instantly sympathized with her and the sufferer, and offered the necessary relief without a moment's hesitation. And thus the poor girl was enabled to gratify the most pure and holy of feelings, that of relieving a poor and humble friend in distress. 
                  I think I have told you nearly all the news in this neighborhood, at least all that I have been able to collect, which is not much now. Our mode of life is uniform, seldom deviating from the same direct course, and our happiness as pure and sacred as can well fall to the lot of humanity. When I look back on the last few years of our existence, I am struck with wonder and amazement at the scenes we have witnessed and the change that has come upon us. From being poor, homeless wanderers and adventurers on the wide world, we have, through the bounty of Heaven, been raised to a pitch of prosperity and happiness scarcely paralleled in the history of private life, and have been made the instruments of good to thousands of our fellow men by the same Divine and Omnipotent agency. May our hearts ever swell with gratitude to Heaven for its bounties, and may we never forget that its gifts have been lent to us, not for ourselves, but that, like good stewards and servants, we should put our talents to usury and employ our gifts for the benefit of our fellow man, and the glory and praise of our Creator and our God. Hoping soon to hear from you, I remain, my dear friend, etc., etc. 
                  
                     EDWARD MONTAGUE.
                   
                
                
                  P. S. I had almost forgotten to answer your question concerning the game-keepers-"whether they continue steady and reformed men, as they promised?" You mean, I suppose, the two new ones, Flanagan and O'More, the quondam associates and friends of the incorrigible McArdle? I am happy to inform you that their conduct has been excellent and praiseworthy ever since. They are most indefatigable and efficacious in their detecting and securing, not poachers, but thieves, and have shown themselves trustworthy on many occasions, particularly of late, when Mr. Harcourt employed them on a very important trust, and they discharged it so much to his satisfaction as to call forth not only his warmest praise and thanks, but still more substantial acknowledgements, and it is confidently hoped by all that they will continue to walk in that path which they have recently entered, and which, perhaps, they would never have forsaken had it not been for the violence and example of a desperate youth and a vile and incorrigible man. Adieu. 
                
             
            FINIS. 
         
       
   
