
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Conspiracy of Col. Aaron Burr .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6138 wright2-0608
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            The Conspiracy of Col. Aaron Burr
            
                THE CONSPIRACY OF COL. AARON BURR, HISTORICAL ROMANCE COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME. NEW-YORK: O. W. SIMMONS, 51 LIBERTY STREET, 1854.       BURR's CONSPIRACY CHAPTER I. SOME single months now witness as gr number of human beings landed on the whi of New York, from the old world, as the contained half a century ago., The entire elation of the city in 1806 was about 7( being something less than that of Brookl: Hthe present time. It was nevertheless, the its influence was felt, and its importance r hized, throughout the length and bread the land. It was in the month of February, 1806, two young men were seated over a large fire in the front room, first floor, of a bui in Nassau, near Wall street. It was evid a lawyer's office. They were engaged in est conversation, which before permitting reader to listen to, we must give him son count and description, of the young men, I ysnelves.     4      BURROS CONSPIRACY; Charles Howard, (the eldest of the two,) was about twenty-five years of age. He graduated at Yale College when he was twenty-one.- Having spent two years in traveling and two more in studying a profession, he had just commenced the practice of law in New York city. His father was a man of great wealth and a distinguished Statesman. Henry Thomp- son the present companion of Howard, was the son of a very respectable lawyer living in New Haven, Connecticut. He was the classmate of Howard, and from the commencement of their College life the warmest friendship had existed between them. In appearance they were to- tally unlike, and there would seem to have been no congeniality of taste or disposition to have drawn them together. But notwithstanding this apparent dissimilarity between them, from their first meeting, a great intimacy sprung up, which in time ripened into the closest and most ardent friendship. Thompson was somewhat younger than Howard. he was tall and strong built, with jet black hair, black eyes and a countenance betokening great energy of char- acter. Howard had a more frail and delicate figure, but it was finely proportioned He\had sandy hair and whiskers, a florid complexion,   A mSTORICAL ROMANCE and an outline of feature strongly rese 'bling that of Louis Phillipe-a little softened. The expression of his, countena -ne was mild and benevolent, but very intellectual; and the whole appearance of the man indicated a good deal of ,Mental power, joined to great delicacy and -re- finement of nature. Howard was commenting upon a letter which he held in his' hand. I must say that I endorse your father's views in regard to Col. Burr'" said Charlos, and I should certainly think that after receiv- ing such a letter, you could not hesitate about severing whatever. connection you may have formed with him." "I do not hesitate-" replied Henry, "my mind was too firmly made up before I received the letter, to be, affected by it. The traits of character in Col. Burr which excite such a lively fear and want, of confidence in my father --his ambition and fearlessness--are the very ones, that win  my admiration. Recollect, Charles, that my father is in the wane of life, and he would like t  nse i his o dae,.iconr enjoying peace and quiet, and he looks with dread upon any man whom he deems capable of seriously disturbing them. He has no sym-  6    BT1URR'S CONSPIRACr; pathy with adventurous spirits. His blood does not leap and bound through hisveins at sixty, as it did at twenty-four, and he apprehends nothing but harm from the man who has the will to do and the soul to dare great things." "You forget," Charles replied, " that I am not much your senior. My blood has been cooled by the frosts of but two winters more than yours, yet I have no desire to take a part in the ambitious schemes of Col. Burr. The spirit of adventure is not sufficiently strong in me, to warp my judgment so far as that." "There is no warping of judgment in the matter, as I can see," replied Henry. "With me there is the most perfect harmony between my feelings and my judgment. You do not seem to realize, Charles, from what widely dif- ferent points, we view the case. You have every thing to lose by a hazardous enterprise, and I, nothing. I am the son of a poor man and have my fortune to make in the world.- You are the only son of a very wealthy one.- You will have no struggles to make with pov- erty, and but little exertion on your part will procure you power and distinction. Besides your disposition is a less adventurous one than mine, and above all, Col. Burr commands my   A HSTORICAL ROMANICE.    warmest and most devoted attachment. Iwish you knew this man, Charles, as well as I do." "Your father does, it seems," replied Charles. Before pursuing the conversation further be- tween them, the reader must see the letter Hen- ry Thompson that day received from his father. NEW HAVEN, Jan'y --, 1806. Dear iery:--Col. Burr is said to have some project on foot, which those who know him best,-men of great wisdom and exper- ience--pronounce to be of a treasonable nature. I have learned that, with a view of enlisting as many able and resolute men as possible in his enterprise, you have become an object of at- traction to him. This knowledge has caused me the deepest concern and regret. I beseech you to pause before you throw yourself into the wild schemes of that reckless and dangerous man. I cannot well express the solicitude I feel for the result of his attentions to you. I very well know the wonderful arts and machi- nations he possesses for inveighing the young and inexperienced into his nets. No young man of talent and energy escapes the notice of his quick and practised eye. Having learnt your ardent and enthusiastic nature, the arch       intriguer would deem you worthy of a conquest. I should have but little hope for your future welfare, while you remained subjected to the influence of so unscrupulous, bold and deter- mined a man. To be with him and not be cor- rupted by him is almost impossible. His matchless power in bending others to his will is proverbial, and you cannot well be connected with him, without becoming like him. Are not the opinions entertained of Col. Burr by Washington and Hamilton enough to deter you from joining your fortunes to such a man? I have been shown a letter written by Alexan- der Hamilton to Mr. Wolcott, in which he said: "Every step in his career shows that he has formed himself on the model of a Cataline, and he is too cold blooded and determined a con- spirator ever to change his plan." Who knew the character of Aaron Burr bet- ter than Col. Hamilton?' They were in the army together; they had won their reputation as lawyers and Statesmen, side by side-in the same courts of Justice and in the same Halls of Legislation- It was Col. Hamilton's thor- ough knowledge of Burr, and his detestation of his character and principles that cost him his    ine nas many good qualities I admit, but "One master passion in the breast, Like Aaron's serpent, swallows up the rest." Nothing can appease his unbounded and all engrossing ambition. Everything must be sac- rificed to that. If he does not now entertain treasonable views against his country, he is ca- pable of doing so, and I should rather a son of mine had never been born than to have him become leagued with a conspirator against the laws of his country. I hope and trust that you are not so far com- mitted to the projects of Col. Burr that you cannot extricate yourself frortthem with honor. I hope to hear from you by return of mail and be assured from your own lips that my fears are groundless. You may live to experience my dear Henry, what you cannot now realize, that the honor and welfare of a child are more dear to a father than any other earthly object. With my best wishes for your success and hap- piness, I remain ever Your affectionate Father, GEORGE THMPpSON." "You think, Charles," said Henry, "that this letter alone should be sufficient reason to induce me to abandon all connection with Cl.  sl neto .t Co.     10     BURR'S CONSPIRACY; Burr. This reply to it, will show you that it was received too late." And he handed his friend the following letter: NEW' Yorn, Feb. --, 1806. My Deawr Father:-I have been a good deal disturbed by the receipt of your letter. I need not say that it always causes me great pain to have acted contrary to your wishes, and that your approval of my conduct was always suffi cient guarantee of its rectitude, with me. cannot help thinking, however, that after you have given the subject of my connection with Col. Burr more consideration, you will judge differently of the consequences likely to result from it. I know I have often heard you speak of Col. Burr as a bad and dangerous man, but I did not then know him personally. I had not then felt the magic power of his manners, the force of his eloquence and the bewitching fascination of his address. Be assured, father, you would find it impossible to resist his power if you knew him. I contend that it is morally i and physically impossible for a man to have a very bad heart whose whole appearance is so captivating and irresistible as that of Col. Burr. To be sure, Cataline, Caesar Borgia, Catharine de Medicis, and a host of other bad persons   ,  . ,     A      pISTORICAL ROMC. are said to have been very fascinating thou1 country who when he was chosen Vice Pres dent had around him such a phalanx of devot edness and talent as he. He grapples his friends to him with hooks of steel and the ar dent and complete attachment he wins from them is truly surprising. My own small obsej hypocrite does not long remain undiscovered in a person. Can you point t to a single man in from p policy, but if so, it shows a kind of poli h f- is enemies accuse him of being as ambitious s Lucifer, a  es lustf as Tarqsincere and as inexor rhe laws and customs of society with impunity that he outrages many of the decencies of if that he fears neither God nor man; that he     A1;5    BIURR'S CONSPIRACY; loves power, and means to have it, and will scruple at nothing to obtain it. Many of these charges may be more or less true. That Col. Burr is a man of inordinate pride I admit, but how can he help being so? He might exclaim with Pope- "I own I'm proud-I must be proud, to see Men not afraid of God afraid of me." He knows that his influence is felt and his pow- er acknowledged every where-that the wisest and the greatest in the land turn pale at the mention of his name. If he sets some of the laws and customs of society at defiance, it is because he deems many of them made only to restrain the weak, not the strong; and he can- not always refrain from exercising power which he is conscious of possessing, though he never uses it to oppress the poor and helpless. He knows that "Nice customs curtsey to great Kings," and he may well feel that he is emphatically a King, though without a throne. As a milir tary man, it is generally admitted that Col. Burr has no equal in this country. You will recollect that I have often heard you speak in terms of the highest admiration of his conduct in New Haven, when he lead the students ',  X   I j    ...A HSTORICAL  ROMANCE.  1 against the British. Have you not often told me that as he rode up to the students and in language the most earnest and enthusiastic, desired that he might be permitted to lead them against the enemy, his calm and determined countenance, his lofty and courageous bearing, inspired you with a nobler idea of a youthful hero, than your imagination had even enabled you to picture to yourself? Now that I know the man, I can well imagine the effect he must have produced upon you on that occasion. It does not appear to me to be conclusive evi- dence that a man must be one of the most dan- gerous men in the country because Washington and Hamilton disliked him. They were but human, after all, and their prudent and con- servative dispositions lead them to dread a bold and fearless spirit like Burr. If Cataline had been successful it is probable that his character would have come down to us very much softened from what it now appears. "The fiery'soul abhorred in Cataline, In Decius charms, in Curtius is divine." As for Col. Burr's entertaining any treason- able designs against the country, it is absurd to suppose so for a moment. In view of a war with Mexico, he has formed a company for the      *14     BtRRIS COSPIRAOY; purchase of two hundred thousand acres of u on the Washita. He proposes settling t lands, and when the war with Mexico is cleared, that will be a convenient point which to march an army into the enemy' minions. Gen. Gates says he knows of no son in the United States with whom a mai more safely trust his honor as a soldier, Col. Burr. Therefore I think I may feel ored and congratulate myself on my good in havingheen desired by Col. Burr to joii enterprise. Trusting that on further deli tion you will view this matter more as I  remain      Your affectionate Son. HENRY THOMPSO: "I fear it will be useless for us to discuss matter any further. I perceive," said Ch; folding up the letter and returning it to Th son, "you have sold yourself body and to Col. Burr, and property of such a n which he once possesses, (I mean so val an acquisition as yourself,) cannot be very ily reclaimed." "I have no desire to have the reclam made," said Henry, " for I have no apprehen sion as to the result of the future efforts of Burr. After all, it is the declining popu   A tlSTOtRICAL ItOMAMtc  of Col. Burr which renders him at the pres time such a particularly bad and danger( man. If he had happened to have been chos President instead of Jefferson, he very like would have been one of the most popular Pres idents we have had, and this great ado ab( his being so false and dangerous we should have heard but little about. Success is the great test of merit. It atones for the worst ev and covers the greatest imbecility. Shakspea was proud of a nod of recognition from t great poisoning assassin Leicester. Shakspea was poor and Leicester revelled in wealth a power, Law, who ruined half France with ] Mississippi scheme while it Was in the full ti of successful operation, was the greatest man the kingdom. The first nobles in the land pa their court to him. One lady of fashion je( arded her life by causing her coach to be upf hear him, hoping by this dangerous stratagem to make his acquaintance. A few months : ter, when his schemes were no longer succe ful, the public were so indignant against hi that he barely escaped from France with I life. Both Scipio and Washington when diffi culties thickened around them, were accused peculation. The former too proud to exculpa     160     BUR'S CONSPIRACY;   himself although he had the papers in his hand which enabled him to do so, tore them in pie- ces before the eyes of his accusers. Washing- ton who never suffered any personal feeling to conflict with his regard for the public welfare, thought it necessary in his old age, to have his Secretary of the Treasury produce his accounts and prove that he had not plundered the public. Thus it appears that there is no escape from detraction and abuse except in imbecility and insignificance. "Successful or unsuccessful," said Charles, "I cannot consider Col. Burr, taking him as a whole, a great man. I admit that he has many heroic traits, but his whole life shows that his mind is a narrow and vulgar one. He thinks Jeremy Bentham possesses the most subtle and comprehensive mind of any man that ever lived, and Rosseau he looks upon as the wisest moral philosopher the world has produced.- Chesterfield is his beau ideal of the perfect Statesman, and Mary Wallstonecrafft he thinks affords an evidence of the height of moral and intellectual grandeur to which woman may at- tain. The esteem in which he holds these ce- lebrities is enough to stamp the mind and char- acter of the man. It shows that he is made up   A HSTORICAL ROMAE.    17   of shreds and patches-he is not a wholeman. There is nothing elevated, earnest and real about him. He looks upon life as a farces--a simple comedy, and nothing more. Persons who attach a more dignified importance to it are either weak in intellect or feeble in char- acter in his estimation. Principle and consci- entiousness, he looks upon as catchwords to terrify the unreflecting and timid, a cunning invention of the strong to hold in check the weak and ignorant. It is immaterial whether you judge of his principles from his actions, or his actions from his principles. lIe has left the slime of his profligacy all over the country- from Quebec to New Orleans, from Washing- ton to St. Louis. I admit that he has a good deal of the lion in his nature, but he has more of the weasel, and he seldom puts on the skin of the former except to defend acts partaking of the nature of the latter. He would never take by storm what he could gain by strata- gem. lie never would approach an object di- rectly, if it could be reached by any circuitous route. Jefferson once told a friend of his that 'he had the same confidence in him that he had in a crooked gun or other perverted instru- ment.' He strongly resembles both Richlieu   18     rTniiES coglsrtkkcir^ aid the Duke of Marlborough, with more learn- ing and benevolence perhaps than either. He' seems to consider himself a very high minded ahd honorable mal, because he is proud and generous. His pride will not permit him to do anything that he deems mean, or dishonorable, and his benevolence renders him incapable in his own estimation of an uhgeherous act:; but his total want of principle prevents him fromt having a true perceptioh of wright or wrong. Here you have my opinion of Col. Btirr in extenso," said Charles, "i t differs widely from yours, I perceive.9 "Where do you find your whole men if Coil Burr is made lip of patehwork'" said Henry. "Hamilton and 'Madison are whole mnen.- Do you think they would stoop to obtain by in- trigue or fraud the private papers of their po- litical adversaries, and through such means cause their overthrow? Would they conde- scend to get Bank Charters by stealth and de- ception, to obtain estates by hunting up flaws in titles, gain the political influence of the hus- band by corrupting the wife, and take advan- tage of every weakness that human nature is susceptible of, to gratify their ambition or pro mote their sensual indulgences 'i   *Xt  ---*X lis^otioXB RObied.  *    YN4. :  "How near a complete entity do you consid er the present distinguished head of Govern ment??' asked Henry. "H'e falls something short of it, certainly,' said Charies. "Yet is too much influenced by what Mr. Siaith tells him that Mrs. Grundy said.' A man who is so true a democrat, and who has such a sublime faith in human nature, 'ought to derive support enough from the upright- lness of his motives, the strength and sincerity 'of his convictions, not to be affected by the gossip of the Smiths and Grundy's. But he loves power dearly, and staggering as he does under the weight of infidelity and agrarianism charged upon him by his enemies, he has to Play the demagogue to preserve it. Ie is far from being a whole man." "I think as much," said Henry. "He is an inconceivable distance removed from any such consummation. What i his sublime faith in S human nature, but a roinantic belief in absurd, ities that have been exploded, time and time again. Has there been a single age or genera- tion the last six thousand years, that did not contain more or less sentimental and crotchety brains, that have baieved in and advocated the same sublime faith in human nature?: ITis     ai  gBUIBS COS8PIMJF  paradoxes and fooleries have not the most dis- tant claims to originality. As for his much vaunted draught of the Declaration of lnde- pendence, many other prominent members of Congress at the tine, if they had taken notes as Jefferson did, of the speeches there made; would,undoubtedly, have been able tolhave form; ed an equally good one. As almost every senti ment it contained had been uttered before anc often repeated in the speeches made by mem bers of Congress, it only required a little ski] in collating and arranging them. A cleve lawyer's clerk could not have failed to hav made a tolerably good one from the materi before him. He is entitled to but little mo] credit for having prepared the Declaration  Independence, than the man who turns tl crank to the organ is for the music produce The labor he was required to bestow upon was in great part mechanical. His brain is good sized storehouse, filled with' goods, w arranged and easily accessible foe use,. Ha ilton's was a workshop, and every thing tl iesaed from it, had his stamp upon it." "S ,Sn" said Charles, "I think Jefferson v go down to posterity as the greater man of two."   A' HSTORITCAL REOMAYCZ. "Very likely," replied Henry. "Read ai thing but history," said Walpole to his i when he was sick, " for that must be false." "The weak points iin Jeffersonus character said Charles, " will be forgotten, and his gr e efforts' to elevate the condition of the people will only be remenbered. Posterity may regard him as one of the most sincere and a democrats, the world has produced." "But experience has proved," replied H "that the 'down-trodden masses' the dem agogues love to talk about, are not susceptible of much elevation, before they will rid them selves of such men as he. The French Re volution proves that. If either of us should live until 1850, I think we should see North Amer ica governed by as many Kings as Europe. It is absurd to suppose that human nature I been wholly misunderstood for six thousand years, and that the discovery of the fact should be left to a few half famished American lt  yers, and tobacco planters. The great embodi ment of the democratic principle,-our present chief magistrate, will at that time probably be regarded as .a Tiberius Gracchus or Anacha] GlCooetz.      , Did you now, har, here is o be Did you lmown, Charles,' there is to be a     22'     BURR e ONSPIRACT"; \ litical-meeting in New Haven next week, and Harlow, among others, is to address the citizens of that place You will recollect that he and his father were once great friends of Col. Burr, and his father, in times gone by, is said to have received substantial marks of Col. Burr's favor. Since the death of Hamilton they have both joined the howl of indignation that has been raised against him. You very well know how dearly all democrats loved Col. Hamilton, so that his having been the cause of his death, would hardly be suficient reason for their for- saking him. If I am alive and well next week when that meeting takes place, I hope to be present at it." "You are, less charitable in your opinions,? said Charles, " and 1 am sorry to observe thal you are so soured in your feelings towards the world. I fear those New Haven events have created prejudices, and aroused passions whic your better judgment could not approve. It however, you are determined upon going, t New Haven next week, I should like very muc to accompany you, and visit some old friend there. After three months severe practise  the law, without a single client, I feel that som respite from my labors is necessary."   CHAPTER II. X  THE New Haven events, alluded to by Charl in the previous chapter, were the following : While in college at New Haven, Henry Thom son had formed an attachment for a girl of rare beauty and accomplishments, and this attach ment was believed by himself and every o: else to be fully reciprocated. Susan Broo was but eighteen when he graduated and w the only daughter of a distinguished physici residing in that place, Her mother was an am bitious woman, and had very expensive habi Although an affectionate mother, her admiration -for the charms of her daughter was not so great as to cause her entirely to overlook her own., Her father was a man of liberal views, great be nevolence of character, and was exceedingly popular with the whole town. The salary received was a large one, yet the family being careless in their expenditures, every year wit nessed a greater accumulation of debts against him until at the time of which we write, his whole property probably would have been great ly insufficient to discharge them all. M     84     BoURB'8 ONSPEIRAUCT; Brooks could not make up her mind to practice greater economy, but she hoped in the course of time that something would happen to relieve them. Although no decided objection could be made to Henry Thompson as a lover for he] daughter, except his poverty, Mrs. Brooks in structed Susan to plead delay on the ground o youth,when Henry pressed the subject of anen gagement. This she had invariably done, tho she did not hesitate to confess her love for him William Harlow was the only son of the wealthiest merchant in town, and was a partne in business with his father. He was a ver. good looking young man, of common abilities and was wholly devoted to his business. Witl the keen penetration of a mother, Mrs. Brook had discovered that William Harlow had strong preference for her daughter; although th signs by which this preference was manifested would have escaped the notice of an indifferen observer, it is not certain that they escaped th notice of the object of it. But William Harlot was too prudent a young man to attempt a ri valry with Henry Thompson. He was veri well aware-that in securing the esteem and ad miration of women, the brilliant talents, attract ive person and manners of the latter entirely   A HSTORIOAL OMAWcOL eclipsed his own lessshining qualities. But he was not unconscious of the power of money, had a great deal of patience. He knew the cuniary circumstances of Mr. Brooks, and i aware how sensible the parents of Susan r be to the advantages of her connection v him, and he thought, as did Mrs. Brooks a that Henry Thompson once removed from to Susan perhaps might think less of him, and field would be clear for him to make his advan ces. Susan Brooks was very witty, intelligl and handsome, but she had not that strength mind and firmness of character which is com mon to some women. She had always been customed to bend her own opinions and wis] to the stronger will and more haughty spirit her mother. Mrs. Brooks was secretly bent bringing about a match between her daugh and William Harlow, but did not deem it p icy to discontinue the attentions of Henry, she knew that he would soon leave town, a she dreaded the consequences of an open p: ference of Harlow for a lover of Susan. S knew the proud spirit and great wit Henry pos sessed, and was fearful of the effect his sarcasm and ridicule of Harlow might have upon his daughter. As soon, however, as he had!e     28-    . BURERS CONSPIRACY; town, she took measures to let Harlow know that no engagement existed between her daugh ter and Mr. Thompson, and  en Harlow first called at the house after Henry departure, he was received by Mrs. Brooks in e most wel come and cordial manner. He-soon discovered how ready the mother of Susan was to favor his suit. On leaving New -Iaven, Henry went to the South, wnere he spent six months. He had not long been absent from Susan before he wrote her a long letter, filled with tender recollection and the warmest affection. Letter followed let ter at short intervals, but he received none in reply. After waiting two or three months and making due allowance for the great distance which separated them, and the uncertainty of mails, he wrote his friend Howard, confiding to him the state of his correspendence, and reques ting him to ascertain indirectly if any change had come over the object of his affection' The result of Howard's enquiries was that Miss Brooks was engaged to William Harlow; which information he conveyed to his friend in the most delicate manner he was able. The effect this announcement produced on Henry can easily be imagined.   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE. Mrs. Brooks had taken the precaution to have the letters Henry might write Susan pass through her hands. She was not a woman to stand for trifles in the accomplishment of her ends, when the first letter was received, she very de liberately broke the'seal and read it through. "Ah! it is unfortunatetthat he is poor, I should I have been praud of such a son-in-law. It is an admirable letter, but Susan must never see it. She could not resist such eloquent pleadings and the letter was thrown into the fire, All the others he wrote her met with the same fate. In the meantime Harlow's suit progressed f Susan watched very eagerly for Henry  first letter, and was greatly pained that none was received. Atas her mother adroitly marked in a seemingly careless manner, that Henry being of a very susceptible disposition could not resist the superior attractions of south ern beauties, and he had undoubtedly forgotten his school boy preferences at the north. The artful words of her mother had their effect upon Susan, but she could not be made fully to be lieve that Henry would so soon forget her, th she did not know how to account for his neg lect in writing her'  Her affection for him was gradually giving place to wounded pride, and     BUIRS #COPs rn cy; from a spirit of .retaliation she encouraged the attentions of Harlow. Her mother neglected no opportunity to daz- zle her eyes with visions of a noble mansion, splendidly furnished, fine horses, elegant equip- ages, and all the luxurious accompaniments of wealth; and at ,the same time took occasion to contrast such a life with that of a poor at- torney's wife, living in a cottage, with rooms seven by nine, and surrounded by all the in- conveniences of poverty. Still, Susan thought much of Henry, and although Harlow had de- clared to her his wish to make her his wife, and her mother had announced that an engagement existed between them, she had not given her consent to the proposed marriage. She did not overlook the eligibility of the match, and the character of Harlow stood high in the commu- nity, but when khe compared him with Thomp- son, she felt that she could bestow so much more love upon the latter than the former, that she would not take the final step until she knew something more of the feelings of Henry. Her mother pressed the matter with great vigor, in- sisting upon the marriage taking place at once, as Harlow was ready, and there was no occa- sion for delay. Susan made many excuses for   a SA WTORICAL. BeOMAC  i delaying the event, without making any allu- sion to Henry, and things having progressed so well thus far, Mrs.. Brooks was willing o, trust to her powers of finessing to bringithemarriage. about safely after Henry's return from the South, as she very welt knew that was all Susam was waiting for. Matters were in this state when Henry arrived in New York. Mrs. Brooks and Harlow took occasion to have his. conduct watched very narrowly while there, with a view to its influence upon Susan, Col. Burr's repu- tation at this time being at a very low ebb, when it was known that Henry had' thrown himself into the schemes of that arch intriguer, Mrs. Brooks and Harlow pretended to assume as a necessary consequence, that he was irretrieva- bly lost. Although Henry was never spoken of as being anything more to. Susan than an old acquaintance, yet her mother and Harlow very well knew he was, and when they spoke of his connection with o Burr as evincing the utter abandonment of alkprinciple in him, the an- nouncement was not without its effect upon her. i'a mThis circumstance joined to tihe-fact of her hear- ing nothing from him after hiis return to New York, were nearly sufficient to reconcile her to a marriage with Harlow.     A t30  obuti  s COs'SPiRAc      - At the political meeting which we have an* 'noincea as about to take place in New Haven, Harlow was to speak for the first time in pub- 'lic, and he intended to be very severe upon Cot. Birr, although his father had been a warm friend of Col. Burr, and had obtained through the latter, governmeAnt jobs which had 'ontrib- uited very much to produce that fortune which made his son the successful rival Df Henry 'Thompson for the hand of Susan Brooks. Wm. Harlow belonged to the same party that Col. 3Burr had always beet a prominent member of; and would not have felt like making denuncia- tions of the character and objects of 'ol. Burr, if he had not supposed they would have indi- ,rectly affected Henry 'hompson in the esteem tof Susan, and thus have rendered more sure and 'near, the happy day that was to see him uniteA rto -her.    i i*  . . .AP      .li. ". IT was in the early part of the year 1800 that a man apparently about forty years of age, Was seated at a table in the well furnished li- brary of a mansion in Broadway, New York, It was past midnight, and with a shade drawn over his eyes, he was busily writing. His fea- tures, and the formation of his head, were re- markable for their classic beauty. But his eye ias the feature which particularly arrested the attention of the stranger. It was jet black and of such surpassing brilliancy and penetration' that when fixed upoi a person it seemed to) pierce him through and through. :i i  Lavaier ahd Spurzheim would both have se- Iected the head of this man from a crowd ofr heads, and awarded to its possessor marked ability. Phrenology and physiognomy often conflict, but ih the case of this person, the most exquisite and perfect harmony existed between the traits of character assigned to the de:4elop- Inents of each. Whatever the phrenolosft  * affirmed, the physiognomisti could endorse. l tBut the world had discovered without the     32      BURu's CONSPIRACY;  aid of phrenology or physiognomy that the man of whom we are writing, was one of the most remarkable men of his time. Aaron Burr, at this time, was about fifty years of age altho' he did not look to be more than forty. His iron constitution, and the strength of his facul- ties, seemed to mock at time. He was smaller than the average size of men, but his person was so compactly and firmly built, that it indi- cated great muscular power, and the loftiness of his mien and the vigor and energy of his expression proclaimed at once to the indifferent observer that he was no ordinary man. When party spirit has run high at some Pres- idential election, we have been told that if this or that candidate was not elected, the Constitu- tion and liberties, of the country would be se- riously jeopardized. But a failure to regard warnings which we have been so impressively and earnestly implored to heed, has never been followed by the disastrous consequences so con- fi4ently predicted Experience seems to prove that the Constitution under which we live, is an exceedingly healthy and vigorous one, capabl of a great variety of treatment without being destroyed or seriously impaired even. Since: Washington first occupied the Presi   X     X--vv A mSTORICAL ROMANCE. 33 dential chair, there is reason to believe that the government which he had so large a part in forming, has once and once only been greatly endangered. That was at the memorable strug- gle between Jefferson and Burr for the Presi- dency in 1800. Thirty-six ballotings were then necessary to determine which should be the, successful candidate. Consequences the most weighty and portentous were suspended upon the result of a contest, which for a long time seemed as likely to terminate in favor of one candidate as the other. There is no doubt but that a little corrupt and decisive action on the part of Aaron Burr, (no more perhaps than his successful competitor used,) would have secured to him the office. What that consummate po- litical gambler could have been thinking about, when apparently the game by a little bold play- ing could have been won by him, it is difficult now to tell. Nofact isbtteiethblised than\ that he was not a man to stand for trifles in the 2 :  accomplishment of his object; and when the n  a power he so much coveted was within his reach, Le it seems almost incredible to us, who have his g   after life to look at, that he should have refrain-  ed from using the means necessary to obtain it. it But he was not aware that his fortunes had H: 3       '        $4     BCURR5s CONmitA , reached a turning point, and that froin this period his fall would be much more rapid and astonishing than his elevation had been. It is easy to imagine with what bitter regret ii after years he must have looked back upon the fatal blunder he had committed in suffering so good a chance for the gratification of his ambition, and the realization of all his hopes, to pass ttn- improved. With a private character wretch- edly bad, a political integrity more than ques- tioned, feared and distrusted by most all the wise and good men of the country, he had nev- ertheless fought his way up step by step until at the early age of forty-four the Presidential chair was within his grasp. All this of course' could not have been accomplished without the possession of remarkable abilities, and it may be unhesitatingly affirmed-that Aaron IBurr did possess abilities that are very rarely found conm bined in one man to such an extraordinary de- gree. The remark that Junot made of Napo- leon might with propriety have been applied to him, that " centuries come between such men." But few men ever had the elements of great- ness divorced from moral principle in so emi- nent a degree. He had an intellect both keeln and massive, a restless and indefatigable en er   *  '     SX MtSTORIOAL ROXiANCE.  gy an indomitable will, and a spirit of perse verance that nothing could break down. He possessed a courage (hat knew not what fear was, and a patient, unflinching power of endur- ance that laughed at and mocked all the ordi- inary ills of life, "Th oppressors wrong, theproud man' contumely, The pangs 'of despised love, the laws delay, The insolence of office, and the spurns That patient merit of the unworthy takes" 'These ills of life enumerated by Hamlet as some of the hardest to be borne, could have had no terrors for him among the heavier in actions which he endured ,with almost match- less serenity and cheerfulness. Joined to qual- ities such as these, which never fail to obtain ifor their possessor power and fame of sonie kind, were other traits which contributed great- ly to enhance, and render almost irresistable the power and influence he wielded for more than ,  quarter of a century. Those who have read the' w torks of Chesterfield, know how much he dwelt upon the power of the graces in his let- ters to his son. For a long time he closed al- ;n most every letter with an exhortation for him to cultivate the graces it was said ofhim,     4w     BJKUss^ UI Jt51BiU X Vile Stanhope, strange to tell In twice onae hundred places, Taught his son the road to hell Escorted by the graces." Burr took the graces for his escorts, and crooked as were his ways in, most all other re- spects, he seemed to have followed this road with an undeviating directness. Such a man as Aaron Burr for a son would have filled the heart of Lord Chesterfield (if he had any,) with ecstacy, for he had every quality developed in a remarkably degree which that celebrated earl held in such great admiration. "The Lord among wits and the wit among Lords" was  no match for Aaron Burr in uaviter-in moda  or fortiter in re. Burr lured to him the  ces, and led them captive in a manner tl ould have excited the envy of Chesterfiel great models upon which he wished to form his son, BolinghrokeMarlborough and De Retz. An unusual endowment of mental capacity with great energy of character, are seldom found combined with fascinating manners and a pleasing address. -Great abilities and great pride are apt to produce in their possessor a cold and haughty demeanor. His conscious su- periority leads him to place a higher value up-   A mSToRIOAL ROMCE.      3 on his own thoughts than upon the opinions of others, and he finds it difficult to observe a suf- ficiently conciliatory attitude towards others, to gain their admiration, however necessary it may be for the gratification of his ambition.- It was not so with Aaron Burr; he was distin- guished over every other man in the country, for the elegance of his address, and his bland and-fascinating manners. But under manners so gentle and captivating, and an address in- sinuating to the last degree, there burned an ambition as towering and insatiable as that which led Caesar to cross the Rubicon, or Na- poleon to encounter the snows of Russia. If ever man had cause to be proud of the stock from which he sprung, it was Aaron Burr. His mother was daughter of the celebra- ted Jonathan Edwards, and his father was the famous Aaron Burr, second President of Prince- ton College. Both Edwards and Burr were more distinguished for their piety, talents and learning, than most any men of their time.- Such great piety, and remarkable fervor of re- ligious feeling as was manifested by the father and mother and grand-father of Aaron Burr, is rarely witnessed. It seems almost incredible that Aaron Burr should have been so devoid of     3    BBURReS CONSPIRAC'; religious principle, when it was the all pre- dominating one in both his parents and grand- parents. He was left an orphan at two years of age. He seems to have been unusually wil- ful and obstinate as a child. He ran away from his guardians when he was only four years of age, and again when he was ten. The latter time he had it in view to make a sea voyage, and had entered on an outward bound vessel as cabin boy. Hie was pursued and discovered, and finally prevailed upon though with consid- erable difficulty, to abandon his intentions.-- He was a precocious youth, and graduated from college before he was eighteen. He evinced at a very early age great powers of application, but having conceived a contempt for the capa- cities of his fellow students, most of his college life was spent in idleness and dissipation. He nevertheless won the first honors of his class, and acquired a reputation for marked ability. Burr was but nineteen when the battles of Lex- ington and Bunker Hill were fought. He was fired with an intense military ardor, and imme- diately joined the army at Cambridge. He rose from a sick bed to join the expedition of Arnold against Quebec. lHe participated in the incredible hardships and privations endured   X!     A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.     39 by all the men and officers in that expedition. At the attack upon Quebec, he was by the side of Montgomery and caught him in his arms as he fell. He was aid to Gen. Putnam at the battle on Long Island, and rendered such efficient assistance on that occasion, that he inspired his superior officers with the highest opinion of his merits as an officer. He formed a junction, with trifling loss, between a brigade in New York and the main army at Harlem, when the British lay between them, notwith- standing Gen. Knox and other officers declared it to be impracticable. At Valley Forge he quelled a mutiny by ordering out a detach- ment at night and smiting off the arm of the ringleader. At the battle of Monmouth his horse was shot under him, and his health was greatly impaired by the exposures which he there underwent. And from first to last thro'- out his military career, wherever an opportuni- ty occurred for him to distinguish himself, he displayed the most consummate military abil i iity, and inspired the army with the greatest : confidence in-him as a commander. No officer ever better knew the value of mo- ments in military operations than Burr. The quickness with which he conceived a project1 ' i"                  40     BURR'S CONSPIRACY; was only surpassed by the overpowering rapid- ity With which it was executed. Bonaparte said at Austerlitz, that the plan of the battle formed by his enemies was an admirable one, but they were half an hour too late in carrying it out.- "It is these half hours that win the battle," said he. No enemy ever got half an hour the start of Burr in an attack. When he had com- mand of a regiment upon the Hudson, the Bri- tish 2000 strong went out of New York into the neighboring country on a plundering excur- sion. Burr at the time had but 350 men under his command, and Gen. Putnam sent word to him recommending him to retire to the moun- tains with the public stores. Burr replied that he could not run away from an enemy that he had not seen, and that he would be answerable for the public stores and his men. Having as- certained where the enemy were, he immedi- ately started to meet them. He marched his men thirty miles in one afternoon and evening. Having arrived within a mile of their quarters, he led his men into the wood and permitted them to sleep while he spent the night alone in reconnoitering. Before daylight he attacked their picket guard-killed a good many men, and took some prisoners, without the loss of a   X:'i^    AA HSTORICAL OMANCE.     4 single man. He immediately sent expresses in every direction to rally the country. The British alarmed by so vigorous and unexpected At an attack, and not knowing how large a force might be upon them, retreated with great loss to the city, leaving most of their plunder be- hind them. X?  The friends of Aaron Burr always contended that he had in him the elements of a great cap- tain. His exploits during the war, seem to evince every quality developed in a remarkable degree that tends to produce the perfect soldier. With the impetuous ardor and fiery courage of a youthful hero of twenty, he seemed to unite vigilance, prudence, and discretion worthy of a veteran of sixty. Hie was ever active, watch- ful and crafty. Cunning as he was bold and X X fearless, the secretiveness and promptness of his movements, surprised both his friends and foes. He seemed to join to the bravery of the lion,   the stealth of the cat. Remarkably acute and quick i his perceptions, unerring in his judg- '; m ent of men, he possessed the most ready and adroit tact in adapting himself to the various dispositions he had to deal with. Generous and self-denying, bland and persuasive, he pos- sessed the esteem of his men in as great a de-     42     BURR'S CONSPIRACY; gree as most any other officer in the army; notF withstanding he disciplined them harder than most other officers. No regiment in the army was under better discipline than his. - He spar- ed himself no labor or hardships. He never called upon his men to undergo more than he was willing to endure himself. Crafty in plan- ning stratagems and all the deceptive arts prac- tised it warfare, he was equally cunning in de- tecting those of the enemy. He planned pro- ject after project against the enemy, the execu- tion of which would be entrusted to others, and under them perhaps fail. He solicited from Gen. Washington command of a force for an attack upon Staten Island, assuring him that he had the utmost confidence in being able to suc- ceed. Lord Stirling (whose capacity Burr held in a good deal of contempt,) was given the command, and under him it proved unsuccess- ful. Burr was induced to resign his command in the army from an apprehension probably that he had not much chance for promotion, while Washington was Commander-in-Chief. On Burr's first return from Canada, he was invited by Washington to enter his family- where he remained but a short time. His tem- porary residence, however, with Washington   :A EISTORICAL ROMANOE    48 was sufficient to create on the part of the latter, *  a distrust of the former, which was never after' removed; and Burr's hostility to Washington through life was open and unmitigated. While in the army, Burr thought Washington did not d  give him proper credit for his achievements, and failed to promote him as fast as he deem- ed his services or merits entitled him to expect, Although Washington entertained a high opin- ion of Barr as an officer, he h ad no confidence in his morals and principles, and therefore it is not surprising that he should refuse to promote him or give him opportunities to distinguish himself any oftener than circum- stances seemed absolutely to require. Know- ing, too, Barr's bitter hatred towards him, and the disparaging manner in which he spoke of his military talents-aside from the prejudice which such a knowledge would na- "turally create, feeling no confidence in the in- tegrity of the man, it would have been strange indeed if he had not been inclined to keep a little in the background, the great abilities / which he could not deny that Burr possessed. i  I health was the reason assigned for his leav- g the ary, but disappointed ambition un- oubtedly, had the most to do with the matter rly a h iottQ     UISUtJ 3UKJ UULNJI:'iAUY  After leaving the military service, Burr com- menced the study of Law. He was admitted to the bar at the age of twenty-six, and was ap- pointed attorney general of the State of New York at thirty-one. A few years later he was chosen U. S. Senator. le carried into his pro- fession as a lawyer, the same energy and labo- rious habits which had distinguished him as an officer. His success as a lawyer was almost un- precedented. He acquired at once a lucrative practice and great fame for legal ability. Ham- ilton alone was deemed worthy of being consid- ered by his admirers as a rival. He was adroit and indefatiguable as a politician, and s6on ob- tained the highest influence with the Republi- can Party. The election for President in 1800 was a fiercely contested one. The Federalists were supposed to have a large majority in the country, and but for the skillful management, the tact and matchless perseverence of 3Burr the Federal party would have undoubtedly re- tained the ascendancy in the nation. Jefferson and Burr were the two highest candidates for President and Vice President, and their votes were equal. After thirty-six ballotings in the House of Representatives, Jefferson was finally chosen, but he never forgave Burr for having   been a rival for the Presidemrcy, and from that time forth the most determined efforts were made by the friends of the President to destroy IBurr's influence with the Republican Party.-- Their efforts proved successful, and Burr left the office of Vice President with a reputation and influence with his party seriously impaired. About the time his office as vice president expired he was nominated as a candidate for Governor of New York. Contrary to his ex- pectations, he was defeated. He ascribed his defeat in no small degree to Alexander Hamil- ton, who opposed his election with the most ar-- dent and determined assiduity. iBurr embit- tered by these disappointments and stung at last beyond endurance by the repeated thwarts his ambition had, met with from the efforts and influence of Hamilton, determined upon his death at the risk of his own life. The struggle between the friends of Jefferson and Burr for the Presidency would have un- doubtedly terminated in favor of the latter with- out any decisive measures being taken on Burr's part but for the influence of Hamilton. He la- bored with great spirit and earnestness to pre- vent the election of Burr. In a letter to Oliver Wolcott, written just previous to the election,     "     BU1RRIs CONSPIRACY; he expressed great fear that some Federalists might be induced to vote for Burr instead of Jefferson. He exhorted Mr. Wolcott to do all in his power to prevent such a result, and in that letter occurs the passage which we gave ia a previous chapter, comparing Burr with Cataline. While smarting under the defeat of election for Governor, he found some trifling cause for sending Hamilton a challenge. It was acept- ed, though with a good deal of reluctance by Hamilton, who held duelling in great abhor- rence. But his antagonist artfully forced him into it, and he was killed. The whole country was filled with indignation against Burr for the death of Hamilton, and he was obliged to re- main several days concealed in the house of a friend in Philadelphia. What had more in- fluence perhaps than all other causes in making Burr wish the death of Hamilton was the schemes he was planning for the future. When the conspiracy Cataline had formed was nearly ripe for execiftfion, his friends ad- vised him as the first step to take the life of Cicero. But Cataline thought there was no oc- casion for haste in the matter. The delay -was his ruin, for the vigilance and 'eloquence of Ci-   ' A ItTSATIOAL OfOMAi. 4. cero defeated all his plans. Hamilton stood in a similar relation to 'Burr to what Cicero did to Cataline. But Burr was determined not to commit the blunder Cataline had made, and he resolved upon the death of Hamilton as a prea paratory step for the execution of his projects in the South West. The events in our story date from this period: in- his life, It may be well to mention here that a trait for which Col. Burr Was greatly distinguished was a uniform cheerfulness of temper. When Xi t a young maln, he wrote a friend, , That mind is truly great that can bear with equanimity the trifling and unavoidable vexations of life and be affected only by those events Which deters mine our substantial bliss." He acted upon this belief with the strictest fidelity, .and throughout his long and chequered life, was characterized for the playfulness, vivacity and gaiety of his disposition. A very distinguished essayist has said: i  "But that which takes my fancy most in the heroic class, is the good humour and hilarity they exhibit. "Sport is the bloom ahad glow of a perfect health. The great will not condescend to take     48      BUfRR'S OONSPIRACY; anything seriously; all must be as gay as the song of a canary, though it were the building of cities or the eradication of old and foolish churches and nations, which have cumbered tile earth long thousands of years. Simple hearts, put all the history and customs of this world behind them and play their own game in inno- cent defiance of the blue laws of the world; and such would appear, could one see the human race assembled in vision, like little children frolicking together, though to the eyes of man- kind at large, they wear a stately and solemn garb of works and influences." Whatever Burr was engaged in, whether vice or virtue, treason or patriotism, he was al- ways as gay as the song of the canary, and he would frolick for hours with little children, to all appearance as happy as the happiest of them.   *  ".O  * CHAPTER' IV . Wer left Col Burr seated at a table in his li- brary, busily writing. It was past midnight, when the door behind him was quietly opened, and a young woman stole softly in and secretly :t  approached his chair; as she is bending over his shoulder to see what he is writing, we will de- scribe her appearance to the reader. She was a little below the common height of women, with a form finely rounded, and exquisitely proportioned. .Her fine face was characterized J by the same marks of beauty as those which distinguished Col. Burr. She had the same  bold and handsome outline of feature, the same black and flashing eye, the same majestic car- riage and distinguished air, though over all was thrown the charm of female grace and lovliness. The youthfulness of her face did not seer to in- dicate that she had seen more than twenty sum- mers, but the thought on the brow and the air -of repose and self reliance which pervaded her countenance, seemed to declare-that more years must have passed over her head. I  LTheodosia Alston at this time was twenty-four !.         5u     BBURR'S coSPIRACt; years of age. Father and daughter probably never were more truly devoted to each other than Col. Burr and his daughter. The bright- est spot in his character was his attachment for Theodosia. It was of the most sincere and ar- dent nature. He had but one child, and her mother died when she was quite young. Theo- dosia Burr was said to have been one of the most learned and accomplished women of her time. Her father bestowed upon her education, the most patient, careful and assiduous atten- tion, and his pains and labor were not without their reward. He often confessed that he was indebted to her for a very, great portion of the happiness which he enjoyed in this life; and Theodosia thought few persons had ever had so many blessings showered upon them as it had been her lot to receive,-she had such a hus- band, such a child and such a father. His letters to her breathed the warmest affec- tion, and she seemed to have been possessed with his entire confidence. Amid all his schemes of ambition, his high hopes, great la- bogs and petty intrigues, she was the object to which his thoughts often and irresistibly turned. The correspondence between them was a model of wit andsprightliness, and clearly denoted the of  wi  a' a   XSl    x A lsTORIOAt ROMANCi.  warm attachment and deep interest each belt in the other. In her childhood, Col. Burr said he hoped by Theodosia to convince the world what neither sex appeared to believe, that women had souls, He had a great disgust for fashion- able education, and was determined that Theo- i dosia should be something more than a mere woman of fashion. He accordingly subjected her mind to severe training and discipline. He attended to her studies, and watched her pro- gress with unremitting solicitude and devotion. The course of education he prescribed for her produced the results he had anticipated. She grew up possessed with a masculine strength of intellect and an energy of character that was equalled by ifew men of her time, yet con- joined with a female grace and loveliness that were surpassed by no other woman. At the age of eighteen she married Joseph Alston, of South Carolina, who was afterwards Governor of that State and one of the wealthiest men in the country. We left Theodosia Alston looking over the shoulder of her father while he was writing as follows: "My dear Theo.-Late asthe hour is, I find myselfirresistibly led to write you some- thing; though fully convinced of the,*unworthi     BURR'S CONSPIRACY; ness of the object I am addressing, (don't over- look that fact madam.) Three days have pas- sed since the time you fixed upon for announ- cing to me your arrival at Philadelphia, and not a word have I heard from you yet. Of course I ascribe this delay or negligence to the idle habits you have acquired at the South. To what else can I ascribe them? No doubt while I am foolish enough to be writing this after mid- night, you are comfortably in bed, snori - He had not time to finish the word or sen- tence, for a box on the ear and "Inever snore, sir," started him as if he had been shot.. The, next instant he had his daughter in his arms. and exclaiming, "How glad I am to see you,. my dear Theo. and pray how came you here at this time of night, and how could you get in without my hearing you@" "Ah, was'nt it audacious, my dear father, for a young and unsophisticated woman to presume to surprise the vigilant and keen-sighted lion in his den? You must know that when I reached Philadelphia I was so anxious to see you, " tio' fully conscious of the unworthiness of the object" I was hastening to reach, (" don't overlook that," sir.) "Impoudence," do you say, in quoting the   X BISTORICAL ROMANCE     3 i [ carefully written language of the greatest man in the country"  "Go, on, go on, continue with your journey." "I had rather not, father. It is late, and I have reached my journey's end." "You may be forced to continue it, if you don't go on with the account you commenced. The indulgence of your husband is spoiling you. I will put you under a course of discipline while you are here. But, tell me how you hap- pen to be here now." "Well, father, as I said, when we reached  Philadelphia, I was so anxious to get here, that I could not make up my mind to stop even an hour there. As 3fari's business would de- tain him several days, I was determined not to wait for him. I consequently pushed! forward as rapidly as any conveyances could be procu- red to take me. The moment I reached the city I sent my servant forward to plan with Jack a surprise for you, and judgingfrom ny own in- dustrious habits acquired at the South, I sup- posed you would be up." "I would box your ears if I was not so glad to see you." "Yes, father, but I have always found you glad enough to see me to prevent that event     54     BURR'S CONSPIRAC; from happening. Was not the plan an admi- rably contrived and executed one? and I needn't say how happy I am to see you again. But what is Sam waiting for?-" On turning round Col. Burr discovered his black servant Sam standing near the door in a broad grin, with a countenance expressive of the greatest happiness. "Why, Sam, what is the matter?" said Col. Burr. "M'issus 'rived." "Missus arrived!"Do I need to be told of that? but what of it? Is it any thing for you to be happy about? There will be twice as much work for you to do We shall all have to wait upon her, and she will turn everything topsy turvey in the house." "I like a muss, such as missus makes," said Sam. "You do, do you? Well if you was in my place, liable to have your papers all overhauled and thrown into confusion, your precious time occupied by idle talk, enticed off here and there and all independence of action taken away, you might have less partiality for one of missus' "No I should't, massa, begging' pardon.. What   A HSTORIOAL IOMANE.    55 you send me to post office four times in one hour to see if Southern mail 'rived, if you didn't want to hear from missus " "Poh, Sam. Hearing from her, is very dif- ferent from seeing her; and with their idle hab- its at the South, unless we hear from her every week, we may be apprehensive that something ill has overtaken her, the gout, apoplexy or something of the kind." -!"Never mind what your master says, Sam," said Theodosia, " he is so delighted at our arri- val that he can hardly be considered in his right mind." "Yes, missus ; Sam knows."  "Well, Sam, whateVer you may know," said Col. Burr, "just keep the information to your- self, if it would have the effect to make your missus any more conceited than she now is.- But what are you waiting for " "What will missus have with her tea?" "Oh, sure enough; whatever there is in the house. Get it quick, Sam." "But," said Theodosia, "as it is getting so late, and father might not wish to be kept up-" "Hold your tongue, silly girl. Away with you, Sam."  "Yah, yah, massa not like to -be kept up by     56     BURR'S CONSPIRACY;. missus," exclaimed Sam, as he left the room., "Now tell me, my dear father, how your en- terprize prospers." "As well as could be expected, Theo. I make new accessions to my followers every day,-- mostly young men of talent and energy, but without fortune. Money, money, the great lev- er in all enterprises is the only thing needed to ensure complete success. But I feel certain  that my Theodosia will yet reign in the pala- ces of the Montezumas." "Supposing she should prove a Goneril or a Regan, and persuade her father to resign his power into her hands, and treat him as did those models of filial affection and gratitude." "If I could only see my daughter a queen, I believe I would willingly become, if it was ne- cessary, a hewer of wood and a drawer of wa- ter to her, for a short time at least." "Fine talk, that, to come from the lips of the ambitious, cold hearted and remorseless A. B., the Cataline of America." "The Nero-child, the Nero of America.- You are behind the times. Either you don't take the newspapers or you are too lazy to read them, I don't know which. But the Cataline figure has been abandoned as being too lenient,   a MSTORICAL ROMANCE.    57 Otl!I suspect for the circumstances of the ease, and} the new comparison is the only one in favor I  with the public just now. Young Thompson, you don't know him, do you? but you soon will; he is a devoted adherent of mine-poor, but talented and ambitious, full of wit; and sar- casm, and a very agreeable companion.) He was amusing a party of us the other day by narrating to us an account he gave a number of bitter federalists of a gun-powder plot I had formed for blowing up the Government. On my submitting the plan to my friends, he said that they at once pronounced that it was not feasible, on the score of expense, the govern- Ij ment not being worth the powder. Some cheap- g ger plan must be devised, they said. Brown, one of the party, who had been listening to Thompson's story, said he knew a crazy inven- tor who pretended to have invented an air-tight boat, capable of holding a large number of men, guns, ammunition, &c., which could be made to move under water, and thus approach an ene- my's ship without fear of harm from her guns. I e had no doubt, he said, but that the Presi- dent (whose passion for novelties is said to grow upon him,) could be induced to give this boat a trial, and as it could be made to sink, be-     58     BURRS CONSPIRACY; yond a doubt, he thought if the President and his cabinet were enticed on, board and then drowned, no great expense need attend the af- fair. The objection existing against the gun- powder plot would be obviated by this plan. I suggested that the removal of the President and cabinet might serve to strengthen the govern- ment, as they stand in the same relation to it, as the drunken man at the helm does to-the vessel he is steering. But we will talk more of these things another time. "The administration has been frightened in- to unwonted activity and vigilance by our movements, but they will only help us, as an excitement will now be of great benefit to us. It will save the necessity of advertising for re- cruits. Eaton and Truxton are- friendly to the enterprise and hope it will succeed, but are not willing to commit themselves too. far at present, and it could hardly be expected of them to risk a certainty for what they deem might be attend- ed with some uncertainty. But it must suc- ceed, nevertheless. New Orleans may be con- sidered as already at my disposal as Wilkinson can take possession of it with the force at his command at any time, But that he will not do until I join him with the men I am able ta   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE     59 X  muster between Pittsburgh and New Orleans. -  I have every reason to expect that the number I shall thus be able to collect will be very large.. New Orleans once in our possession, recruits& would flock in fast. We could then with a. formidable body of men under my command, await the moving of the waters. If the Presi- dent should deem it advisable to send a force, to call me to account, I could rely upon my' command being increased to the full extent of the army sent against me. Like the forces sent by James II. against William of Orange, they only added so much to the strength of the army of the latter, for they immediately joined it.--. The invasion of Mexico, taken in connection with the confidence reposed in the ability of the leader of it, will have allurements which will tend very much to concentrate all the adven- turous spirits in the country at New Orleans. "Very uneasy it is said, lies the head that wears a President's hat, about this time. Well, the head evidently isn't strong enough to bear such a burden. "There is one matter that I have in hand in which-I count greatly upon your presence to aid me. You recollect Charles Howard, (he only son of the old Federalist Howard,) a fair     60      BURR'S CONSPIRACY; 'haired, handsome youth, that you used to know before you were married. He has spent the last seven or eight years at College and in travel- ;ing. He is a man of fair abilities, not much ambition, and what the world calls very con- scientious. lie will inherit the whole of his fathers vast property, and if he could be indiu- ced to join our enterprise, he would be an ex- ceedingly valuable acquisition. He is about the age of my Theodosia, blt of course no match for her in ability. I have found it diffi- cult to approach him, as without doubt he has been sufficiently warned against the insidious or sepentine advances of the great corruptor. But could he resist the attractions of the most learned, accomplished and handsome woman in the country?" "Pshaw, father, if I was half .as vain of my self as you pretend to be of me, I should be the most intolerable woman in the country. I re- collect Charles Howard well, we were play- mates together, frequently, before I was twelve years old, and I now remember that he was the lover selected for me by my girl compan- ions. He was a modest, quiet boy, with a very amiable disposition, and I liked him better than any of my boy companions."   a nRiiT'UCILUAL ROMANCE.   tj1 "' I am glad to hear that," said Col. Burr, "it will open the way for a friendship at once." Long and affectionately did Col. Burr and his daughter talk of his schemes for the future of his successes here and failures there, of his hopes and fears, of the devotion of some friends and the falling off of others, of the opposition of enemies to be met and overcome, and of i  dangers to be apprehended from this quarter j and that, until the night was far advanced.- At last Col. Burr said- i  "There is another matter in which I must 'jj have your assistance, Theodosia. You know the Countess de Montfort. She is the greatest i riddle I ever met with. I can make nothing of her. Her reception of me seemed gracious j enough at first, but all at once the minx turns. a cold shoulder on me, and I am not able to get at the least explanation of her conduct. I am sorely puzzled to account for it, and my peace ;i of mind is not a little disturbed in consequence. M y Ariel has kept a sharp look-out of her move- ;  ments, and it does not appear that she has any very devoted admirer, whose influence might account for the change ir-her conduct. Your ready wit and knowledge of the female heart will at once unravel the mystery, and--"     U     BUUKR-b UONSrPIAAU      ;jgY. "I shall unravel no such mysteries') said  Theodosia, " so you may set your heart at rest on that point. 'The great trifler with female hearts,' gets completely confounded by arts, that to a woman of ordinary discernment are  as transparent as the noohday sun, and when i he is hoodwinked and drawn beyond his depth  by his simplicity and blindness, he exclaims, 'Help, Theodosia, or I sink!' I have helped.  too often in such cases, and this time I think I  will let you drown. Ha! ha! Now, father, I  am going to bed and will leave you to finish  your letter. Good night!'  "Good night, impudence, and recollect, Mad- i am, we rise early here. 1 Will have no indo- v lent southern habits grafted ipon my domestic  arrangements."              i "What time do you dine, father?" "At three; and breakfast at seven."  "I will try to be up at dinner," exclaimed -  Theodosia, as she left the room, laughing. On being left alone, Col. Burr soliloquises asi follows: "Did father ever have such a child before. Solomon never made a truer remark  than when he said 'a Wise son maketh a glad! father.' Theodosia is son, daughter, and every-  thing else to me.-She must be a Queen.--What         A,     A .HTORIOAL ROMANO CE  Queen did the World ever produce half her equal! But there is work to be done before that event can be accomplished. I wish the jade had explained the Countess' conduct-she could have done it so easily." But--'Sam.' "Here, sir." "Be very careful and not disturb your miss tress in the morning-let her sleep as long as she can, and Peggy, of course will see that eves ry thing is provided which your mistress has a fondness for." "Peggy and I know, sir." "And, Sam, I want you to get up earlier than usual, to go with me to the market.- There is some advantage in having the first pick. Where is Cesar? I thought I heard him bark a little while ago." "Gone and laid down at Missus' door." "Very well, let him lay there-and nowI will go to bed. It is useless trying to. work any more to-night."     CHAPH PTER    V.- "WIEN Thompson rose on the morning pre- ceding that of his intended departure from New Haven, he found lying on his table a note, which contained the following: "Will Mr. Thompson call at the office of A. Burr, to- ;day, if convenient?"As soon as he had fin- ished his breakfast he repaired at once to the office of Col. Burr. Finding him alone, the latter said he had some suggestions to make which might, perhaps, be of some service to him, while in New Haven.  Some twenty-five years ago," said he, "I spent a few months there. A Miss Brown, was the leading beauty of the town, and a great belle. She was exceed- ingly handsome, high s-pirited and intelligent. All the young men in town were in love with her; but she had the reputation of being a co- quette. I soon discovered that to see fier, was to become enamored of her. Being a stranger, with some military reputation, perhaps she took more fancy to me than to other young men! about town. Be that as it may, I was greatly taken with her, and spent a good deal of time   X  . A HSITORICAL ROMANCE. 65 5- very happily in her society. When I left the place, our parting was a painful one, but we  both vowed eternal friendship. She shortly after married Mr. Brooks, a physician, and I have not seen her since. If she could be of any particular assistance to you while in New Ha- :  ven, I think if you should say to her, that I hoped I could still count upon her friendship, X: and any assistance rendered you would be the i strongest proof of it, it might avail something. Tell her I ask in behalf of a friend, what I should have denied to myself."  'You know the Harlows there I presume.- X  They at one time pretended to be very warm friends of mine. Since I have ceased to be ii favor with 'the powers that be,' they have de- serted me, in common with hundreds of others. Well, such things have always happened since the creation of the world. It only shows how :B  agreeable it is to have power and retain one's friends; I trust they will not persuade you to forsake me also. You needn't assure me to the contrary, I have no fears of you." :  '"But how is Mrs. Brooks to be of any ser- jiH  vice to me, Col. Burr?" "That is for you to judge. In the course of my life, I have received more substantial aid O   .    5       .     ...66  BTe8 i oOTAcY; --- from the friendship of women than I ever did from men. But you may not need any assis, tance from Mrs. Brooks ; I only suggested that perhaps you might obtain it, if circumstances should occur to render it valuable. Excuse me for having sent for you to impart so trifling a matter, for that was all I had to say. But you know I never neglect trifles." "Do you think there is any prospect of How- ard's being induced to join our enterprize?" "I fear not," replied Henry, "his prejudices against you, I think are too deeply rooted, to hope for it." It will not do to despair too soon," said Col. Burr, "I think he is of too easy and indolentV a nature to hold out very long, if unremitting and persevering efforts are made to gain him." (Some other influence besides mine must be brought to bear upon him," said Henry, "he baffles all my skill." "If my ablest ally fail, who could succeed?" said Col. Burr. "But persevere, persevere.- All men are to be won in some way, you know." Some one now entered, and Henry left. "That man finds out everything," said Henry to himself, as he walked home, "I should not be surprised if he knew all about my affair   A -LHTORICL ROMANCE.   ,67   with Susan Brooks. Well, I shall know some- thing more about it myself, in a short time." A good deal more time was required to make a journey between New Haven and New York then than now. Thompson and Howard were nearly three days on the way, but the roads were in bad order, and the coach heavily load- 1:; ed. Their journey was enlivened by but few incidents and on the whole was dull and disa- greeable. d  They arrived in New IIaven the night before 1- the meeting was to take place. The news of their arrival soon spread over town and caused considerable agitation in the families of the Brooks' and Harlows'. The day following, Thompson kept himself confined to the house, ;1 fearing if he went out, that he might meet Har- low,-an interview with whom might be of sucha nature as to prevent him from following the independent course he had marked out for himself, at the meeting. In the afternoon, when Charles called on Henry to enquire after his health, (the rumor having spread that he was unwell,) the latter said to him: "I had a glimpse of Harlow to-day; you would hardly know him, he has -assumed such     68    B-URROS CONSPIRACY;  a pretentious air, and dresses in such an outre style. I am going to the meeting to-night, and if he is very severe upon Col. Burr, I intend to  follow him and show him lp a little. I have been thinking that his extravagant style of  dress would be an excellent topic to touch up- on lightly. Would it be in very bad taste to allude to it in a delicate way?" "To be sure it would; don't think of such a  thing," said Charles, "your own impulses would, and have told you that it would be im- proper. What precedent can be found for so)  treating an adversary in public?" "Patrick Henry, I believe, was once twitted : with considerable effect, in the halls of legislae - tion too, on his dress, but who cares for prece-  dents in such a case as this! It is nothing but  a small town aflair that comes off to-night, and l the lowest kind of personalities would no doubt be pardoned." "It is too nice a distinction," said Charles, "for me to be able to perceive the difference, - between being a blackguard in a country town and in a large city; and for a public speaker  to cut up -his opponent on his dress is nothing  better than blackguardism, at best."  "Well," said Henry, "it is nothing but a    X5   Aa IUSTORICAL ROMANC.     69 personal matte rbetween Harlow and me, that in- ducesme to speak to-night, and as I consider that he has injured me deeply, I must avail myself of the weapons with which I think I can inflict the deepest cuts. I shall lay aside for the time being a high sense of what may be dignified and becoming, to be resumed again after the object I have in view is attained." "You do not require to be told," said Charles, "that a reputation as a blackguard once acquir- ed, cannot be thrown off as easily as an old coat." "I can't help it," replied Henry, "I am a little reckless of consequences, so that the end I have in view can be accomplished. A few squibs and serpents tossed in among his finery, would make destructive work with it, and the multitude would be vastly amusedc with the fun." "And it would all be made at the expense of your reputation and Harlow's feelings. I am surprised that the proud and high-minded Hen- ry Thompson, the man distinguished for his punctilious sense of decorum and etiquette, should all at once become so indifferent about the dignity of his behaviour." "Our dignity 1 think becomes, less exacting     70     BURR'S CONSPIRACY; as we increase in wisdom," said Henry. "The period at which we guard and protect it with the most intense jealousy and watchfulness, is between the ages of eighteen and twenty-two; after that in proportion to our good sense, it becomes a matter of less importance to us.- Dignity, is only a covering assumed to conceal a want of brains, and those who support the most of it, are generally too feeble to support anything else." "Dignity and what is proper and in good taste are essentially different," said Charles.- "But I see you have no idea of following my advice, so we will say no more about it. I have seen Misd Brooks to-day; she is a greater beauty than ever. I can't help thinking she forgot you too soon." "Never mind," said Henry. "I predict Har- low will remember me long enough." Harlow, who took the deepest interest in the proceedings of Henry, interpreted his remain- ing at home into a favorable augury. The storm at this time was blowing hard against Col. Burr, and Harlow thought Thompson might have bowed before it, and repented of the connection he had formed with him. Act- ing upon this belief he was fired with new    A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.    71 X . courage, and determined in the speech he was to make at night, to deal more severely and unsparingly than he had contemplated of Col.  Ii Burr and his followers. This course he tho't would have the effect to sink Thompson still lower in his own estimation and that of the pub- lic. Adversity has a different effect upon dif- ! iferent individuals, "According as their souls were formed to sink of climb." tarlow- was one who ever stood ready to fawn upon the successful, and never bothered his head about such metaphysical enquiries as the cause of their success, and whether it was deserved or not. The fact was enough for him to know, and he ever stood ready to " crook i the pregnant hinges of the knee where thrift may follow fawning." He- thought Henry must have come to the conclusion that he was joined in a desperate enterprise which must surely prove abortive, and the mortification and humiliation which he would have felt un- der similar circumstances, he supposed Henry '  was now suffering. He little knew how great ; - a contract existed, between the haughty and unconquerable spirit of Henry Thompson, and j his own truckling and time-serving disposition. The lesson which carried with it that knowl-     BURR'S CONSPIRACY; - edge, left an impression on his mind, that time could not eradicate. When evening arrived and the speakers and people had assembled at the town house where the meeting was to be held, Ienry entered and took a seat against the wall, though near enough the speakers to see 'and hear them distinctly. It was a meeting of the Republican party, and the first speakers hardly alluded to Col. Burr. It was left for William Harlow to expend the whole force of his logic, learning and eloquence upon the devoted heads of Col. Burr and his adherents. When Harlow first commenced his attentions to Miss Brooks, he thought that a more partic- ular regard to his dress might be advisable, and as his taste was anything but a severely classic one, the effect was diametrically the op- posite of what he wished and expected. He overloaded his hands and bosom with jewelry, wore clothes made of fancy colors and cut in a jaunty and extravagant style. Thompson no- ticed this fact as he saw him pass the house in the morning. No great enthusiasm characterised the meet- ing, .as there was no particular topic of' very great interest to be discussed. When Mr, Har-   A MSTORICAL ROMANCE,.   low rose to speak, not being accustomed to public speaking, he was somewhat embarrassed. As he proceeded, however, and warmed with his subject, he got over his embarrassment, and his denunciation of Col. Burr had been so well prepared that he went through it glibly and earnestly. Harlow's education had not been neglected, though he was no scholar.- His speech was made up of hackneyed news- paper phrases, and all the virulent and abusive epithets against Col. Burr in vogue at this time, dressed up in an inflated and bombastic style, were repeated with great emphasis. He spoke of his blasted character, his profligacy, his li- centiousness, and his total disregard for all the decencies of life. , He compared him with Cat- aline, and made the latter much the better man of the two. "He seduced to his side," he said, "all young men of corrupt hearts and weak principles,-the ambitious, the profligate, and the reckless, were all enrolled under his banner," and wound up with the sweeping assertion that "no man should be trusted who was known to be a thorough supporter of his." Many parts of this speech were uttered with great energy and elicited some applause. But long before he had finished, the appearance of    74     BURR'S CONSPIRACY; Henry plainly indicated that inflammable particles were collecting for a cloud to burst; but Harlow had become too much excited to perceive or apprehend danger from any quarter. After he sat down, a temporary silence suc- ceeded, when Henry Thompson stepped for- ward, and quietly ascended the stand. Every eye was fixed upon him, and for a moment the  greatest stillness reigned throughout the room. It lasted but lor a moment, however, when Harlow commenced hissing, and was immedi ately joined by a good many of his friends.- Thompson stood silent and unmoved, but he was pale with passion. The hissing did not continue long, before some applause was com-  menced, which in a short time served to pro- duce quiet. Thompson then commenced speak- ing in a low, but clear and distinct tone, altho' his voice quivered with emotion, which he could not wholly suppress. He said although he had been absent from the place sometim e,  lie believed he was not entirely unknown there. j He could hardly account, he said, bor the dis- approbation with which his appearance on that stand had been hailed, and his hearers would be  able to judge of his surprise at having observed  -'  "'    i   A HSTORICAL ROMANCZ.     7Us  that these marks of disapprobation hadl been, commenced by one, with whom formerly he had been well acquainted, and between whom and himself, the most friendly relations for ; aught he knew to'the contrary, had always ex- isted. They had always been on the same side I  in politics, and entertained the same. views of public men and measures. le recollected,. however,. that on some occasions he-had sug- gested to his old friend, (as he had always con- iX sidered him,) that his admiration of Col. Burr- might be too unqualified.  I knew," said Hen- ry, "that Col. Burr had some glaring faults, 'I and thought my friend (as I must call'him,) in :J ihis enthusiastic friendship for him. was too blind to his failings. This slight difference ofopin- : iion certainly could not have been sufficient to en- :: j gender unkind feelings, and as he (the speaker,) had not changed his opinion of Col Burrsince, he did not see what political offence he had com- mited that merited the indignation of his old friend. He remembered he said the day he left town he was in the store of the gentleman, and paid a debt which he had 'there contracted.- As he left, he received from him a friendly shake of the hand, and what, appeared -to be cordial and heartfelt wish fbr his success and i11   -      76      BURR'S CONSPIRACY; happiness. Since that time he (the speaker,) was not aware of having mentioned the gentle- man's name half a dozen times, and certainly he had never committed one single act with a view to cause him the least injury or pain." While Thompson had been making these re- marks, the circumstance of his having been a lover of Susan Brooks spread like wildfire, and before ten minutes had elapsed, hardly a man in the room was not aware that rivalry for the  affections of a young lady, was the ground of difficulty between him and Harlow. Judging hastily though not illogically from the few cir- cumstances of the case, they were enabled to get hold of, they had decided that Thompson had not received fair play. Joined to other considerations he was known to be poor, and Harlow rich. With the multitude, other things being equal, the poor man receives a much greater share of sympathy than the rich one.- But in this case they were not equal. Thomp- son was a very handsome man, modest, polite and unpretending in his manners, exceedingly graceful and polished as a speaker. Harlow, we have shown, was the reverse of all this.- When, therefore, Thompson had proceeded thus far in his opening remarks, the conciliatory   , X Fr   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.     " and seemingly deprecating manner in which they were made. joined to the other circum- stances which we have just narrated, had the effect completely to 'enlist the feelings of the audience in his behalf; and at this stage of his speech he met, with the most rapturous ap- 7  plause. He now proceeded to bear down upon ;I s his adversary with an irony less concealed, and a tone of voice less soft and subdued. Encour- aged by the sympathy and applause of his 1:!s  hearers, he poured a steady stream of sarcasm and invective upon the head of Harlow, which as it drew deafening cheers from the audience, seemed almost to crush the poor object of it. X.  "There seems to be a tone of exaggeration and an inconsistency about the gentleman," said he, 'which, to say the least, is not be-- ;  coming. A few years ago the most warm and enthusiastic admirer of Col. Burr, and now his, most bitter denunciator. He does not seem to- recognize any intermediate degree of excellence, or baseness. Every thing with him is superla- . tively good, or outrageously bad. In listening to his speech to-night, I could not help think- ing, that when he studied grammar at school, he must have skipped all adjectives except those which belong to the superlative degree..     ?S8   -  BURR'S CONSPIRACY; 'This tendency to exaggeration manifests itself in everything. The dress as well as the lan- ;guage of a man proclaim it. There was, for in- stanee, the most perfect and beautiful harmony between the tai-fetched poetical quotations of the gentleman, and the elaborate frizzles of his hair, between his big words and the big but- -tons on his coat, between his ostentatious jew- elry, and the ornate splendor of his language, between the vacant expression of his counte- nance and the utter barrenness of his ideas. In  short the most exquisite harmony pervaded everything in and about the whole man. "I do not dispute the gentleman's right to decorate his person in the fashion most congen- ial to his taste. I only say that fashion, what-' ever it may be, will be more or less expressive of the character of the man. But I admit, when 1 reflect that no small part of the fortune which enables him to sport his brilliant rings, to load  his shirts and waistcoats with jewelry, to ren-  der glossy and fragrant his auburn locks, to; roll through your streets with his gaudy and flaunting equipages,-when I reflect that the , wealth which enables him to do all this, was  obtained in great part through the influence of the man, upon whom le has this evening, dealt   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.     79 such unsparing and virulent abuse, I feel a sense of sickening abhorrence for the ingratitude of which human nature is susceptible. -"I am aware, gentlemen, that it is nndigni- fled and unbecoming in a speaker to remark upon so small, and unimportant a matter as the dress of an opponent; but I trust you will part don me for thus offending against good taste, when the gentleman's finery upon which I have I  dwelt at too much length, so forcibly reminded me of the favors of the man whose friendship enabled him to procure it, and which friendship he has so shamefully abused. I  "L My friends you all very well know how esti- :ii  mable a character is the fairweather, velvet friend. While fortune favors you, he will cling to you with the pertinacity of a gad fly. Every X:  new honor you receive, every new bounty that drops into your lap, add new zeal and warmth to his friendship. The heat and ardor of his de- votion are increased in a ratio corresponding ex- actly to the magnitude of your accessions of for- tune. Every one who is acquainted with Col. Burr, knows how much pleasure it affords him to render favors to his friends. His friendship and benevolence are seldom appealed to in vain, and these traits in his character are the secret of     80     tB'URRS CONSPIRACY;  that unequalled attachment and devotion which he inspires in his supporters. While he had ac- cess to the public crib, while his influence could procure fat government jobs, for his friends, he had no followers more devoted and zealous, more humble and sycophantic, none who stood more ready to prostrate themselves in the dust at his feet, than the man who has just heaped upon his head such measureless contumely and abuse. The reason no doubt is obvious enough to you: Col. Burr is in exceedingly bad odor with the present administration. He has less influence, perhaps, with the heads of government than the most humble individual present. It is prover- bial, gentlemen, that the hatred of the traitor sur- passes that of all others, and no man labors so earnestly and zealously to injure another as he who abandons and betrays the man who has be- friended him." It was well known how deserving Harlow was  of the sarcasms and indignation Thompson be- , stowed upon him, and being made more effect-  ive by the tone of bitterness and energy with  which they were uttered, he could not summon I stoicism enough to hear him through,. Whei the hits were the hardest, and the applause the loudest, he seized his hat and rushed out of the   room, leaving Henry master of the field and completely triumphant. After Harlow's de- parture, Thompson ceased his personalities, and proceeded to speak on general subjects. He had succeeded in his object,-the humiliation of Harlow,-and beyond that he felt little in- terest in the meeting. C HAPTER VI. TlE news of the events that had transpireed at the town hall was not long in reaching the ears of the Brooks'. Susan was intensely agi- tated, and it required all the pride and deter- mination of character of Mrs. Brooks to ap- pear calm and unmoved, while anticipating the difficulties that she felt were likely to be pro- duced by the presence of Thompson. But she w as a woman of ready invention and great firmness of purpose, and she had been accus- h tomed to witness the success of her plans too long to be easily alarmed or discouraged. The moment she heard of the arrival in town of Howard and Thompson, she determined to as-     aBUtIR'BS (CmSPI1Alc; sume a bold front towards Henry, and had that day issued invitations for a party on the follow- ing night. Henry, of course, had been invip ted, and when she heard of the castigation he had administered to Harlow, she was a little alarmed and perplexed as to what further might ensue while he remained in town. But a little reflection led her to congratulate herself  upon the course matters had taken. She con- eluded that Henry's violent attack upon Har- low would necessarily cut off friendly inter- course between them, and as Harlow was re- cognized as the affianced husband of Susan, she thought Henry would have too much delicacy  to be present at the party. On the whole, there- fore,. she had come to the conclusion that they had got rid of him more easily than was to be- expected'at first, But Henry was playing with loaded dice, and his throws were consequently more bold and seemingly reckless than Mrs. Brooks had anticipated. The day following the one on which he had made his speech, and preceding that of the party, he had been making calls upon most of his old acquaintances in town with the excep- tion of the Brooks'. He reserved that visit for the evening. The success of his speech made   A HMTnORiCAL ROAN40EB     83 him famous, and he was for the time being the lion of the day, The attentions which he r 'eceived put him in excellent spirits, and pro- bably his manners were never more engaging, and his conversation more agreeable than on i that day. Hle had a kind word and a compli ment for all, and before night he stood high in i  the esteem of the whole town. As the time ap' preached for the party, Susan Brooks and her other became extremely agitated. They had been informed of the movements of Hena y, and learned that he had expressed his in- tention of being present at their party. In the course of the day he had been frequently asked if he intended to go to the party, and he had almost invariably answered, "Oh yes, he Would not miss that,--he anticipated great pleasure from attending it." Mrs. Brooks seem- ed to feel that the time had come when it W as necessary for her to play her trump card, but she thought nevertheless, that it was impos- sible for her now to lose the game. It will be recollected that New Haven was a much smaller place half a century ago than it is now, and that neighbors consequently un- 'derstood each other's affairs much better.-- The relation in which Henry Thompson stood  .  .   -     .       ..t      84     BURR'S CONSPIRACY; to Susan Brooks, was pretty well known  throughout the town, though all could not  be so well informed as the reader; as no one knew of the destruction of his letters by Mrs. Brooks, except herself. Enough however was known to create a lively interest as to tile reception he would meet from Susan, and in the interview which was to take place between them.  The company assembled at Mrs. Brooks' at an early hour. Although Henry and Charles, who went together did not go late, they were  almost the last to arrive. They entered the  room together, and as their coming had been watched with considerable interest, all turned  to observe them, at the same time slowly and A unconsciously Inoving to one side or the other of the room, and thus leaving a wide passage-  way between the door and Mrs. Brooks, Susan and Harlow, who stood together at the other. end of the room. With a seemingly happy countenance, and a perfectly unembarrassed air, Henry led the way across the room, and shook hands heartily with Mrs. Brooks and Su- san. at the same time congralatlating Mtrs. Brooks on the evidences of good health her ap-  pearance so plainly indicated. Then turning' to Susan he said in a low voice, that in what-   L HSTORICAL ROMANOTCI.   85 ever other respects time might have changed XI fher, it had only added to those personal attrac- tions which he used to think could not be im- proved." Susan had awaited the arrival of Henry with the most intense interest, but her anxiety was betrayed in no other way than the ashy pale- ness of her countenance. The first meeting once over, the color returned to her face, and it was unusually flushed and animated, so that probably she never appeared to better advan- tage than on that occasion. Ienry's compli- ment, therefore, was as deserved as it was sin- cere. "We have felt hurt, Mr. Thompson," said ; Mrs. Brooks, "that while all your old acquain- tances in town have had the pleasure of seeing you before, we have been neglected until this time." ' "I preferred to reserve the greatest pleasure until the last," said Henry.  Whether the manner in which this was said was sarcastic or not, Susan fancied it was, and e her indignation was fully excited. She felt that she had been unkindly used by Henry, and the easy audacity and indifferent manner in which he addressed her, greatly provoked- her. His hav-     rURR S coNSPIrACmr; ing neglected to write her, as she supposed, du- ring his absence, and then what she considered his unprovoked and bitter attack upon Harlow, tile night previous, joined to his other conduct while in town, roused all the bitterness of her nature. She had suffered much from what she believed to beHenry's neglect, and she fancied that his manner indicated a bold determination to triumph in his heartless conduct towards her. Her woman's vanity would not permit her pa- tiently to endure so much; and passions which had been increased and irritated from having been so long smothered, now found vent in a manner her friends had never before witnessed. Pray mother don't let us talk of Mr. Thomp- son's neglect. If the chivalrous feelings for which he was once noted, lead him to insult those he has injured, let us bear both his insults and injuries with what dignity and fortitude we can command. He is evidently desirous of cul- tivatiig the virtues of the great man whose cause he has espoused, and seems desirous of'. using what powers he may possess to betray and then triumph over those who may be sim- r pie and foolish enough to place any confidence in his honor or manliness." Had a thunderbolt fallen at the feet of Mrs.   A MSTORIOAL ROMANCOE,   87   Brooks and Henry, they could not have been more surprised than at this speech from Susan. It was so little in keeping with the gentleness of her disposition and the great freedom from asperity and bitterness which was supposed to characterize her nature. Her manner also corp responded with the matter-it was spiteful and vindictive. Mrs. Brooks stared at her daugh- ter in perfect amazement, and when she had finished could hardly collect herself sufficiently to say, " Are you crazy, child ?" As for Thompson, he gazed at her with an astonishment hardly less than that of her moth- er's. Her flashing eyes and the extraordinary excitement of her manner, convinced him how much she felt, and he knew there must be some serious misapprehension. He was too keen a judge of human nature hot to know there was no affectation about her indignation-it was heart-felt and sincere. His manner at once underwent a great change, and his reply was in a tone mild but earnest. "I should hardly have expected," said he, "to hear those complain of injuries and insults who treat with scorn and neglect the letters of friends from whom they had expressed a wish to receive them; and who require too only a     88     BURR'S CONSPIRACY; few short months to effect the change of feeling, necessary for such conduct." "You talk in riddles, Mr. Thompson," said Susan, "but no doubt you hlave added greatly to your power of inventions among your many other recently acquired accomplishments. No doubt you can talk as complacently of letters that were never written as-" "Pardon me, Miss Brooks," said Henry, "there is evidently some mistake somewhere. I have not deserved this harsh language from you;" and bowing, more in grief than in anger, he-moved away. The unusual excitement and extaordinary ! behaviour of Susan had completely taken away  the presence of mind of Mrs. Brooks. That her ! daughter, who had always been so quiet and subservient to her will, should talk with so much audacity, and utter such vindictive sar- casms, seemed to her incredible: She could  hardly realize that it was not all a dream. When Henry left her, Susan remained sever- al minutes pondering upon his last words ; she then suddenly approached him and laying her hand upon his arm said with great earnestness, "Henry, what did you mean by the letters you spoke of; did you ever write me?" *          ^3   A HSTORICAL ROMAICE.     89 I "I wrote you six letters," said Henry,( after I left town. As I never received any answer I very, naturally presumed that you had changed ^  your mind, and did not wish for the correspon- : dence. The news of your engagement confirm- l ed that presumption. Forgive me, if I have wronged you."  This sudden dispersion of painful doubts which had for months troubled and worn upon the mind ofSusan, nearly overcame her. She ^  'was scarcely able to reach her mother without i assistance. Leaning upon her arm, she left the' room and was not seen again that night. Sud.- I den indisposition being alleged by her mother as the excuse for her absence. These events transpired in a very short time, and as the room was full and the conversation had been carried on in a low voice, very little of it was heard except by the speakers themselves. fMrs. Brooks soon recovered her energy and presence of mind. She discovered that matters had proceeded too far, between Henry and Su- san, and in her fear that the engagement with Harlow might be possibly broken off, her in- dignation against Henry, the cause of the dan- ger, got the better of her prudence. Taking his     BURROS 'CONSPIRACY;             A ing neglected to write her, as she supposed, du- ring his absence, and then what she considered his unprovoked and bitter attack upon Harlow, tile night previous, joined to his other conduct while in town, roused all the bitterness of her nature. She had suffered much from what she believed to beHenry's neglect, and she fancied that his manner indicated a bold determination to triumph in his heartless conduct towards her. Her woman's vanity would not permit her pa- tiently to endure so much; and passions which had been increased and irritated from having been so long smothered, now found vent in a manner her friends had never before witnessed. Pray mother don't let us talk of Mr. Thomp- son's neglect. If the chivalrous feelings for which he was once noted, lead him to insult those he has injured, let us bear both his insults and injuries with what dignity and fortitude we can command. He is evidently desirous of cul- tivatiig the virtues of the great man whose cause he has espoused, and seems desirous of'. using what powers he may possess to betray and then triumph over those who may be sim- r pie and foolish enough to place any confidence in his honor or manliness." Had a thunderbolt fallen at the feet of Mrs.   A MSTORIOAL ROMANCOE,   87   Brooks and Henry, they could not have been more surprised than at this speech from Susan. It was so little in keeping with the gentleness of her disposition and the great freedom from asperity and bitterness which was supposed to characterize her nature. Her manner also corp responded with the matter-it was spiteful and vindictive. Mrs. Brooks stared at her daugh- ter in perfect amazement, and when she had finished could hardly collect herself sufficiently to say, " Are you crazy, child ?" As for Thompson, he gazed at her with an astonishment hardly less than that of her moth- er's. Her flashing eyes and the extraordinary excitement of her manner, convinced him how much she felt, and he knew there must be some serious misapprehension. He was too keen a judge of human nature hot to know there was no affectation about her indignation-it was heart-felt and sincere. His manner at once underwent a great change, and his reply was in a tone mild but earnest. "I should hardly have expected," said he, "to hear those complain of injuries and insults who treat with scorn and neglect the letters of friends from whom they had expressed a wish to receive them; and who require too only a    92      BURRTS CONSPIRACY; that if she would bestow it in my, behalf she would command his lasting gratitude. I know nothing about the assistance you are able to render in this matter, and still less whether j you have any inclination to be of assistance to  Col. Burr, more than to me. But this I feel sure of, that Susan Brools never received the letters I sent her, and as I cannot bear to have her suspect that I could so soon forget ler, I purpose to make some investigations with a  view to discover who has been the perpetrator  of this wrong." While Henry was saying this, Mrs. Brooks  evinced the most extreme uneasiness, and be- fore he had closed, she put her handkerchief to  ier face to conceal her agitation. He was as-  tonished at the change so suddenly produced, and did not know how to account for it. From the proud and haughty woman, she seemed at once to have become the humble and penitent one. Removing her handkerchief from her eyes, and looking imploringly yet earnestly at Henry, she said:- "Have you told me honestly and truly all that Col. Burr said " "On my honor, all, that I recollect, Madam,"   said Henry, and certainly all that is im- portant." After a short struggle in which she endeav- ored to regain her composure, "I must tell you all," she said, "and throw myself upon your generosity to pardon me." She then proceeded to tell Henry what the reader already knows, viz: the embarrassment of the family, the necessity of Susan marrying a man of fortune, -the burning of his letters, and all other matters with which the reader is familiar. "I have been young myself," said she, ".and I know how soon and easily youthful attach- ments are forgotten. Such I did not doubt would soon be the case with Susan. But you perceive that recent events now render it ne- cessary for: our good that you renounce to Su- san, all further claim upon her hand. If you do not feel ilelined to make this sacrifice for u s,. and insist upon marrying her, for it is very evident and always has been, that she greatly prefers you to Harlow, whatever happiness nl ight fall to your lot from the marriage, would always be embittered I should suppose, by the reflection that it brought poverty and wretch- edness upon us." Henry was agitated by a variety of emotions \      A4      3BUNSS  PIRUACY;  while listening to the story of Mrs. Brooks.- i Hie felt surprise and regret at the condition of their pecuniary affairs, but his astonishment was very great at Mrs. Brooks' audacity and A recklessness of consequences, in destroying his  letters, and concealing the whole matter from  Susan. After a few minutes silence he re, plied:--- "I can pardon the wrong you have done me from the circumstances which impelled it. I must, nevertheless, lay upon your head much of that sourness of temper and misanthropy of feeling which these events have crowded into my disposition. I was devotedly attached to Susan, and cannot now make up my mind to resign her, without a severe struggle. But, of course, I could never enjoy a moment's happi,  ness if I brought poverty upon her parents.--  Therefore, to-morrow I will write a note to Susan, smoothing over the matter of the let; ters in the best way I can; (sparing of course her mother,) congratulating her upon her pro, posed marriage with Iarlow, and solicit a con  tinuance of her friendship. I could not have so easily resigned her, if I had- not long ago made up my mind that she was lost to' me." "I knew I did not calculate too much upon   your generosity," said Mrs. Brooks, shaking him warmly by the hand. "I shall always feel grateful to' you, and you can ever rely upon my friendship and best wishes." "One thing I must stipulate," said Henryf "that is; that Harlow shall cease his abuse of Col. Burr." i  My influence will not be needed there,'" said Mrs. Brooks. "X think you cured him of that, last night. The simple-Mr. Harlow 1 mean, would never have been guilty of it, if I had known of his intention. You took the town -by storm last night-your speech has been the theme of all tongues, to-day." Then looking at him with admiration, she said, "I should be -very proud of you for a son-in-law, Mr. Thompv son, if Ieovld afford to have you. Now let us ; join the company again, I have been absent too long."' And taking the arm of Henry, this woman With a steadfast eye and haughty brow, but great suavity of manner, entered the room where most of the company were assembled.-, There were no vestiges left in her countenance of her recent exciting interview with Henry.- But few'there would have believed that any cor- roding care or grief, could set heavily upon the     heart of the woman who was more feared and envied perhaps than any other in town. "Is there no art to read the mind's construction in the face?"Yes there is an art, and those who  were only tolerably. well versed in it, could not fail to believe from the countenance of Mrs. ; Brooks, that her mind was a strong and philo- sophie one. She often afforded consolation and  balm to weaker minds when they were sinking  under troubles and difficulties not half so great and trying as those under which she bore up so 0 proudly. She needed no sympathy from weak- er creatures than herself, and such she regarded most all with whom she associated. Her resour- ces were all within herself: She needed no con-  solation or advice that her own stout heart and clear lead could not afford her. She was always kind and charitable to the weak and erring, and on whomsoever the mantle of her protection fell, the community invariably sustained. "Well," thought Henry, when he went to bed that night, " this journey has been a profitable one to me in the wisdom it has brought. I have seen new phases of human nature and added vastly to my experience. Poor Susan, how lovely she looked to-night, and how her indig- nation blazed forth. I must surrender her to   A HSTRAL ROMANCE.      97 that money-making dullard, because he is weal- thy and I am poor. Ier mother confessed that she liked me best, and her own conduct plainly enough indicated it. Bnt she must en- dure his caresses, and fondle his dull head in her lap, not because she loves him, but because he has money. Faugh!" "Very well, Mr. Thompson, suppose she- does all this, what have you to say against it? Do you think Susan Brooks' happiness would be greater if she married a beggar who hap- pened to be handsome, and could write poetry?' There is something else to be done in this world besides making tove, and poetry, and when a woman is very llungry, a cabbage or potatoe is more welcome to her than the sweetest kiss.- The wise mother selects as the husband for her daughter, him who willpprovide best for her. Susan Brooks as the wife of William Harlow, wil be rolling in wealth when you and Gol. Burr, with your ill advised schemes are pros- trate in the dust." "What old croaker are you?"' said Thomp. son, and turned over in his bed and was soon asleep. He was fast becoming a philosopher.. o7     CHAPTER VII. H-enry and (Charles were not thrown much together in New Haven. The latter was make ing only an idle visit, and passed the time while there in easy indolence, making calls here and there, and chatting upon village gossip, and such trifles only as created an ephemeral im- pression. Henry, on the contrary as we have seen, had more weighty matters upon his mind and never before passed two days of such mo- mentous importance to him as those spent in New Haven. He had grown old very fast dur- ing the last forty-eight hours of his life. "Well," said Charles to Henry, when they met in the stage-coach the next morning and found themselves alone. "I have no doubt you plume yourself greatly on the speech you made the other night, because it happened to take well, but do you know what I think of it?" "No, I do not. I ai curious to learn." "Well, I think it was a very clever. sopho- morical production, only, a little too bombastic for the more modest of the mature young gen-   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.     99 tlemen who have entered upon their second year in college." "You flatter me," said Henry. "Are you sure that your friendship for me does not lead you to take a partial view of it, and esteem it too highly?" "No, I think not." "Well it is gratifying to hear you say that. But the speech answered the purpose for which it was intended, nevertheless, and you know how idle it is to find fault with anything that has been successful. Iow have you enjoyed your visit?" "Very well," replied Charles. "And I think I shall return a better, and consequently a wis- er man than I came."   , "I am sure," said Henry, "I shall return a wiser man, but the 'events and circumstances that have brought this wisdom, were not of a nature to be productive of much goodness." "Events of seemingly the most unpropitious character oftentimes produce great good when they happen to the right sort of natures," re- plied Charles. "If you have been made no better by what you term your wisdom, you have gained no wisdom; for no truth is more     100       IMTRR's coPsrIAc; ; clearly established than that wickness is efl- ly,-that the devil is an ass." "Has your experience taught you to believe in that doctrine, or do you take it upon trust?" asked Henry. "I am inclined to agree with the poet, and think "When I consider life, 'tis all a cheat, Yet fooled with hope, men favor the deceit; Trust on, and think to-morrow will repay;  To-morrow's falser than the former day; Lies worse ;and while it says we shall be blest With some new joys, cuts off what we pos est.  Strange cozenage r none would live past years again  * et all hope pleasure in what yet remain  And from the dregs of life think to receive What the first sprightly running could not give." "Dryden, quite likely wrote that," said Charles, "the night following the beating he received from the ruffian employed by Roches- ter. While smarting from the bIruises he so little deserved, he could not be expected to en- tertain very pleasant views of life. No doubt there were times, however, when he considered life a great bargain. Many persons make seri- ous mistakes in supposing that sentiments like these which have sometimes escaped great men during fits of indigestion, or exhaustion conse-  quent upon dissipation, or excesses of one kind 'i   A HSTORICAL lOMANCE.     101 or another, were their deliberate, and carefully matured opinions. "The great bard," said Henry, "    has somc- thing appropo -to the point you are endeavoring to establish. You recollect the lines comn- men- "Pray don't quote any more poetry," said Charles, "The driver will overhear you, and take us for a couple of youthful pedants or love- sick spoonies' I like to have the good opinion of a stage driver, for he is one of the most in- fluential men in the community. He is often- times a sharper critic, and a keener judge of human nature, than many men who are fam-e ous in the literary or political world." "If you are so anxious to obtain the good opinion of those you chance to meets" said Hen- ry, "I shall think you have more ambition than I supposed you had. But how, if yqu are going to settle down and rest satisfied with the drudgeryof the law, will the approbation or disapprobation of the multitude particularly affect you. For success, as a lawyer, ability I take it is absolutely necessary, and no personal popularity or adventitious circumstances of any kind, will serve as substitutes. With other professions it is not so much a ,ina qug  no;n tj i  - t  he d         t     102      BURR 'S CONSPIRACY; and circumstances sometimes conspire to make a statesman famous, who has only ordinary capacity." "Decided ability of some kind, to be sure, is necessary," said Charles, "yet your idol, Col. Burr, is an illustration of the fact, that some- thing besides comprehensiveness of intellect is required for success as a lawyer. Hardly any  one will deny that Hamilton, in strength of ar-  gument, and metaphysical power, was superior to Burr, yet the latter was most successful in winning difficult cases. Hamilton addressed  A himself chiefly to the understandings of men, Burr not only to the understanding but to eve-  ry passion, prejudice, and emotion that men   are suscepsible of. For the dignity of the law as it is termed, Burr feels the greatest con- tempt, as his definition of it shows. 'Law,' says he, 'is what is boldly affirmed and plausi- bly maintained.' The happy distinction some one has made between argument and assertion illustrates well the difference between Hamil-  ton and Burr. 'Assertion is like an arrow sho t from a long bow; the force with which it strikes depends on the strength of the. arm that draws it. But argument is like an arrow   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.     103 from a cross bow, which has equal force wheth: er shot by a boy or a giant." ;.!  "By hook or by crook, by fair dealing or foul, Col. Burr has most always found himself i an overmatch for his fellow men, and he feels but little reverence for anything human. How little 'respect he must feel for such teach- ings of Blackstone as the following: 'The doctrine of the law then is this : that precedents :  and rules must be followed unless flatly absurd or unjust, for though their reason be not obvi- ous at first view, yet we owe such a deference to former times as not to suppose they acted wholly without consideration." "This reverence for precedents," said Henry, "reminds me of an anecdote that I have re, ! gently met with. "The death of some official' in Austria re- quired a new appointment to be made to sup-. ply his place. After the man selected had en- tered upon his duties, he took occasion to en- quire for what purpose a guardsman was kept pacing a small bridge when there was no ap- parent necessity for his doing so. It appeared on investigation that about thirty years before, the railings of the bridge had been painted, and a sentinel was placed there to warn pas- ! I.-'.     '.     A. 'J A. NLI L J .J'.JJLWA  k Z.  JL1.X..j J.  sengers not to rub against it. Through neglect  I he was suffered to remain about thirty years.- The new official it seems was an inquisitive, skeptical man, who had not profited from the lessons of Blackstone, or he would have been content to believe that those who had kept the sentinel there for thirty years, had not acted wholly without consideration." "No system is entirely iree from corruption," said Charles. "But the man who has no rev- erence, no ground-work of faith in him, cannot be a true man. The higher his order of abili-  ties may be, the more evident will this want appear. Col. Burr has no confidence in the  past, and no hope for the future. He has a  skeptical, mocking spirit, which the truly great men of the world do not possess. He is a clev-  ; er trickster with eagle enough in him to soar high, but serpent enough to crawl, when more is to be made by crawling than soaring. There is no elevation of sentiment or feeling in him. He has no inner light of truth to walk by. He is of the earth, earthy. His true line of moral / beauty is a curve. With his remarkable abili-  ties he might do much to elevate humanity, instead of which, he seeks only to take advan- tage of its weakness to degrade and Ad   To   be sure, history abounds in innumerable in- stances of such men's having obtained great power, and held it. But posterity does them justice, and not unfrequently they obtain it while living." l That is that I am laboring to obtain for Col. Burr," said Henry. "Look to it well," said Charles, "that you are out of harm's way when it is awarded to h im ." "There is but small prospect I fear of indu- cing you to join our enterprise at present," said Henry. "Well, if you do not oppose it too strongly, when Col. Burr is all powerful, I will intercede to prevent your being hung."  ' If Col. Burr were all powerful in the coun- try, I should rather not have the intercession made," replied Charles. "Though Col. Burr, I have no doubt, would think the best use honest men could be put to, would be to hang them." Henry had two uncles in Philadelphia, and on his return from New Haven, he found a let- ter from each. One was a minister of the gos- pel, and the other a lawyer. They had both heard of his attachment to Susan Brooks previ- ousto his departure for, the south, and had un-     106     BURR'S CONSPIRACY; derstood that he was to be married on his re.  turn. They felt inclined to interest themselves in the matter, though very differently as the reader will perceive. The minister was a very pious and worthy man. He was benevolent and charitable, assid- uous in his labors for the good of all about him. He was greatly beloved and respected wherever he was known. The lawyer was a confirmed old bachelor, and possessed in a remarkable degree the unprepossessing traits of many, (perhaps not a majority) of that generally sup-  posed unhappy class. He was upwards of fifty, selfish, sour, morose and cynical. Although somewhat distinguished in his profession, he was but little esteemed or cared for, out of it. He had no friends or intimates,-caring for nobody no one cared for him. The following is the letter of his uncle, the divine: "PHLADELPHA, Feb. -, 1806. Miy Dear hlenry:- I was very happy to learn some time since,  that on your return from the south you contem-  plated getting married. The girl you have  made choice of for this important and solemn  relation I understand, is poor but amiable and .   j   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE    T10 intelligent. Your uncle John, no doubt, would think her poverty a drawhack, but with me it is a recommendation. There will be a neces- sity for your commencing life in an humble way; and the economical habits thus acquired will, through life be a guarantee against many trials and evils. The empty frivolities of fash- ion which are so alluring to the young, and of- ten prove so destructive to the morals and health, your scanty means will prevent you from indulging in. There will also be a neces- sity for your cultivating laborious habits.- These will always prove a sure protection against want, and the man whose mind is whol- ly occupied is seldom unhappy. You must expect to encounter many difficulties (and be  assured the most envied lot is not free from them,) but a struggle against obstacles, that your mutual and combined efforts overcome, endears the affection and strengthens the bond of union between you. From my observation and experience, I think there is no happiness in this world, equal to domestic happiness.- Your uncle John, I fear, grows worse every year. His sneering, scoffing spirit, which he has so long indulged, has become stamped upon his countenance. and I am inclined to believe it     is so repulsive that it keeps off clients. lie has recently suggested to me that he was going to propose to you to enter -his office, but I trust you will not thiirk of it. NXone of your friends certainly could approve such a course. It is melancholy to think how fine a mind he has perverted and misused. It shows how a skep tical intellect will mislead a man when he is not supported by a sound religious faith. Al- though 'he is my brother, I am forced to say his visits are not welcome to me. They always leave an unhappy influence behind them. "With many wishes for your prosperity and happiness, I remain Your affectionate uncle,         RICHARD THOMPSON." The following is uncle John's letter: "Dear Sir:-I learn through your uncle Ichabod, that suspicions or apprehensions are entertained that you are about to get married. I propose to give you a little advice unsolicited, and I presume it will have none the less effect  on that account. If you were going to marry a  woman of fortune, I should not }ave a word to  say, but for a young man in your circumstan- ces to marry a poor girl, looks like premedita- i ted poverty and misery. All the nonsense that   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.     109 young people indulge in, such as sympathetic souls, hearts hat beat in unison, and such fol- de-rol stuff, time and experience infallibly cures tlthem of. It matters but little whether you marry a girl of eighteen or a woman of thirty-- eilgt, if nature has dealt equally well with tlhe temper and intellect of both. Perhaps the honey-moon might last a. week longer in one case than, the other; after that the qualities of, the heart and the mind would- be what you: would have to rely upon for happiness in your union. From my observation 1 am, led to be- lieve that the philosopher was more than halt right who said there would be as much happit ness in the-world if each man or woman would thrust his or her hand into a barrel filled with names, and marry the one whose name he or she happened to, select. "Do you not think," said Boswell to lis great. idol, "there are fifty other women in the world a man might live -! with as happily as with his wife?" "Fifty thousand, sir," replied Dr. Johnson. ." I have just rendered the greatest service that can be done to a married couple," said' a celebrated Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, once. "I have settled the preliminaries of their divorce." I think I once heard you say, you were a great     "O      BURR's CONSPIntx; admirer of Montaigue. Turn to"his chapter on women, and see what he says. I cite these few instances in support of my views out of innum. erable ones that might be adduced, because with young people they have weight. They are not necessary to a man who has had half a century's experience. "Young men are apt to flatter themselves that knowledge and abilities are an ofset to wealth, A few year's experience disabuses them of this notion. What avail wit, talent and learning if you are poor? They are an absolute drawhack to success in making sausages or vending onions. Can a man turn a grindstone, or trundle a wheel. barrow better for being learned and talented  Able lawyers are not now able to support them. selves from their profession; and the world holds in great contempt the abilities that are not pro. ductive of lucre to their possessors. "I was in hopes that after floundering about in New York a little longer, you would finally come and enter my office. I have nearly busi. ness enough to divide with another, and it would naturally increase if I had a talented as- sociate. "Your uncle Ichabod continues to preach over his old sermons, -and look after his flock,   As A toLcIAl EolMANw.     1" le seems really to believe that he is happy, and as I sometimes think he is, but his life would never suit me. Let me hear from :you soon. Your obedient servant, JOHN THOMPSON." "Pshaw,"- exclaimed Henry, when he had finishe d reading this letter. "What a misera- ble misanthropic old croaker you have become, tinle John. You, yourself, are a living argu- ment ten times more eloquent and convincing against what you would inctlcate, than your sel- fish and heartless teachings would ever prove, A few such letters as that would entirely cure me of all the morose and sour feelings that I ever indulged. "There is much excellent advice in your lets ter, uncle Ichabod, I have no doubt, but it came too late. When I meditate another matrimo- nial engagement, I will read it over again. : As for the proposition to enter your office, uncle John, I shall not give it much consideration. There is too much bitterness in your nature for success in your profession even-too little of the milk of human kindness for your own comfort, or for the comfort of those who may be about your  hs  On visiting Col. Burr the day 'after his ret     "2      BU3'iS CONSPIRACY; turn, and before he had been twelve hours in the city, Henry was greatly surprised at being j addressed by him as follows: ' I have learned of the events that have trans. pired at New Haven since you went there, and  feel highly pleased at the result of them. For  your defence of me, although it would ,avail nothing there, I am duly grateful, and shall not forget." "I cannot conceive how you should so soon have been informed of matters that have so re- cently taken place," sai[ Henry. "I did not return until late last night, and I wasted no time there ." "Spirits of the air," said Col. Burr, "bro't the news. I have a large number of those mes- sengers constantly employed in my service. If you could obtain a loan of five thousand dollars, would it not be a very respectable sunm to commence with, in raising and equipping  your regiment 2" "Indeed it would," replied 'Henry. "But why not say five millions I could raise one  sum as easily as the other." "Perhaps not,'" said Col. Burr. "We will see. "Do you think Harlow is much in love with Miss Brooks?"   A ISTORICAL ROMACE.    113 "Passionately, sir."  "Do you think he would rather lose five- thousand dollars than give her up"     * e "Twice that sum, sir." Are you sure? Recollect he is very avari- cious. What are he and his father estimated to be worth?" "Two hundred thousand dollars; and I think he would sacrifice half his fortune sooner than lose her. He is half crazy for her, and espe- cially at this time when his fears that he might lose her have been a good deal excited, and not without cause." "Then, think of something to write Mrs. Brooks,-no matter what-while I am writing Harlow, and I will dictate the postscript to your letter." Having but a faint idea of what Col. Burr in- tended, Henry, nevertheless wrote as follows i 4M/y Dear Madam n- I reached this city last night and hasten to say, that on the further reflection I have given the subject of our conversation, I have become more and more convinced of the wis- dom of the course you deemed best to be pur- sued. Trusting that I shall always retain the esteem and friendship of your family, and that 8,';      "4?    XBURR'B dOrSBPiZA; Y the marriage of Susan with Harlow will bring all the happiness she so richly deserves, I reo main ever      Your sincere friend, lenry Thompon. I. "That Will dos" said Col. Bnrr. "Nowi I will dictate the postscript." P. S. Col. Burr hopes to obtain a loan for fay benefit from the iarlows. As I presume your influence will be very considerable with them, a favorable word from you might avail much, though I beg you to understand I dis. claim any right I have to ask a favor of you. H. T."  "3 My letter to Harlow," said Col. Burr, "reads i as follows : "Mesrs. S. Itarlow & Son.- : Gentlemen: Circumstances of one kind or  another have deprived me of the pleasure of  seeing you for some time. I have not however X forgotten you, and am glad to learn that for  tune has dealt kindly with you. I am desirouso  of obtaining a loan of ten thousand dollars for  three years, with Henry Thompson as an en-  dorser. As I understand you have funds at your  disposal, perhaps you would like to furnish th  amount, though the security may not be :so am    A HSTORICAL OMAXCE.   S" pie as you would like. An early answer will oblige      Your ob't servant, AARON BURR." "There," said Col. Burr, when the letter was folded up and directed. "'The powerful influ- ence of MArs. Brooks can nowhe relied on with certainty in favor of the loan. Whether the amount will stagger him or not, I have left with you to determine. No doubt he thinks there is at least an equal chance that I shall be hung, whatever may become of you." '"But, Col. Burr," said Henry, "I don't like the appearance of this. You, certainly, cannot suppose that I would be guilty of the mean- ness of selling any claim I might have to the hand of Miss Brooks?"  I was. not aware you had any claim of the kind to sell," said Col. Burr. "There is fo great harm I take it, in borrowing money, if one can, when there is every probability, if not an absolute certainty of its being returned. I have rendered the Harlows great favors-they are moneyed men. I apply to them for a loan, if I think Mrs. Brooks' influence will avail something in procuring it. I see nothing wrong in availing myself of it." Within ten days of the time the events mea     "6     BURR'S COONSPIRA;       J tioned above occurred, Col. Burr received the following letter from the Harlows: "Hon. A. Buw, V, P. U. S.- Sir-Mindful of the many favors we have , received from you, it affords us pleasure to  render you the desired loan. 'We have requested our agents in New York, Messrs. Smith & Jones, to receive the note, and pay over to you the money for the same.     We remain sir, Your ob't servants, S. HARLOW & SON."- -   OCIAPTERX VII. THE week following the arrival of Mrs. Alr ston in New York, a splendid party was given by Mrs. Clifford, living in one of the magnifi- cent mansions fronting upon the Battery. The evening was somewhat advanced and the comrn pany had nearly all assembled, when Col. Burr' and his danghter were announced. A great sensationwasproduced by this announcement. Mr. and Mrs. Clifford had always been partic- ular friends of Col. Burr, and this party was given in honor of the arrival of Mrs. Alston.- Their coming, therefore, was evidently, the event ofthe evening. Mrs. Alston had not been in New York before for two years, and consid- erable anxiety was evinced to see her. Every- thing seemed combined in Theodosia to render her the great orbit of attraction in the fashion able world. She had the solid' advantages of great talent, learning, and beauty, joined to the adventitious ones of being the: daughter of one of the greatest men in the country, and the wife of a very wealthy and distinguished man,-the Governor of South Crolinia. Col, Burr for     "8      BURR's CONSPIRACY;  nearly thirty years, had held undisputed sway in the drawing-rooms of the great and wealthy throughout the conntry. He was in his ele- ment when treading the saloon of iashion sur- rounded by beauty, youth and gayety. Norman excelled him in the peculiar accomplishments and qualities requisite for such occasions. Pos. sessing an inexhaustible fund of cheerfulness and animation, the readiest wit and the keen- est observation, an instinctive perception of character, the rare ability of completely adaptt- iag himself to the strong or the weak in intel- lect and character, his superiority was as freely acknowledged in social as in political life.-- There was an eclat seemed follow him, which attended upon no other man. All his schemes and actions were enveloped in so rtuch mistery, his gigantic strides to power had been made in; so noiseless and secret a manner, that the world perhaps was more likely to overrate than to un- derrate his powers. He was the perfect anti- podes of the noisy politician, whose feeble acts contrast so greatly with his loud sounding  threats and promises. Col. Burr's deeds some- times fell upon the public like a clap of thun-  der from a cloudless sky; and people had lear-  ed to suspect that when everything abut him   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.    119 seemed perfectly calm and quiet, he might be concocting measures that would shake society to its very centre. When T heodosia took the arm of he father I to enter the drawing-room, it would be impos- sible to say which was most proud of the other, the father of the daughter, or the daughter of the father. This mutual pride added not a little to the effect of their appearance. As they thus entered the room every eye was rivited upon them, and there could not but have been an involuntary feeling of admiration at the no- ble appearance they presented. One had been formed upon the model of the other, and in both there was the same erect and proud carriage, the same happy blending of grace, dignity anm suavity of manner. They were soon surround ed by friends and admirers; and compliment-* fell thick and fast upon Theodosia. "I began to be fearful," said Mrs. Clifford "that the enjoyment of the evening might haw been greatly marred, by some unexpected even depriving us of your presence." "It would be a very extraordinary event ii- -deed," replied Col. Burr, "that could have dc- prived us of the pleasure of visiting Mrs. CWi- ford. If we area little late you must ascribe t     J .   ss4 . e *-J' JU  Z- 'J &U .Jt toTheodosia. After so long   absence from  her, I have so much to say to her, and she to me, that time slips by unheeded. All rules and systems by which I endeavor to be governed when she is away, her presence completely de- d  ranges." "What is that you are saying of Mrs. A1- ston," said Henry Thompson as he approached and received the hand of Col. Burr. "As I came by the circle yonder which your daughter  is the center of, I heard her excusing herself for not having made some calls due her friends, be. i- cause her father had kept her so busy that she could'nt find the time. She said you were so - apprehensive that the indolent habits of the  South would spoil her, that she believed you : were determined she should perform the work in two weeks now, that you feared she might have neglected the last two years."  "It is she that hurries me," replied Col. Burr. "But Mr. Thompson is not yet acquainted with  Theodosia, will you present him Mrs. Clifford ! and thus confer a favor by rendering it unne-  cessary for me to remove from the side ot the a Countess de Monfort." "Certainly,' said Mrs. Clifford, "and per  I,--  .  i   A K'UrTVia. AJo tOaCANf.  lL. Bag . A. a a rvuul  ULVK,    ix. ... haps Mr. Thompson you may never receive a greater honor." Mrs. Alston shook Mr. Thompson very warm. ly by the hand and said she felt already very well acquainted with him from having heard her father speak so often of him, and, she continued, "he advised me to keep my wits sharpened when you were near." "Your father's well known partiality for his friends," said Henry, ' leads him to overesti- mate those who are fortunate enough to stand in that relation to him; but I have been led to believe that there was no danger of Mrs. Al- ston's encountering any wits that would require, for her defense, more than the ordinary edge, hers are said to possess." I ' Ah," said Mrs. Alston, "I see already that the caution ofm father was needed." "Oh, Mrs. Alston," exclaimed a young lady who-had just approached the group leaning on the arm of Charles Howard, " you don't know what a terror Mr. Thompson is to us girls. His wit is so sharp, and his! tongue so voluble, that there is no escape for us." "I can readily believe the last part," said Mrs Alston, "but I suspect he: is only a terror to other beaux."      1252   -BURR'S CONSPIRACY; As she said this, she caugh the eye of Charles Howard for the first time. The moment she did so, she hesitatingly extended her hand, saying: "I think I need no introduction to my old playmate, Charles Howard."        ; This was said in a tone of voice so gentle, and a manner so frank and insinuating, that Howard though highly gratified, was some. what embarrassed. He had been struck by her appearance as she entered the room, and  he kept his eyes fastened on her until she spoke  to him. The face was but little changed from  the one he had known when a boy, but the queenly air, the polished and elegant manners, had mostly been added since. Her happy  manner of recognizing him had completely won  him. Recovering himself as speedily as possi. M ble from the temporary embarrassment her so a -unexpectedly addressing him had caused, he  replied:  "I should pity that man who would not feel  happy and proud to resume an acquaintance with Mrs. Alston, under any circumstances." ; "Pray don't think I am reflecting on your  manhood, Mr. Howard, when Isay that you have altered so little in looks from what you appeared when I knew you years ago,A thatI   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE     123 could not refrain from claiming a continuance of the acquaintance." '"And I,"' said Howard, "was making the same reflections in regard to you." "Indeed! I thought when I first saw yon ust now, you seemed to be regarding me as a stranger."          , "Mrs. Alston a stranger to Charles Howard!" said Thompson; " you' should hear him talk about your trundling hoops together, playing ' hide and seek,' 'puss, puss in the corner,' and other games equally important and more phi- losophical than those of mature life." "Oh, that-reminds me," exclaimed Theodo. sia, "that Charles-Mr. Howard, (I should say,) once jeoparded his life to rescue my hoop from the East River; and up to this time has received no acknowledgment of the obligation." "Heroic actions ever bring their own rep ward, Mrs. Alston," said Howard. "Having implicit faith in that sentiment, I feel assured, that you have been fully recompensed for your conduct on a certain occasion, which but for the friendship, joined to the rare address and great resolution of Theodosia Burr, Charles Howard would- have suffered an unmerited punishment,"        124     BUJRMS CONSPIRACY; "You allude to the canary bird incident-I recollect it well," said Mrs. AlSton. "Charles Howard was too proud and magnanimous to exculpate himself, by implicating another, al. though he very well knew who the guilty party was. I did not know, and although circum. stances seemed to conspire against you, I felt that you must be innocent." "Well, well," said Thompson, "this seems to be a pretty raking up of juvenile incidents. It is growing rather too pathetic for me, and as you and I don't seem to be needed here, Miss Jones, suppose we move to another part of the room." "I have been told," said Col. Burr to the Countess de Montfort, "that no one has more keenly observed or better appreciates the dis- tinguished characters of France, than yourself. I have had very conflicting accounts of the so- cial qualities of Napoleon,-some affirming that he is a man of such fine deportment and elegant address, that none can resist him--and others declaring that he is the opposite of this, very rough and disagreeable in social life. I hardly know what to believe in regard to him, but the opinion of the Countess de Montfort will be conviction with me."   *A ISTORICAL OMAN-CE.   f1A2 "Those who can find much to admire in the social qualities of Buonaparte," replied the Countess, " cannot be deemed very fastidious, to. say the least. I never yet have met with the woman who liked him, (though we are all pleased with the smallest attentions from the- great and the powerful;) but Buonaparte's at- tentions are almost always received at the ex- pense of some physical suffering." "I don't understand you," said Col. Burr.- "Pray explain. But I can't conceive how a gen- tleman can treat women impolitely." "Of course he cannot," replied the Countess. "No elevation, I presume, exempts a man from the requirements of good breeding, and in com- mon life we esteem him a true gentleman who is considerate of the tastes and attentive to the lit- tie wants of all he may chance to be thrown among. Such a one will endeavor to put at ease and make happy as far as words and man- ner can do it, at least, all who may be about him. No man knows better than you, Col. Burr, how much Napoleon's policy would be promoted by uniform politeness, but he has not kindness of nature enough to enable him to be truly polite, any length of time, if his station and power wholly depended upon it. Malice is concealed     126     BURR's CONSPIRACY; tinder almost every word he utters, and every action he performs. He is jealous and suspi. cious to an extraordinary degree, and you know how agreeable a companion these traits make one. A gentleman is expected to have a toler. able command of his temper; he has no more control of his, than of the wind; one moment he may be quite affable and courteous, and the next surly and petulant. You have no certainty when you are about to meet him, whether you will be insulted or receive an indifferent com- pliment. You can imagine how pleasant it must be when awaiting an interview with him, to feel uncertain whether you are about to en- counter a bear, or some less formidable beast. It is impossible for him ever entirely to conceal his malignant nature. If he feels in unusual good humor, he will give a lady a pinch on the ear or the arm, the marks of which she may retain for weeks." "Not a very gratifying way to ladies, I should suppose," said Col. Burr, " for a man to exhibit his playful humor. I should find it difficult to believe that any man's power could be permanent who treated with indifference or contempt the esteem or hatred of women. Not1 withstanding Napoleon's power seems now to ,    ' 'eo   A HSTORICAL RBOMACEn.     12T1 be very firm and solid, if the good will of all the women of Europe is opposed to him, he may discover that his power is less formidable than he had anticipated. The conqueror of Europe and the hero of a hundred battle fields would evince an ignorance of human nature if he thought his achievements enabled him to aford to treat women impolitely, if he had the incli- nation. Surely, the Countess de Montfort must have been an exception to this kind of treaty ment you spoke of." "To say that I was an exception would be\to admit that I was not on good terms with him," said the countess. "For they are favorites one ly whose ears and arms he condescends to pull and pinch." "Those ladies then," said Col. Burr, "who have the largest black and blue spots on their arms or ears, may be supposed to possess the greatest share of his esteem. These emblems of Royal favor he probably considers an improve- ment upon stars and ribbons."  "M4ost of his improvements evince the same taste," said the countess. "What woman do you think has the most influence over him of any in France?" asked ol. Burr.  -;T cff : iT- i     128      BURR'S CONSPIRACY; "The mother-in-law of Junot," replied the countess. "She is a very proud woman, of ex traordinary wit, and keenness of penetration. She belongs to a very old and aristocratic fam. ily. andd hAd, a great contempt for upstarts.- -B uonaparte-greatly dreaded her sarcasms and ridicule. He brought about the match between her daughter and Junot for two motives: One to unite her fortunes to his; and another to humble her pride, by making her mother-in-law to such a stupid fellow as Junot. Before this marriage, Napoleon had rather been on the bridge of Lodi, than in a saloon with her sharp eye upon him. Her daughter is her equal in everything but pride and audacity. His most adroit flatterers rally him with being the lover of Madame Junot, but it would be an honor that she does not covet."    a: "What man do you think he most fears?" asked Col. Burr. "Talleyrandf" said the countess. "The fin- ished elegance of his manners, his impertur- bable self possession, -his profound knowledge of human nature, united to his descent from one of the oldest families-(Napoleon has great espect for the ancient noblesse, when a member of it has brains, though hie loyes dearly to cover   A HSTORICAL .ROMA NE     129 titled dunces with ridicule)-these qualities in Talleyrand inspire him with a good deal of re. spect. He feels too, that Talleyrand has some contempt for him. When Buonaparte-indul- ges in his favorite claptraps for frightening the ignorant and inexperience, kicks over chairs and throws down books and vases, Talleyrand looks at the paintings, hums a tune, or takes a book and perfectly unmoved, reads on until the storm is over. Affectation of all kinds is wasted upon him; he is only influenced, by stubborn realities." "I was very desirous of visiting France sev- eral years ago," said Col. Burr. "If I had gone what woman, do you think, I should have been compelled most to admire?" "IMadame Tallieni" replied the countess.- "Her heroism and great beauty, her benevo- lence, good nature, and intelligence, captivated all. If you had been minister to France ten years ago, I think' no part of your life would have been spent more in accordance with your wishes and tastes than the time you might have remained in Paris. Society then was in complete chaos, and I think no man can swim better in troubled waters than Col. Burr. Had you been there, another strong hand would 9" &     age-- STBAS &ONSCPI ^t  . ' X w. . have been thrust in among the discordiant ele- ments by which the world was then agitated, and of which Paris was the great centre. The fortunes not only or Col. Burr, but of whole na. tions might have been entirely different, if you had been an, actor amid, those scenes at that time. I do not wonder that your friends rave at what they deem was lost by your not receive ing the appointment," "You are disposed, countess, greatly to ex- aggerate my feeble powers," said Col. Burr.- ' I doubt if my not being sent as Minister to France, was attended with a more serious con- sequence than that of being deprived of the ac- quaintance of the Countess de Montfort ten years sooner; though I forget, she would have been then only a little girl." The conversation between Col. Burr and the countess, was here interrupted by the approach of Henry Thompson with a young lady on his arm. Miss Jones was an heiress, quite hand- some, and something of a coquette. It was thought she had a particular admiration for Henry Thompson, though the latter had no sus- picion that such was the case. "Isn't Mrs. Alston irresistible " said Misst fi    A viSTORIOArLt OMANCE.    1' Jones to Henry, as they moved away from he: and Howard. "To be sure she is," said Thompson. 'TThe remark was a truism, years ago." "With what an air she carries her head 'and neck," continued Miss Jones. "Yet how irre- -istibly fascinating. No wonder her father ill s o proud of her." "An -observing stranger," said Thompson, s' could not fail to be convinced, from 'a back view of her, of the expression of majesty and intelligence her countenance beams wifh.- ;She is one of nature's queens, and it woild be :an insult to compare her with the imbecile things in the old world, who Wear that title by divinne rig:t, or some other equally reason- able tenure. Napoleon has been calling their attention to the fact that he deems brains and energy more valid claims for wearing crowns, and he has. enforced his opinions with such ir resistible arguments that most of the crowned heads of Europe have been obliged to recog- nize the justice of his views." "Is Mr. Thompson descanting on his favorite theme, Napoleon, Miss Jones," said Col. Burr, "I thought from his excited manner, as yot approached, that must be the suject."     139     B ITEBR S CONSPIrRAcY; "You are right, Col. Burr, the Emperor was the subject, he having been led to it, by com- paring natural, with hereditary queens.'" "Miss Jones, I presume, was not very much flattered by a comparison with some of the queens of Europe," said Col. Burr. 'Me! Col. Burr. We were speaking of a woman immeasurably my superior." "I doubt if Mr. Thompson thinks any such could be found," replied Col. Burr. "No matter what you may doubt in the mat- ter, Col. Burr, the facts remain unchanged.- Mr. Thompson has no such extravagant coin- pliments for me-in fact he has none at all.- He has become so ambitious and misanthropic of late that he seems to deem it a great waste of time to bestow any attention upon such sim- ple creatures, as he no doubt considers us girls."  "I have often observed,"' said Col. Burr, "that women have a pleasant habit of teas- ing a man whose heart they are perfectly con- scious of having transfixed with their darts, by talking of his insensibility to female charms.' "Yes," responded Henry, "hand Miss Jones is one of the most remorseless of her sex, in that resict. She seems to consider it a very   V--    A I MSTORICTAL ROMACEO.   133 innocent and pleasing amusement, after feeling assured that her arrow has hit the centre of the mark, to turn it round -in the wound, all the while remarking with imperturbable coolness and sang froid, upon the great hardness of that heart which nothing can penetrate. Roast- ing geese alive to improve the flavor of the giz- :zard, is much more harmless and benevolent." : "But all men are not geese, Mr. Thompson," said Miss Jones, laughing. "Where women are concerned the great ma- jority are," replied Henry. "If Mr. Thompson is a goose, Miss Jones," said Col. Burr, "he is a wild one, and he flies so high that it will require a skillful marksman to bring him down. No eye less true than yours could hit such a mark. But after your arrow or bullet has sped on its way, don't fancy you have missed him if he keeps flying for a time, for Mr. Thompson has so much pludk that he would conceal a mortal wound for a long time." "I would insure Mr. Thompson's heart against wounds from any such missiles," said Miss Jones, "and at a less sum than the lowest rates of insurance on the least combustible matter." "Suppose the wound should be- already in-  .p     bi6  -   IRAtR's CONSPIRACeY flicted?" said Henry. "Do you think I should be so unwise as to proclaim the fact, and then witness my scalp hanging from your girdle, by the side of Thorndike, Rogers, and a host of others for aught I know?" "Really, Mr. Thompson, you have such fine hair that your scalp would be a very handsome one," said Miss Jones. "Such being the case I will endeavor to wear ,it, especially as you so abound in ornaments of the kind, that it is not needed to enhance your attractions," replied Henry. "A compliment, as I live! Let me write it down before I forget it. There is not another such curiosity in town, as a compliment from Mr. Thompson!" "Pray, what is Miss Jones doing! Writing out Mr. Thompson's conversation for the press?" enquired a lady, near her. '"I have made a conquest of Mr. Thompson," said Miss Jones, "he has paid me a compliment, and that is equivalent to another man's falling on his knees and confessing his love." "Do you feel warranted, Mr. Thompson, in engaging my services on the strength of what   has passed??" asked Mr. Brown, a young clergyman recently settled in town. (Miss Jones' string of conquests is not near full yet," said Henry. "Before the event to which you allude comes round, (Miss Jones' marriage,) I would not be surprised to see your scalp (as we figuratively express it,) also at- tached to her belt." "I should be too modest and discerning; Mr. Thompson, ever to venture far enough to be exposed to such a danger," replied Mr. Brown. While the conversation we have chronicled was taking place, dancing had commenced in another room. After going over the most in- teresting events of their youth, Mrs. Alston and Howard had passed to general subjects, and their early reminiscences had such an effect in making each familiar with the feelings of the other, that they seemed only to touch upon such subjects as were most interesting to both, and thus they had become in a short time mu- tually pleased and interest i each other.- Atlast, Howard invited Mrs. Alston to waltz. She accepted the invitation, and as they passed into the next room and joined the other waltz- ers,' they soon became "the observed of all ob servers." Both were splendid waltiers. Mrs. s .     186      BURKRS CONSPIRACY;. Alston had a natural fondness for it, and as her father had always been determined that every thing she did, should be well done, this taste had been assiduously cultivated. Her splendid dancing joined to the prestige which surrounded her, caused her movements across the floor to be watched with the greatest inter- est. She was in the best of spirits. Although she had undertaken to make a favorable im- pression upon Mr. Howard, with a view to in- teresting him in her fathers schemes, she had taken so deep an interest in his conversation, and had become so pleased with him, that she had forgotten the motive with which she started. When she reached the door, she met the gaze of her father for the first time since they enter- ed. It was expressive of the greatest satisfac- tion and pleasure. That single look added new brilliancy to her countenance, and new elasti- city to her steps, and when she joined in the waltz, her handsome and animated face, her exquisitely proportioned form, her light and graceful motions caused a buzz of admiration to go round the room which only ceased when the dance was over. Col. Burr, with folded arms and a countenance radiant with delight, watched her through the dance. MrsE Alston   I  A mSTOWICAL ROMANC. 137 then excused herself from other invitations on the score of exhaustion, or feeble health, and danced no more during the evening. Charles Howard was a great favorite, and something of a lion in society. The great wealth to which he was heir, his upright char- acter and amiable disposition, his handsome face and agreeable manners, had due weight in society, and he was always a favored and hon- ored guest among the best families. But he had never before met the equal of Mrs. Alston, and the eclat which surrounded her, brought new triumphs to him. He had never before passed so pleasant an evening, and when invi- ted by Col. Burr to dine with him the next day in company with his friend Henry Thompson, he gladly accepted the invitation. Mrs. Alston and her father left the party early. As soon as they were seated in the carriage- "Witch," said Col. Burr, " you never looked and danced better in your life than to-night.- Howard hardly knows which end he stands on, he was so affected by the sensation you produ- ced in dancing. If I was a vain man, I should no doubt be very proud of you." "I am truly happy, my dear father," said Theodosia, "to find you satisfied with me; but     138     BURR'S CONSPIRACY; any one can be handsome and agreeable, when trying to please so kind a father as I have," '1 Nonsense, girl-all stuff." "Have you thought, father, who Charles Howard would make a good husband for?" "Excellent! It never occurred to me till this moment. You mean Charlotte Agnew, of course?" "No other, you may be sure," said Theodo- sia. "It would be an excellent match, and I should not be surprised if they fell in love with each other at first sight." "Quite likely. He has taken such a fancy to you, and she is said to resemble you so much." "When do you expect her?" "She sent word that she would be here to- morrow, and very likely she will be here in time for dinner." The day following the party, Thompson hav- ing some business to transact with Col. Burr, af- ter it was finished the latter said to him: "How long, pray, have you stood so well in the graces of Miss Jones " "Really, Col. Burr, your question is a hard one to answer," said Henry.  Knowing noth   HSTORIOAL ROMxANC     1 ing of your premises, I mst be equally ignor- ant of deductions therefrom." "Too modest by half; Mr. Thompson. Things that do not escape the notice of every one else, can hardly be overlooked by you. I know Mr. Jones to be very siek, for I have attended to his business for twenty years. He has but one child, this daughter, I believe. I mention these circumstances now, because he was in my of- fice not an hour ago, and enquired about you, His ostensible object for calling was to ask about an old matter not of the least conse- quence, and that he had very little interest in. After having made enquiries enough to conceal the real object of his visit, as he supposed, he went out but soon came running back to say, that he had often intended to ask me if a young Mr, Thompson, he had sometime seen with me was any connection of old Squire Thompson, of Connecticut. A smart looking fellow, said he, and I suppose he must be of some account or I should'nt see him so much with you. The pro, bability is, that the mother of Miss Jones hears the name of Henry Thompson used so often by her daughter, that she has requested her papa to ask Col. Burr, (in whose judgment of human nature he has great confidence,) if everything     "O      BURRiS CONSPIRACY; is right with the said Henry Thompson, You would not be averse, I presume, to marryinga fortune, and Miss Jones?" "Just now, I must say, Col. Burr," said Henry, ' that I haye strong prejudices against such a step. Marriage may be very well in the abstract---" "And a fortune," said Col. Burr,' "is very well in the concrete. Miss Jones, although quite young, has very few superiors, 'in my opinion. I recollect very well the old adage, ' De gusti bms, &c., but still I think our tastes must be too much alike for either of us to find a very great superiority in Miss Brpoks over Miss Jones." "It will be useless to urge the matter, Col. Burr," said Henry. "I will have nothing more to do with matrimonial speculations. If I am fortunate enough to possess the esteem. of Miss Jones, I will endeavor to deserve it, bat I will not be the means of involving Mr. Jones, in our project through his daughter. Of course that is what you look at." Hum," said Col. Burr, talking as much to himself as to Thompson.  Delicate scruples, sentimental notions of honor,--get worn off by long commerce with the world,--won't bear the test of a rough experience."   CHAPTER IX. O the morning of the day that Charles Howt ard wa- to dine with Col. Burr, he was taking a, horseback ride with a gentleman, a few niles, out of town, when he met a carriage containing only one person ; but that person was a young lady of uncommon beauty. He had only a hasty glance of her, but so much was conveyed in that, he wished he could have seen more of her. He could not refrain from occasionally looking round after the carriage, so that his companion rallied him upon the eflbect it seemed to have produced upon him.  "A very ordinary looking carriage, I tho't," said he, "and certainly it can have no beauties visible at this distance."' "The object it contained was not an ordinary looking one," said Howard, "and her beauties, you may depend, would be visible at any dis- tance at which she could be seen. But what is the matter?-the horses are frightened---et us turn back." Saying which, they turned their horses and galloped back at a rapid rate. They had not ,.1a             hdHt     t142    timaRS CONPirtAT !proceeded far before they met the carriage re. turning, with the horses apparently very much frightened, running at full speed, and the drivp er wholly unable to manage them. ' Turn into the yard .at tie left," said Hotw -ard in a loud voice, which the driver very much frightened, instinctively obeyed. How. ard had observed that the yard was a wide and level one, and knew no danger of upsetting would be incurred by turning into it. The driver had turned the horses against a fence, where, some part of the harness being broken, they were rearing and plunging in a way that tendered a seat in the carriage very perilous.- Howard had followed close upon it, and the moment they reached the fence, he leaped from  his horse, and was at the carriage door in an in. ttant. He had barely time to get the door open and holding out both hands to the lady inside, said "jump," when a sudden plunge of the horses upset the carriage. The lady had very little time to look and see which way she should jump, and therefore jumped directly forward and landed in Charlels arms. He was notso much excited as to be unconscious of the fact, that he had an exceedingly lovely burthen in his arms, and when he-deposited her upon terra   - AAf    f It au sofMas. -  143 i 7a5, said With a good deal of anxiety. t1 hope you are not hurt!" Her escape from ini- jury, the etnbarrassing circumstances attending it, and the presence of the strange young man --all these things shot through the mind of the young lady in an instant, and she colored deep; ly as she replied: "Not in the least, sir, owing to your timely assistance," and added, "but I trust you are not injured?" as she noticed a hole in his coat Where the wheel appeared to have rubbed against him. "Oh no, I am not hurt," said he, and at this moment an old gentleman exclaimed from a car. riage in the road, "Well, o-oward, what is all this about? I thought you Were too steady a young man to be mixed up Wiith broken car- riages, runaway horses, and adventures of that description, a young lady in the case too. Well I never should have thought it. 1 have been deceived in you, you rogue. Is any one hurt?" "No one," said Henry, as he approached his carriage and explained the accident. "The young lady had better take a seat in my carriage to town, and send her own backs" said the old gentleman.      "4     BLURRS CONSPIRACY; ,    "I will make the proposition to her," said Charles. The young lady's carriage was not much in- jured, but some of the harness was broken; and when Charles suggested to her to send her own carriage home, and ride into town with Col. Millbank, she very readily acceded to the propo- sal. As Charles helped her into his carriage, Col. Millbank said- "Well, young lady, as the accident has not been a serious one, I am not very sorry that it happened, as it gives me the pleasure of your company into the city. See how jealous How- ard looks. He would be willing to give me his horse, if I would give him my seat for an hour. Can't do it, boy. It would be worth a pair at least; and the young lady would not be so well satisfied with the arrangement. Drive on, Sam." And the carriage started off, the old gentleman laughing heartily. Charles and his companion mounted their horses and continued their ride. "She was very handsome, I thought," said the latter. , "Very,' said Charles. "What is her name " "Sure enough! How stupid not to find out! But we can go back and ask the coachman."   A i"T'OJKlALJ ROMaNCE.   145 "There is no need of it, I think,' said the other. 'Col. Millbank will find out her name and pedigree for two hundred years." Col. AMillbank left the young lady, who was 3riss Charlotte Agnew, at the door of Col. Burr's house. The meeting between her and Mrs. Alston was a very affectionate one. Gen.  Agnew, the father of Charlotte, had long been one of Col. Burr's warmest and most intimate friends. They were in the army together,and their friendship dated from that period. As- a States- man, Col. Burr had had opportunities which he never failed to improve, to throw favors in the way of Gen. Agnew, and the latter had done much to promote the political elevation of Col. Burr. ., Mrs. Alston early took a fancy to Charlotte Agnew. Her beauty, sprightliness and wit, made her a great favorite every where, and she had spent much of her time with and was de- votedly attached to-Mrs. Alston. She was but eighteen at this time, and very handsome. The resemblance between her and Mrs. Alston in all respects was remarkably striking, and strangers seldom failed to notice it. Having been a great deal with her, she had acquired her ways and habits of thinking, so that on ac- 10     "6     BURRIS coSPItAwl? quaintance the similarity of taste, disposition1 manner, and person only made them appear more alike. "Oh1 Theodosia!' said Charlotte, 'such a time as I have had coming here I We met a military company-the horses were frightened by the music-ran back-turned round and ran as hard as they could go, John could not hold them, and was frightened out of his wits, A young gentleman whom we had previously met, turned back when he saw our horses runa ning, and told John to drive into a yard, which he did, and I jumped out, just before the care riage upset?' "You were fortunate to get out without assisi tance, and without injury." 'I did'nt get out without assistance," "Oh, John helped you out-did he?" "John, pooh! He had more than he could do to take care of himself." c"Ah, a man run out of the house, and helped you out?" "Nonsense, Theodosia! No such thing. How dull you are. Why don't you ask me some. thing about the young gentleman?" ' Because I know you will tell me all about him without asking, if I have patience   A IT8ORICAL ROMANCE.   -14A "I won't tell you another word." "Very well, I have heard enough about him, You know I don't take so much interest in young gentlemen now as I once did." "Do you know a Mr. Howard, Theodosia ' "Howard, Howard. The town is full of Howards. I 'know of none of much conse- qlence. "Oh, Theodosia! I don't believe it! This Mr. Howard must be of some consequence-of a good deal of consequence. I know by his looks he is.' "Perhaps so. I don't know him."  "You m-ust know him, Theodosia. He is very tall and handsome, brown hair, and whis- kers.' "The streets are full, child, of tall and hand- some men with brown hair and whiskers. I should never be able to recognize him from a description.' "I wish 1 had asked Col. Millbank who he was. But the old plague knew very well I wanted to find out, and so would'nt tell me) just to teaze me.' "Well I don't see as it is of any consequence. You expressed your obligation for the assist- ance, I suppose, and that was sufficiently'     "8     BUIT'S CONSPIRA Y; "No, I did'nt do that, even. Somehow I. could'nt talk at all, though the accident did'nt frighten me. You know there are sometimes occasions when it is most desirable to say something, that we can't open our mouths." "It was not important, I presume,' said Mrs Alston, archly, i'that you should have said more. I have no doubt that you expressed enough.' "Only think, too, Theodosia, I jumped right into his arms, when I might just as well have jumped one side or the other of him. What do you suppose he thought V "I suppose he thought it was a decided God- send. I know I should, if I had been a young man. And now I wish you would'nt bore me any more with this fellow, Howard, that no- body knows. Tell me what you have been do- ing this long time, and all about our old ace quaintances.' As Charlotte Agnew was so soon to meet Howard, Mrs. Alston thought it would be sport to tantalize her for a short time. But whatever subject they attempted to talk upon, Charlotte was sure, sooner or later, to recur to Charles Howard. When Col. Burr returned atnoon-- "A fine story, this,' said he, ' that Col. Mill-   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.    149 bank brings to 'town. Found our Charlotte fainting in the arms of Charles Howard,-the carriage they were eloping in upset and broke, and one or two gentlemen on horseback who had ,gone in pursuit of them.' "What! not that wild, dissipated Charles Howard?' asked Theodosia. "The same,' said Col. Burr. "This Mr. IIoward was'nt dissipated, I know,' said Charlotte. Col. Burr and Mrs. Alston exchanged glan- ces, and the whole matter was understood be- tween them.  At this moment Henry Thompson entered. "I expect,' said he, 'that we shall not have the pleasure of Mr. Howard's company to din- ;.er. I met Clark a short time since and he tojd me that he had a great adventure, this morning, and got a slight wound in the shoul- der, and quite a serious one lower down, in the region of the heart.' "Pray tell us all about it, said Mrs. Alston. "It appears,' said Thompson, ' that he and- Clark were taking a horse-back ride this morn- :ing, when they met a carriage containing a la- dy of surpassing beauty. She must have been very handsome, for Charles is not very suscep- iftCas s o     150      BAtRR'S CONSPIRAfCY; tible. He was so struck with her appearance that he could not keep his eyes off the carriage long after they had passed it. His close watch of it enabled him to discover that it was comn ing back, the horses upon a dead run, and the driver minus his hat and wits. It appears they had been frightened by guns, music or some thing else, and the driver could do nothing with them. They at last ran up against a fence, the carriage was upset and the lady just about be- ing killed, when Charles who had kept near them, threw himself from his horse and extricated the lady without harm' to any one but himself who received a slight bruise on his shoulder, and lost his heart. Clark says it is a positive case-never knew plainer symptoms. He was absent minded and silent after the adventure,-didn't care whether he rode further or came home,-couldn't talk, and was indifferent about everything. He has been to Col. Millbank's office and house twice since he returned, to learn what the lady's name is, but has not yet succeeded in finding him. This suspense probably aggravates his malady.' "Mr. Howard,'-said the servant, throwing open the door, and in walked Mr. Charles How- ard. The face and neck of Charlotte were cov- '?   A ITSTORICAL ROMANCE.   151 ered with blushes as he entered the room. Mrs. Alston and Col. Burr received him in a very warm and cordial manner, and when they turn- ed to introduce him to Miss Agnew it was his turn to blush and be embarrassed.' ' We are not ignorant that you had an ad- venture, this morning, Mr. Howard.' said Mrs. Alston, 'having heard of it from three different sources. Mr. Thompson had hardly finished his narrative when you entered.' "I beg that he will continue it if 'any thing remains to be told,' said Charles, 'I have no doubt that it contains as much that would be as new to me as to the rest of you. I am not ig- norant of the fertile imagination Mr. Thompson possesses.' "I assure you Mr. Howard,' said Charlotte, 'his account as far as it went, contained much that was new to me"' "I was'nt aware,' said Henry, 'that the he- roine of the adventure was present when I was telling the story. If I had been, I should have smoothed over some parts of the hero's beha- viour. "I presume it would have been unnecessary, said Charles, "a little acquaintance with Mr. Thompson will enable Miss Agnew to perceive     152 B. URRS CONSPIRACY; that a very liberal allowance is to be made on what he says.' "I have already made the discovery,' said Miss Agnew. "Why,' said Henry. ' That's the lie circum- stantial, at least. I shall have to call you both out. But only one shot will be: necessary for both, for I will fight Miss Agnew first, and the bullet that kills her will pierce two hearts.' "He thinks you are going to stand directly behind me, Mr. Howard,' said Miss Agnew, 'and after his bullet has done its work with me, it is to continue on and finish you. It is hard to decide which he exaggerates most, the force of his bullet, or the correctness of his aim. It requires a very practised eye, Mr. Thompson, to hit a woman's heart, at a short distance, even.' "Because it is so small, (or from its not being fixed in one place?') asked Henry. 'I always thought Charles a clumsy marksman; yet it appears from what Clark says, that notwith- standing the unsteadiness of his nerves and his random way of firing-' "Never mind what Clark says,' said Charles, 'quoting poor authority to support a bad cause seldom avails much,' "As Mr. Thompson's vercaity has never been   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.     153 questioned,' said Col. Burr, 'he shall have the benefit of Col. Millbank's testimony, which cor- roborates so much of what he has said that we may well believe the rest. I was aware that Mr. Howard made a very favorable impression upon every one at first sight, but this I suspect is the first instance of a young lady's throwing herself into his arms at the first meeting.' "Oh, Col. Burr,' said Miss Agnew, looking reproachfully at him-her face a deep scarlet. 'I You ought to have laid down, Charles,' said Henry, 'and had some one pull the carriage over you. You didn't deserve so much, having encountered no danger and received no injury, -bodily, I mean.' A general laugh followed this remark, when it was announced that dinner was ready.     CHAPTER X. MR. JOHNSION a member of Congress from one of the Western States, added much to the hilarity of the company and the enjoyment of the dinner, by his great fund of anecdotes, his wide experience, his wit, humor and good na- ture. He was a large, fine looking man about fifty years of age. His whole appearance pro- claimed the ease and carelessness of his dispo- sition, and the refinement of his nature. He related so many curious incidents of his life, that the company insisted upon a full history of it. He very cheerfully assented to their re- quest, and began by saying that he was born in the State of New York, not far from the city. 'i My father,' said he, ' was in good cir- cumstances, and very indulgent towards me.- After I had been away to school a few years, he permitted me to make choice between go- ing to college, and entering a store. At that time I thought a merchant's life presented the most alluring prospect, and accordingly went into a store in the city. After a few years I commenced business with another man. I waa   A tuiuSLgUaij WrcaVj5j -A young, had been but little disciplined, and city life had great attractions. I devoted a good deal of time to books, was a little dissipated, and had not much tim6 left for business. A failure ensued about as soon as couldhave been reasonably expected under the circumstances, Adversity is the stern nurse of wisdom, and the feeblest capacities cannot fail to learn from her teachings. Persons who have met with great adversity, and those who possess great power, are apt to be the ones who have the poorest opinion of human nature. Robert Wal: pole, you know used to boast that he knew the price of every man in England, and also said that a man could not know how mean mankind were, until he had been Prirme Minister. Men in power cannot help seeing the selfishness of the world,-but persons in the middle and low- er walks of life need find nothing as I after- wards learned, but disinterestedness and virtue if they seek for, and endeavor to practice nothing else After my failure in business, life commenced in earnest, and it mostly down hill for a long time. My temper became soured, and I indulged in misanthropic feelings. Having abused the world 1 thought it was a very good reason for hating it. A short trial of this, prdr^i     156      3BIRR'S cCONSPIRACY; ed that it was a losing game. After a little time, experience, reflection and books produced their natural fruits. I began to discover what the world had long seen, viz: that I was acting very foolishly. Thinking that it would be wise to discontinue playing a part that appear: ed ridiculous and absurd to others, and was so unprofitable to me, I concluded to turn over a new leaf. Abandoning the pursuit of wealth through a mercantile life, as a career for which I was poorly adapted, I commenced the study of law. By severe and cloie application I be-' came qualified to practice in a much shorter time than is generally necessary to be devoted to the study. As no economy that a young lawyer may practice in large cities will often enable him, from his profession to stand square with the world at the end of the first two or three years, I determined to take my talents to a cheaper market. Cheaper in one sense at least; i. e. in the expense of supporting their possessor. The mightyWest had long had attrac tions 'for me, and selecting a flourishing place on the Ohio, I took my departure for it. New comers were welcomed, and I was received very hospitably; but the question at once arose, 'who is he a' About two weeks time, owing to some   A HSTORICAL ROMANJCE.     157 derangement in the mails, was necessary for the question to be answered satisfactorily. At the expiration of that time, my pedigree for up- wards of a century, minute particulars of all my real and imaginary shortcomings with addi- tions and embellishments corresponding to the distance they had traveled, reached the town. I became at once, an object of suspicion. The Jonses and Jenkinses who had soirwhat rashly cultivated my acquaintance, kept aloof. In the deprivation of their pleasing and instructive gossip, I was obliged to find what consolation I could, in the writings of the best authors.-. When I. read of Slhkspeare's poaching and Bacon's taking bribes; of the peace of mind of the cold hearted and merciless Swift being de- stroyed for days, by a cold look from Sir Wili liam Temple; of Voltaire arising at midnight and dancing about his chamber in his. night slirt, in a phrenzy of passion at some poor wit- ticism an envious cotemporary had hurled at him; of Goldsmith crying from jealousy, be- cause some poor author received a little more notice from the great, than he; of Johnson and Savage perambulating the streets of London all night, because they were too poor to pay for a lodging, and yet resolving, to stand by thei         158      fAtRti `tOwPMRACY o `untry: wheh I tho't of the interview betWeeh the learned lexicographer and the celebrated 'author of the ' Wealth or Nations,' in which the 'former gave the lie direct to the latter, and the latter retorted by reflecting upon the maternal ancestry of the former, in the emphatic and per. spicuous language, word for word and letter for letter, of the lowest and most degraded spe. cimens of the Vulgate; of the world-renowned poet, who, while receiving a guinea a line for his verses, drank vinegar to improve the gentility of his figure;--(pardon the anachronism, readers for the sentence would have been incomplete without it,)-of the innumerable vagaries and weaknesses of the strongest and finest minds; then I read about and reflected upon all these things, human beings seemed such frail and fickle creatures, it Was not difficult to reconcile myself to a life of comparative solitude.- 'Society! ;Society! exclaimed Madame de Stael, 'how it renders the heart hard, and the mind frivolous.' But I do not waht to afford a whining instance of making a virtue of ne; cessity.' "I hope,' said Mrs, Alston, "before you fin- ish your story you will disabuse us of the ima pression that you are anything ofa misanthrope ;   A lSlTOUIAL ROIMAN%@F   . iO Piathef and I have a great contempt for that spex ties of animal.' "Are there any misanthropic lines drawn over my countenance?' asked Mr. Johnson. i But to continue. Being of a retired and contemplative habit, I succeeded in passing the time more comlbrtably, than many to whom so-. ciety is an indispensable requisite, Would have supposed it possible. Whatever necessity im- poses upon us, it behooves us to bear cheerfully and with patience. Persons who Complain a good deal of not being appreciated, may be safe- ly set down as very short sighted and ill-natured; They have been no doubt carefully weighed, and found to possess more vanity and pretensions than good nature and sense. The community in which one lives, measures and guages him with marvellous accuracy, and no explanations of, or apologies for particular actions are often needed, The general bearing and conduct of the individV ual, are sufficient explanation to reasonable ninds. Talleyrand, who is so distinguished for his knowledge of human nature, said, "a blunder is worse than a crime." Of the for- mer, he is believed never to have committed a serious ohe; of the latter, his reputation is Knot quite so clear."     OV-13 BURI'S CONSPIRACY; "Excuse me for interrupting you,' said Col. Burr, 'but I must express my admiration of your reasoning and I hope you will not suffer yourself to get confused in any unhappy illus- trations. You have stated that vice is folly, and crimes are blunders, and it seems to me you are unfortunate in introducing such a saying of Talleyrand's whose wide experience and uniform success, attach considerable weight to what he sa vs.' "If you fail to derive any support for your reflections from Talleyrand,' said Mrs. Alston, 'perhaps some of the ancients will give you a lift. A falnous RIoman Historian, I remember, says, 'yet surely fortune bears sovreign in- fluence over every thing: it is she that bright- ens or obscures all things, more from caprice and humor than a regard to truth and justice.' "Never mind, Mrs. Alston,' said Mr. John- son. "I owe the company an apology for boring them with a sermon when I was only to give a narrative.' "Let me see, where was I?' "In something of a fog, I thought,' whispered Charlotte. "You were very enviably situated,' said Mrs. Alston, in a log hut on the banks of the Ohio.   Deprived of the smile of approbation of the in- telligent and highly cultivated people by whom you were surroulided, you divided your time between a volume of Blackstone, your dog,. mus- ket and fishing rod. Your experience taken in connection with your logical powers, exalts you very much in my esteem. Pray proceed with your story; something rich must come out shortly.' "You are increasing my indebtedness to you, Mrs. Alston,' said Mr. Johnson. "I pray the debt may no the much increased, for I despair of collecting it at its present size.' "Why you are saucy, Theodosia,' said Col. Burr. You may have forgotten, father, but I have not, the old score Mr. Johnson run up against me tiSe last winter I was in Washington. I am only paying it off.'  "Don't interrupt her, Col. Burr,' said Mr. Johnson. 'Let her abuse me as much as she will. I am glad to have her in my debt. She has a heart I think, although appearances may be to the contrary; and when I apply to her for the governorship of a province in Mexico, (no one would' think of going to you, Col. Burr) she will be very happy to atone for previous;     ill-treatment by giving it to me. NoW I pro; mise to indulge in no more moralizing if you will not interrupt me again. I said, I believes the good people of Smithville were at first a lit- tie shy of me, As time passed and no one saw aught to complain of in my conduct, they grad- ually became more favorably disposed towards me. The most charitable and discerning, be- lieved me to be ' more sinned against than sin- ning.' My reputation had been hung around with too many rilliants,--the work was over: done, and a reaction ensued. Full particulars of all these natters I learned from a young la- dy, whose confidence I afterwards obtained.- Up to the time of going West, I had led such an exciting life that I had not thought of get- ting married. Now living in a good deal of solitude, and having so much leisure, a wife seemed to be an indispensable companion. I was very much pleased with a young girl, the daughter of a farmer living in town. My at, tentions were well received, and I thought noth- ing would prevent my marrying her. "But Mrs. Smith, a regular virago, who, by the way had grown up daughters, pretended to think it a shame, that such a lovely girl should be thrown away on such a worthless fellow,--   A 1f6TORICAL ROBMANE. ,r - - -^ 5' --a-' She coald'nt see for her part what Jane Hor mer's parents could be thinking of, to suffer their daughter to marry such a man! What could they expect would become of her with a man for a husband who had robbed his grand- mother of all her money, and then pushed her down stairs and broke her leg! It was said (by evil minded persons I presume,) that Mrs, Smith intended me for her eldest daughter. Be that as it might, Mrs. Smith was rich, and her remarks had great influence upon the family into which I wished to marry, though not the least upon the girl herself. My indignation to- wards Mrs. Smith was fully roused, and I was determined to have some revenge. I made the most diligent and persevering enquiries into her history, feeling pretty confident that I should find-a break somewhere in the placid stream of her life, as I have always observed that those who are least charitable, and most inclined to exaggerate the failings of others, do it with a hope of covering over, or diverting attention from their own. My searches were not fruitless. I found tha ththere had been a very important lapSwus in her career, and I was in high glee at the discovery. It appeared that 'before Mrs. Smith was married--before she had     "t:     BURR:'SE CONSPIRACY;  even seen Mr. Smith, a very diminutive speei- men of the human race came to light in the neighborhood where she, then (an unmarried girD at the time, was staying. The circumstan- ces of the case were such that the origin of it could be, traced with almost infallible certainty to the backslidings of Mrs. Smith. The child did not Iive, and the affair was very well con- cealed. "In the possession of this secret, I felt armed with a very potent thunder which, when tile proper time came, I hoped to let fall with stun- ning effect upon the head of Mrs. Smith. I nursed it very assiduously for several weeks, keeping away all the time from the girl to whom I was attached, until at last I thought I had devised a plan which would prove success- ful. I called at the house of Mrs. Smith one day, and with some little parade, walking into the parlor, desired that I might be permitted to see her. That this visit and the request cre- ated no little consternation will be very readily believed. After a short time, Mrs Smith made her appearance, with a face screwed into a look of defiance, and her combative powers evident- ly ready for instant service. In a conciliatory tone I commenced saying that whether the mo-   A .I'STORITAL ROMAI2CL..    i5 tive I had for wishing to see her met her ap- proval or not, I hoped she would forgive me for being so presumptuous as to make the trial. I then stated that I had long looked upon her eldest daughter with anything but indifference; that knowing Mrs. Smith's rigid principles, and her punctilious regard for the strictest proprie- ties of conduct, I did not feel like showing any ,attentions to her daughter without first obtain- ing the permission of the mother. An appre- hension that this permission could not be ob- tained, had led me to encourage a transient in- terest which I had felt in another quarter; but I had at last determined to be assured beyond a doubt, whether my fears were well founded. '"Mrs. Smith was greatly astonished and greatly mollified by my story. She replied, quite good naturedly that, she supposed she had a reputation for being too severe upon the erring, but you know, Mr. Johnson, that those whose conduct has ever been influenced and guided by the purest morals, and protected from error with religious fidelity, cannot feel so much charity towards the guilty, or treat them so leniently as others whose lives have been less irreproachable. I leaveit to you, Mr     166      BU-RRS CONSPIRACY; Johnson, if such does not seem to be naturally the case.' "I should not think of presuming to differ-in opinion from you, Mrs. Smith,' said I, 'cn a subject in which you are so much better quali- fied to judge than I.' "There is so much wickedness in the world,' continued she, c that it behooves all the strictly moral and religious to frown severely upon per- sons who have been beguiled into it, even in its incipient stages.' I simply bowed my approval of the doctrine. ' I have never known of the least exceptiona- ble conduct in you, Mr. Johnson,' said she, 'since you came to this town to live, andI am one of those who believe that if evil exists in a person, it must manifest itself more or less on all occasions-it cannot be entirely concealed. Therefore I know of no reason why I should ob- ject to your attentions to my daughter, if they should prove acceptable to her, and I have no doubt they would, for Eliza is a girl of excellent taste.' At this stage of the controversy, the muscles of my face began to grow rather uncontrollable, and I closed the conversation somewhat aulpt- ty and left the house.'    *  A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.     167 "The next Sunday I attended Miss Eliza to church, sat in the pew with her family and re- eeived the blandest smiles from her mother.- "Mrs. Smith was not long in assuring her neighbors that she had never been so fully con- vinced what a lying world this was as in the case of Mr. Johnson. Nothing could be clear- er to her mind than that all stories to my detri- ment were sheer fabrications of the most mali- cious kind. As to my being the father of an illegitimate child, she no more believed it than she did that she was the mother of one. "Having silenced Mrs. Smith's battery,I went back to my true love, and explained to her my conduct. She readily forgave me, and her moth- er was now satisfied with me, as Mrs. Smith had convinced every one that my character was irre- proachable. "My tactics were soon understood by Mrs. Smith, and one day I received a message from her, desiring an interview. I knew that the time had now come for making use of the important secret I possessed, and I went to her house feel- ing certain that she must be more than mortal to get the better of me in an encounter, armed as I was. But I did'nt begin to know the extent of her resources, I found her and Miss Eliza     `Ib6    -SBURRE's -CQNSPIRACY;  alone in the room, the latter sobbing, as though every new sob must break the heart. Her moth- er looked like a galvanized vixen. The first words she uttered were,- "You horrid, heartless, lying, miserable per- jured wretch! There is nothing wicked you are incapable of!' "Before you go any further, Madam,' said I, "I desire to protest that there is one thing I am incapable of, and in that respect you and I are unlike. I am incapable of infanticide.' Mrs. Smith had an unlimited capacity for hysterics and fainting fits. This artillery was always at her command. The moment the fatal word was pronounced, she gave a terrible shriek, and fell. I ran to her with the intention of applying the usual remedies; but she was not so insensible as to be unconscious of my pres- ence, and exclaimed, "Take the monster away! Take him off!' And I thought it would be as well to take myself offc I went home congrat- ulating myself that I should have no further trouble from her. Less than half an hour after I reached home, a friend came running in say- ing,-- "What means this, Johnson?  Are you crazy'    As HSTORICAL ROMANCE.     169, "Crazy!' said I. 'What do you mean?' "Do you not know that you will soon be ar- rested for an attempt to murder Mrs. Smith -- She has a deep wound in the arm, and the doc- tor is afraid she will bleed to death!" I was soon after arrested, and closely confin- ed in jail. "Verily,' thought I, (I had abund- ance of time for thinking,) "You will work your way through the world, Mrs. Smith.' I afterwards learned that Mrs. Smith had thrust her scissors into her arm and inflicted quite a serious wound. It appears that she had a temper equal to anything. She then affirmed that I had attacked her with a long knife, which her arm had protected from a blow aimed at her heart, (on the supposition of course that she had such a thing, and that it was located some- where in the leftside.) I was never brought to trial. Mrs. Smith was willing to compromise the matter, if I would agree to leave town and never go into it again. I consented, having had enough of prison life and Mrs. Smith, and I had no more desire to go back to that town than Mrs. Smith had to see me there.     CH APTE R XI. I HAD in my youth extreme sensitiveness and delicacy of nature. The varied experience I had undergone up to this time, had the effect to blunt somewhat the keenness of my sensibili ties, but my' elasticity of spirits and a certain joyousness of nature, nothing could break down. A French philosopher, St. Simon, descended from one of the oldest and most aristocratic families, having spent his fortune in the wildest vagaries and absurdities, was reduced to great poverty. When he accepted of a clerkship with a salary of only two hundred dollarsa year, he remarked that "every blunder he made only had the effect to increase his self- esteem.' It was so with me. The diversified experience I had met with, gave me, (as I con- sidered it,) an advantage over more inexpe- rienced men, however 'much better their exteir nal condition might be than mine, and my self- satisfaction could not be easily disturbed, Some one has said, "patriotism is the last refuge of the scoundrel.' There was nothing-- "Pardon me for interrupting you, Mr. John.   A H STORICAL ROMANCE     1t son,' said Mrs. Alston, "but if you would ex- cuse me for leaving the table until you have finished your moralizing, I should esteem it a favor. I am tolerably fresh from Paley and Stewart, and your beautiful reflections do not seem to throw any new light on their teachings. You must either count greatly upon the inter- est of your story, or else you think our patience is inexhaustible. What offences we have com- mitted that should subject us to the infliction of so much sermonizing, I am at a loss to tell. If' intended as an ornament, it appears to me to hang to your narrative like a coarse cotton fringe to a Canton shawl. I was on the point long ago of manifbsting my impatience, but father shook his head reprovingly, and up to this time I have been able to act the martyr.-- But'there is a limit to human endurance. If your talent for sermonizing was only matched by correct and exemplary conduct in life, much might be hoped from your efforts, if you should join the ministry. If you were settled over some society where the members were most firmly attached to, and fixed in their doctrinal views, I would guarantee you would be able to throw them into complete and inextricable confusion by ona year's preaching.'     1 72      BURRS CoNsPIRsACY; "'Do you stop for want of breath, Mrs. Alston, 'or have you freed your mind entirely of the perilous stuff that weighed upon it ' asked Mr. Johnson. "I am resigned now, and prepared to hear you through,' replied Mrs. Alston. "But it was necessary for me to speak or-do worse." ' I am very glad you did,' said Mr. Johnson "4 My governorship in Mexico must extend over fifty more miles of territory at least, for that. But I was about saying there was nothing desperate in my situation, and no particular laxity of morals led me to dabble in politics- But a certain ennui, a desire to be denounced and abused-anything that would create a lit- tle excitement induced me to seek political dis- tinction. I went to a town in Ohio, that was settled altrost wholly by emigrants from Con- necticut. None but the most utilitarian views -of life found favor with them. I believe you say, Col. Burr, that you have found the Ohio people too plodding a race, to expect much aid from them in your enterprise. In the townI selected for my residence, the worst primitive notions of men and things, existed. My ap- pearance underwent a severity of scrutiny that I had not before been subjected to; and my first i   A HSTORICAL EOMANCE.      173 impression upon them was decidedly unfavor- able. Sundry hints were soon thrown out that that part of the country was not very well adapt- ed to fine gentlemen, that the people there all worked to support themselves, and did not feel much inclined to labor for any delicate looking, soft handed idlers. As for a lawyer they did'nt: need one, or want one there. They never had experienced any harm from having no interpre- ter between them and the law, neither did thev expect any. What little law business they had to attend to, could be transacted at the county town, twenty miles distant, and that was near enough to lave a, lawyer. I was not much dis- couraged by the inauspicious aspect of things. Patience was one of the virtues my experience had taught me. If the people I was among were very uncharitable, I was not at ,all so. If they found nothing in me to be pleased with, I found much in them to afford me satisfaction. I took a great deal of interest in their pursuits, had practical knowledge enough to be able to impart a good deal of valuable information to them about the breeding of cattle, raising crops, building houses, &c. I gradually worked into a little favor, notwithstanding the softness of my hands and the absence of all indications of     174      niURRi' CONSPIRACY  a hard-working, rough-and-tumble life, When the fall election was near at hand, I announced myself as a candidate for the State Senate, and took the stump to canvass the county. A hard drinking, noisy, quarrelsome fellow, a bar-room bully, belonging to the other side, was fiercely opposed to me. He indulged in every epithet of scorn and contumely against me that his vo. cabulary abounded in. He called me a 'milk sop,' an ' effeminate, delicate framed creature, too nice for every day use.' I saw it would be necessary to make an example of him, or I should certainly lose my election. I therefore took the opportunity before a large assembly to attack him with contemptuous sarcasm, and scorn, which eats into the very heart of such a man as he. It was not considered etiquette to attack a man physically, while he was on the stump speaking, and great efforts were therefore made by those who were the objects of denunci- ation or ridicule, to smother their indignation until the speaker had finished. The bully I mentioned, was a great stouts man, weighing upwards of two hundred pounds. He had large black whiskers that covered half his face, fierce looking eyes and a bloated face. Although a great brag, he was no coward.; and he foamed   A MSTO1RTAL 7OM&O.      1 with rage when I said, looking ae hi, ' that na- ture was sometimes guilty of the strangest freaks -that a burly headed, broad shouldered, fierce looking, gigantic framed bully often possessed the heart of a chicken--the pluck of a dove. -- ' But,' continued I, 'it is) no doubt a wise dis- pensation of Providence sometimes to bestow upon the mean spirited and cowardly, a formi- dable exterior. The skunk is afforded with a defence for his imbecility, and rapidly descended. ing the scale of animal creation until we reach such beings as my enemy yonder, even he- The bully at this time was exasperated beyond any further endurance, and he made a rush at me blind with fury and madness. 'Wait, 'Hank!' 'Wait!' 'Shame!' 'Part 'em!' &ec came from the crowd, but it was too late. Boil- ing with passion, my adversary was insensible to everything bat a wish to beat the life out of me. Among the youthful aecomplishments I had cultivated, 'the art of boxing' had not been neglected, and I was very expert at it.-- Being perfectly cool when he approached, the moment he was within reaching distance, I hit him a well aimed blow which laid him on the earth like an ox felled by the blow of an axe. 'Fair play is all I ask,' said I to the crowd who     "Vu-     BKUkSSIB UUINbilAlUAtX'  were getting too near, and the circle at once enlarged. My opponent was up again in an in stant and down again as quick. The third time he approached with more discretion, but he knew nothing of the sciencee,' and I had itall my own way. Ilis heavy but random blows, took no effect upon me, and I dealt a show- er of blows about his head until his face soon presented a bruised and blackened aspect.-- A heavy and well directed blow again laid him on the ground, from which he manifest- ed no signs of endeavoring to rise. The bat- tie was n ow ended, and I had received no injury worth mentioning. This pugilistic en- counter secured for me the vote of all the fighting men in the county, but an opposi- tion was raised against me by some adroit managers, that would have defeated me, llt for the timely efforts I made to frustrate their schemes. The other candidates for Senators belonged to the hard-handed yeomanry of the country. They were either tillers of the soil, cattle drivers, brick-makers, or something of the kind. Their appearance of course partook more or less strongly of the occupations they pursued. Unfortunately I presented a very delicate organization-(it was much more ap- D   parent then than now-politics in a few years give a hardened aspect to a man that he would not acquire by pig driving, or sheep shearing, in half a century.) My, opponents took advan- tage of the prejudices of the multitude, to turn my exterior man against me. They very bold- ly affirmed that my appearance denoted that I had been doubly refined in the crucible of aris- tocracy. To ensure the success of their efforts to destroy my popularity they formed, what they called a 'Utilitarian Society' in opposi- tion as they pretended to the 'Society of the Cincinnati.' All members were required to be utilitarians not only in theory, but also in prac-  tice. Two generations of professional life in a family, made the second generation ineligible to membership. Therefore if my father had belonged to one of the professions, I should have been inadmissible. One of their by-laws was, that no man should be permitted to be- come a member who was supposed to be friend- ly to the 'Society of the Cincinnati.' Small pamphlets containing the by-laws and objects of the 'Utilitarian Society,' were widely circu- lated through the county. Accompanying these were handbills, stating that voters would find it for their interest to bestow their confidence -12     178      BUKE's oNsPiRPAC;  only on such men as were united with them ih sympathy and interest from a similarity of taste and occupation. They also stated that my father was one of the principal getters-up of the 'Society of the Cincinnati and some one at the county seat, more learned than the rest, had obtained a book called 'Laws of Beauty, Eti- quette, &c.' In it were laid down certain dis. tinctive marks which indicated nobility of birth, or descent from ancestors who had not been ac- customed to manual labor. It was affirmed that I possessed all these marks, and the fact was paraded at great length and much dwelt upon. This was a home-thrust, and unless vig- orous and decisive measures were at once tak- en, I saw that my election was lost. "I at once sought admission to the Society, and was rejected, as I expected to be. I imme- diately prepared a handbill, which I took meas- ures to have spread all over the county. I be- lieve I have a copy with me which I will read. As I owed my start in political life to it, I am never without a copy by me. This is it: To the .Members of the ' Utilitarian Soiety.' GENTLEMEN: "My petition to be admitted as a member of your Society, I suspect was rejected from an   ignorance of the grounds oh which I sought the  honor. I will state what my claims are for ad- mittance to a circle of so much distinction, and would like to know if, without being good look- ing, I can't come int "There is nothing in the antiquity of my family of a disqualifying nature, for a place among so exclusive a body of men. My gene- ological tree commenced its growth with Noah, not Noah of Deluge memory, but Noah John- son, who was born just after the commence- ment of the eighteenth century.  Noth- ing positive is known of his ancestors, but it is said he believed his mother was a French woman; his father he could tell nothing about, though he recollected several gentlemen who claimed him as- their son, and whom he called father; but which, if either was his father, al- ways remained a mystery to him. On some particular emergency, his mother suddenly left home and forgot in her haste to take him with her. Noah never saw or heard of her after- wards. Such was my great grand-mother, for Noah was my grand-father, and the founder of the family. "There has been no military renown achiev- ed by any of the family that would prove a bar     1AO  .   1SUKe S COCNSPIRACY;, to my entrance to this select circle of democrats, iMy grand-father Noah was in Braddock's ar. my, and present at the battle where a large ar. my was put to flight by a score or two of French and a few Indians. My grand-father belonged to the militia; he was a private, and won no particular fame on the occasion, except in having, in that unparalleled flight, run faster and further before he stopped, than ant other man of his company. No other member of the family ever saw actual service, but several have accepted offices in militia com- panies when no one else would take them, but they always resigned as soon as there was any talk of war. My grand-father married a Dutch girl whose pedigree was still more obscure than his own; they settled near Albany where, vitlh a capital of thirty dollars, he commenced lay- ing out a tan-yard; he was prosperous in busi- ness, and died suddenly, leaving eighteen chil- dren. My grand-mother is still living. "It will be perceived that my pedigree, tak- en from a utilitarian point of view has much to recommend it. The officer who introduced Napoleon. to Barras, said in recommendation of him, that 'he 'was a young man who didn't stand upon ceremony.' My great gramd-moth- \  *[   A HSTORICAL RIACE.       181 er evidently was a woman who didcnt stand upon ceremony. The unwillingness of my grand-father to fight, as shown in running away from those quarrelsome fellows, the British, and outstripping his fugitive companions in the race, evinced a peaceful turn of mind, joined to remarkable expedition in carrying out precon- ceived notions. His prosperity in business, and his prolific labors in the multiplication of the human race, speak for themselves. "It appears that some profound scholars amongst us, who have delved deeply into the metaphysical writings of philosophers and sag- es, have discovered that there are certain dis- tinctive marks, which, to the experienced eye, proclaim what a man's ancestors were. Small ears, broad shoulders, a full chest, narrow hips, a small foot, with a curved instep, are said to indicate that the possessor of them had warri- ors, mounted officers-for ancestors, instead of hod-carriers:-and vice versoa. Now as I pos- sess the developments indicative of descent from a warrior, and Noah Johnson can hardly be called that, I must account for them in a Utilitarian way, if I hope to obtain ingress to the Utilitarian Society. Know then that the tanner's trade is admirably calculated to foster     182      BURROS CONSPIRACY; the growth in the human form of those pecu. liarities which these gentlemen. suppose belong exclusively to the warrior. There is a similar. ity in the two trades. In the frst place, there was no end to horseback riding in the bark mill; from early boyhood to early manhood there was but little respite. That saves the curve in the foot, and the hips also. Then breaking the bark and throwing it into the mill is very much like swinging the sword and throw- ing the javelin. But what most develops the chest, gives breadth to the shoulders and strength to the arms, is, leaning over the beam and fleshing the hides; and the exceedingly rich, and nutritious odor which is exhaled from the hide when undergoing the operation, inm parts strength to the constitution, and invigor- ates the whole system. My complexion being precisely the same as that of military men in 'actual service,' is owing to a constant exposure of our family to the refining influence of hem- lock bark. "Such is a brief statement of the grounds upon which I base a claim to initiation intothe new Society of useful democrats. If my claim can be repudiated, then I say, and I have no doubt the independent voters of the county will   A HSTORIOAL ROANCE.     183 -L-------------'---         -- concur with me in saying, 'Short life to the Society.'        Charles Johnson.' "It did the work for me, and I was elected byra handsome majority. Once on the road to political preferment, the journey to Washing- ton as M. C. became easy and sure. Since that time I have had the honor of Col. Burr's ac- quaintance. And now I think I have punished you enough by the tediousness of my narrative, for insisting upon its being given, but it will be a lesson to you, not to seek a history of other men's lives; where they have so little to relate as I, or so indifferent a way of relating that little.' "But,' said Charlotte, 'didn't you go to see the girl you was in love with again-Jane Ho- mer, was that her name?' "Oh nonsense, Charlotte,' said Mrs. Alston. Members of Congress are often great improvis- atores. I think I understand the Mrs. Smith af- fair. Jane Homer and Elizabeth Smith were merely thrown in as make-weights, to add to the romance of the story. The truth of the case I suspect to be that Mrs. Smith was a gay widow whom Mr. Johnson wanted very much to mar- ry, and she wouldn't have him. He was very importunate, and on a certain' occasion having thrown himself on his knees before her, threat-     184      BURi's CONSPIRACy;  ened to stab himself with the scissors if she did not consent-'  When Mrs. Alston had proceeded so far the company being a very merry one, she could no longer be heard for the laughing, and the ladies with Charles Howard then left the table. CHAPTER, XII. As Miss Agnew entered the drawing room leaning on the arm of Charles Howard, she said she 'hoped no feelings of gallantry led him'to leave his wine, and the society of the gentlemen at the table.' Howard replied, that 'he could conceive of no situation in which he could be placed that he Would not gladly exchange for the company of IMiss Agnew; and,' he added, 'I seldom drink much wine. The evils from drinking, it I think greatly counterbalance the pleasure of. f' "Theodosia is such a tease,' said larlotte.   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.     185, 'She pretended to me this morning that she knew no Howard in town, but believed there was a dissipated Charles Howard, as though you were dissipated, Mr. Howard.' "Certainly, said Charles, A it would be a rep- utation very suddenly 'acquired, and poorly earned I think, but I must call Mrs. Alston, to account for so misrepresenting me. Mrs. Alston was at this time approaching, and Charles said to her, 'from the impression you made upon me last evening, Mrs. Alston, I could never have believed you were such a de- tractor, from any other authority than Miss Ag- new.' "It is inot possible I trust,' said Mrs. Alston, 'that Charlotte has bJeen betraying my confi- dence?' 'Perhaps Theodosia,' said Charlotte, 'it would be as well for you to spare me such confidence as that Mr. Howard is a very dissipated man.' "And pray, child,' replied Mrs. Alston, 'how do you know he is not? What authority have' you to the contrary, except perhaps his own as- surances, and which do you think would weigk. most in a court of law, his testimony or mine in the matter?'  "iReally, Mrs. Alston this is very fine,' said'     186     BURR'S CONSPIRACY; Charles, laughing, 'I shall have to sue you for a libel, for I can't bear to have Miss Agnew en. tertain an unfavorable opinion of me.' "That being the case,' said Mrs. Alston, 'and as I have a great dislike for the law, I will make an apology. You must know Mr. Howard, that Charlotte is my most particular friend, and until to-day I had not seen her for a long time. Judge then how I must have felt this morning, having so much to say to her, and so much I wanted to hear from her, when the first saluta- tions were hardly exchanged between us, before she commenced persecuting me about a MrHow- ard she had seen for the first time.'  "Oh Theodosia you are too bad,' exclaimed Charlotte. "What cared I, a married woman,' continued Mrs. Alston, 'about the Mr. Howard she had happened to meet, and I thought she must have grown light headed since I had last seen her. Therefore, although I knew from the very first that you were the man she met, I hoped to turn the subject to some other topic, by saying you were a worthless fellow. It had, however a con- trary effect from what I intended, for she would not believe it,-so credulous are girls at her age. Now let me caution you Charlotte against 1   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE     187' ,      .. encouraging a fancy far Mr. Howard; for Mr. Thompson informs us that he is a stern, practi- cal mnan-that he entertains the most' conserva- tive notions of things, and laughs at everything pertaining to the romantic or sentimental.- Love at first sight he believes to be the veriest foolery in the world,-the silly delusion of a weak minded and unsophisticated school girl,- He has no faith in any other love except that which has been the growth of years, and pro- ceeds from a similarity of ages, a congeniality of disposition, taste and intellect. No, Char- lotte, you must waste no admiration of a senti- mental and romantic nature upon tr. Howard, for he is a man who believes only in stern real- ities, in dry, unimaginative facts.' This speech of Mrs. Alston was rattled off with so much volubility as to prevent inter- ruption, and the audacity of it confounded both Miss Agnew and Howard. When Charles had recovered a little from the effect of it, he said, "You never would succeed, Mrs. Alston as an artist; your pictures would be too highly col-  ored. If I ever said I did not believe in love at first sight, I presume it was because nothing had ever occurred to'make me believe the contrary. It was a nice remark of Benedict, when he said     I88      BUtR'S CONSPIRACr, he should die single; he didn't think he should live to be married. I have no great admiration, Mrs. Alston, for consistent people who never change their opinions. I believe we growwiser every day, and that we may consistently discard to-day what we believed yesterday. Deliver me from those who are too wise to learn, and 4oo perfect to be improved.' "Am I to understand then,' 'said Mrs. Al. ston, "that to-day you believe in love at first -sight.  "I certainly do,' said Charles, " and I think I can give good reasons for it, too. If I see a person whose appearance at first sight is par- ticularly attractive to me, if I feel a great ad- ,miration for the- expression of countenance, for the glance of the eye, for the tone of the voice, -and general and particular carriage of the whole person, I think it is an evidence of some sym- pathy between that person and me, and feel sure that with such a one I could not fail to live happily. As it requires wit to see wit, so it requires fine qualities to appreciate fine quali- ties.' "Sheer sophistry,' said Mrs. Alston, "and I am surprised that a man who has the reputation of entertaining such conservative views as Mr. $   A HISTORICAL ROMANCIE.    18 Howard, should indulge in such shallow reasons ing. A young squaw of the Flat Head tribe ot Indians and a belle at Almacks, might be, equally in love with you. Would there be the. same sympathy between each . "Mrs. Alston is the sophist,' said Charlotte.. "A great, fat-fisted slave of hers, might love her with blind adoration, but he couldn't love her as Mr. Alston does. She very well knows that a flat-headed squaw could not have the same appreciation of the fine and noble quali- ties of-of-a man, that the belle of Almacksw would have. "And if Mr. Howard was the man, you might as well add,' said Mrs. Alston, "some other belles besides those of Almacks. I wish Wil- liam Gray had seen you this morning- iniMr. Howard's arms.' Saying which she moved off, fully conscious of the effect the hot shot she had just fired, must produce. "What a plague she is,' thought Charlotte. As for Charles, he was suddenly seized with an intense fit ofabstraction. Playing vigorously with his thumbs, and with his eyes intently fixed on a small figure in the carpet, he presented a very melancholy spectacle for a few minutes. Charlotte seemed     19     sminiu's CONSPIRAVC; to be wholly absorbed in looking out of the window, though to an ordinary observer there did not appear to be anything in the street at the time, which could have been expected so to fix her attention. At last, Charles turned to her with considerable excitement of manner, and said:--  "Pray tell me something about this Mr. Gray, Mrs. Alston spoke of. I feel a good deal of interest in your friends, and this gentleman I presume is one. He is not a married man, I suppose, and I hope he is not engaged to be married." "Really, Mr. Howard,' said Charlotte, "Mr. Gray would no doubt feel very much flattered, if he knew how much interest you take in him. I believe he is not generally supposed to have entered into any matrimonial engagement, and as you can have no reason for believing that he would make me a confidant of his affairs, 'that information I presume, will be as definite as you can expect from me.' "Certainly,' said Charles, "that is-' and he stopped short to ponder upon the remarks of Charlotte, which had suddenly struck him as meaning a good deal. After a silence of a few minutes, Miss Agnew said,--   A IolST-OCkIL aOMAiCEc.  101 "Did you think, Mr. Howard, you had been rashin saying ' that is ' Some philosophers I believe, say,. nothing is." "Others besides philosophers,' said Charles, "believe nothing is to be depended upon, that we hear from woman. I do not believe you have told me the whole truth about this Mr. Gray.' "I admire your incredulity,' said Charlotte. "know no Mr. Gray, and am not aware that I ever heard the name mentioned, until Mrs. Alston pronounced it. If you had lnown her as well as I do, you would not have been so easily deceived. But you seem to be in a very inquisitive mood. Would you not like to cate- clise me further about other matrimonial en- gagements?' "My curiosity would be satisfied in knowing that Miss Agnew was free from-' "Any such embarrassing and unpleasant en- tanglement, you would say,' said Charlotte.- "She is entirely free from it, and she intends o remain so.' "I am delighted to hear,' said Charles, "that he is under no such engagement, though I ould be the happiest man in the world, if she     J5 U^7 ; AUi-fc O  vr cv 7U was, and I was permitted to choose the man who-'         ' "I have suspected for some time,? said Char- lotte, rising and laughing, "that you were crazy, and now I am convinced of it. 'You are de- lighted to hear that I am under no engage- nent, and you would be the happiest man in the world if I was.' I will go and ask Mrs. Alston if madness runs in your family.' And she hastily left him. As she approached Mrs. Alston the latter said to her in a low voice, "How you are blush- ing, Charlotte! Mr. Howard has made a clean breast of it, I know. You can't deceive me, child.' We return to the gentlemen whom we left at the dinner table. "By what I learn from Washington,' said Thompson, "I begin to doubt what you have so often declared, Col. Burr, that with two hun- dred men, you could drive the President and Congress into the Potomac. The administra- tion displays an energy, vigilance and alertness in ferreting out, and endeavoring to circumvent our plans, that it was not supposed to possess. "Amiable and inoffensive women,' said Gen. "will fight bravely and fiercely, if you   A IISTORICAL ROMANCE.    193 attempt to take from them their children. And weak men will often struggle desperately to re- tain power which they are likely to lose. The hatred a weak man in power feels for a strong one, deprived of it, is intense, and in seeking his destruction, the energy he evinces will be proportioned to his hatred.' "I do not see,' said Col. Burr, "how they will be able to interrupt our proceedings, how- ever strong their fears and hatred may be. I have more friends West of the Alleghenies'than the President, and until he can change that ftct, his indignation will not amount to much.' "Have you perfect confidence in Gen. Wilk- inson, Col. Burr?' asked Gen.- "The utmost confidence,' said Col. Burro- "I think I understand Gen. Wilkinson well. He is a very ambitious man, and he has but little sympathy with the present administra- tion.' He is not a man who fancies the idea of having his power jeoparded every four years, and he is convinced of my ability to bestow upon him a permanent place.' "He is said to possess an overruling pride, and a haughty and ungovernable temper. I ope e may prove as reliable as you think him, said Geni.    194      MBORIS' CONBPIRhf;  . "I trust in his fidelity to me,' said Col. Burr; "because I think he will deem it his interest to remain faithful to me. Whathas the admin istration to offer hi that would counterbalance what I should be able to confer pon him  appears to me that he cannot fail to consider my bid 'the highest.' Being a jealmos, high tempered mand said enry, "influences might be. brought to. bear upon him that would rouse passions, which should cause him t o overlook his interest' ousl    hhead left, Thomson a "That might very well happen with a man of twenty-five,' said Col. Burr. "is o ld be much less likely to occur with o ne upwards of forty.'d nd "I1 doubt that,' said Tenry. "I could find a man upwards of fifty that could be led into almost anything by a shrewd and artful Wo0- Illall t          - . This remark caused some merriment at Co Burr's expense, and the conversation tool another turn. Col. Burr was soon called out b some one having come to see him on urge business. When he had left, Thompson Sai "If ever there was a man born to command Col. Burr is one. And if he is only sceIess in seizing the reins of government, the wo1   A ISTORIOA'L ORd6AOE. .99 will applaud him for assuming what he is so well fitted by nature to possess. Would men have had Casar and Buonaparte, teachers of elocution, or proprietors of ninageries-thus securing for themselves the reputation of being peaceable and well-disposed citizens, and af- fording perhaps, more quiet to the world.-- Would Buonaparte appear better as a tamer of lions, thanihe does with the kings of Europe at his feet?' "But every attempt to oterthrOw a govern- mnent,' said Gen. --.--, "is not attended with success; and a failure you know is followed with simply hanging as traitors, the prime mor yer of the project and his most prominent fol- lowers.' "Very true,' said Henry. "And a small stake it is, too. Philosophers you know, tell us that if man in his youth could see what he will have to endure through his life, he would pre- fer dying to encountering it all. Wise men, I believe, generally hold life at a cheap rate. At all events "I had as lief not be, as live to be in awe of such a thing as I myself;" But why talk of failures? Did Col. Burr even rld attempt anything in which he did not succeed?    196     BUR'S, CONSPIRACY; Was there ever a man who had in him greater elements for success in a project of this na- ture? He is no senseless, vulgar dema- gogue, stirring up the people to rebellion with no other end and aim, except to gain a little notoriety- He is no Jack Cade, or Wat Tyler spreading discontent among the rabble and scum of the people, who when possessed of power would be in the same predicament as the man who won an elephant in a raffle-didn t know what to do with him. Col. Burr is de- scended from ancestors whose intellects and vir- tues have done as much for their country, per- haps as any other men. He is a scholar and a gentleman,' a statesman and a soldier, and 'surpasses most other men in each of these attri- butes. He possesses the confidence in an ex- traordinary degree of the conservative part of the community, and commands the applause of the multitude by-his courage, eloquence and splendid deeds. He has measured himself with other great men, and is conscious of the superiority he possesses over them. He seeks power, because he knows how to wield it, because he feels that of right it belongs to him, and because he knows he can obtain it.-   A mSTORICAL ROMAYCE.     197 He would never have any favorite minister to govern for him, if he possessed power.' "Perhaps not,' said Gen.-; "tho' there would be no lack of Gwyns and Pompadours of Chiffinches, and Du Barrs, with whom he would divide his power. But your enthusiasm is proportioned to your years, Mr. Thompson. When you have lived as long as I, and have a family,-- "My imagination will not carry me .so far into the future,' said Henry. "But I am fully persuaded that the projects of Col. Burr will meet with complete success. Ie is familiar with history, and knows the world has al- waysgheen ruled by the strong hand, and the cunning brain. He sees nothing in the gener- al aspect of things; or in the particular char- acter and views of Mr. Jefferson and his ad- mirers, which leads him to believe that human nature is about undergoing a radical change.- It was not destined that Marius should remain forever among the ruins of Carthage. Neither do I believe it is ordained that he shall pass the remainder of his days in obscurity. There is a law of compensation by which men, in the course of time almost invariably obtain their deserts. There is a vindicatory principle in     X1y5   BBURR'S CONSPIRACY; nature, that will not permit what is wrong and unnatural long to exist. The stream that ia impeded in its natural channel, gushes over its banks, and forms a new one. The man who is born to commaxid, and yet by a com. bination of circumstances is deprived of the exercise of power, in a legitimate way, will find means for its exercise in an illegitimate one. Col. Burr has extraordinary capacity for governing, and I have too much confidence in the laws of nature to believe that he can long remain in an humble station.' "The enemies of Col. Burr, you know,' said Gen.--, " say that his morals and principles are so bad that he is not fit to govern, and ought not to be trusted with power.' "The morals and principles of Pizarro, of Cortez, of Napoleon,' said Henry, "did not prevent them from usurping, power. Are the virtues of Col. Burr one whit less than those of Csesar? Does not the description of the latter, by Sallust, apply equally well to Col. Burr?- He says, you will recollect, ' Coesar was cele- brated for his great bounty and generosity.- He became renowned by his humanity and compassion. He acquired glory by a liberal, compassionate, and forgiving temper. In him   the miserable found a sanctuary. He was ad- mired for his easy, yielding temper. In a word, he had formed himself for a laborious, active life; was intent on promoting the inter- est of his friends, to the neglect of his own; and refused to grant nothing that was worth ac- cepting: What he desired for himself was, to have sovereign command, to be at the head of armies, &c.' Could a better description of Col. Burr be written, than that" Much, very much depends upon chance, after all,' said Gen.--. "Hoche was ad- mitted by most all, to be the equal of Napol- eon; yet storms or casualities, that it was impossible to foresee or guard against, frustra- ted nearly all his undertakings.' "A favorite objection,' said Henry, "brought against Col. Burr by his enemies is, that the young men of the country are drawn to his side, dazzled and captivated, by his fearless- ness, his generosity, and his fascinating man- ners. It is alleged that their enthusiastic and generous natures make them easily susceptible of influence by this cold-hearted and systematic corruptor. The fact is, such men as Col. Burr retain their youthful feelings to the last. There are some men of such strong animal spirits,     that time has no effect upon the ardor of their feelings, and the warmth of their attachments. Their passions glow with as great a heat at fifty, as at twenty.-w They seem impervious to the at- tacks of time. Col. Burr is emphatically one of this kind. Years and experience seem only to have added new heat to his blood, and in-. creased strength to his friendships. With most men, age, and long commerce with the world, dry up and wither the affections, and press the life blood out of hearts that in youth were warm and generous. With them everything is measured and judged by a cold and calcula- ting prudence, a stern and unenthusiastic rea- son. What sympathy has Col. Burr with such men as these Yet, because he does not avoid the youthful, (with whom all his actions prove he sincerely and heartily sympathizes) and en- deavor to recommend his projects to the timid and unadventurous whose plodding, patient and time-serving dispositions have enabled them to acquire some property, and perhaps some petty honors, which they hug as closely to their bo- soms as though the world depended upon their preservation;-(they would as soon hang them- selves as unite in any enterprise that would en- danger these;) yet because Col. Burr does not   ," "^^vjLsLjt xfsiFvi^tWj. bus try to corrupt' men of this description, instead of young men, his wonderful art, and selfish designs are made manifest. With Col. Burr, 'life's but a walking shadow' 'time's fool;' and he never held it in so great value as to be deterred from any enterprise or adventure for which he had an inclination, by any consider- ation of its being jeoparded.'  "A standard of right and wrong in many things,' said Gen. --, "is very much deter- mined by public opinion. A great majority of the people in this country are what you call the timid and plodding sort. Therefore they very naturally esteem Col. Burr a dangerous man. In an heroic age and among chivalrous people he would without doubt be considered a great hero.'  "You, no doubt recollect the death of the splendid Duc de Lauzun,' said Henry, "After a career of almost unequalled gaiety and dissipa- tion in the cities of Paris and London, he retired to his country seat near Paris, somewhat dis- gusted with the world, turned philosopher and became a republican. His rank and wealth made him an object of suspicion to the assas- sins, who for a time ruled France. He was seized, tried and condemned. On returning to     25ex3    DU Act    -  his dungeon, he ordered oysters and white wine. While he was indulging over this final meal, the executioner entered, to tell him that 'the law could wait no longer.'  I beg athou- sand pardons, my friend,' said the Duke; 'but do me the honor to allow me to finish my oys- ters.' The request was granted. 'But I had forgot,' observed Lauzun, ' you will have some- thing to do to-day, and a glass of wine will re- fresh you: permit me to fill one2' The offer w s graciously accepted. 'Again I had forgot, aded the Duke; 'there is our mutual friend, the turnkey.' The turnkey was called in; three glasses were filled; tie three were drunk off a la sante-and in a few minutes after, the head of this gay libertine, traitor, and philosopher, was rolling on the scaffold.* The successful candy merchant, perhaps, or the very learned justice of peace, watches and protects his ex- ceedingly valuable life with the utmost vigi- lance and assiduity. While in health all the virtues of Hydropathy, Homceopathy, and Ala- pathy are taxed with a view to prolong a little *The reader may think it an extraordinary coincidence that Henry Thompson should have related the finale of this stoTy in the very words that the Rev. George Cooly afterward used to tell it, but the world is full of extraoidinaxy coinci dences   their existence; and when at last their time does come, they" act as though they suspected in con- sequence of their death, the world would for a short time at least, cease to revolve on its axis. "This may be all very fine,' replied Gen.--- "but our lives were given us for some other purpose than to be trifled with, and heedlessly thrown away. War, to be sure, encourages and produces this disregard for, and reckless- ness of life, but are they desirable? The toil- ing, plodding, unambitious men you spoke of, feel as great a contempt for the adventurous spirits you have so much lauded, as the latter can possibly feel for the former. They will tell you it is the province of adventurous spirits to destrby-not to build up. They will tell you such men are never easy until they have turned the world into a huge slaughter-house; that war is their natural element. They will then point you to the battle-field, where heaps of men and horses dead and dying, are promiscu- ously intermingled,--where men with bleeding and mangled bodies, shattered limbs, and frac- tured skulls, but yet alive, are trampled under foot by the living, their cries and groans un- heeded;-where the bird and beast of prey, and human plunderers worse than either, are im-     BUrR? CONSPIRArmC;  patiently waiting to commence the final work of destruction. They will ask you to follow an invading army, and witness the desolate hearth, the burning cottage, the ravaged fields, the starving multitudes, the homeless orphans, the widowed mothers, and the groans of the fath- erless. War, they will tell you, causes age to be treated with disrespect and derision, female purity to be laughed to scorn, and finally mor- als utterly destroyed, heavy taxes, and an im- poverished people. These are some of the fruits they will tell you, which spring legitimately from adventurous spirits. Then they will point to the achievements of the plodding and indus- trious in flourishing cities and villages, in rich fields and splendid highways, in the innumer- able comforts and luxuries which so plentifully abound.' " And yet painful as it may be,' said Henry, " to reflect that such is the case, it is neverthe- less a fact which the history of mankind teach- es, that war is a necessary evil, and has a sal- utary and purifying effect. Without suffering, the heart becomes cold and selfish, a severe or- deal of anxiety and distress is often necessary to produce disinterested and heroic  feelings.- Affliction most always has a tendency to purify   A HISTORICAL ROMANCE.         2)'  the human heart. Wealth and luxury produce effeminacy, languor and inertness. Long con- tinued and uninterrupted prosperity increases and fortifies the selfishness to which human na- ture is prone. The bonds of society become weakened-the ties of kindred are less strong -and the conjugal union is observed with less fidelity, while peace and prosperity exist. But when men are surrounded by dangers and dis- asters, the heroic and manly virtues are called into play; and bosoms that before were cold and unsympathizing, are roused into generous ardor, and made capable of sympathizing keen- ly with the distressed about them. The heavy blows of misfortune, the rough electric shocks of adversity, are necessary to infuse energy and hardihood into men made indolent and in- efficient by opulence and ease. And is it not better to yield up one's life on the field of battle, than to fritter it away in idle nothings, or waste it in dissipation and riotous living ? Wo- men tenderly and luxuriously reared, suffer as much in sentimentally whining over imaginary ills, as they would in mourning for the loss of hus- bands and brothers killed in battle. Licentious- ness was so unbounded, and unrestrained in the reign of Louis XV, that it is said women ceas-      206 'BKURR 'S CONSPIRACY; ed to have attractions for men, among the more dissolute of the aristocracy. e The horrors of the French revolution were but a necessary conse- quence of the outrageous corruption, and wick. edness that prevailed; and the terrible excesses with which that revolution was accompanied, were only proportioned to the rottenness that existed. CHAPTER XIII. WHILE Col. Burr was intently occupied in writing one morning in his library, his servant, a lad of sixteen, entered in haste saying:- "Mr. Thatcher is just about to ring the door bell.' "Show him in, at once,' said Col. Burr. In an instant the mass of papers before him, and all appearance of previous occupation at writing, disappeared. Seizing a book from the table, he threw himself on the sofa, and when Mr. Thatcher entered, he found him-reclining on it with one leg thrown over the end, and his   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.    207 whole attitude betokening great lassitude and vacuity of mind. "Ah, good morning, Mr. Thatcher. I am almost ashamed to be found by you in so lazy a way; but I have not been in bed before two or three o'clock in the morning, the last few days, (the parties have been so attractive,) and I find myself nearly exhausted. The book I am endeavoring to read, does not seem to con- tribute much to enliven my spirits. Have yo-a read it, Mr. Thatcher?' and he handed him a novel, just published, called ' Arathusa Fitzher- bert or First Love," Mr. Thatcher had not read it. He opened his business at once by saying:- ' I have some important matters in Tennes- 3ee, Col. Burr, requiring the attention of a law- yer in that State. As you have traveled-thro' it, and know the most prominent men, who would you advise me to employ ' "Well,' said Col. Burr, "I know several very able lawyers in that State. You would find Andrew Jackson, a prompt, energetic, thorough going, every way reliable man.' "Very well,' said Mr. Thatcher; ," give me his address if you please, and I will entrust the business to him,'     208      BURR'S CONSPIRACY; Having obtained which, after a little more conversation, he left. "Hum, said Col. Burr to himself, as he re- sumed his writing. "What's in the wind now? Mr. Thatcher is a particular friend of Jeffer- son; and Jackson is a firm friend of mine. If they endeavor to make use of him against me, they will raise a storm about their ears; they may rest assured of that.' And he was soon busily writing again. When Col. Burr told Mr. Thatcher that he had not been in bed un- til two or three o'clock in the morning the last  ten days, he told the truth. But it had not prevented him from rising at five in the morn- ing each day. If Mr. Thatcher thought his nerves were less strong and steady, his intellect less clear and bright; his capacity for severe and intense labor diminished, he did not fully ap- preciate the mental and physical powers of the man. It is said of Wolsey, that he would spend the' night in dissipation with the king, sur- passing even him, in his excesses, and yet on the morning following, enter upon the business of the day with faculties keen, vigorous, and to all appearance, wholly unimpaired. Col. Burr had one of those rare constitutions, such as Wolsey possessed, and which enabled him to   A ISTORIAL ROMANCE. M   209A v  spend most of the night in gaiety or dissolute- ness, and then perform more labor the day fol- lowing than almost any other man. Sleep, with him, seemed to be a luxury which could easily be dispensed with if occasion required. Proba- bly Fontenelle had his eye on such men, when he said 'all that is necessary for success in life is a strong constitution and no heart.' Col. Burr was a prodigious worker. But few law- yers bestowed as much labor upon their eases as he, and his great success was believed to be attributable in no small degree to the care with which they were prepared. "Hum,' said Mr. Thatcher to himself as he left Col. Burr. "Cunning men deceive no one but themselves. Could that man be so foolish as to hope to make me believe that while he is maturing projects that will perhaps shake the whole continent, he has nothing better to do in the morning than to read sentimental love stories. 'The first Love of Arathusa Fid- dlesticks!' He had the book bottom-side up, too, I observed, but no doubt he can read any- thing, every way; and literature of that kind, I presume is best, read so.' Mr. Smith, a very wealthy merchant soon after called, and Col. "     161U    ABUTR'S CONsPFIACY  Burr did not object to being found at work by him.' "I have rather a complicated case,' said Mr, Smith, when he was seated; " involving a large amount, and should be glad to secure your ser- vices, Col. Burr.' The matter was soon arranged, and Mr. Smith left. "I have never liked Col. Burr, said Mr. Smith to a friend when he had reached his store. "He does not manage his cases in an upright plain dealing, above board manner.- His moral anatomy seems to be such that it perplexes and annoys him to move straight to an object. He is in his element when employ- ed upon a case that seems to be in inextricable confusion and full of impenetrable obscurities and mysteries. This case of mine is somewhat of that nature, and if he had been employed against me, I should have surely lost it. He knows the precise power of endurance of every lawyer at the Bar, and I believe he can calcu- late within half an hour of the time required to exhaust the strength and patience of an oppo- nent.' When Mr. Smith was gone, Col. Burr solilo- quized somewhat as follows:   A JISTORUIOAL DQa        . "That man denounces me nceasingly as a crooked and unfair dealing lawyer, but when he has -a very difficult case, he brings it to me. Throw empty praise into one scale, and solid pudding into the other, and see which will pull ' down.' At this moment his confidential serv- ant Jack, entered, and stood silently atthe door with his hat in his hand, awaiting Col. Burr's notice. He was as tough ead knurly looking a specimen of humanity as one often looks upon. He was small in statue, but the compact and firm manner in which he was built, indicated great strength and agility. He had coarse red hair, small, keen, restless, gray eyes, a sharp nose and chin, and lips that were shut with a Vice-like closeness. There Was no judging of his age from his appearance. A hard and bit- ter experience was written all over his counte- nance in legible letters. His history was an eventful one. The first fourteen years of his life had been one fierce and constant struggle with want and. starvation. His earliest recol- lection was of`hunger, beatings, rags, and pesti- lence. His youth was spent in the vilest haunts, and among the most degraded vagabonds. He obtained a precarious and miserable subsistence, from holding horses, running errands, and fish; W     ns adfs-     212      BIVRRS OONSPIRACY  ' ing. He never knew who his parents were, and no one ever took much interest in him. At the time he went to live with Col. Btirr he was about fourteen years of age, (as near as he could tell,) and could neither read nor write. The circumstances which threw him in the way of Col. Burr, were as follows: One very dark night when the theatre was out, a gentleman returning home, at the corner of a street where there were no lights, his gold headed cane was suddenly snatched from his hand. The man immediately cried, 'stop thief' and commenced a pursuit. The thief soon overtook another boy and exclaimed, 'run, Jack! they are coming!' The boy called Jack did not stop to reflect who they might be. He knew he was at war with all the world, and had pretty good reason for wishing to get out of the way of almost every body. He accordingly ran as hard as he could. But by this time the game was well up, and watchmen multiplied very fast around them. He was soon taken not far from the real thief, and marched off to jail. The cane had been thrown down some time before, as escape was seen to be impossi- ble, and of course it was not known which threw it, neither was it deemed important, as   A. ;b HTORItOAL, MA1 CE.   21 it was supposed one must necessarily be an ac- complice of the other. Col. Burr happened to be not far behind the gentleman when his cane was taken, and had a fair view of the thief.- When they were brought into Court for trial, Col. Burr being present, was struck with the ap- pearance of this lad. It was entirely different from that of his companion. The latter had a careless and reckless look about him-he ap- peared utterly indifferent to the situation in which he was placed. Not so with the other. Jack, through all his trials and temptations, had never committed any crime. A feeling either of pride or of)principle, seemed to be im- planted in his nature, which had always caus- ed him to shrink from any criminal act. There was no lack of rogues among those with whom he associated, but he was aoy of so much shrewdness, strength and daring, that he was not easily enticed or driven into anything that he had a disinclination for. When he found himself about to be sent to jail for an offehce which he had not committed, a calm but bitter endurance, and a sullen gloom were stamped upon his countenance. It was unusual to see a youthful face expressive of so much character, and such resolute firmness. Col. Burr felt a     21 i4    AimS coNgTArY; decided interest in the boy, and when le s, Pertained what the offence was for- which he was arraigned, determined to have him set at liberty. He therefore approached him and said, "Are you not innocent of this offence, my lad?' Despair had taken hold of the heart of Jack, and he had made up his mind to bear whatever might be inflicted upon him, with stubborn obstinacy. Proud and suspicious, he thought the question of Col. Burr was put with no view to his benefit. He therefore merely replied, "I have nothing to say, sir.' Col Burr fixed his eyes in stern indignation upon him, and said: "Listen to me, boy; I know you to be innocent in this matter, and I mean, to have you'set at liberty; and what I say you may rely upon. Tell me your story.' The boy winced under the piercing eyes of Col. Burr. Hle knew when men looked as he did, they were in earnest. He had always observed that- threats made among the many desperate fel- lows he had known, when accompanied with such a stern look as Col. Burr gave him, were. always sure to be executed. He remembered that look for a long time, as he never had anoth- er such from him; although, he had lived three Years in his service. He proceeded at once to.   A u1aSX UA i GIVElIm;. ZWJLO tell his story. He had been to the theatre, he said, holding horses, and was going home alone, when the boy by his side came running up too him, exclaiming, "Run, run, they are coming,' and he commenced running without stopping to think for what. When the case came on, Col. Burr rose and said, that he was prepar- ed to testify that he witnessed the theft-of the cane, and the young lad appeared to be entirely innocent. 'It seems,' said he, that after the cane was taken, the thief overtook this young lad, and exclaimed to him, "run, run, they are com- ing," and at once commenced doing so without knowing what for. We may very easily sup- pose from the appearance of the boy that he is not at peace with all the world, and when he heard that they were coming, he may have tho't some rival clan to that which he belonged, was upon him, the north-enders, south-enders, or butt-enders, perhaps, or may be the-Philistines, or the thousand ills of life. From what has not a boy in his situation to apprehend danger? And would it be surprising if he run sometimes at a sight of his own shadow?  These remarks of Col. Burr were enough to exculpate Jack, and he was consequently re- leased. When he received his discharge, Col.      , .           .   . .     816     BURR'S coNSPIRACY; Burr went to him and said:- "Go to my house and wait there until I come home. Do you know where I live? "Yes, sir,' replied the boy and left the room. Col. Burr then beckoned to a police officer, and said to him when he approached:- "I want you to ascertain for me all the partic- ulars you can in relation to that boy, just dis- charged.' Two hours after, the officer returned, saying that the boy was an illegitimate son of wealthy parents, but who they were he had not been able to discover. *' I suspected as much,' said Col. Burr. "There are certain marks about him which indicate that there had been at least one or two generations of refinement in his family. Well, go on.' "The man and woman in whose charge he was left,' continued the police officer, "have gone off, and did not tell where they were going, nor whose child he was. They persuad- ed another family to take it, assuring them that the father of the child would soon furnish money for its support. They never received any money from the father, and the child I ex- pect has been very much abused and neglected. He is said nevertheless to be superior to most   A mSTORICAL OMANOE.    217 of his companions, and I find sustains an excel- lent characteramong them. I will keep a sharp look out to see if any clue can be obtained to a knowledge of his father.' When Jack went to the house of Col. Burr and told the servants that he had been desired by him to remain there and await his coming, although his ragged and vagabond appearance excited some notice, not one of them ventured to indulge in any facetious remarks at his ex- pense. They knew it would not be prudent or safe to treat otherwise than with respect any per- son Col. Burr might send to the house, however degraded his appearance might be. The domes- tic as well as the political policy of Col Burr was very intricate and mysterious, and his servants had learned not to be much surprised by any of his actions. They did not know what 'reasons of state' or of home policy might influence him in the employment of the vilest and most de- graded wretches. Jack, therefore, was spoken kindly to, and received a supply of food of which he stood in much need. He had been unac- customed to such treatment, and the avenues of his heart which had nearly dried up, commen- ced opening.     218     BURRS- cONSPIRAoY; When Col. Burr returned home, he sent for Sam and Jack, and addressing the former with unusual seriousnes, said, 'Sam, I am going to take this lad into my family, to do chores about the house, and after he has learned to read and write, which I trust he will soon do, to assist me in the office. I want some new clothes procu. red for him, and if he proves as capable and faithful as I have every assurance he will, he will find in me a good friend. Now go and send Tom to me.' Jack's head was completely turned. To have a man of Col. Burr's position offer to become his friend, was too much for him. A poor out-cast like him, who all his lifetime had been familiar only with kicks and curses, to become at once- in the twinkling of an eye almost, a friend of the distinguished and the mighty, bewildered his brain. When they reached the kitchen Sam whispered to the other servants, 'He i going to live with us, we must 'spect him. Massa is in earnest about him., He looked as he does when we know he means what he says. I would sooner lose my little finger than treat that boy badly.' These few words of Sam with the servants were sufficient. The Emperor of France would have   A -1lSTirtOA ROMAnOE    219 been as liable to insult from the servants of CoL. BUrr, as Jack, after what had passed. The next morning when Sam answered the ring of Col. Burrs bell, he found him busily writing 'WellSam, did you get the new clothes. for the' boy yesterday? ' "Yes sir.' "How do you like him ' "Very well, massa. He say nothing, but see everything.' "Send him to me.' Sam disappeared and soon after Jack appear- ed greatly agitated and trembling, though he knew not at what.. He never before had felt fear or dreaded the presence of man. He never before had experienced what kindness and re- finement were, and both were in his nature.-- Col. Burr did not look up for several minutes after his entrance, and thus gave him time to compose himself. , "Ah, it is you Jack, is it?' said he, casting a careless glance at him that rested on him only for a single instant, but which Jack felt took in, everything about him, from the crown of his head to the sole of his feet. 'And how do you, like your new quarters? Would you prefer liv- ing with me, to going back to your old haunts '     r BUEB'8 CONSPIBAoY; "Yes, sir. "Well, I want you to improve every oppor. tunity to learn to read and write; and I will as. sist you whenever ,I have time. Now I want you to go of an errand over to Mr. Johnson's warehouse, about a mile from here on the north river-do you know where it- is?' "Yes, sir.' 'Well,' said Col. -Burr, taking out is pocket- book and counting some bank notes. 'I want you to take some money over to him. Je will give you a receipt for it which you can keep until:I send for you again. I shall not be at home when you return. Here is the money-- five hundred dollars;' and Col. Burr carelessly pushed the money towards him, as though it were the simplest occurrence in the world.- With gaping .mouth and staring eyes, Jack seemed to hesitate about taking the money. He had never had such a sum as ten dollars even, in his possession at once, and the indifferent manner of Col. Burr almost made him think that he had mistaken the person he was talking to. He however took the money, and keeping his eyes fastened on Col. Burr until he had reach- ed the door, to see if he did not repent of- his confidence, he went oat with it. Annmdicers-   a: JliaAVJIajI - JCU L&aL J C ing man would have hesitated a little when, he trusted a boy with, so much money,' un der such circumstances, and he would have been likely to have said, 'It is a large sum, Jack, but I think you will be honest. If you should not be, you know you will be taken to jail. Perhaps you had better take part of it at a timee' The conduct of Col. Burr said in so many words, 'I see your are a boy of honest and honorable feelings ; you evidently possess gen, tlemanly instincts-of course I. cannot be de- ceived in trusting you,' His unerring judgment of character assured him that Jack was made of superior metal, and he wanted to develop it. "What a change has come over my fortunes,' thought Jack. 'When I have sometimes been sent with a shilling to buy rum for my old com- rades, another boy was almost always sent with me to see that I did not keep any of it myself, and now I have five hundred dollars trusted me by the Vice President, and he has not the least suspicion that I: shouldn't carry it straight. I would be buried alive before IL ever touched a penny of his money, and he must know it or he wouldn't have trusted me with: all this. He scarcely looked at me, yet when he did, I felt ye  en he did, felt     Age     - B  r WB IsONPFAVY-, his eyes going right through me. I wonder it a11 great men are like him 1d "There,' said Col. Burr, starting up as sooa es Jack left the room,' there isn't gold enough in the city to entice that boy off with the mon. ey in his possession, and wherever his services 'could avail, he would be a friend of mine to the death.' As Jack entered the street with the money firmly clenched in his hand, with an erect head and moist eyes, he would not have been recog. aized as the boy who entered the house the day before. He was then dejected in look, ragged and dirty, and now he was clean, his hair had been cut and he had on a new suit of clothes from head to foot. The expression of his conn, tenance had undergone full as great a change, All the brutish qualities in him had been sunk, ,and the finer and nobler attributes of humanity had taken their place. He was not long in do- ing the errand,: and returning to the house made himself very useful. But he wished to get rid of the receipt he obtained for the noney. He thought when Col. Burr came home to dinner he would ask him for it, and then he should be relieved. It seemed an nnuA usually long time to dinner; he thought it never    A  T'UI(AL (ROMA'SE.    223. would come. He kept feelingin his packet fear- ing that he might lose the paper, but it was safes At last Col. Burr came, and he felt sure that he would send for him the first thing, and ask for the receipt; but Col. Burr did no such thing.-- finally, he contrived to throw himself in his way, thinking that he would certainly speak about'it, but Col. Burr did not seem to see him; and Jack was really distressed. The afternoon and evening passed off and the receipt was still burning into his side. When he went to bed he could not sleep from thinking about it. -At last when morning came, and Jack's patience was nearly exhausted, Col. Burr sent for him, and when he appeared, said to him, "Well Jack I am glad to hear you are so ser- viceable. I think I shall be satisfied with youth 1 want to send you out of town to-day.' "There is Mr. Johnson's paper, sir,' said Jack, handing him the receipt, and not having any idea before that such a little bit of paper could make a person so uncomfortable. (' Oh yes,' said Col. Burr, "I had forgotten it, and threw it into his desk without reading it.- The message for the country was soon prepared and Jack again left the house in fine spirits.     Jack employed all his leisure moments in learning to read. ,He went to bed late and rose early. He had been accustomed all his life to get along with little sleep, food and clothing, and he could endure almost anything. After he had been a. few days in the family, one morning soon after day-light (for he rose mornings as soon as he could see,) he was seated alone in the kitchen studying his book. Hav- ing keen-perceptions and a quick wit, he made rapid progress in learning to read. All the ser- vants about the house were ever ready to instruct him, and there was nothing to retard his im- provement. As he was intent upon his book, he did not hear the door open, and Col. Burr was by his side before he supposed any one was in the room. He started, very much surprised and frightened, but Col. Burr said to him kind- ly;- , "Sit still, Jack. I am glad to see you so employed; you will become a great man if you are always so industrious,' and he sat down by his side, and for more than an hour assisted him in his studies. He explained away difficul- ties, afforded examples and illustrations, and did everything in so clear and easily comprehensi- ble a manner, that Jack could not but perceive   A HSTORICAL ROMAOCE.    225 what a vast difference there was between his instructions and those of the servants. When he left him, he spoke encouragingly of his pro- gress and told him to persevere, and he would soon be able to read and write well. Col. Burr had before won his heart, and his most simple request was enough to stimulate his exertiohs to the utmost. \ He continued to examine him in his progress every few days, and it was but a short time before he was able to read and write well. He was heart and soul devoted to Col. Burr, and proved the most shrewd, able and energetic servant he ever had. His confi- dence in him was unbounded, and he was made at times the recipient of secrets that he would not have trusted to:his most devoted friends.- Capable of performing prodigies of labor with- out food or rest, indefatigable and untiring in the pursuit of an object, if Col. Burr required anything to be done that was in the scope of his power to accomplish, its execution could be relied on with unerring certainty. Familiar with all the twistings and doublings of vulgar rogues, he unraveled and exposed their villain- ies with great sagacity and expertness. In se- cret expeditions he was unrivaled. In watch- ing the motions of others and concealing his 15     ysif 4BUIj6 oNLjirJLBAujx m dwn, he rarely found an equal. Much employ. ment of this nature he found in the service of Col. Burr. He had now lived three years with him, and on the morning in question had en. tered the room to impart some information in relation to the Countess. "What news?' said Col. Burr. "She left town yesterday, sir.' "Left town!' said Col. Burr, surprised.- '"Where did she go?' "Newark, sir, and she has not yet returned' "' Who is on the watch there? "Bill Jenks, sir.' "Keep a sharp look out for her, Jack "What can have taken her to Newark? It bodes no good to us. She is plotting some mischief. Is this Jenks you speak of, sharp enough for her, Jack? She is very keen, you know.' "I am afraid not, sir; though he is very good for ordinary sharpers. Had'nt I better go to Newark myself, sir?' "Yes, you had, Jack, go at once, and luck attend you. But of course it will, for it al- ways does.'   CHAPTER X IT AiT the time of which we write, the Countess de Montfort had been in the United States about a year. Most of that time she had spent in New York. She was a star of the first mag- nitude in the fashionable world. Reputed to be very wealthy, possessing great wit and beauty, she was moreover connected with an old family of nobility in France, and titles com- mnanded as much respect then as now. The im- posing appearance of the countess well sustained her rank and position. Her figure was majes- tic, her manners were high bred, an4 her con- versation elegant and winning. She occupied a noble mansion near the Battery, gave splen- did parties, spent money freely, and was as much talked of as any person in town. Prom- inent statesmen of all parties treated her with a good deal of attention, and the sharp eye of Col. Burr had not failed to observe that those who were supposed to possess the confidence of the administration treated her with marked respect. This fact greatly enhanced the interest he took     !  m- ....... - . ..... v ...7 . in her. He made every effort in his power to gain her favor and esteem. He paid the most assiduous and devoted attentions to her, and used every art of conciliation he was master of to stand well with her, but all without avail.-- She treated him politely but coldly. He was a man not easily discouraged, and the countess was too important a personage to be looked up- on with indifference. He felt that he must make a friend of her at all hazards. "Well, father,' said Mrs. Alston, as she and Col. Burr were seated alone in his library early one evening. "I think I have made an ilnpor- tant discovery to-day. Your countess was no more born in France than I was.' "Impossible, child! For I know you was born on the Hudson, and are of genuine Dutch extraction. Your phlegmatic temperament, lazy habits-,' "And you may as well add,' said Theodosia, interrupting him, " dullness of observation, and general obtuseness of intel'lect-all which qual- ities I inherit from my much loved and honor- ed paternal ancestor. But for all that, your countess is no more a French woman than I an.' "I can't believe it, child. I have looked into   A  IsTOriIcALn ROMAER.  ' 29 that matter very closely, and have come to the conclusion that 'she must be a foreigner by birth. Pray, what makes you suppose she is not '  "Certain little things," said Mrs. Alston.- "Trifles light as air-very difficult to describe, and so nice and elusive, that quite likely you would not be able to comprehend them if I at tempted it.'  "Madam, you grow more-and more imper- tinent after every absence. By and by, Ishall be unable to endure you.' "Do you know, father, that you remind me more and more of Dr. Johnson, every day.- When he was foiled in argument or repartee by Bozzy, which often, happened you re- collect, he was in the habit of turning upon the poor hound and belaboring him unmercifully with blackguardism. Although your manners are something better than those of the respecta- ble Hottentot,' you seem to have adopted his manner of closing an argument, towards me at least.'  "You are in an ambitious mood to-day, Mad- ame,' said Col. Burr, ' to compare yourself to Boswell. Speaking of Johnson, however, I wish you would bear in mind a saying of Aris     230      Ir8 On's copRA; or; totle's that he used to quote with great warmth; 'that there was as much difference between one learned and unlearned, as between the liv- ing and the dead.' I should be puzzled to tell with which to place you, if compelled to make a decision.'  ' As your memory of Dr. Johnson's sayings seems so good,' said Theodosia, perhaps you will recollect another that he used to quote with equal warmth, viz: ' The fewer a man's wants, the nearer he approached the gods.' We can easily judge what his opinion would have been of a man, who was so covetous as. to desire whole kingdoms and continents, and who--' "There, child; that will do,' said Col. Burr, interrupting her by quoting another saying of Dr Johnson's. 'Let us have no more of this; you'll make nothing of it. I'd rather have you whis- tle a Scotch tune. But the countess, the count- ess. You must be mistaken in your suspicions, Theodosia. My friend the police officer, has searched all the records of low life, and I have made pretty thorough investigations among the higher grades; Jack has found out all herserv- ants have to tell, but no clue can be obtained to her early history. Nothing is known or can be learned of it in Paris. Probably she is the   A HSTOI UAL RUOMAUi.   , O L *only person living who is fully acquainted with the mystery that hangs around her early origin, and she is not the woman to let it escape her, if she deems it policy to keep it to herself. I never knew a mystery so well preserved before. Here are some memorandums I took from in- formation obtained for me by the police, but I think you will find nothing that throws any light on the countess' history. I am provoked at being so baffled.' After having looked over the papers handed her by her father, for some time, Mrs. Alston suddenly exclaimed:-  "Why, father, here is the woman!-but how shockingly depraved! It would hardly seem possible that the countess, with her tal- ents and learning, could have been so corrupt and reckless. She must have received from her ancestors a nature unusually depraved and wicked. Can it be possible that such is the Countess de Montfort's history! Yes, it must be, and well may she be anxious to have the knowledge of it confined to herself.' "Pray, what have you found there?' asked Col. Burr. "But I feel very sure you must be mistaken, for I have investigated those matters thoroughly.'     282      UBR'8 cONSPIRAY;.    .. . ,        , ,x --- "I will read to you what I have found,' re. plied Mrs. Alston, and she read as follows: tA gi' I rl by the name of Mary Brown, daugh- ter of a .merchant in Boston, who died insolvent in 1789,'leaving this daughter an orphan, only sixteen years of age, and without a penny. She was very intelligent and well educated, spoke and wrote French with great fluency. She was bold, crafty, and mischievous greatly beyond her years. Handsome and captivating as she was unprincipled and reckless, she easily won the affections of the son of the man in whose family she resided, though, as the sequel will show, more from an innate love of mischief, than from any strong regard she felt for him. He was desperately in love, and insisted upon marrying her, although he was but eighteen years of age. His father prohibited the mar- riage, and they ran off to New York. Here they lived together for a time, when she became acquainted with a gay young Frenchman, Count de Lodau. He was deeply smitten with her. A duel ensued between him and the run- away lover, in which the latter was severely wounded. After this event she lived with the count in a house in Pearl street. I think she must have been a disciple of Mary Wallstone-   A HSTORICAL ROMAINCE.    233 craft, and enlarged somewhat upon the license allowed by that extraordinary woman. She had not remained long with the count, when she was taken sick with a fever and died. The count soon after sailed for France.' "There, that is enough to settle the matter, I presume,: said Col. Burr.  I wrote down the particulars, thinking that I would assure myself of the certainty of her death. That, I have done. The woman in whose house she died, is now living, and she corroborates the state- ment.' "Never mind her death, father. Now mark the description,' and Theodosia continued to read - "She was surpassingly handsome and fasci- nating, had bewitching black eyes, and a tongue as smooth as oil. Her complexion was exceed- ingly light and clear, forehead high, nose small and straight, very small" mouth, sharp chin, erect and handsome figure. Could any other woman resemble the countess so much?' But you forget,. my child, that there is no mistake about the death of this girl.' "I forget nothing of the kind,' said Mrs. Al- ston. 'But as sure as I am Theodosia Burr, the countess is Mary Brown that was. Now I will i.      34     BURR'S CONSPIRAOY; give you my elucidation of the matter. It apm pears that Miss Brown was well educated, talen. ted and intriguing. We know the countess to -be all that. The young officer Count de Lodau was no doubt deeply in love with her. He was under the necessity of returning to France, and could not make up his mind to go without her. As the count was well known, some management was necessary to enable hinl to take her without any open outrage of propriety. It required her wit to devise a suitable plan ; and as she was about entering upon a new scence of action, she thought it prudent and desirable to blot out from the memory of man all knowledge of her. previous career. To do this effectually, a ficti. tious death would answer her purpose better than anything else. As she was the incarnation of mischief& scrupled at nothing with the count's money, she would contrive a way to carry the plan through successfully. "A very handsome young man belongingto one of the first families in Virginia, we will say, takes passage with him in a ship bound for France. Before the voyage is half over, every man on board is captivated by the wit and vi- vacity, intelligence and gaiety of the handsome youth from the South. When the ship reaches   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE     23 France nothing more is heard of the gay young Southerner. But about this time a new countess of marvelous beauty and attractions, begins to make a great sensation in the fashionable circles of Paris. Now tell me what information you have in regard to the career of the countess in France.' During this recital by Mrs. Alston, Col. Burr sat rubbing his hands in high glee. When she had finished he jumped up and patting her on the head, said, 'you have unravelled the myste- ry. Verily you are Socrates and Aspasia com- bined.' "Without any of the dissoluteness of the lat- ter, just add, if you please, sir. And you being the Alcibiades, as you are often called, we make a very respectable trio of ancient Greeks. But tell me of the countess' Parisian life.' "Well, the information in regard to her from Paris is to this effect. She was said to be a wealthy widow living in Paris when Count do Montfort married her. A short time previous to their marriage, her husband had killed in a duel, a count somebody. Ah, that explains it all. It was of course the count de LodaT with whom she eloped. After reaching Paris Count de Montfort saw her and fell in love with her.     836.      BUTRR'IS CONSPIRACY; Then followed the duel in which her old lover was killed and a new one obtained. Marriage and a position were procured withher new lover. "I think she must have lived for a time with the Indians,' said Mrs. Alston, 'and imbibed an admiration for the habits of the squaws, who, I believe, usually go to the wigwams of those warriors who kill their lovers.' "Very likely. She has no doubt seen life in a great variety of phases. But it is all perfectly plain now. I will call upon her this very eve- ning and see if anything occurs to confirm or re- move my suspicions. Bye the bye, do you know how-old the countess calls herself ' "Twenty-two, I believe.' "She was seventeen when she left for France "n 1790, that would make her thirty-three now, more than thirty per cent off, as my Wall Street friend would say. A liberal discount, truly.- But can she be thirty-three, 'Theodosia? She does not look so old as you.' "She has preserved her looks carefully, that is all. And I presume she paints skillfully.- Women in France are most select and generous, chief in that.' But have you yet to learn, sir,- (hat 'comparisons are odious?'  "' Oh pardon me, but I thought the countess   did not look to be over sixteen. Probably she owes the preservation of her youthful appear- ance to the active and exciting life she has led; she hasn't suffered her faculties to stagnate and decay from want of proper exercise, as--' "No more comparisons, if you please, sir,- But now go and see the countess, as it is already late for a call, for I am very anxious to know what will be the result of your interview with her, and so conduct yourself as not to come home and be obliged; to tell me what a blunder you have made.' In less than half an hour Col. Burr was in the presence of the countess. She received him in a very gracious and dignified manner, but there was no warmth in the reception. She secretly feared and dreaded him. They Were too much alike ever to be friends. She was proud, ambi- tious and scheming. More confidence in her own ability to contrive and execute plans than in that of any one else, she only eared for such men as she could: easily manage and bend to her own purposes. With her ability, wealth and name, she had no difficulty in finding enough such. Col. Burr she believed to be a man of ' such keen penetration and ruthless obstinacy of purpose in discovering or effecting anything heb " ',                X       .     set his -heart upon, that - new h ould n S v-  set his heart upon, that she knew he would neov er feel easy until he had probed her secret tothe very bottom. Although she considered hers very well guarded-beyond the possibility of a discovery almost, she could not feel easy while she knew herself to be the object of his prying curiosity, and searching inquiries. She had seen enough of him to know how well earned was the reputation he possessed for astonishing sagacity and indefatigable energy in the pursuit of an object. Each felt that it was a trial of strength between them, and each secretly defied the power of the other. The countess called her. self only twenty-two, and she could easily pass for that age. She was tall, erect and finely formed; had an abundance of glossy black hair, large fascinating eyes and a faultless complex- ion. Col. Burr commenced the conversation by saying, that business of a rather urgent na- ture called him into her neighborhood, but he could not deny himself the pleasure of a call, being near her house, although the hour was not a very seasonable one. "I appreciate the honor of your visit, Col. Burr,' replied the countess, "though I should be sorry to have so weighty and importanthusi- ness as yours must necessarily be, suffer from   time bestowed upon so unworthy an object as myself'  a Whatever affords me so much pleasure as the company of the Countess de Montfort, will ever be so weighty and important matter with me,' replied Col. Burr. "But I don't know as I ought to consider -my business as so very urgent, for it is nothing more pressing than that of a young man in pursuit of his par- ents, and as he has managed to live seventeen or eighteen years without them, a few weeks or months, more or less, cannot make a great deal of difference with him in their discovery.' "Ah,' said the countess, affecting indiffer- ence, but in reality a good deal startled, partly from a dread of the deep craft of the man she was dealing with, and his marvelous power for obtaining secret intelligence. "It is the old story, I suppose,-a juvenile love affair-par- ents opposed to the match-an elopement-se- vere struggle with poverty for a year or two -when the young man runs off, and the girl returns repentant to her parents. The child is husstled about from one nurse to another, until it is finally lost sight of entirely. In the course of time, it being grown up, hopes to find rich parents .     -       .LDJ J LI I uAJ. v  Ai FR lnAY I "You are partly right, countess,' said Col Burr, "though in this case I believe the child to have been an illegitimate one. Soon after its birth, I believe, the mother abandoned not only it, but the father also, for a new lover.- She then went to France, where I believe, she attained considerable celebrity; but whether she is now living or not, my investigations will not yet enable me to speak with certainty.' The countess was now greatly agitated; but she had been too long schooled in the lessons of fashionable and political life, not to be able to conceal her emotions. A less close observer than Col. Burr, would have been deceived by the air of seeming indifference with which she said:- "Your profession must necessarily make you profoundly versed in a knowledge of human nature. Bt it is the flat, prosaic, matter-of-fact side of it, that you see. It is only, so to speak, the empty bladder of life that you have to deal with, after all the wind of romance and senti- ment have been let out by the sharp punches of the world. But Ifeel interested in this case you speak of. Pray give me the particulars. Where was the mother of this child from V' "She was a native of Boston,' replied, Col.   Burr. "Her father was a merchant, who died insolvent and left her an orphan. She was taken into the family of another merchant, she eloped with his son, whom she left for another lover, Count de Lodau, belonging to the French navy. A few months after her elopement with the first lover, however, a child was born, which was left with some obscure family in the city, and the mother, it is believed, never heard from it afterwards. The father of the child who was very young and heedless, afforded but scanty supplies of money for its support. After a time the family removed from the city, and nothing more was heard of it. The father who is now a very wealthy man, has been married several years, but has no children. Hle has recently expressed considerable solicitude to hear some- thing in regard to the fate of his child, which would now be about seventeen years of age.- He was said to have been very much attached to the girl he eloped with-she having been very intelligent, and handsome.' "The usual fate awaited her, which attends upon transgressions of that nature, I presume?' said the countess. "Long and rapid strides in the down-hill road of iniquity, until at the ex- 16     piration of a few years, exhaustion, disease, aid perhaps want, put an end to her existence.' "There you are wrong, countess. This girl had too much character, too much intelligence$ to much pride to end so. Remorse, grief, and shame soon terminate the career of the weak and amiable girl, who is seduced from the paths of rectitude, but these three words had no place in the vocabulary of the girl I am describe. ing. She did:nt know the meaning of remorse, Grief and shame she had read about, but had no experimental knowledge of either. As long as her path through life was to be obstructed by beings of a no higher order than men, she had no apprehensions that it would not be a bri- liant one. Disguised as a young man of fash- ion, she accompanied her lover to France, were she soon entered upon a splendid career of gay- ety and profligacy. She was soon at the head of the fashionable world, and Dukes, Marques. es, and Counts vied with each other for her fa- vor. During the revolution, her consumma' te talents and beauty always enabled her to stand well with the factions that for the time predominated. But the ' little corporal' always disliked clever women, and Talleyrand think- ing that her talents might be well employed   abroad, suggested to her that it was the Em- peror's wish she should come-that is' to say, that she should leave the country.' "She came to the United States, I suppose, as you were about to say,' said the countess. "You are right--she did,' replied Col. Burr. "Now what is the moral of this ingenious tale, Col. Burr ' said the countess. "The moral,' replied Col. Burr, "I am not aware that there is any moral, unless it be that superiority of mental and personal attractions in women, always procures for them position and celebrity.' There is a deeper moral to it, as far as Col. Burr is concerned,' said the countess, springing up, her head thrown back, and her eyes flash- ing fire, ":and this is it: Col. Burr thinks he possesses certain secets in the history of the Countess de Montfort, which will compel her. to succumb to him, aild put her wholly in his power. But little skill, I presume, is required to bring down the gane you are accustomed to hunt, and such intelligence as you have obtain- ed would, no doubt, avail much with many wo- men. A person, however, Who has lived in Pa- ris- through the French Revolution, and taken an active part in maty of its most important     244      BIERR' CONSPIRACY; events, cannot be overwhelmed or much terri. fled at anything. I am surprised at the feeble- ness of your tactics, and laugh at, and defy your power. I perceive I have placed too high an estimate upon it. I had supposed before I left France, that there would have to be a regu- lar drawn battle between us, and I was not un- prepared for it. The sooner it commenced the better, I thought. I supposed we must be ene- mies from the necessity of our natures-that we were too much alike to be anything else. ' Before I left Paris, I asked a man in whose Judgment I have more confidence than in that of any other person, what man I had most to fear in the United States. 'Col. Burr,' he re- plied, 'by great odds. He is a compound of Napoleon, Talleyrand, and Fouche. Throw these three men into a furnace, heat and wel(i them together, and the scraps of character that would fall off in the formation of a Col. Burr, would'nt be enough to make a Bourbon of.' I do not wonder you laugh at the compliment, for I have no doubt, it is highly gratifying to your self-love. But there is no necessity for my underrating your abilities. You are said to: be more vain of attaching women of charac- ter to your triumphal car, than all your other   JL ALM Ik VJL61UJIbU ILW MAM-0\ JD ao achievements. What position you proposed to assign me in this distinguished procession, of course I must remain ignorant of, as I am not ambitious of swelling a corps already so impo- sing. I never yet helped to drag any man's car, and I do not propose to commence my ap- prenticeship with Col. Burr.' "I do not expect it, madame. A woman' of fashion does not live to be twenty-two, without rendering most apprenticeships unnecessary for her,' said Col. Burr. "I do not think Col. Burr would estimate my abilities any less for being thirty-two, instead of twenty-two,' said the countess. "Some wisdom and experience may be picked up in the ten years that intervene between those two ages.' "A woman's political influence departs with her youth and beauty,' said Col. Burr, "and no abilities or paints, can compensate for their loss. You are wrong in supposing that I in- tended to attach you to my triumphal car.- There is no longer room at the rope by which that is drawn for another woman, and none are admitted to it over thirty years of age." "I am glad to hear,' said the countess, "that anything disqualifies me forsuch a place.'     246      BURR'S CoNsPIRACY; "But Col. Burr will find that my efforts are enough to obstruct the passage of his car, if not to upset it.' "Far be it from me to question what your efforts might produce from exerting your talents in any direction you might choose,' said Burr. "You have had too great and varied an exper- ience for me to doubt anything you might say in that connection. I have been struck by the extraordinary beauty and simplicity of your metaphors. If it would not be impertinent, I would like to enquire if the heating and weld- ing one you made use of a short time since,was wrought out by an iron monger, or was it forged in your own subtle brain?' "In my own subtle brain, Col. Burr,' said the countess. 'I doubt if there is a man in France who ever heard of you, unless he went from the United States. I did not hear of you until I had been some time in the country, and then only by accident; but I soon saw what an inordinate vanity you possessed and fabricated that com- pliment, knowii that nothing would be too gross for you to swallow. You have nothing to fear from me, Col. Burr, I hav&enot been accus- tomed to waste my powder on bankrupt politi- cians and broken down desperadoes.',   A HmTORICAL ROMANCE.      247 As the countess said this she rang the bell, and Col. Burr took his hat, saying as he left the room, . I was aware, madam, that I had noth- ing to apprehend from you, and as many oth- women of character (to use your phrase) are en- rolled in my service, I can very well afford to dispense with your aid. But I had supposed, and such is the prevailing opinion, that the pow- der you speak of, and which I presume is your political influence, was at the command of every man who had money enough to pay for it, and a fancy to touch it off. I supposed it might be said of you as of another:- "Her learning and good breeding such, Whether the Italian or the Dutch, Spaniards or French came to her; To all, obliging she'd appear, 'Twas "Si Signor,' 'twas ' Yaw, Mynheer,' 'Twas 'Sil vous plait, Monsieur.'" "That first born of yours, madame,. is nearly as precocious as you were, He is married and has one child. Shall I have it sent to see its grand-mama?' As Col. Burr said this he went out, leaving the countess livid with rage. "Can it be possible,' she said to herself, "that I have a grand-child!' and stepping to the mirror and carefully examining her face,     248      BURR's CONSPIRaCT; she continued: "Not a wrinkle to be seen at a yards' distance-yet he knows that I am thir- ty-two,-how I hate him!-and he affects to de- spise my power. I believe, nevertheless, he really fears me. He is a weazel that sucks the yolk out of every body's secret,-a mousing, ferreting, hateful creature. I would give a years' income to know how much of his state- ment in regard to the child, was true; and how much false. One thing, however, is very cer- tain. With the facts he possesses, he will not be long in trumping up some ear-cropt fellow to lay his maternity at my door. Very pleas- ant that would be, the countess de Montfort with 50,000 francs a year, to share her honors and wealth with a red-headed gawkey of eigh- teen, calling me mother, and a squalling brat that would soon be old enough to lisp grand- ma! The villain didn't know the child was legitimate. I must make my arrangements to leave town this very week, and he shall not know which way I go. I will frustrate his plans, and circumvent his schemes, if it costs me my life!' When Col. Burr reached home, Theodosia met him in the hall, saying that Gen.- , was waiting for him in the library.   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.    249 "Your countenance denotes that your inter- view has been an unfavorable one,' said she. "I have overshot the mark entirely,' said Col. Burr. "The countess and I have been ex- changing nothing but sarcasms and defiance, the last half hour. She is as proud as Lucifer, and as reckless and daring as she is proud.- She did not make a single effort to conceal or palliate her past history. She seemed to as- sume at once that my account was correct, and defied me to make the most of it. There was nothing conciliatory-not the least approach to anything like a friendly understanding between us. She began by saying that she had always known we should have to quarrel-she seemed to consider me as a foe worthy of her steel. I believe the woman is made of steel. She has the ability and the disposition to injure me, and Ithink she is capable of anything."     CHAPTER XV. SCARCELY an hour had elapsed after Col. Burr's departure from the countess before he received a message from her soliciting another interview. 'Ah,' thought he, 'she relents, She thinks on reflection, probably, that she cannot sustain the attitude of defiance she assumed; she finds I know too much about her.' Upon calling he found her in the seat she had occupied before, carelessly looking over a book she held in her hand. "As you know so much, Col. Burr,' said she, 'in regard to the history of the countess, I will inform you still further. "Your account was very interesting as far as it went, but if you had removed the earth a lit- tle about the roots of her geneological tree, you would have discovered that she was descended from the most distinguished, learned and pious man ofthe age.' "Indeed,' said Col. Burr, 'and what infer- ence do you draw from the circumstance? that virtue is a hereditary quality, transmissible from one generation to another?' "How can I doubt it, when your case and -f   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE      251 mine afford such striking illustrations of the fact,' replied the countess. "Really, you. honor me too much, countess, by associating my name in such a connexion. It is more than my modesty can bear. Pray do not sully the honors so richly earned, that at- tach to your name, by uniting i in conversation even, with such an obscure one as mine.' "You would surely be spared the honor if the truth did not compel me to make it,' said the countess. ' "Ah, pardon me if I forgot how great a stick- ler for truth and frapk open dealing you have always been,' replied Col. Burr. 'But I am very much interested in your ancestors. Was there not a little impurity in the channel thro' which the virtues of your ancestors were handed down?' ",A very great impurity, sir. The man thro' whom they came was every thing that is vile, corrupt and base,' "I tho't such must be the case,' said Col. Burr. "You will know such was the case, sir, be- fore I have done. My father Was seventeen and my mother eighteen when I was born.' "Quite a promising little lad your father must have been,' said Col. Burr. If he could be     25.2 U- BuIRI's coNSPIRACY; the author of so splendid a work as the Countess de Montfort at seventeen, what might not be expected of him at fifty?' "If he succeeded in escaping the hands of justice till such a period in life, it might be ex- pected I think that he would be hung,' said the countess, 'and I may add that such is the opin- ion which is very generally entertained of the fate that awaits my father.' "It would be a very great consolation to him onthe gallows I should suppose to reflect that his honors are likely to be perpetuated through the celebrated Countess de Montfort.' "You will be present at the hanging, sir, and will have an opportunity of judging what his re- flections are.' "I hope I may be fortunate enough to be by tlhe side of the Countess de Montfort on the oc- casion. But I ask your pardon for having in- terrupted your story. Pray proceed with it.' ' You will find it more interesting as I contin- ue,' said the countess. "I hope you will not make too large a draft npon my belief in the marvellous,' said Col. Burr. 'The extreme youth of your paternal an- cestor almost staggers me, and I cannot -help being reminded of what one hardly less expe-   A tBISTORICAL ROMA'SCE.    25g rienced than yourself once said. You will no doubt recollect the lines, "For never was it given to mortal man To lie so boldly as we women can." "That was written before Col. Burr was born, replied the countess. 'It might have been true then, and be false now. But to continue my sto- ry. My mother was the only daughter of a wid- ow, living not far from Princeton, N. J. She was said to be handsome, lively and gay, and was a great favorite with' the College stu- dents at Princeton. One among them, the youngest and smallest of her admirers, won her heart. He was young in years, but old in cun- ning, duplicity and the cold-hearted licentious- ness of the world. I was born when lhe was but seventeen, and before he graduated from college. The birth took place in Boston where my mother went on a visit, a short time before. "My father was an orphan, but he was rich, and had address and money enough to hire some worthless fellow to marry my mother, and thus make me legitimate-a matter which I have always been sorry they should have taken so much trouble about. My mother was great- ly superior to the poor creature she married,     254      BURR'S CONPIRACY; and the unhappiness of her lot, with a husband so ill suited to her, joined to the remorse she felt for her misdeeds, produced a lingering sickf ness, which finally terminated in death. My real father was at this time in the army, and had won some fame. He was as brave as he was treacherous; as capable as he was mean, and unprincipled. It was hoped and believed by many when he first entered the army, he was so frail and delicate, that death might soon put an end to the career of wickedness upon which he had entered. But if he was as slipper ry as an eel, he also had the tenacity of life common to that fish. He never took any furth- er interest in my poor mother,-victims like her multiplied fast around him, and he could not look after them all. My affection for himn is proportionate to the good he has done tne, and the happiness he brought upon her. What my poor efforts can avail to thwart his objects, and blast his hopes, he can place implicit re. liance upon their utmost exertion to accom- plish. After I have seen the grand-child you spoke of, I will send it to see its Peat grand- papa! Now I wish you good evening, Col. Burr. This is the last interview you will pro-   A HSTORICAL ROMAN. 'C255 t]bly ever have with your 'afectionate daughter. But I shall be present at the hanging. As she said this, she left the room, and Col. Burr took his hat and departed. "Another firebrand,' said he ts he left the hlose, "tossed in among the comnbustibles, by which I am surrounded. She is evidently the devil's own, whether she is a daughter of mine or not. I recollect something about the Prince- ton girl, but her stoiy must have been more than half fiction. It was well contrived, never- theless; it hlng together well, and there were facts and little circumstances enough about it, to make it sotihd quite probable. I watched very carefully, expecting every moment to de- tect some discrepancy iii the tale, but nothing of the kind occurred. Persons, dates and events all harmotiized well together. She has inventive genius of a high order, that is clear, or she never could have invented so ingenious a story in the short time that intervened between our first and last interview. It cannot be doubted that slhe hates me, and the only reason she has for her ha- tred (for I have no faith in the truth of her story,) is, that she considers me an overmatch for her, at her own weapons. 3tut that ts reason enough. Iow could she help hating me for     Z0     BBURR'S CONSPIRACY; having fathomed secrets that were so important to her to be concealed? I have acted in a blun. dering manner in this matter, but my friends tell me that I always make a fool of myself where women are concerned. Franklin, it is said, had consummate art in paying the most credulous attention to the fabulous narrations of those who wished to mislead him. Sharp di- plomatists, who sought to dupe him, found so much seeming credulity in that calm and phi- losophical countenance of his, while they were palming off their diplomatic subtelty upcnhim, that they were often betrayed into saying too much. It requires deep craft to seem to be the dupe of another. The world gives me credit for being a skillful manager, but the consum- mate art Franklin possessed, was hardly ever equalled. He had it in the highest perfection: -he had art enough to conceal art. "I have acted very simply towards this wo- man. Made a bitter enemy of her, and all for nothing. How foolish to suppose that a wo- man who has lived the last fifteen years inl the fashionable world. of Paris, could be cajoled, in- timidatel or wrought upon in any way. Reck- less of life, reputation or decency, such women as she have sang, played cards, and laughed .   all day in the Bastile, and danced on the way to the gullotine, yet I was simple enough to suppose that the revelation of her birth and early career, would overwhelm her. I must keep this affair to myself: How unmercifully Theodosia would laugh at me for my simplici- ty! But she must be carefully watched, never- theless.' When Col. Burr reached home, he sent im- mediately for Jack. On his appearance, Col. Burr said to him: "Have you obtained any more facts in rela- tion to your parents, Jack?. You thought a short time since, you had made some discove- ries that might lead to a knowledge of your pa- rents.' "I can't learn the name of my father, sir,' replied Jack, "but I have ascertained that he was wounded in a duel by a French Count, wit whom  y mother afterwards ran off. tie then- ' "Oh, never mind,' said Col. Burr. "You have learned enough-just as I expected.' "It is worse than I expected, sir,' said Jack. "Rather an aggravated specimen of humanity my mother was. Not content with having my father shot, it seems she could run of with his 17      58      StRRS coNNSPtCY murderer without feeling tie least solicitude about so small and uninteresting an object as my humble self. She did'nt seen to be over much attached either to me or my father. She was something like the cuckoo-she left her off- spring in other nests to be reared. She con- signed me to the kind mercies of a tender- hearted world, no doubt expecting that my treatment would be full as indulgent as what I have realized. If I should ever meet her I should like to ask her in what way I could show my gratitude, for so much watchfulness, anxie- ty and self-denial experienced by her on my account. I wonder if her parents treated her in that way? Perhaps she had a Sandwich Islander for a father I' "Well, Jack, we will pursue these enquiries further another time,' said Col. Burr. "I wait to see you early in the morning.' When Jack left the room, Col. Burr drew the shade over his eyes and applied himself to the papers before him. He worked unceasingly and with great rapidity, hour after hour, until it was nearer daylight than midnight when he blew out his lamp and retired. It was late at night of the day on which Jack   A xHSTORBAL ROCEA CIL ' . . -r y  .....*.- .           . j went to Newark, when he again presented him. self before Col. Burr.  "She has sailed for New Orleans, sir.' Col. Burr rose and went to the fire-place, where he remained several momerits in deep thought. He then said slowly, and speak- ing to himself: She has hit the nail on the head. The soul of Wilkinson is suspicion's sanctuary. Vain, jealous, and inordinately ambitious, he is very susceptible to felnae charms. He will be but :a nose of wax in the harrds'of this experienced, -crafty and voluptuous countess. She must be better informed in relation to my schemes than I supposed, or she could not have planned so intelligently and adroitly,'to injure me. { must have her arrested when she reaches New Or- leans, for some offence or other, if I can con- trive nothing better. She would surely spoil all, if permitted to see Wilkinson. I underra- ted this woman, and unless I play my cards well, shall finally be outwitted by her. "What :did 'the Newark eexcursion mean, Jack :? "Simply this, sir. She took rooms at the Hotel; was very 'tired and did not wish to be distu rbeA very ,early in the morning. They     26o B^ -BURis CONSPIRAOC; waited until two o'clock in the afternoon of the next day, when having heard no one moving in -her room; knocked several times without receiv- ing any answer. They then proceeded to break open the door. No countess was to be found. A note was left on the table enclosing money to pay the landlord's charges, and directing the coachman to drive back to New York. On making some enquiries, I learned that a hand- some young man hired a carriage to take him to the city. He was seen to enter a hotel, but nothing more was seen of him. A middle aged man, with very large black whisk- ers, and old cainlet cloak, came out of the Ho- tel shortly after, and went on board of the brig "eonidas,' bound for New Orleans, and which sailed at twelve o'clock.' Rather a stupid contrivance, wasn't it Jack, for a person that has been trained in Paris amid the scenes of the revolution ' said Col. Burr. "Not very sharp, I think, sir,' replied Jack. "Though it took me several hours to unravel the mystery, after I reached the hotel where she stopped in town. - She made rather clean work ofit, though she did'nt know the quality of the hounds that were on the track.' The evening after the countess had gone to   A MSTORICAL ROMANE m. Newark, two of her attendants, a man and wo- man, went from the house with a lot of baggage for the brig 'Leonidas. As the countess was gone, their motions were not watched. When, therefore, the countess went on board, as we have described, she met her two attendants, and found everything prepared for her depar- ture. It was necessary for her to have recourse to some stratagem for getting off, as when Col. Burr heard she had gone to New Orleans, he at once understood the object for which she was going, and if he had known of her preparations to depart for that place, through some enginery of the law,-the complicated machinery of which,-he so well knew how to work-he would have had her detained in the city. Before Col. Burr had matured his plans for the disposal of the countess on her arrival in the brig 'Leonidas' at New Orleans, she had left the vesselat Charlestown, and was proceed- Ing across the country to Apalachicola, where she intended to take another vessel for New Orleans. By pursuing this route she accomplished the journey in a much less time than the' Leoridas,' and when the latter arrived she had been over     262      BURRS CONSPIRACY; two weeks in the city. This time had not beea unimproved. Her first step was to make the acquaintance of Gen. Wilkinson, which she was enabled to do by the letters she carried. Few men could resist the fascination of the countess when she was determined to please, and in cap- tivating Gen. Wilkinson every faculty of her mind, every charm of person and grace of man- ner were taxed to the utmost. He had always been more or less governed by female influence, and he had never before encountered in a wo- mal enchantments so formidable as the countess possessed. It required but a short acquaintance to enable her to discover, with, her delicate touch, which string of the human passions in him could be played upon with most success-- 'His inordinate vanity and great jealousy often made him the tool of much less adroit mana- gers than the Countess de Montfort. Her famil- iarity with the political affairs of the world, and her extraordinary knowledge of the schemes of Col. Burr in particular, astonished him. She pretended to him that family reasons alone compelled her to leave France, and that she was traveling through this country with the sole ob- ject of witnessing its great beauties and become ing acquainted with its institutions and people;   A HSTORICAL BRO ANCE.    263 but that long habit and an absolute necessity for some excitement compelled her to interest herself in the politics of .the country. Although such was the account she gave of herself to Gen. Wilkinson, she was in reality the spy of half a dozen parties. She corresponded in cy- pher with Talleyrand7with the English and Mex- ican ministers at Washington, with the Secreta- ry of State and other distinguished officers of the United. States government. All were obliged to place more or less confidence in her, and she was thus possessed of a vast amount of secret political intelligence. Col. Burr suspected such was the case, though he did not know the ex- tent of her intrigues. He knew her friendship would be valuable and her enmity dangerous, and sought by every effort in his power to con- ciliate her good will, but without success. She repelled all his advances, and evinced unmista- kable tokens of a determination to keep him at a respectful distance from her. The conse- quence of which was the rupture we have des- cribed. No motive of policy entered into her conduct in endeavoring to injure Col. Burr.- The hatred and detestation she felt for him was sincere and lasting. "You must have but an imperfect knowledge     'mffri B COXStrtkAdYC;T; of the character of the man you are dealing with,' said the countess to Gen. Wilkinson, af- ter she had succeeded in a measure in gaining his confidence, 'if you suppose that the haughty and imperious spirit of Col. Burr will ever brook an equal. He never will share his power and honors with another unless that other is his daughter, Mrs. Alston. He has so much confi- dence in his own abilities that he don't care to have men of much capacity about him,-he on- ly wants tools, men who will, unthinkingly, and without question, execute what he plans. I ad- mit that he numbers among his friends a good many men of talent, pride and ambition, but all unhesitatingly acknowledge his superiority.- There is no Cassius among his followers to ques- tion the supremacy or greatness of their Caesar.' Other influences were at work upon Gen Wil- kinson besides that of the countess, and when the brig Leonidas reached New Orleans, the work was done-the poison had taken effect. Some time after this when Col. Burr endeav- ored to set in motion this vast machinery which he alone had prepared at the cost of such prodi- gies of labor, and with so much skill, tact, chi- canery and caution, the confidence he placed in Gen. Wilkinson -was betrayed, all his schemes   A UlIeTOIKUAL I;UMA1NUCF.  zVio were frustrated and himself arrested as a traitor to his country. CHAPTER XVI. AFTER a long absence from the Brooks', we again return to them, taking the reader along a few years beyond the time of the events of which we have been writing. The circumstan- ces that took place while Henry Thompson was in New Haven, so affected Susan Brooks that they brought on a severe illness, and Mrs. Brooks could not but reproach herself for being in no small degree the cause of it. She felt that she had jeoparded to some extent, the re- spect if not the affection of her daughter, by the deception she had practised, and by what might seem, her unfeeling conduct towards her and Henry Thompson. Although a gay and fashionable woman, she was not a cold-hearted one, and she loved her daughter as well as U     266      BUBR'S CONSPIRACY; most mothers. Susan bore her sufferings pa. tiently and uncomplainingly, and Mrs. Brooks could not help being deeply moved by the quiet resignation she evinced to her lot. Mrs. Brooks was a woman who could withstand any amount of opposition, but appeals that were made to her pity, she could not resist. She resolved when the recovery of Susan for a time seemed doubtful, that she would no longer seek enjoyment in the frivolous and unsatisfactory career she had hitherto led. She had long con- cealed an aching heart under a fashionable ex- terior, and she felt that there must be some- thing that would afford her more solid and en- during happiness, something more nourishing and consolatory to the soul than the life she had been leading. She sought and found in the teachings of religion, what the world had al- ways denied. her. She embraced christianity with a sincere and devoted heart, and the strong mind: and earnest soul she possessed, when ex- erted in behalf of the cause of religion, made her influence felt far and wide. Not only those to whom she was related, and the immediate community in which she lived, were made wis- er and better by her efforts, but her beneficial influence was made to reach many persons re   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE     26t )moved to a great distance from her. Col. Burr after the failure of his schemes, and when living in a good deal of obscurity in; New Yrork, re- ceived the following letter from her:- Sir: I have watched the career of but few men with so deep an interest as I have watched yours. I have hoped that the great capacities for good that have so long lain dor- mant within you, would finally be exerted for the benefit of the human race. If ever man lived to experience the vanity of all earthly things, you certainly are one. You have ex- perienced what you always believed, that the world was governed by sugar plums, and that the sugar plums were always forgotten when their distributor had no more to give. Possi- bly as a lawyer, you may have witnessed in some instances the truth of the old Spanish adage, 'that it is better to have a poor cause than a good one, for in the former case you bribe the judge, and so win it; and in the latter you trust to the justice of your cause, and thus lose it. You would be inclined, I fear, to add your observation of the selfishness and illiber- ality of some professed christians, to the chap- ter on christianity in Gibbons' history, and thee endorse the whole. Ifyou have seen more c;     268    B'URR 8 CONSPIRAOY; the selfishness and wickedness of the world than most men, it is because, (pardon the frankness) you have looked chiefly on the dark side of hu- man nature. You have sown the wind and you have reaped the whirlwind. You have become :seared and hardoned by -a rough conflict with the world, and will you go down to your grave with a heart of flint and a brow of adamant, be- lieving nothing, hoping nothing, and fearing nothing? If you had only believed in and listened to the words of inspiration as they came from the mouth of David more than two thousand years ago, you might have been spared a painful con- firmation of the truth of what he taught, from Sour own 'experience. "o, these are the ungodly, these prosper in the world, and these have riches in possession : and :I said, then have I cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocency. All the ^day long have I been punished; and chastened -every morning. Yea and I had almost said even as they; but lo, then I should have condemned the generationof my children. Then -thought I to understand this; but it was too hard for me, until I went into the sanctuary of God : then understood I the end of these men;   A HSTORICALG ROMANo.    269,  namely, how Thou dost set them in slippery pla- ces; and fastest them down and destroyest them. Oh how suddenly do they consume, per- ish and come to a fearful end. Yea, even like as a dream when one awakeneth; so shall thou make their image to vanish out of the city.'  You must have often contrasted your own life with the lives of your ancestors; and con- template for a moment how different your latter days must be, (if you experience no change,) from theirs. How peaceful and happy were the last years of their lives. They went down to their graves surrounded by troops of friends, and amid the blessings of all about them. Re- member that your grand-father and your father devoted more hours to the subject of religion than you ever did minutes, and they carried to a careful and conscientious investigation of it intellects as strong, as clear, and as acute as your own. There is yet time for your repen- tance; and if you could become converted to the truths of christianity, your example would be of incalculable benefit to the human race. I have  experienced in no small degree what it is to be buoyed up by philosophy and pride, and Iknow how feeble a support they afford compared with the living, breathing truths of the gospel. Phi- !s        ,      -W"   .boujajt IUJNSPIDY& losophy freezes or dries up the fointaihl of good ness in the heart, but religion causes it to flow copiously, and it refreshes, and invigorates ev. erything with whichit comes in'contact. "Your parents and your grand-parents by the good. and pious lives they led, shed a halo of joy and happiness all around. The rich and the poor, the learned and the ignorant, loved and blessed them. All experienced their kindness and participated in the happiness that radiated from their pure and christian lives. Whose dy. ing hours are more to be envied than the im mortal Jonathan Edwards, and what fame or honors can the world afford, that would equalin worth and transcendent glory, those he won .-- I have seen a letter of your mother's, written to her father when you were an infant. In it she says, 'God has carried me through new trials and given me new supports. My little son has been brought to the brink of the grave: But I hope in mercy God is bringing him up again.- I was enabled to resign the child after a severe struggle with nature, for God showed me that the child was not- my own but his, and that he had a right to receive   e hat he d lent when ever he saw fit.' 'Think you her struggle with nature would   A HITOUJIUAL OUMANJUi.   ; s i 'have been so severe a one, if she could have foreseen the future career of that son? "But I hope and pray, that you may yet turn from the error of your ways. You must have long ago discovered that no rest can be found in this world, to the weary and the ieavy laden. With you it is not necessary to look further than your immediate ancestry, to see how much con- solation and happiness may be found in reli- gion. If you would devote the remainder of your days to the cause of christianity, you could yet do much towards atoning for yourmnanifold transgressions, and you would confer lasting benefits upon your fellow men. As in the nature of things, you must soon appear before your Maker, I pray that you may not enter his pres- ence borne down by the weight of sins that now hangs heavily upon you. That these sugges- tions and entreaties may be productive of some good to you, will be the sincere and earnest pray- er of one who cannot witness unmoved, the con- signment to perdition of the soul of so great a nan." The marriage of Susan Brooks with William. Harlow, was delayed for two years after the     !*      BURR'S CONSPIRACY; early events of this story. In the course of that time, Col. Burr had been arrested and tried for treason, and Henry Thompson had deemed it prudent to leave the country for a short period. On his return to New York he commenced the practice of the law, and being talented, ener. getic, and industrious, he met with great suc- cess; and was soon known as a very promising man. If the marriage of Susan with Harlow did not bring her all the happiness she deserved, she was at least surrounded with comforts aud luxuries, and her husband was completely devo- ted to her. Tile death of his father had put lar- low in possession of great wealth, and nothing that money could purchase was spared to rend- er his wife happy. They had been married scarcely a year, when a vessel in which he was returning from New York, was shipwrecked during a severe storm, and he with nearly all on board lost their lives. Some time had elapsed after this'event, and Mrs. Harlow had thrown oft her weeds, when a great political excitement prevailing, Henry Thompson among others, were invited to ad- dress the citizens of Connecticut at New Haven, on some day they purposed celebrating. He -went with very different feelings from those by   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.    273 which he was influenced on a former occasion. He had now no petty jealousies to sway him, no personal wrongs, real or imaginary, to re- dress. The rash and dogmatic spirit of his ear- ly years had been sobered by time and a rough experience. Thjf enthusiasm in political matters was great, and a vast assemblage of people had gathered in New Haven on the occasion. There were many able speakers present, but the speech of Henry Thompson was considered the master effort of the day.' It was distinguished for its manly and dignified tone, for the breadth of comprehension and the keenness of the logic it displayed, for the candor and liberality it evin- ced towards political opponents. "That speech,' said a prominent statesman, "must place Henry Thompson high in the es- teem of his party.' "You are not just to learn, I trust,' replied an old friend of Col. Burr's, "that he possesses genius and ability of a high order' Col. Burr made that discovery years ago, and put his stamp upon him to that effect, when he persuad- ed him to take a prominent part in his Western enterprise. No man ever had a quicker eye for merit, than he.' 18     174-     S oRRRBS  floMAtT; Mrs. Harlow gave a party, the evening of the day on which this celebration took place. She was now a very rich and handsome widow, and had had two or three very eligible-offers in mar; riage, but they had been unhesitatingly de. dined. It was five years since she and Henry Thompson had met, but neither had forgotten the other. Many persons remarked that they had Inever seen Mrs. Harlow in such fine spirits as during the few days which preceded the cel. ebration. She seemed to have resumed the cheerfulness and animation of her school-girl days. Contrary to her usual custom, she inter- ested herself greatly in the preparations for the party. She entered zealously into all the mi1 nutis of the arrangements, and by her high spirits and happiness infused new life and joy into all around her. She seemed desirous that nothing should be omitted to make the party a pleasant one. All were convinced that some event had filled her with great joy. In dress- ing for the party, she evinced a fastidiousness that she had never before manifested. She objected to, criticised and found fault with many things that before she had been perfectly satis- fied with. When at last her toilet was complet- ed, every one adtmiegd that they never had   X B1STOBRAL RQAXCEO     ^t ,.. C . . ,*   ...  . . . .. . "Been her so well dressed before. Until Henry Thompson's arrival she seeiied 'to :be on tiptoe with expectation. When they'tnet, her agita- tion was so visible that all who saw her, noticed it. And, what had h'ot happened to 1Senfy for years before, almost imperceptibly his hand trembled, and his lip quivered. The weather was warm, arid in the course of the evening 'they found themselves alone in the garden. "I am glad to find Mrs. Harlow,' said Henry, 'surrounded by wealth and friends, and so perfectly happy.' "How do you know I am perfectly happy.' asked Mrs. Harlow. "Your appearance proclaims it,' replied Blenry. "You certainly have seen enough of the world,' said Mrs. Harlow, "to know .that a laughing eye and a smooth cheek may conceal -a heart ill at ease., If I judged from appearan- ces, I might suppose from your grave counte- nance and the incipient wrinkles on your fore- head, that you were not perfectly happy.' "I don't knowi that I am less happy now than I have been, the last five years,' replied; Henry. 'Perhaps I am noot as easily affected by out-     276    .  BURROS CONSPIRACY; ward circumstances as some. I think the poet was wrong when he said- "How small of all that human hearts endure, That part which kings or laws can cause or cure." Sages and philosophers talk about' the in- sufficiency of wealth to produce happiness, but I am inclined to believe it is all cant. It affibrds me great pleasure, however, to think that I did not stand between'Mrs, Harlow and the happiness she now enjoys.' "I am led to believe that it was not a very painful effort for you to refrain from standing' between the two objects you speak of,' said Mrs. Harlow. "You were uncharitable then, and you are uncharitable now,' said Henry. "The effort was a painful one, but I am glad that it was made, for it enables me now to find you enjoy- ing so much. If you should desire to marry again, with your wealth and beauty you could make choice of a husband from the first in the land.' "I am not so sure of that,' replied Mrs. Har- low. "Report says that the wealthy and hand- some Miss Jones, of New York, had a prefer- ence for a young man, so decided as to be ap- parent to all; but he-had eo strong a disinclina- f    A HSTORICA ROMANCE.     7 tion to matrimony, that he did not choose to avail himself of it, and marry her. Suppose I should feel a partiality for such an unsuscepti- ble young man, how could I, a widow, some- thing past the hey-day of youth, hope to make an impression upon him, when he proved in- sensible to one as wealthy, and more handsome than I and in the full bloom and freshness of :girlhood?' "Suppose,' said Henry, "that insensibility proceeded from an early attachment, and that the object of it had taken so strong a hold upon his memory, that he could not forget her. What a would you say when he assured you, that but for his constancy to his first and only love, he might have returned the affection of her whose wealth equalled her beauty, and whose goodness -of heart surpassed them both?' "I would say,' said Mrs. Harlow, "that in bestowing upon him my hand and fortune, if he would 'accept of them, my only regret would be that I ha'd so little to give.' In less than a month from this time, Henry Thompson and Mrs. Harlow were married. It was said by persons who attended both herwed- lings, that she wauld have hardly been recog- Sized as the same person on both occasions.-     ns      BwBURS CONSPXRACT; At her first wedding,. she had a resigned, ad melancholy look, and seemed to perform me. chanically what was required of her. At her last one, she was completely happy. Her eye sparkled with joy, her countenance beamed with delight, and her whole appearance pro- claimed that her cup of happiness was full. Charles Howard and wife, (Miss Agnew that was,) very much to Henry's regret, were pre- vented from being present at the wedding, as Mrs. Howard was hourly expecting the arrival of her cousin, Mrs. Alston,. from the South.-- The marriage of Miss Agnew with Charles Howard had taken place several years before, -soon after the death of Miss Agner's mother, who was the sister of Col. Burr. Shortly after Henry Thompson's marriage, Col. Burr received the following letter from him:- "Dear Sir:-Enclosed, I send your note. for $10,000, payable to order of W. Harlow & Son, and endorsed by your humble servant.- When the note became due, the fortunes of the drawer and endorser were both at so low an ebb that I did not deem it among the possibilities oflife, that either of us would ever be able to 'lift' it. But fortune which sometimes favors   A STORICAL ROAtC.      279 the brave, has enabled me to 'take it up;' and it affords me great pleasure to return it to you. I am now very happily situated, and my pros- pects for the future are decidedly flattering.- But I shall never cease to regret that the fickle goddess should set her face so determinedly against you. "Whenever I can be of any service to you, do not fail to let me know. Very truly yours, HENRY THOMPSON." A few words will suffice to portray the final career and death of the Countess de Montfort. Her talents and splendid person, might for a time prolong her career of vice, but the moral gangrene that existed within, was sure to cause her a miserable end at last. Her services as a spy ceased to be valuable. Her money was nearly all lost or squandered, and her bad reputation prevented her from be- ing sought in marriage. From the first step on the road of iniquity and degredation by easy and natural stages, she became in due time one of that class of file and abandoned outcasts, by which large cities are infested.     280     BURI'S CONSPIRACY; It was about ten years after the events recor- ded- in the last chapter, that Col. Burr was re- turning home late one night, when passing along the street of a disreputable neighborhood, the noise of a quarrel within for a moment ar- rested his steps. Shortly after about half a dozen vile looking wretches of both sexes and colors, rushed into the street, followed by two police officers dragging a man along with them. The appearance of one of the women particular- ly attracted the attention of Col. Burr. After carefully scrutinizing he; features he recognized in the bloated face, blood shot eye and misera- bly clad being before him, the Countess de Montfort. As she turned her eye met his, and she at once recognized him. He quickly turn- en on his heel, but as he moved rapidly away, the words 'Gen. Wilkinson' and Vfather rang in his ears. A few-months after this event, on his return from Albany where he had been gone some time, he found a note very blindly written on poor and dirty paper, saying 'hasten to me quickly, I have something important to reveal. No name was signed, but the number and name of the street were given where he was to calL- He immediately hastened to comply with the   A HIISTORBIOAi ROMA1CF.  281 request; and on, reaching the spot designated, he hesitated about entering the filthy, poverty- stricken abode before him. At last he knocked at the door, and when it was opened by a mis- erable looking hag, he said, 'I am Col. Burr. Does any one wish to see me here ' "'Follow me,' she said, and he was led thro' dark .passages up two pairs of rickety and bro- ken stairs into what appeared to be the garret of the house. The darkness of the apartment prevented his seeing much, but the offensive odor with which the house was filled, assured him of the wretchedness by which he was sur- rounded. The old hag led the way over squeak- ing boards, broken chairs and heaps of rubbish to a corner of the garret where on a pile of dirty straw, partially covered by filthy and loathsome rags, was all that remained of the once beautiful and accomplished Countess de Montfort. He could hardly realize that the woman of surpass- ing beauty and attraction when an inhabitant of gilded halls and elegant and luxurious apart- ments, was now before him. Placing her shriv- elled hand on the countess' brow, 'she is dead,' coolly and indifferently exclaimed the hagand at once turned and led the way from the apartment. "You will pay the funeral expenses, I sup-     282      BURR'S CONSPIRAOY; pose' screeched the old crone. 'She said she was your daughter.' Mortified and provoked by the miserable scene he was playing a part in,at this, Col. Burr turned upon her and exclaimed with fierce in. dignation:-. "Hush! You miserable old withered imp of Satan! Is there one of your vile and loath- some crew who does not lay her paternity or her first transgression at the door of some great man? I presume you are a daughter of the. Great Mogul, and owe your first step in vice to the Emperor Napoleon, or Alexander. It is the devil within. you, who is the betrayer of the innocenos of such creatures as you. You take to vice as naturally as a duck to water.- There is money to pay the funeral expenses of that female upstairs. Take it and see her de- cently buried, and if I ever hear from you again I will have you hung in less than six months after,' Saying this Col. Burr had moved towards the door and was about going out when this old bedlam half shrieked in his ears- "She said she should meet you hereafter, if phe didn't meet you again in this world.' Buried in deep thought, and muttering to him.   A HMRTIORAL ROWANO     28Z self as he walked rapidly off, 'Surely the way of the transgressor is hard,' Col. Burr soon left that miserable. abode far behind himb The genius and learning ofL the countess did not exempt her from the fate that almost in e- vitably attends upon those of her sex, whether among the high or the low, who. take the first guilty step--wlohmake the first dereliction from thepath of innocence and virtue. From the notorious Jane Shore, (to select one from in- numerable instances of those who haveled guilty careers, and for a short time revelled in wealth and splendor, yet died in great poverty and wretchedness,) from the favored mistress of Edward IV, who. perished of hunger in a ditch, down to the last female who died, of delirium tremens at the Five Points, nearly the same ab- ject poverty and misery terminate the career of them all. No elaborate development of plot has been attempted in these pages. Mere sketches of character, and every-day scenes, drawn with a view to illustrate more clearly, and depict more vividly, the traits of the principal personage in'     $284    HBRI'S caSIPmcr Y; the book, were all that was ained at. In tak- ing leave of the minor personages who have figured in the preceding pages, it may be well to state that it was attempted through Henry Thompson, to portray the zeal and enthusiasm with which young men, some born and reared in poverty, but with proud and ambitious spir- its, others raised in wealth and luxury, who in- herited large estates, which by dissipation and recklessness were soon wasted,-it was endeav- ored to present him as a type of a large class of talented and adventurous youths, who were ard- ent and devoted followers of Col. Burr. Men of more benevolence than principle; talented, good natured, but imprudent characters,-men who perhaps might hold in as high esteem a good joke as a good law, and think nearly as much of a good dinner as a good reputation.- Many such were enrolled among the friends of Col. Burr. Mr. Johnson may afford an indif- ferent representation of that class. Perhaps some might think, that desperate villains such, as we sometimes read about, with scarcely a re- deeming trait in their characters, should have found a place here to help portray more fully the adherents of Burr; but as the author has been fortunate enough never to meet such in   A InSTO  CJL' RaO z MA1CE.     8 real life;, e did not care to supply the defect in his experience by a draft on his imagination. WE. now pursue the fortunes of Col. Burr, and continue the sketch of his character and ac- tions commenced in the Third Chapter, t Much difference of opinion has existed in the minds of men as to the precise objects he had in view in his operations in the West. It became convenient for him at his trial in Richmond, to characterize the testimony of Gen. Eaton as a 'marvellous story.' Considering the magnitude of the schemes with which he was accused, and the limited means he appeared to have for ' The third and two last chapters of this book are believed to contain a veritable sketch of the life and character ,of Aaron Burr. Somie unavoidable repetition has therefore occurred of' what appeared in the fancy sketches.     286     BtR^S CONSPmIACT accomplishing them, the country was qdis posed to side with him in a laugh against his enemies. But in the zenith of his fame and power, Col. Burr was the man of all others, at Whose projects it was not safe to laugh. Nothwithstanding the declarations of his bioe grapher and friend, and his own death-bed as, sertions in regard to his designs in the south- west, we must infer from the character of the man, that they would have been limited only % what he was able to accomplish, or to what he deemed it feasible to undertake. The inva- sion of Mexico, the separation of the Western from the Eastern States, or the usurpation of the government -of the whole conntry-either or all of these projects, we are led to believe that he would have been deterred by no scruples from attempting, if he had the power of execu- ting them. BBat whatever his designs were, they met with such an ignominious failure, that whether they were of a gigantic, or an in- significant nature, is of but little consequence now. At the time, however, that they were contemplated, Burr appeared in a very differ- ent light before the country, from what he did a few years later. Undermined and broke as his political power was, yet   A msoIdAt RCOMAE.       287 "His natne could sadden and his acts surprise; But they that feared him dared not to despise." It was but a short time before this period that he had around him a phalanx of devotedness and talent, such as no other man in the country ever had. To be sure that phalanx had been penetrated and somewhat broken, but lis own strength of mind and of character was unimpair- ed and his influence was still dreaded, and his movements watched with a most scrutinizing and anxious vigilance') The profound dissirnu lation which characterized all his actions, tended not a little to increase the distrust which his ambition, his fearlessness and his want of prini ciple naturally inspired. Above all he was , desperate man. In the full maturity of his strength and wisdom, a proud and ambitious statesman, a brave and able soldier, whose soul delighted in the fierce conflict of war, he had been cast down from the proud eminence he had attained, and had no hope before him of ever being able to regain it in a legitimate way.-. Loving power and determined to have it, yet no chance for its legitimate gratification open be- fore him^ was he not a dangerous man? All his schemes were frustrated by the vigilance of the government and the treachery of some of     288      BURR'S COMPIRACy; his followers. He was arrested for treason and brought to Richmond for trial, where nothing but his consummate abilities as a lawyer saved his life. The whole power of government was arrayed against him, and Jefferson manifested an anxiety for his conviction which plainly showed how much he feared him. The strength and keenness of his intellect, the energy of his character, and his untiring industry, were no- where more strikingly displayed than at this trial. He disputed with his enemies every inch of the grouad they went over, and notwithstand. ing their persevering and unremitting exertions to convict him, lie baffled all their efforts, and was acquitted. The possibility of his acquittal was hardly dreamed of by the friends of the ad- ministration. When the trial first commenced, the officers of Government waited until they possessed an array of evidence which they deemed sufficient to convict him beyond the shadow of a doubt, before the arrest was made. At the very opening of the case, Burr interpos- ed obstacles, which no learning or ingenuity of the counsel for the prosecution, could remove. He met them on the very threshold, and con- tended that before he was found guilty of trea- son, the treason itself must be proved. Wirt     A HSTORIeAL ROMANOCE    2'8 in one of' the many eloquent speeches he made on this occasion,' said of oneof his motions, that it was " a bold and original stroke, in the noble science of defence. It marks the genius and hand of a master.' Jefferson in his restless zeal to have Burr convicted, was wrought into a de- gree of energy and activity such as he never before evinced, and which betrayed him into indiscretions that the latter did not fail to take advantage of. He sought with great determi- nation of purpose, and in the most perempto- ry manner, to have possession of Jefferson's correspondence, in relation to his supposed treason, or to compel the President's attend- ance upon the stand as a witness. Either alter- native without doubt, would have been disa- greeable enough to Mr. Jefferson, but the tor- tures of the inquisition might have been as pleasant to him as an examination as a wit- ness, by his cool, implacable, and relentless ene- my Burr. But no ingenuity or contrivance of the counsel for the prosecution could evade or shuffle off the demand Burr ceaselessly made upon them. He drove them from the authori- ties and precedents behind which they vainly hoped to shelter themselves from his pitiless demands . for Mr .TfferaFsan or the erorresnnTndm-     g90      SiRss doNsPffiCy; ence, until their ingenuity and patience were both exhausted. After the trial had continued long enough to fill a thousand octavo pages, we find Ool. Burr rising to say:- "That he is sorry to be importunate, but he must insist on the letters being produced. He had a right to demand process of contempt against the President, but as it would be un- pleasant to resort to such process, he hoped the letters would be produced." No halo ever surrounded the great and the powerful that could awe into silence his voice. His eye never quailed, 'his cheek never blench- ed, his heart never palpitated from any fear of man. He would confront his enemies, or a sud- den and terrible danger with a dauntless coup- age and firmness that nothing could move. We have before spoken of the untiring in- duistry which was so marked a trait in his char- acter. The amount of labor he was capable of performing was prodigious. He seldom went to bed before twelve, and rose at five. But when he had business of particular urgency to attend to, he allowed himself still fewer hours for sleep. At this trial, his counsel would leave him at one or two o'clock in the morning hard -tt'wnrk otnl hia ;n:ln- nnL d.,o- ^ -.11 l   A HSTORICAL ROMANC'E.    t him seated at his table, poring over law-books, or busily writing. He was no doubt literally correct, when in a letter to his daughter writ- ten at this time, he said, busys, busy, busy, from morning to night, from night till morn- ing." It is said of Napoleon, that on a certain occasion previous to one of his battles, he had been without sleep for three days. In the heat of battle, but just as it turned favorably to himself, he dropped asleep in his saddle. Burr, perhaps, would labor intensely for eighteen hours, and then on the first suspension of work, his thoughts would be so engrossed by some woman that he would have to take opium to get any sleep. When in London, distrusted by the government and hunted from place to place, his papers seized, and himself ordered to leave the kingdom in a specified time, 5et he leaves the impression, from his private journal, that lhe was so enamoured of the Dutchess of Gor- don, that he could not sleep without first tak- ing laudanum. Never man bore more uncomplainingly, all the ills that were heaped upon him, than Aaron Burr. A murmur never escaped him. So far as could be judged from any exterior manifes- tation, he' eemed to hold reputation, success     t12   ' B8sURS COSPIRAO^Y and life itself at an exceedingly cheap rate.- 'apoleon, as everybody knows, once said:-- "There is but one step from the sublime to the ,ridiculous," and well he might think so. At the age of 22, so poor that he and his brother had but one coat between them, and one oblig- ed to remain in the house while the other went out; a dozen years later, he was tossing round the crowns of Europe among members of his family, as though they were the veriest play- things in the world. A few years later still, skulking out of the back window of an obscure. inn in France, to save his life from an incensed mob:--No wonder he thought there was but one step from the' sublime to the ridiculous t Burr's opinion seemed to be grounded on a similar faith, and his life illustrated it. From the time that he had around him a phalanx of devotedness and talent, such as no other man in the country ever had, to the time that he was obliged to go half a mile out of his way in Pa- ris to escape a toll, not having a penny to pay it. with, but few years intervened. After his aCeuittal at Richmond, he went to England and France, where he spent several years. What- ever his plans might have been there, so much ditriiaRt wa. oerpat rd .aanit. ham hnv fha AhmCo   . jatfci i ^ ^i -* .wrar " *-  ^T-  ican Ministers' abroad, that they amounted to nothing. The English Government would oa list to him, and Buonaparte would not see him- His privations at times wwere very great Wheti in Paris cut off from remittances, he writesin his journal, "Nothing from America, and really I shall starve. Borrowed three francs t-day." 'Tis adversity that tries the metal of a man, and few men ever bore the test more triumph- antly than Aaron Burr. After the utter and complete overthrow of all his ambitious schemes and poiud hopes, bankrupt in fortune, in friends, and  character, he folded his arms and looked. calyy upon the wreck of all hir greatness, without a complaint or a murmur "Yet well thy soul 'ath brooked the turning tide With that untaught i\nate philosophy Which be it wisdom, ldness or deep pride, Is gall and wormwood 19 an enemy. When the whole host of\hatred .stood hard by To watch and mock thee shrinking, thou hast smiled With a sedate and all endring eye. When fortune fled her spolvd and favorite child, He stood unbowed beneath Ite ills upon him piled." Burr's dignity was innae and real. It oe :nothing to adventitious circumstances. It Nw increased by the possession  no power r ho" o .                    o .     ors, and it suffered no diminution from the loss of them. His conscious superiority, and the inflexible firmness of his nature were proofs against all the vicissitudes of life. His conduct at his trial evinced a calmness, a courage and a heroism worthy of a nobler and better man. When first thrown into prison among common convicts, he marked off a corner of the room for his use, and forbid the other prisoners from crossing the line. He then pulled off his boots, and using them for a pillow, was soon asleep. Those hardened criminals were inspired with awe and respect for the mnan wh' could accom- modate himself with such resignation and seem- ing indifference to whatever /is lot might be. Burr had always lived in magnificent style, and at his hospitable mansion, foreigners of the greatest distinction, and tl- most distinguish- ed of his own countrymen, were frequent guests, charmed by the elegance fifhis deportment, his wit, great learning and /onversational powers. A trait for which Burr vas greatly distinguish- ed, was an intuitive perception of character. He read a man throu and through almost at a glance. No concealment or art could long bale the keenness of his penetration, or the quickness of his discernment. Like Cassius, he  was 'a great observer, and looked quite through the deeds of men.' It might have been said of him too, as of Cassius, "iHe has a lean and hungry look, he thinks too much, such men are dangerous;" but he also had all the dissolute- ness of Antony. He had jet black eyes of a brilliancy never surpassed, and him upon whom they blazed with indignation, or "Whiere his frown of hatred darkly fell, Hope withering fled, and mercy sighed farewell." The extraordinary brilliancy of his eyes was the immediate cause of his arrest. The sheriff who arrested him on the Tombigbee river, was not aware that he was in the vicinity when the ar- rest was made, but having seen two travelers pass a tavern about 10 o'clock at night, he was induced to follow them, thinking perhaps they might be robbers. le made some excuse for entering the house where they stopped, when Burr having once fastened his gaze upon him, he was convinced that such a keen pair of eyes could belong to only one man in the country, (for he had heard of that remarkable feature of Burr's,) and he made the arrest accordingly. i. The Senate of the United States has never had a better presiding officer than Col. Burr. No other officer ever presided with more dignity      or impartiality, or inspired greater respect. At the trial of Judge Chase it was said that he presided with the rigor of a devil and the im- partiality of an angel. But few events in his life possess equal interest with that of his taking leave of the Senate at the expiration of his of- fice of Vice President. It was impressive and affecting beyond almost any similar event in the history of the country. There was scarcely a dry eye in the Senate chamber except his. The remarkable impression he made upon the Sena- tors when taking leave of them was owing to the transcendent ability of the man. It was his mmense superiority oftalent and force of char- tcter combined, over other men, that enabled lim to be calm and stern when all the other senators were in tears It was a master talking to his pupils, and a severe master too. Was there anything in his particular case to call for sympathy? It was after the death of Hamilton and he was 'disfranchised by, the State of New York, and declared a murderer by the State of New Jersey. He told the Senators in language the most dignified, sublime and impressive that was ever uttered,' as one of the Senators pres- ent at the time called it, that 'if the Constitution be destined ever to perish by the sacriligious   hands of the demagogue or the usurper, which i God avert, its expiring agonies would be wit- nessed on that floor.' Yet not a few of them at that moment believed he was then concocting schemes which had for their final end the usur- pation of the government. As Macauley says of Churchill, ' he had a bland serenity of mans ner which no peril or infamy could ever disturb, and a cool intrepidity which never failed him either in fighting or lying. ' A short time previous to his taking leave of the Senate he had endeavored to have a bill pas- ged granting him the franking privilege during life. Timothy Pickering arose and addressed the Senate to this effect, ' Mr. President-Fromn whom has the country most to fear? From that man who has attained the highest office in the gift of the people, or he who has ascended the ladder of fame to the topmost round but one?-. I shall oppose the bill.' Pickering was one of the ablest and most incorruptible statesmen the country has produced. He was a man of great sagacity and firmness. He fathomed the de- signs of Burr, and when making these remarks he fixed upon him a searching look from which a man of ordinary nerves would have shrunk; but Burr encountered his penetrating gaze with     a stedfast eye and an unmoved countenance; but no event probably ever taxed so severely his iron nature as this. Pickering wasa man of unusual sternness of character, and he felt strong in his integrity, in the unerring certainty with which he discovered the designs of Burr, and the duty he owed the country to thwart them. Burr was strong in nothing but his all enduring and unconquerable pride; yet he maintained the same dignified and unshrinking firmness of aspect, the same unmoved calmness of counten- ance, which he might have worn if he had been listening to a compliment instead of a warning against his own suspicious design. Burr's coun- tenance was never any indication of the spirit that wrought within. From 18 to 80 the most perfect self possession never for a moment left him. Generally speaking, no, quality of ourna. ture betokens greater vigor of heart and under standing, than a presence of mind that nothing can disturb. It is said of one of Napoleon's marshals that he was never perfectly self-pos. sessed except when he was in the thickest of the battle. When he could hear the bones of his soldiers crack as the musket balls struck them, his composure was imperturbable. Of Talley- rand, it is affirmed, that when conversing. with nd i fi   him face to face if he received a kick behind, would not betray that anything unusual had happened. The same was true of Burr. It would have been as reasonable to attempt to dis- compose the features of a marble statue, as to expect to create any external manifestation of embarrassment or agitation in him. However great his anxiety or indignation might be, his countenance always wore the same calm and se- rene expression. At his trial in Richmond when struggling for his life against the most persevering and determined efforts of his mor- tal enemy Jefferson, backed by all the patronage of government, he never for a moment lost com- mand of his temper, and it was said of him that he was the oil upon the waters throughout the whole of that exciting trial. From beginning to end he was bland and courteous, but unre lenting and inexorable as death. What the feelings of his daughter must have been when on her way to Richmond where her father was inder trial for his life, canwell be conceived. Apprehensive that her feelings might not be under sufficient control, he wrote her, 'I beg and expect it of you that you will conduct yourself as becomes my daughter, and that you manifest no signs of weakness or alarm     Amid the dangers that surrounded him and 'the Herculean labors he was called upon to per- form, he yet found time to impress upon his 'daughter the necessity of a dignified and become ing deportment. CHAPTER XVIIi. THE biographer of :Col. Burr, very naturally suspected that his almost unprecedented down- fall would be ascribed to other causes than those he has assigned with so much sincerity and earnestness. We confess that we are of the number who place no confidence in the reasons he has given, notwithstanding the impressive language in which they are enforced, and the respect due to the opinions of a man so expe- rienced and venerable. He says: "Through life Colonel Burr committed an error, if he did not display a weakness in per- nitting his reputation to be ;assailed without   A HSTORICGA, ROMA'NCO     301 contradiction in cases where it was perfectly defensible. His enemies took advantage of the sullen silence which he was known to preserve in regard to. newspaper attacks. Under these- attacks he fell from the proud eminence he once enjoyed, to a condition more mortifying and more prostrate than any distinguished man has ever experienced in the United States. Differ- ent individuals, to gratify different feelings, have ascribed this unprecedented fall to differ- ent causes.- But one who is not altogether ig- norant of the springs of human action; whose partialities and prejudices are mellowed by more than three-score years of experience; who has carefully and laboriously in this case exam- ined cause and effect, hesitates not in declaring that from the nfroment Aaron Burr was elected Vice President, his doom was unalterably de- cided, if that decision could be accomplished by a combination of wealth, of talent, of gov- ernment patronage, of favoritism and proscrip- tion, influenced by the worst passions and nur- tured by the hope of gratifying a sordid ambi- tion. Th. contest, in Congress fixed his fate.- Subsequent events were only consequences re- suiting from antecedent acts." The multitude are proverbially -fielde cone s     S02     BURBRS CONSPIRAVY quently the failure of a man to obtain political eminence, where that eminence is dependant upon the caprice of a majority of the voters in the country, is no indication of the want of ca- pacity or merit. But notwithstanding the 'three-score years of experience' of Burr's learned biographer, (on the strength of which he seems to claim that more confidence should be placed in his testimony,) we do not believe that the enemies of Col. Burr ever reduced him to "a condition more mortifying and more prostrate than any distinguished man has ever experien- ced in the United States.' Great and good men cannot be reduced to a condition so mortifying and prostrate, and'if all had been well at home' with Col. Burr, he'could not have been. The error his biographer considers he committed in permitting his reputation to be assailed without 'contradiction, in cases where it was perfectly defensible, we do not deem an error. We think it an evidence of wisdom, though in Burr pro- bably it was as much, or more the result of pride than of policy. When a man's character or conduct are unjustly assailed, there is seldom any need of explanation from him; the world, sooner or later discovers the fact, and generally   * A msTOICA,  ACE. M    803 the injury inflicted. In the long run, we think abuse proves an advantage to a man, and are inclined to believe that ,fol. Burr, in the course of his life received more benefit than harm, from what his biographer was pleased to charac- terize 'an error' It appears that Burr did not intrigue for the Presidency against Jefferson, or if he did, his ex- ertions were very sparingly'put forth and with the utmost caution and secresy. But what could be easier than to make such a charge be believed against him? His reputation for in- trigue had been established at college; it was increased and strengthened by his military car reer, it had reached the culminating point at the Presidential election in 1800. A person whohas acquired a very good or a very bad reputation, will have much that is good or evil ianjustly ascribed to him. This is a consequence that inevitably follows, and no amount of cun- ning will enable him to escape it; therefore Col. Burr could not escape it. Although it seems he was innocent of the charges of intriguing for the Presidency, both parties believed'him to be capable of it, and that, answered as well. But why believe him capa-     $04      BURRS CONSPIRACY; their entertaining such a belief. It is not prob. able that such suspicions could have been form, ed against Jay or Madison, under similarcir- cumstances, and if they had been, they could not have been made effective in reducing them to a condition so mortifying and prostrate as that of Col. Burr's. The fact is, Burr's character for intrigue was well earned, and the distrust felt of him richly deserved. It was well known that his unscrt- pulous and complicated intrigues overthrew the Federal party; and while the winners, delight- ed with their success, admired and commeuded the skill which had produced it, they felt no increase of confidence in the man, whose achievements were brought about in such dark and crooked ways; on the contrary they secretly dreaded and mistrusted him. It was not Jef: ferson and his friends who ruined Burr. The great enemy that caused his overthrow, was his own want of integrity-his lack of moral prin- ciple. If instead of seeking so assiduously for the causes of his downfall in the treatment he received fro'n his enemies, his bSographer had turned to his character as depicted by his own hand, he would have there found what to us appears to affoir a much better elucidatinaofit..   A HSTORICAL ROMANCE.    305 It is truly'surprising, says this biographer, how any individual could have become so emi- nent as a soldier, as a statesman, and as a pro- fessional man, who devoted so much time to the other sex as was devoted by Col. Burr. Foar more than half a century of his life they seemed to absorb his whole thoughts. His intrigues were without number. His conduct most licen- tious. The sacred bonds of friendship were un- hesitatingly violated when they operated as bar- riers to the indulgence of his passions. For a long period of time he seemed to be gathering and carefully preserving every line written to him by any female, whether with or without reputation, and when obtained they were cast into one common receptacle--the profligate and corrupt by the side of the thoughtless and be- trayed victim. All were held as trophies of -victory-all esteemed alike valuable.' Is it not unaccountable that a man who had , lived fourscore years, who had encountered ev- ery variety of fortune, and met with vicissitudes of life that seldom fail to the lot of those who are most severely tried,-who had seen himself sur- :rounded by a phalanx of devotedness, and tal- ent such as no other man in the country ever iad, and then little better than an outcast, ' *2 O              '     306      TBURR'S CONSPIRACY; should not have sickened with disgust in his old age at the petty treacheries and the loathsome baseness he had for a life time practised. Is it not incredible that any man possessing the com- mon attributes of humanity, could with one foot deep in the grave, cling to testimonials of the deception and baseness he had been guilty of through a long and wretched career, and as al- most the last act of a worthless and wicked life, hand over to another documents capable of pro- ducing such wide-spreadand almost inconceiv- able injury. What an employment for a hoary headed old sinner, whose hands trembled with age and whose locks had been whitened by the frosts of eighty winters, to sit gloating over evi- dences of the folly of those who placed some con- fidence in his lying tongue. The feeblest sense of honor, the least spark of generosity, it would seem, would cause a man to turn with scorn and disgust from conduct so base aud abhorrent. If we did not know who the ancestors of Burr were, we should be inclined to believe that so great an obliquity of moral principle, must have been in a great'degree hereditary. Yet notwith- standing conduct so insufferably mean and con- temptible, to say nothing of its wickedness, he wa exceedingly sensitive thro life to anything   A H1STO&ICAL OMASCE.    D07 which he deemed affected his honor. In one of the notes sent to Hamilton just before the chal- lenge he says, "A. Burr far from conceiving that rivalship authorises a latitude not otherwise justifiable, al- ways feels greater delicacy in such cases, and would think it meanness to speak of a rival but in terms of respect, to do justice to his merits to be silent to his foibles, Such has invariably been his conduct towards Jay, Adams and Ham- ilton. The only three who' can be supposed to have stood in that relation to him." He held it meanness to speak disparagingly of a political opponent however base he might know him to be, but it was highly honora- ble and manly, it was a noble achievement, to bring all the powers of his mighty mind, all hiE experience, all his craft and cunning to deceit. *mere fashionableomn women,  he had spoke of to his wife in a letter before quoted as posses sing frivolous and vacant minds. What an  consistency that a man at the mention of whos name the proudest in the land turned pale should have been more vain of the 'soulless wc men, as he termed them, whom he had deceive 6d and betrayed, than of all his other achieve ments. And in a letter, written the night     308s     RBURR'S CONSPIRACY; fore his duel'with Hamilton in case of his death, suggested that the letters of his female corre- spondents might afford some amusement at some future time to his grand-son, Aaron Burr Alston!' Admirable lesson those letters would afford for the moral cultdr o'.a grandson. But that grandson died at the age of thirteen. The man who dreaded nouhumanbloxswas smitten by the hand of Providence in a way to destroy his only earthly hopes. The death of his grandson and the loss of his daughter, caused him to say in a letter to his son-in-law, Gov. Alston, that he felt as though he was severed from the hu. ilman race. Notwithstanding traits so revolting as those we have just mentioned, and which it would seem could not co-exist with any goodness of heart, his friend and biographer tells us:- "And yet by a fascinating power peculiar to himself, he so managed as to retain the affec- tion, in some instances, the devotion of his de- luded victims. In every other respect he was kind and charitable. No man would go farther to alleviate the sufferings of another. No man would make greater sacrifices to promote the interest or the happiness of a friend. How strange, how inconsistent, how convicting are   A HSTORICAL ROMWKCE.       809 these allusions! They are nevertheless strictly true." From the time of his return toi the United 'States in 1813, to his death ini88a he prac- tised law in New York with tolerable success^ but lived in great obscurity. Paraphrasing the words of Wolsey, he might have exclaimed-- "Had I serv'd my God with half the'zeal I serv'd the devil, he would not in mine age Have left me naked to mine enemies." He was in his eighty-firsti year when he died. The same unbending pride, and unshaken firm- ness which had accompanied hini through life, did not forsake him on his death-bed. He died as he lad' lived apparently feeling no remorse for the past, and no apprehension about the future.                 insu' t The life of Aaron Burr is partcuarly instruct- ive in the lessons it inculcat6s. It teaches how hollow and worthless are talents the most bril- liant and solid, and abilities the most extraor- dinary, if they hav not for a basis integrity and virtue. It teaches, too, what observation and experience seldom fail to convince us of, that compensation is an inexorable law of na- ture, and that he who flatters himself that he wil be long able to escape the consequences of v                    * -     810      BVtf'RS cNSPMACTr; wrong doing, is shallow and undiscerning.,-- Had Aaron Burr possessed a good moral char- acter, with his extraordinary abilities, a regi- ment of Jefferson's, backed by a hundred times the patronage of government, could never have dragged him down so low in the estimation of his fellow men. No earthly power could have so prostrated Hamilton, Madison or Jays A man may be richly deserving of office, wealth and power, and yet not have them, but if he really deserves the respect and admiration of the wise and good, nothing can prevent him from enjoying them. The life of Aaron Burr is further instructive, inasmuch as it tends to show what may be accomplished by energy and decision of character; by ceaseless industry and unconquerable perseverance. What Channing says of Milton's Lucifer, may not inaptly be said of Burr. "Some have doubted whether the interest felt in a spirit so transcendantly evil as Satan, favors our sympathies with virtue. But our interest fastens in this and like cases on what is not evil. We gaze on Satan with an awe not unmixed with mysterious pleasure, as on a miraculous manifestation of thejpower of Pind. What chains us as with a resistless spell, in such z           * '    i      A. BHORICON ROMANCE.    31  a character, is spiritual might made visible by the racking pains which it overpowers. There is something kindling and ennobling in the con- sciousness, however awakened, of the energy that resides in mind, and many a virtuous man has borrowed new strength from the force, con- stancy, and dauntless courage of. evil agents." THE END.   
         
      
   
