
    ----CITATION----
        Herrington, William D., (b. ca. 1841). The Captain's Bride .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6712
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            The captain's bride
             
                THE CAPTAIN'S BRIDE, A TALE OF THE WAR, W. D. HERJINGTON, sID N. C. CAVALRY, I Author of "The Refugee's Niece, "The Deserter's  Daughter," etc.      Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1864, by WILLITAM B. SMTH, in the Clerk's Office of the District' Court of the Confederate States for the District of Pamlico of North Carolina.    :C  PE R KINS,   E's  ., mzmBEIIpm OFP THE N. C. LEGISLATURE, IS ,THS' LITTLE STORY MOST RESPECTFULLY DE1DICATED, g*  '   1AS AN HUMBLE TIIBUTE OF GRATI'TUDE' 'TO 1118 KIINDNES ANI BENETOLENCj1i BY HS EVER 0BATH^VL WARD, THE AUTHOR.      THE CAPTAIN'S BRIDE.  CHAPTER I. As the dawn began to disperse the darkness from. th earth, and the golden azure mounting the eastern skies, foretold the birth of a new day, the sharp jarring peal of a rifle cannon rent asunder the calm morning air, and echoed and re-echoed among the hills and swamps of the surround- ing country. In a few minutes a; cavalryman rashed int camp, his charger at his topmost speed. The bugle sound- . ed the alarm, and after such hurried confusion, Captain Horton formed his company of Partizan Rangers in line of battle. "The enemy are advancing,!" said the much excited cou- rier, and as he spoke another jar from the. rifle field-piece shook the earth beneath their feet; and was followed by, P volley of smiall arms. . "Take sixteen men and support the picket, reconnoitre the enemy's strength, and hold in checkat the creek aslong as possible. When you are over-powered fall back to the  mill bridge, where it will make arrangements to fight as long as our supply of ammunition lasts."  These orders Were given by* Captain Horton to Lieuten- ant Emitson, and were immediately put in execution.  This occurred a few days before the commencemeit of the memorable seven days battles around Richmond. ,Al th; e  troops, except enough to watch the movements of the ene- my at his several points of occupationl, were removed from. the department and conpentrated to tske part .in: that san guinary conflict to save the Capitol of the country.     Captain*Horton with his gallant little band\ of one hun-- dred well mounted Partizans was left unaided to confront. the enemy numbering five hundred nfantry, a battery of lartillery, ,and a company of cavalry, occupying one of the towns in the department of North Carolinia. The enemy were, however, well acquainted with Captain Horton. Time, and again had he pounced like an eagle upon their unsus- pecting credulity, and bore away, their out-posts, their, for- aging and scouting parties-until his name alone had be- come a terror to their imaginations. Notwithstanding this Captain Horton did not slumber with this featful odds against him. He saw at a glance, and appreciated, the res- ponsibility that had devolved upon him. Thousands of rich farmers, straining every nerve to make sustenance for the army, looked to him for protection against a thieving ene- my. -Every day defenceless women and children thronged his camp begging with tear-bedimmed eyes to be saved from the hands of a..ruthless foe. Added to these he as weil I s mosf of his men were fighting for their very hearth-stones. The town occupied by the enemy was situated upon the northern, bank of one of the principal rivers in the. Old North State. The river ran in almost a direct line east and -west and intermingled the crystal waters of the Blue Ridge mountains with those of the grept Atlantic. This added a * new arm oftrength to the enemy,as the, river was naviga- ble several miles above the town, up which, with his boats he could lay waste to the surrounding country. ..But as he ihad few boats that could operate on the river owing to its narrowness, and its undulating banks, behind which con- cealed riflemen, were ..more than an equdl in a contest, even with these huge monsters Captain' Horton had few fears from that direction. Miakingoalmost .a right angle with one inclining somewhat to the west, wound a large creek, ard emptied its waters into the river; a mile above the. town.- On both, sides of this creek were dense mirey swampl so that to cross it was impossible, except at the several public ra" :   crossings at which were in former' times built bridges. By way of the direct road leading from the'town'to wher, Cap- tain Horton had taken his position to, the crossing of this stream was seven miles. Five miles farther on ran another stream parallelwith the first, and emptied also its waters into the river. Across this latter stream was the mill bridge referred to in Captain Horton's order. When he was left without the least hope of aid from any quarter, his first pre- caution was, to destroy all the bridges crossing this first stream: seeing of course, the fruitlessness of endeavoring to keep the enemy within the town. This offered the first impediment to an advance. Wherever a .crossing might be effected, it would be done at a fearful loss of life; and when this was done a greater impediment yet had to be met;at the mnll bridge where, as Captain Horton said, they could never pass so long as his supply of ammunition lasted. This first creek, though adopted by Captain Horton 'as a picket line, yet the country beyond it was not entirely'abandoned. The enemy did not dare to advance beyond the range of the guns mounting the brerst-work surrounding the town, except with almost their entire commaind. Captain Horton bad the, one plan, and its alternative ever before his eyes ; if the enemy-advanced directly upon his po-. sition to give him battle as above described but if he chibse to pass him by unnoticed after cros ing the-first stream, and, '  advancing through the country in a different directionu h alternative was to transport his cemmand 'to. the opposite side of the river, marshal his available force, cut the ene- my's communication, and harass his rear until a force could be concentrated in fr nt to stop his advance. As he promised Lieutenant Emitson, the necessary dispo- sitions were made at the bridge to give the enemy a hand-. some reception. He was patiently waiting the return, of the ^ Lieutenant, and the adyance of the foe. His monotony would now and then be :broken by the repwt of the cannoni at the bridge, but nothing more. *  ' *;       *         ,     S  tSurely, he said, "'Emitson has not 'allowed them to cross uadisturbed."' The Lieutenant returned very soon. "The enemy have driven back our pickets from the creek and arethrowing up an entrenchment,' said, he, handing the Captain a note backed with a pencil.  "They no doubt intend to re-build the bridge,"' said the Captain opening the note. "What' disposition -have you. made of the picket, Lieutenant:" "I ordered them to fall back beyond the range of the en- emy's guns and to resume the watch. I have a sqoutalso concealed at the creek to watch the enemy's demonstrations." The note read as follows: "CAPTAIN HRTON :--I have just time to write this note and convey it across to your pickets. The Yankees do not intend to advance farther than to drive off your picket and establish their own in their stead on this side of the creek. Give yourself no alarm; but of course be vigilant; tOross the creek at the old landing and I will meet you at the little hillock on this side at four o'clock, p. m. Then I will tell you all. There is no danger at that place. Yours in much trouble,       ESTELLE." Captain Horton folded'the note and placing it in his coat, pocket oidered his men back to camp, evincing in his coun- tenance a look of excited curiosity intermingled with disap- pointed satisfaction.   CLAPTER II. Four o'clock found Captain Horton faithfuL to the re- quest. He had prostrated himself upon the little gum hill surrounded except on one side by a dense' forest. On' this side a narrow strip of high land led to an opening beyond. How long seemed every minute of delay, with nothing to keep him, company save perhaps a little summer bird drawn hither by curiosity to take a close examination of this mon- ster, who had dared to trespass upon its haunts. Distinct- ly audible to his ears sounded the axes of the enemy fortify- ing the position taken by them in the morning; "Are they human like myself," he soliloquized, "made' by the same God, ruled by'the same, supreme Deity, occu- pying the same continent, speaking the same language, who have mothers and sisters- like myself, and still we are dead- ly foes; seeking each other's lives." With such: thoughts as these, passing throngh his mind he passed away one long, long hour. "'She will not come. Somcthing has happened," he said as he rose and stretched his gaze in the 'direction from whence he had come, and was now about to return.  A low whisper greeted his ear. He started and turned quickly on his heel. His eyes met a human form.. It was Estelle.. The beautiful fairy formed, 'the terrestrial angel, Estelle; the only object that bound his heart to earth, that which animated and urged him on to deeds of valor in the hour of trial and peril. Estelle was a far off scion of the Normon French, and in her bright black eyes she showed still the spirit of her intrepid' ancestry. As their counten- ances met she-forced a, smile. n   !      You have been waiting I reckon, Captain."  "Yes, Estelle," he answered; grasping her extended hand, "I h ave been here one hour- or more. What has caused your delay?" "My brother,'whom you know holds a commission in the Federal army returned home'this morning. To establish a force between my home, and your command is the cause of their advance. They will return when he has accomplished the object of his visit." ' Pusillanimous policy. But such selfish motives seem t4b actuate even the head of their Government. I am- hot surprised. But Estelle; what is the object of your brother's  visit?" "Ie hehs come," said she, choking down a sigh, (i to force me into a marriage with Ed. Alston, w4hom from my childhood I have never looked upon oiierwise than as a friend, He accompanies my brother dressed in Yankee uni- form. I have treated him very c olly; and as they know of our attachment, they watch me eontinually. This has been the cause of my delay.'  ' Fiends! incarnate," said the Captain seating himself upon the earth and drawing her down by his side. They can never succeed while the blood ifi my veins runs warm. But you had better go with me now, and continue with my mother orsome of you. friends until- -' "'No, I will not be driven from my home. I will stay to convince them of their folly." "Hardly had these words es- caped her lips when a hurried footstep behind them con- vineed them of an intrusion. Captain Horton caught his hand upon his pistol liolt and attempted to rise. But too late. Two pistols were presented to his head, and a stern voice shouted "'resist and you shall die." Estelle caught his arm and whispered, ' forbear." "Estelle," said her brother in a pedantic voice, "I ought toe :iiscouetenance you hereafter as my sister." "You are at liberty to do so," she answered in a firm voice.   "While I have been away striving to restore peace to the country, my only sister has been carrying on a disgraceful alliance with-- -" "Its false; and the intimation is unworthy of a broth- er," she interrupted. "Yes, fou have brought disgrace upon me by this alli- ance with an enemy to me and to all mankind, and a traitor to his country."  This insult almost caused the blood in Captain Horton'Os veins to take fire. But what could he do? "Disgrace upon you! A traitor to his country!' she an- swered smilingly, ".beautiful language for one who has brought disgrace upon his family by selling his honor and his birthright for the paultry sum of a commission in a van- dal army-an army who wars upon dcfenseless wofiien and children-a band of disgraceful thieves and' cut-throats.- Does not the word traitor burn upon your lips?' I would take this abuse from no one else." "Nor wo9ld I take your intimations from any one else." "But your eloquence will not alter my determinatton. 1 have come to see the consummation of a marriage between Alston and yourself, and it shall be." "It shall never be. I do not love him, and I will never marry one whom I do not love. So desist brpther; you can-. not force me, I am ready to die, but to yield, never!" I am your senior and will be your advisor. 'I know that you are betrothed to Alston,.,nd the engagement shall be fulfilled."  "Would you consigni me to' a life of misery? Is this the brother who promised a dying mother to watch, over my wellfare. Oh! faithless humanity," said she, bursting into tears, "have I a brother, and yet not one, friend in this . wide world whose hands are ubnbpund to save me'. Miss Estelle," said Alston stepping forward, ( say that you have'never made the most solemn vows to me, nad I will release you at once from the engagement."     .       t      .',  ,f     12 I may have done so Mr. Alston in jest; but Heavep knows that I have never loved you; and your unmanly con- -duct now makes me hate you." is No Estelle,"' said the Lieutenant, her brother, "this traitor has poisoned your mind, and, his life -shall pay the forfeit." Captain Horton could no longer keep down the anger that 'these cowardly insults had aroused in his nature. He sprang to his feet, drew his repeater from its holster and s aid: bir, my life is. not worth a farthing to me how, and these cowardly insults shall be printed here upon the brow of this little hill in characters of blood." Estille rushed fearlessly between the two presented pis- tols, and caught Captain Horton's arm. It is madness Captain, do not sacrifice your life, but live for my sake." "I give Estelle into your chargh. Accompany her home," sat her brother, addressing Alston. It'can go alone," said Estelle. But Alston took her arm and forted hEer away. Deliver your pist 1 to me," said the Lieutenant to Cap- tain Horton.  Just at this moment a noise on the opposite side of the hill attracted their attention, and a detachment of Captain Horton's men rushed upon the hill. The Lieutenant see- ing the peril of his position, covered himself by Captain Horton-and made a precipitate retreat. "Stand aside Captain," shouted Lieutenant Emitson, "Hold Emitson! hold!" said he, "the enemy are only a few hundred yards from this place;" The enemy had already been attracted to the place, and were then in view. "I anticipated this treachery, Captain," said Lieutenant Emitson, "and have made all possible haste to your relief." "Say not 'treachery' Lieutenant, but 'misfortune.' Oh! *"  '          . '         .      '  ' 13 13 could your arrival have been hut one minute' earlier! Poor  Estelle," said he rubbing his hands, but I will release her- or loose my life in the attempt.'" "We all owe them a debt of revenge," answered the Lieutenant. As the enemy were now bearing dorn upon them, they were compelled to retreat. Captain Horton returne i to his camp with his plans for lthe release of Estelle fully decided upon. By taking his men twelve miles up the creek he could cross at a fdrd known only to himself, andt in four hoirs he could come up exactly in rear of the enemy's position. -This he resolved to do, hoping, notwithstanding the fearful odds that he would have to encounter, with the advantage of a surprise in. a night at- tack, to be able if nothing more, to recover Estelle and take her within his own lines. The plan was put in execution, and at the hour of eleven wlhen the enemy had retired to slumber in peaceful security  Captain Horton hurled his hundred furious horsemen like an avalanche into their camp, which lay in an hundred yarcld of Estelle's home. The enemy fled in every direction panic strickbn and dismayed; but Captain Holton was so eager for the prize, he rushed headloig in fiont of his command, rand his horse stumbling, precipitated him senseless upon. the earth in the midst ot ,the enemy, when, of course, he fell into their hands. Lieutenant Emits'on assumed com- mand, and still continued to urge his men upon the enemy, dealing a perfect malestorm of -death in their midst; 'but he hurdled them in a mass finally upon the banks of the streamn where they either had to fight or surrender. Taking advan- tage of the disorder into which the contest had thrown 'the horsemen, they commenced a stubborn resistance, and from; advantage of numbers, very soon so far' ecovered" as to be able to make an assault upon Lieutenant Emitson's confused column. He resisted it with spirit, but finally had to fall back, thereby leaving Captain Horton a helpless prisoner in the hands-of the enemy,  9,.               V- -     CHAPTER 'II. Estelle had heard the attack made on the Yankee camp, and hau divined its object. She ever felt sure of the defeat of the expedition; but she did not anticipate the trouble that awaited her; 48 soon as the men were restored to quiet, and there was' no probability of the Rebels returning, her brother made haste to apprise her of his victory "We have given those impertinent midnight assassins a decent thrashing; and what is more cheering and glorious, their chief,-your lover is a prisoner, safe into our hands," said he in a boasting and menacing manner. For a minute she was speechless, for what could she say. The case, if true, and she could not: doubt it, was hopeless. "He is a prisoner of. war, isn't he brother?" she asked at last in a humiliated voice. " No, he has forfeited the respect due a prisoner of war, and is held subject to my orders and disposal; and Estelle nnless you make amends for your impertinence this after- noon, you shall witness his torture . With this threat to subdue her indomitable will, he left her to her own thoughts. She past the night in indiscribable anguish-between hope and dispair. A thousand plans for his release passed through her mind, but were all attended with some insurmountable obstacle.  The night--a sleepless one past away at last. Her pillow was drenched with her tears i Only one hope cheered her troubled bosom.' She reseo ed toI ti her powers of persua- sion upon the heart of her brother. ureiy he was her broth- er. The same blood coursed each others veins. She heard   him promise . dying mnother to love and take care of 1ir. It could ntot b that one year's association, ' itli h arits companions even, had made him a brute. She expetedltfii sympathy. She was not the same stubborn' Elstelle of' ye- terday. Her spirit was crushed and she -must yieldi She arranged her toilet, and hastened to the parlor, where she extpcted to find her brother alone. But not so. SheM found hih accompanied by Alston, who were making merry over that greatest curse to the human family, the Bacchana-  lian Board.  The sight'of Alston and her brother's dissipation, arouse d' lher ire anew, but she must suppress it now, and-g ripvg Al- ston one look that made his guilty cowardly soul crouch like' a whipped cur, she beckoned her brother to one side. He rose and followed her into another apartment. When he took a seat, she knelt by his side. The humiliation of that proud spirit and not penitence, caused a tear to course its way over her flushed cheek. "' Brother," said she,' "I have knelt here to ask the re- lease of Captain Horton:' I am youl* sister; and as such I make this request. You are my only relative that I know of on earth-and therefore the only source from which I can  expect sympathy and protection. "Your last words to our dying mother n this room, was a - most-solemnai roinise to look after my wellfare in life-to guard my destiny. Surely'memory and soul have not both forsaken you. If so, let reason tell you not to destroy one who has never done you an injury, . nd who only holds a, political opinion averse to your own, and remember .brother if you sacrifice him. to your nmalice, you sacrtifice also a si s- ter's h :. lss. He is the ,bject of my choice. Hie 1nrves me anl'; i '. I him. I am eg a ,'d to him, and I can love none (o. I\,i Now brother, lhave told all; and will yop re lease I ? 1 on yeaterday ;' ax oft- p xasi . case4 e by. yonr  that might hav e 8sa'id ay. ^rd things to yoa; far wliuchi 1? feel sorry thi moniing, ag. &am wil lng to make any                   -  O     16 amends that you may ask. I ask only one reasoinable re-' quest, wheh that is granted then I, brother, am your ser- vant. If I am never to see him-again, it will at least be' a consolation to me to know that lie is unharmed."  "You are through, I suppose, and you are quite an laum-. ble little sister this morning," he said in sneering ridicule.- But Estelle my plans are fixed-my promise is given.-- The blood of fifty of my comrades, the 'work of' his hands last night cries in tones of thunder against Captain Horton, while the moans of an hundred "wounded men call curses upon his head. He shall never marry you. But neverthe- less, lie can have the opportunity of taking the oath of alle- giance to 'the United States, and thereby Save his life,'if youL will promise to marry Alston immediately, and go North." The heartlessness of this proposition sent a pang of sor- rew to her, heart, and crushced her soul beneath a load of dis- pair. She saw that her plan was not successful. All seem- ed lost. She rose up, seated hersclf upon a sofa, and bury- ing her face in her hands 'lursted into a violent fit of grief. But necessity is indeed the mother of invention, and when almost the last ray of hope had ifed, something seemed to suggest:another plan to her mind. It was based oi decep- tion, and as deception is a woman's fort, it gave her new hope. "I have thrown grass," she thought, "and it avail-. ed nothing, I am excusable now to try what virtue there is in a stone."         '  "Brother, I am willing to make any, almnost any sacrifice to save Captain Horton's life, but he will not take the oath. If you will agree to release him unconditionally, and. I can. love Alston, and I will try, I will consent to your proposition and give you a positive answer this evenig."' "I will also make up my mind by that time," he answer- ed.                 .  She drdw her pencil from her pocket, wrote a few words on a piece of paper, folded it, handed it to her brother, and requested him to hand it to Alston. He received it with a smile of satisfaction and departed on the mission. She wrote / . t -   IT also a short note to Lieutenant Emitson,.and by means of aa under-groundtelegraph, in the coarse of an hour it was placed in his hands, In a few mlnmutes Alston made hib appearance, for the note requested an interview. He looked awkward and agitated, but it was a part of her plan fo re-assure him. Take a seat Edward," he said smiling. This agitated him more. "I recko' she resumed,. "that you have thought my conduct very strange. It is my disposition you know to make tny love matters romantic; but I reckon now I have carried the matter fhr enough, and I have concluded hereafter to make our meeting mnore agreeable. You must pardon my little frivolties."  "Certainly Eatelle, certainly!" he said with the -greatest emotions of delight, ' I have been very silly not to have seen more clearly into the matter before, but you girls are always capable of deception." 6-But," she. answered, ' don't let brother iknow it yet, I want us'to .Surprise him."'  "All rilh t." ," Come this evening at 3 o'clock and we will take a walk to our old play ground, and talk over the .pleasurcs of. by- gone days. I have wearied myself withl this excitement, and you must excuse me until then," and ising from her seat she presented him a bough of arbaitae. Springing to his feet, he departed in -a perfect ecstacy of surprise and delight. Estelle smiled at the successful execu- tion of'the ground-work of her scheme:'     CHAPTER IV.  All ws quiet in the Yankee encampment. The day wai spent in burying the dead that had fallen the previous night, and preparing against another like surprise. The hour of three arrived, and faithful to promise came Edward Alston, unspeakably elated with glowing anticipa. tions of the future. Little did he think that the halter was prepared for his neck, and that with his own hands he was to tie the 'fatal knot. Estelle miglit be censured by theworld, but whatever others Nwre disposed to say she oared not, she was determined to exhaust all the means at her command to defeat her brother's plans, and save un- -harmed the object of her affections at all cost. l She met Alston at the dobr with a smile, and taking his arm, they set off for the proptsed evening's walk. The walk'to the old play ground upon the banks of the creek was spent it merry conversation, in making amends for past offences and explanations. As they neared the edge of the stream, four Confederate soldiers stepped from be- hind an excavation in the banks, and in a decided voice told Alston that he waM a prisoner. He was dismayed and thunder struck. There was to farther necessity for de- ception on the part of E telle. Her plan. was fuily devel-  oped. Giving the guard some. hurried instructions, they bore their charge away. Estelle watched them until they were beyond all danger, when she hastily retraced her foot. steps back to the house. 'Now the dreadful ordeal had to be passed. She must meet an unreasonable Drother exas. 'perated by defeat. What night he not dub? But in the    spirit of the true heroine she resigned herself to-the unal- terable decrees of fate, and bowed her spirit in humble submission at the shrine of fortune. She halted at the door to nerve her courage for the emergenc), and toplace a little dagger that she wore in her bosom in a convenient position. She entered the parlor and found ier brother seated smoking a cigar-in dreamy reverie. Her footstep aroused him: '"Why, Estelle," he said drowsily, "ybu did not walk long. Where is Edward?"  "In the hands of Lieutenant Emitson," she answered decidedly. He sprang to his feet In amazement. "3Say that again Eptelle!" "In the hands of Lieutenant Emitson-a hoetage for Captain Horton," she repeated. 'i I'll be--.-," said he in the most violent fit of passion, if I intend thus to be baffled and bullied from my purpose by mortal mankind- womai-sister-no, by-notyeven by my mother. 1 swear by eternal Heaven if Edward A1. ston, a United States soldier, is not returned tothis house by to-morrow noon, thatIwiithurn before your eyes this out- lawed villian, Horton. Do you remember that?' And then if one hair on Alstan's head is molested, I will place you in the hands of the commander of this department to stand the consequenc -s." "t 'tmeasurei the ,distance," answered Estelle coolly, "beftoe. 1 began the journey., But brother, whatever measare you meet to C(ptain Hortoi., shall be measqurd to Edward Alston again. Your vain threats will not daunt' my spirits cor a'ter my purpose. The Feal is get and stamped, an eye for an e e, a tooth for a tooth.' Icare not what the consequences may be to myself."  He- strode like a frantic mauiac back and forth across the room. lie saw the fruiufesuness of ende voring to iam V .  .  a      timidate a spirit that feared not death. B- felt that he was defeated-hopelessly defeated. He halted before ler and looked in her countenance. He saw there depicted the in- flexible determination-the case-hardened will. What could he do? His fiendish nature could have crushed her from existenre, but he feared to attemrpt it. "Heretofore," he said, "I have Ibeen lenient towards you Estelle, but hereafter i shall alter my purpose. I will send over Captain Horton in exchange for Alston, but you shall be incarcerated in oneL of the darkest dungeons in Fort Warren, where you shall eke out your life. in igno- miny and shame, where pity nor mercy can never reach you. Whes he you shall never see a human face; except of him who will come o to tantalize you." "I am consoled;" said she smiling, for the thought that Captain Horton wras to be set free hadc brightened her hopes, "' to know that none of your hellish prisons are so dark but that the sunbeanms of mercy from Heaven can penetrate their gloom. . And there, even there, I will laugh at your folly, and held sweet converse with that God who causes it to rain'upon the just and upon the unjust." He leit the romi andlockIing the door, took the key with him. .Iis threat was a .dreadful one. She pondered its consequences alone. But she felt consoled. She had gained' a victiory, though it might be dearly bought. -Then in her mind she saw Captain Ilorton free oncle more. She hoped-yes she hoped--but what did she hope. From'a window sile could see all that transpired in the camr4. She wept tor two hours over her fearful destiny.-- "I have no frienll: save my God, and He has forsaken me,' she sobbed. She turned her eyes again towards the camp, and saw her brother accompanied by Alston walking hur- riedly towards headquarters, and engaged in eager conver- sation. She felt that Capt-aii 'Horton was free. There was too, some excitement. She' fell upon her knees and in an humble, submissive prayer, thanked God e  *          *,  . ;   -'   ' .!      *   i.  *-      . * '  ..'21 that although' she ,vas to suffer herself, that she had been the means of saving all that she loved on earth from an ig- nominious death. The tears that accompaniedfthis prayer were analized in heaven.  As ahe re-seated herself, a whizing sound attracted her attention, and then a deafening crash. *A shell bursted in the midst of the Yankee camp and enveloped it in a sul- phurious smoke, another, and still another crash in quick succession until the houses trembled with' the vibrations. Confusion and panic siezed upon the men, and they ran in every direction, while excited officers were swearing and endeavoring to restore order. Videttes from the Tear came in at break-neck speed' shouting " the Rebels have crossed the creek above and are advancing to cut oft our retreat." This made the consternation complete, and a general'stam-  pede, leaving accoutrements and equipage,' ensued. From a position taken for that purpose CaDtain Horton could witness the enemy's movement. His command had been strengthened by a regiment of Infantry and four pieces of Artillery. The Infantry had been sent to cut oft the enemy's retreat, while Captain Horton with his compa- ny for a support had attracted the enemy at the creek, with the artillery to drive him from his position. But whel this was done Captain Hort3On could not effect a crossing; . and when he sawjthat the enefiy made so hurried a retreat he ordered the firing to cease, and, accompanied by Lieu- tenant Emitson, he crossed the creek to see the spoils of his victory. There were still some straggters loitering in. the abandoned camp. By making his way through the wcods be evaded their observation add gained the honse, where he, hoped to hear what had become of Estelle. Be- fort the gate stood an ambulance, with two horses before it. He at once divined its object and though he felt 'that he was incurring a fearful risk, yet shmething had to be done, and done quickly. By chance he got within a few paces of the door, and stopped to take an observation of  , ' .     ' *  * . '  Z  .' t the interior. Near the center of the room sat jteute, ner hands bound and her head reeting upon a table weeping.  Heri brother and Alston- were making some hurried pre. parations to leave.  "  No matter what danger attends it I, ill attempt to res- cue her," whispeWd Captain Horton to Lieutenant Emit; 801o .        It is hest" answered the Lieutenant "'our force may not be able to intercept them, owing to some accident." At this moment they found that they were discovered; and leveling their pistjls thev fired, end immediately rush. 'ed into the house, where simultapeously both parties dis- charged- their pistols at each other. Lieutenant Emitson sank upon his knees lifeless. When the smoke cleared away, Captain Horton found himself in a few paces of'Al- aton, and Estelle's brother prostrated near him a corpse. A single combat ensued. Alston fired his pit'ol, struck  Captain Horton's right arm and so paralized it that his pi4tql dropped from his hand upon the flopr. Captain Hor- ton quickly perceived that this accident had placed hlrn in a fearful dilemma. Aeston was re cocking his pistol to dis- patch him. In that moment of I'dspair, with his left ;hand he grasped Alston by the t roat, and the suddennessof the  assault bore him to the floor and knocked his pistol from 'his hand, but the loss of the use of one of his hands gave Alston the advantage, and he nearly regained his pistol when Etelle, having extricated her hands from the thongs, rushed to the two conmbaaants, raised her dagger and thrast its sharp point into Alstonis heart, with a slight tremor of his frame and a horrid contortion of his countenance his unmall- soitit pa t away, at the hands of her whose earth- ly happiness he had sought to desttoy. ' lhc tu-tce e tei. to intercept the d ying enemy were delay- ed and did not accomplish their oject. 'Captaim Horton soon recovered from his 'wound, .vhich was very shlght;,  The world said that EAtelle was worthy and ought t o be- come "The Captaun's Bride," and she did. But who shall fill the place. ot Lieutenant Emitson'?- Thrice noble hero! I'He had fallen. Hejoffered up him- self a living sacrifice upon the altar 'f his country, and his blood had filled the cup oatfiendshil to the brim. Whose ohildren shall rise up and call him 1"Jiessed "  .                 ,   sN:EW PTUBLICATION1S.                  -  BY  WILLIAM    B.' SMTH.  *  dUST    ISSSUED,                 : THE .APTAIN9          BRIDE!             - - - A -THRILLING TALE OF :THE WAR,                 ': BY W. D. HERRING ON, 31aD N. C. (JAV.  Neatly bound. in paper, price .- .   - -      O       ' This charming St ry bhas been pronounced by both the pre"s and the public as olle of the mQst delightful contributiuon that has been made to Polite Southern- Literature.  Upon receipt of the price it will be mailed to any'part of the Confede- '  racy pootage prepaid. A liberal dicount to the Trade. . -   IN  PRESS           .         i C A S T     '- N E;'  t OR, THE MAID OF MRKLAND, *  (ILLUSTRATED,)  BY EDWARD EDGEV1LLEo5 , 'PRICE            . -                  : . THE' DESERTER'S DAUGHTER, A Tale Pounded upon real incidents of the War in  North Carolina.  BY W. D. HERiNQiL'ON, aD N.' C. CAVALRY.  Pa1ic  *       -* - * - - -.  $15. 50. R'SE EM         ERQ    N . ;       .  - THE BRIDAL OF THE FOUNDLING,                 ' -(ILLUSTRATED,)  B* A "W WARD EDGEVILLE, PRICE   .., .   -,    .. . ...',   $l. o        : tpon all our publications we allow a liberal disc-unt to the Trade. Upon' account of the-insufficientsuppl. at paper each edition of these bautitl , o ve!etteq wil be limited, therefore the-Trade had .beter for. ward ,heir'orders at once. A&DDrt.       * ., WiM. B. SMTH, Plblisher,  Raleigh, N,. . Editors inserting this advertisement, with this note will reooei copy of, each book,'                      ? 9 ,  9 *                ' 5  - /Si     Primary Geography, Second' Elition. by Mrs. M. B. Moore, -jiit issued, jh A new and popular book. Iti-i' entirely $outhern, and finely adapted to the use of Common Schools. Price, $3.00 The Dixie Elementaty Spffling ]Book, by Nrs. M. B.' Moore, just issued, contains abbut the same'as Webster's Spel- * it   ling Book, and has all the vowels and accents accurately ark- ed. A supply always on hand. Price,          -'"800 -Thi FSirst Dixie Rteeader, by the same Author, contains easy reading lessons on Southern subjects. Second Edidon. Price,      '         .     *    '   75 The Dixie   Prrimer, Third Editio Pi   by the author of the Dixie Series, still Continues eminently popular. Price, ($25 per hundred,)                     5 First BooK ta   :L compos:lti3, by L. Brans6n, A. M., is now used extensively, and is tie only boqk of the sort iptuliehed' in the Confederacy. It is a popilar book for Common SchoolS.  Price,                          2,0 York's EngltAlh Gram'aarp Third Edition, i' one of the best Gramnmars eve: published. It contains a number of engrav- ings, mating the' subject plain add easy. Price     S.00 Johnson's Commaon School AritiWetic, by Prof. L. Johnson, of Trinity College, is wnew and popular book, and will -be f6llowed by a High School Arithmetie. The reputation of, the author makes the work desirable.- Price     '.  . /  il Myrtle Leatxes. by A.':W. Manguim, Seonid Edition, is a d - L /  lightful'book for all those who value: good poetry and' elegant prose. The encoriums of the Press are of the highest order.- - Price     *                     2.0( Hilstorical Se'ripture questions, give the student much 'valuable information on tht historical, portions of the Bible.-- The book is sold largely, Price '    ' '  .  .  ..-. 9songs of Love and LLtherty, Compiled by. North Caro- lina lady, contains a 'vauable and popular collection of songs and ballads. Price, ($40 per hundred,')       .   - ,The Jack Morgan 'Songster, Compiled by:'Capt' T T A. -' .. 'Brlnrson, f Genu'; ee's Army, one of the very best collections now published, is sold largel. PriFe, ($50 per hundre)    10 iorveni anad  LiAna, A -:Tle of. aSolier's Lve, by A. 'W. / A angum--a rare and racy poem; Price, ($12 per hundred,) . 2 - CaaitweltB's -Law Pranctiee, Second Edition, contains all  the business forms so extensively demanded. Price   20.01 '"E  The usual deduction made to the Trate.  rf Those ordering books to be sent per-mail must send 10 centas ex tra onlthe dollar to pay pestage. For sale at the principal Bookstores in the Confederacy , *3RANOBRASN & FAR              AR.        
         
      
   
