
    ----CITATION----
        Colley, James. The Thrilling Adventures of Alice Dunbar .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6130 wright2-0599
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               ALICE DUNBAR
               THE CELEBRATED HORSE THIEF.
            
            
            
               PUBLISHED BY BARCLAY & CO.,
               610 ARCH STREET, PHILADELPHIA.
            
         
         
         


            
               THE THRILLING ADVENTURES OF ALICE DUNBAR,
               THE CELEBRATED HORSE THIEF,
               AND "FEMALE JACK SHEPPARD,"
               WHOSE DARING EXLOITS HAVE CREATED THE GREATEST EXCITEMENT
                  THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.
            
            SEE EXTRACTS FROM THE PRESS.
            SHE IS STYLED BY THE DETECTIVES "THE WOMAN OF MANY DISGUISES."
            A TRUE STORY.
            EDITED BY JAMES COLLEY, DETECTIVE.
            
               PHILADELPHIA, PA.:
               PUBLISHED BY BARCLAY & CO.,
                  
                     PUBLISHERS AND WHOLESALE BOOKSELLERS.
                     610 ARCH STREET.
                  
               
            
         
         
        
         
            EXTRACTS FROM THE PRESS.
            Alice Dunbar, who came to this town in disguise, and who was arrested for the murder
               of Mr. James Gault, and afterwards identified by Mr. James Colley, the celebrated New
               York Detective, as a female horse thief, escaped during the trial this morning. It
               appears that Mr. Colley suspected another party of the murder, and caused his arrest.
               He confessed that he did the deed. His name is Colville. While every one was deeply
               interested in listening to the murderer's confession, Alice Dunbar escaped. A full
               account of the trial, will appear in our next issue.—Richland Farmer, May
                  23d.
            
            Samuel Collville, the murderer, is to be hanged to-day.—Richland Farmer,
                  August 8th.
            
            Mr. James Colley, the celebrated Detective, succeeded in arresting all the thieves
               concerned in the late horse robberies. Among others is a young girl about nineteen,
               who, although beautiful, is at the head of the depredations, in fact a female horse
               thief. They will be tried on the 30th of this month.—Buck Eye Gleaner, Ky.,
                  June 24th.
            
            Alice Dunbar, who is now becoming celebrated as a "Female Jack Sheppard," and horse
               thief, escaped from jail this morning. A full account in another column.—Buck
                  Eye Gleaner, Jane 29th.
            
            A scandal has become current in this town, to the effect, that a son of Mr. Charles
               Wintten has eloped with a woman who represented herself to be a governess, and under
               that non de plume, she procured a situation in Mr.
               Wintten's house. The young man fell desperately in love with her, and they have left
               for parts unknown, taking with them, two splendid horses, jewels, money, etc. We will
               give a full account when we learn all the particulars.—River View Practical
                  Farmer, Ky., July 5th.
            
            We are informed by Mr. James Colley, the celebrated Detective, that the young woman,
               mentioned in our account, published on the 6th, entitled "The River View Scandal,"
               was no less than Alice Dunbar, the Female Horse Thief, whose celebrity has become
               almost world-wide. Mr. Colley is now on her track, and will doubtless secure her
               before long. She has as many disguises as a tiger has spots.—River View
                  Practical Farmer, July 7th.
            
            Mr. James Colley, the New York Detective, passed through this town today. He is after
               Alice Dunbar, commonly called "The Female Jack Sheppard and Horse Thief." We wish him
                  success.—Burlington Idea, July 8th.
            
            And one hundred others, space not allowing us to give them.
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1869, by BARCLAY &
                  CO., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for
                  the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
            
         
      
      
         
            The thrilling adventures of Alice Dunbar
            
               ALICE DUNBAR,
               THE FEMALE HORSE THIEF.
               IN the afternoon of a warm summer's day I was sitting in my office, arid the heat
                  being so great, I really believe I had almost fallen asleep. Previous
                  to this I had been reading, or trying to read, a letter from a Western
                  correspondent, in regard to a young clerk formerly, in his employ, who had
                  absconded, taking with him some fifteen thousand dollars in good greenbacks. My
                  correspondent, though a man of wealth, was evidently no scholar, judging from his
                  penmanship and miserable spelling. In trying to wade through his lengthy and
                  illy-composed letter, I fell back perfectly exhausted, either from the excessive
                  heat or the man's ideas. Well, to come to "dots," as we detectives are wont to do,
                  I had probably slept an hour or so, when I was awakened by a slap on the shoulder,
                  and languidly opening my eyes I beheld a man of, I should say, fifty-five,
                  standing by my chair. With something like an inward growl, I asked his
                  business.
               "My business, sir," said he, "is briefly explained. Before proceeding further,
                  however, let me know are you Mr. James Colley the young detective, about whom the
                  papers have said so much?"
               We are all prone to flattery, and with feelings of gratification, I acknowledged,
                  as gracefully as my position in the chair would admit, that I was the
                  man.
               "Well, sir," said he, "some two or three days since, I wrote you—"
               "Yes," I interrupted, "I received your letter to-day—noon, and have earnestly
                  digested the matter contained therein, and have come to the conclusion that you wish to engage my
                  services, as a detective, to hunt up the young man lately in your employ."
               "Right, sir!" he exclaimed, with a dialect peculiar to Englishmen, "I
                     do wish your services, and I shall pay you handsomely; and in case
                  of success," he added, "I will give you a good round sum."
               "Enough, sir!" I said, "although I live by the money earned in this way, yet
                  without ambition, I should be but an automaton brought to mechanical
                  perfection."
               "The young man," he continued, "is, I am ashamed to say, my nephew, my brother's
                  son. He was born in England, and in 1857, shortly after my brother's death, I
                  determined to settle in America, and the boy being without parents, I resolved to
                  adopt him, having no children of my own. At that time he was but nine years of
                  age, and during the thirteen years I have been in business in this country, I have
                  amassed enough to last me through the rest of my life, and leave him
                  a handsome sum to commence upon at my death. Last year Wilson, for so we call the
                  boy, became acquainted with a girl about two years his junior, who possessed a
                  beautiful face and form, and a girl of this description is certainly an object to
                  turn the heads of most young m4n of twenty-one. Well, everything was progressing
                  finely, and Wilson was getting along first-rate, having become so great a help to
                  me in my business, that I could scarcely do without him. A week or two previous to
                  running away, I had rented another store, and had intended to make it a branch of
                  my establishment, and in so doing was obliged to draw a considerable sum from the
                  bank, in order to enable me to purchase a large stock with cash. I drew up the
                  cheque and sent Wilson with it to the bank. Some hours elapsed, and still no sign
                  of Wilson. I did not, however, feel alarmed, as the boy would often stop at stores
                  and ascertain the different prices, in order that we might regulate ours with
                  those of the other merchants. Or, perhaps, thought I, he is at the new store
                  giving orders in regard to the putting up of shelves. When supper time came, and
                  with it no Wilson, I was alarmed indeed. Perhaps the boy has been waylaid and
                  robbed, thought I, for no suspicion of the boy proving dishonest entered my mind.
                  After supper, and still no news of Wilson, I went out in search of him. But, as
                  you now know, the search was. fruitless. I am inclined to think that he eloped
                  with Miss Alice Dunbar, the young girl whom I mentioned, although I have no proof
                  that such is the case, as I did not know her address before Wilson ran away; and
                  have been unable to learn it since. I conclude clude my story, sir, with these few
                  words, it is not my intention to have the boy imprisoned, as it were a kind action
                  to reclaim the youth from his vicious course and associates."
               Here the old man wept.
               As soon as Mr. Allston, for so he gave his name, could control his feelings, he
                  gave me a complete description of his nephew and the young woman. In making Mr.
                  Allston's name thus public, I commit no error, as the newspapers have done so
                  before me.
               We came to an understanding at last, and, with a relieved look, Mr. Allston took
                  his departure.
               The next day I commenced "slinging ink," and but a short time elapsed, before an
                  advertisement appeared among the "personals" in the "Herald" reading:—
               "Wilson! see me at half past two this afternoon at Stuart's, very
                  important." Alice.
               Half an hour before the time appointed, in the advertisement, I repaired to
                  Stuart's store, or at least directly opposite, and as it would look suspicious in
                  me to stand there unoccupied, I set a bootblack at work on my shoes, and after.he
                  had finished, engaged another, until I really thought there would be no shoes
                  left. My bill for blacking amounted to nearly one dollar. The incredulous reader,
                  may say, such a thing would be noticed, but let me inform all such, that in a
                  great city like New York, and especially on a street like Broadway, a man might,
                  genteelly dressed get down and black his own boots and it would scarcely be
                  noticed. I waited, and waited, till patience ceased to be a virtue, and at last,
                  after having almost given up all hopes of Wilson falling into the trap laid for
                  him, I beheld a young man exactly answering my description of him. I crossed over
                  to the other side of the street, and getting directly behind him shouted, "Mr.
                  Allston!"
               He turned, and, seeing me, exclaimed, "My name is not Allston,
                  Sir!"
               "My dear boy!" said I, (for you must know we detectives acquire a familiar way of
                  addressing persons whom we are going to arrest.) "you are laboring under a great
                  mistake, but the weather being very hot, perhaps it affects your brain. Now to my
                  certain knowledge you were called, Mr. Wilson Allston by your friends in
                  Cincinnati, where you have been living some thirteen years if I remember
                  correctly, your native place being England." There was no denying this assertion,
                  and Mr. Allston asked.
               "Are you from England?"
               
               "I am, sir—a great way from it," I added, aside
               "Then perhaps you are a friend (?)"
               "Yes, of your uncle," I assented.
               "Glad to see you, sir;" said he.
               "Then you are the nephew of my friend, Samuel Allston?"
               "I am, sir."
               "Then sir," said I, "allow me in the coolest possible manner to inform you that I
                  am Mr. James Colley, detective."
               "From England?" asked he, still blind to the drift of my conversation.
               "Oh no, I am an American detective, and arrest you for the theft of fifteen
                  thousand dollars, from your uncle, Samuel Allston."
               The young man grew pale, and it was easy to be seen that he was unused to a scene
                  of the kind, and his dejected manner, would imply that he had not yet become
                  hardened to vice.
               "To avoid a scene," I whispered, for a crowd had already collected around us,
                  owing to the peculiar manner in which we stood, "to avoid a scene you had better
                  come in a quiet manner." A bow of the head was my answer as he walked quietly by
                  my side. As we had plenty of time to catch the 4.20 train, I resolved that we
                  immediately go to Cincinnati. A resolution once formed by me, is generally carried
                  out, and, in the space of time required, we reached Cincinnati, and in an hour
                  after, young Wilson Allston was in the presence of his uncle. He had actually
                  squandered every dollar of the money taken. Alice Dunbar left him as soon as the
                  money evaporated, taking with her a goodly sum. He became deeply
                  interested in the game of "Faro," and once at it, no power on earth could save
                  him, until everything had gone.
               I received five hundred dollars for my trouble, and that was a pretty good three
                  days' job, I take it! After a sumptuous dinner, provided by Mr. Samuel Allston, I
                  left for New York, and upon reaching that city, made a "bee line" for my
                  office.
               I sat down to think the matter over, in a comfortable manner, only allowed to
                  those who can have the satisfaction of knowing "they have done well."
               Thinking that it would probably be the last I should ever hear of the Allston
                  family, I resolved to finish the nap previously interrupted by the head of
                     it.
               
               
               
                  
                     On seeing Maurice she became greatly frightened. He took deliberate aim,
                        but she had the presence of mind to raise her arm, and as she did so, the
                        ball went crashing through it!—Page 59.
                  
               
            
            
               SECOND PAPER.
               [This heading may sound queer, but allow me to inform the reader, that in this
                  manner I have numbered all the cases which I have ever had in hand, and as each of
                  these papers have a direct connection with each other, I shall continue so
                  throughout the book.]
               About a week after the affair I have just related, I received a visit from a
                  farmer who informed me that he had lost two blooded horses, and by whom they were
                  stolen, he had no idea. Several others in his neighborhood had suffered in a
                  similar manner, and they had appointed him to secure my services. Richland, and
                  its vicinity was the location where the depredations had been committed.
               After receiving from him full details of the manner in which the horses had been
                  stolen, I promised to take the case in hand. With many thanks my new acquaintance
                  took his leave. It appeared that Mr. Gault, (the man who had but just left my
                  office,) had lost two horses at two different times, only three days
                  having elapsed between the loss of the first and second horse. From this I could
                  readily see that the thief was not a professional horse stealer, as they always
                  use better judgment than to take two horses from the same place, at times so near
                  to each other. Having locked the door of my office, I posted up a notice thereon,
                  that I had gone to Atlantic City. This was to avert suspicion, for my office is
                  continually watched by "sharp," who would immediately convey intelligence to their
                  "pals" of my being on the "scent." I took the cars for Atlantic City, and upon
                  arriving there, disguised myself completely with a wig, side-whiskers, etc.
                  Arrived in Richland, I commenced inquiries as to the best fishing grounds, in
                  order to create the impression that I was a gentleman of leisure, seeking
                  pleasure. After fishing the greater part of the afternoon, I strolled slowly and
                  carelessly back towards the hotel, and on arriving at that "hallowed spot," I
                  repaired to the "unhallowed spot," the bar-room. Seating myself in a
                  manner which would imply that I did not know what to do, I fell, or pretended to
                  fall, into a sound sleep, at the same time I took a good look at the different
                  persons assembled in the room. They were all common-place looking men, except one,
                  and he could scarcely be called a man, as neither age, nor appearance would allow
                  the term. He sat with his chair leaned back against the wall, and the awkward
                  manner in which he sustained the
                  position, would prove that he was unaccustomed to it. The boy might have been
                  eighteen, surely not more. He possessed a clear skin, and a beautiful blue eye, in
                  fact, his whole appearance was very prepossessing, and I felt inclined to draw him
                  into conversation. Apparently awaking from a deep sleep, I arose, and walking to
                  the bar, I called for a drink, at the same time turning, and saying:—
               "Gentlemen, this is to our better acquaintance, won't you come and join me." With
                  not the least show of reluctance they came forward, and called for the different
                  drinks, each to his taste. You may think it over-drawn when I assert that the
                  landlord actually gave them brandy, whisky, and sherry from the same
                     bottle, only setting the bottle behind the bar, and taking it up as the
                  different drinks were called for. I was perhaps the only one besides the "unworthy
                  host," who was a witness to the proceeding, as in true faith I was perfectly
                  sober, whilst I doubt if any one in the room, the boy excepted, could make the
                  same assertion. The boy was the only one who did not answer my call to take a
                  drink. This I noticed, and said:—
               "Come, young man, won't you have something?"
               "No, thank you," said he in a musical voice, "I do not drink."
               "Take a segar, or a lemonade (?)"
               "I don't smoke," he asserted, with a blush, "but I'll take a lemonade."
               "The young'un will come to his whisky soon enough," remarked a bystander.
               This was the cause of a general laugh, and was followed by the remark from the
                  landlord.
               "Dod's a funny feller, ain't he?"
               To this the company assented, and "Dod" concluded with:—
               "Well I reckon I ought-ter be; I traveled with a circus four years, and,
                  gentlemen, yer may talk about yer operas, they can't compare with a circus, I
                  never could make any sense out of the derned things, and I guess I spend about as
                  much money as any two men in this yer village, don't I, Tom?"—to the landlord.
               "Oh, yes," said that person, but there was a look that accompanied these words
                  which seemed to say: "You get trust for as much as any two."
               "Take a drink, stranger (?)"
               "Certainly," said I.
               We took a drink and "Dod," after bidding me good-day walked out,
                  saying to "our host:"
               "Score it down, Tom."
               "The chalk is wearing out, 'Dod,'" said the landlord, as he reached
                  the door. "Nice respectable fellers," added the landlord 41 but they will drink a
                     little bit too much."
               "On trust?"
               "Yes! Why you're funnier than 'Dod.'"
               With this unsolicited compliment, he turned to making a whiskey
                  cock-tail, for a customer who had just entered, out of the sherry wine
                     bottle. I now addressed the boy in a kind manner, but found, that he had
                  no inclination to enter into conversation. Still I persevered.
               "Fishing is pretty good in this neighborhood, is it not," I asked.
               "Guess it is," was my rather short answer.
               At that moment a commotion outside drew my attention that way, and throwing a ball
                  of fishing line to the youth, I said, "hold that for me a moment, will you?" I was
                  about to exit hurriedly, when the peculiar manner in which the lad opened his legs
                  to catch the ball, attracted my attention. Instead of closing his legs to catch it
                  as a man would do, he spread them wide open.
               There was no positive proof in this action, that the boy was a
                     woman in disguise, but it was certainly the right "cue" for a
                  detective to take and work upon. Resolving to watch the boy closely, I went out,
                  and found that the commotion was caused by a run-away horse.
               I learned that night before going to bed, that the lad had been in the village for
                  a week or so; Sometimes he would go, no one knew where, and then return. Mr. Gault
                  had engaged him as clerk in the mill, his duties were to commence to-morrow, and
                  further, he was to board with Mr. Gault, and be considered as one of the family.
                  Now it never entered my head that this boy (or girl) had anything to do with the
                  case I was working upon, but, I reasoned, it may be some other mysterious affair,
                  and Why not "kill two birds with one stone." With many conjectures as to the
                  course I should pursue in the morning, I retired for the night.
               At a late hour the next day, I arose, and in a dreamy sort-of-a don't-care manner,
                  I inquired of the landlord the direction of Mr. Gault's mills, and after having
                  partaken of a hearty breakfast, I bent my steps toward the mill. Everything, in
                  and around the buildings, presented one grand scene of life, that would seem to
                  say to the idle "rouse thou sluggard and commence to make thyself a thing of
                  usefulness."
               
               Upon arriving at the mill, I inquired for Mr. Gault's office, and being shown it,
                  went in, and immediately found myself in that gentleman's presence. Now be it
                  remembered, that I was still in disguise, and of course Mr. Gault did not know me.
                  I informed him that I was sojourning in the town of Richland, and having heard of
                  his mills had determined to visit them. He begged a few minutes absence, and left
                  the office, for the purpose of conveying the news to the operatives, that a
                  gentleman was about to go through the mill, and to put them upon their "best
                  behavior."
               I had noticed upon entering the room, that the young man whom I had met in the
                  bar-room of the hotel, was sitting in a corner of the office, apparently, deeply
                  engaged in some writing before him.
               "Good-morning young man" said I.
               "The same to you, sir," was his reply.
               "A beautiful day," I remarked.
               "Yes," rather short.
               "You are clerk here I suppose."
               "Yes," in a careless manner
               "Been here long," I asked.
               "No!"
               The answers given, couched as they were in monosyllables, became disagreeable to
                  me, and I had resolved to ask nothing further, when after a long silence, the
                  youth asked.
               "You are here on business no doubt?"
               "Yes," in the same style he had answered me.
               "You seem to be particularly interested in me," said he, somewhat
                  hurt by my paying him in his "own coin."
               "No, not at all," in a careless manner.
               This not over agreeable conversation, to either of us I should judge from
                     my feelings, was interrupted by Mr. Gault, who entered at that
                  moment.
               "Now, sir, if you are ready, I'll conduct you through the place," said he in a
                  pleasant voice.
               I thanked him, and turning, followed him from the room. Once outside the door, I
                  whispered, "I am James Colley!" You never saw a man so thunder-struck.
               "Well, well," said he, I never should have known you in that disguise. "I'm glad
                  to see you though," he added.
               "Mum! about my being here, for if it should once be known, every attempt at
                  finding out the horse thief, would be useless."
               "I understand you perfectly, but in what way can I assist you?"
               "Take me to your house, introduce me to your family as a young man highly
                  recommended to you, and moreover, possessing a large fortune, and entertaining
                  ideas of buying land in the neighborhood of Richland."
               "Good! I will, and as it is now approaching dinner time, suppose we go home.
                  Harry, dinner will be ready in a few minutes, you had better leave your writing
                  till afternoon," said he, calling to the young man.
               "All right, sir," said that worthy.
               Arriving at Mr. Gault's house, I was introduced to his family according to my
                  instructions. "By the way," said I to Mr. Gault after we had been conversing some
                  time, "What is the name of your clerk?"
               "Harry Ainsley."
               "Do you know where he came from?"
               "From New York City, he informed me."
               "He is quite bright looking, and will no doubt make a useful acquisition to your
                  mill."
               Here the conversation was changed, until young Harry, entered. I noticed that Miss
                  Lillie Gault, Mr. Gault's daughter, blushed deeply, upon being introduced to him.
                  Lillie was a blonde, possessing beautiful blue eyes, which had the power of
                  speaking a "dictionary full of words," if their owner chose to use them for that
                  purpose. The beauty of her face, was only equaled by her magnificent form. Indeed
                  she is a heavenly being thought I, and I confess that the shadow of a jealous
                  feeling possessed me when she blushed at being introduced to Harry Ainsley.
               After dinner, Mr. Gault proposed a ride, for the purpose of showing me some
                     land, as he said, but of course his real intention was to introduce me
                  to the different farmers, from whom horses had been stolen. The Necessary form of
                  an introduction to the farmers, having been gone through with, and instructions
                  given them, I visited the county sheriff, and officers, and after having gained
                  their promise to leave all to me, and to afford me any assistance should I need
                  it, I went directly to the hotel. In the bar-room I met "fanny Dod," his
                  companions, and two new faces. I asked the party up to drink, and "our Dod" took
                  the responsibility of introducing me to the two I had not seen before.
               "Gentlemen," said that obsequious individual, "this is an old friend of mine,
                  Mr.—Mr.—"
               "Stoner," I suggested."
               
               "Yes, Mr. Stoner, and an old friend of mine, I knew him in—"
               "India," I again suggested, glad to be anybody else, rather than myself.
               "Yes, gentlemen, in India, and now allow me to introduce you to Mr. Marmaduke
                  Grouse, justice of the peace, and Mr. George Washington St. John Bollingbrooke
                  Blackstone Richards, his assistant," and here "my friend Dod" concluded, for want
                  of breath perhaps.
               Mr. Marmaduke Grouse struck an attitude as nearly perpendicular as the amount of
                  whisky imbibed would admit, and attempted to bow gracefully, but did it
                     disgracefully. His assistant (I'll not repeat the name) in
                  imitation of his "lord and master," went through the same motions, but being
                  somewhat bow-legged, failed miserably, making even a worse attempt than the "Hon.
                  Marmaduke Grouse."
               Our "host," with evident gratification, at the "good breeding" shown by the
                  "society" of his town, stood up with a firm mien, which would seem to
                  say:—
               "My foot stamps my native heath, and my name's Macgregor!"
               I held quite a conversation with Mr. Marmaduke Grouse, and came to the conclusion
                  that Mr. Grouse had studied law from Dr. Jayne's Almanac, or "Miss
                  Braddon's last novel." The little he knew was excellently shown by the artistic
                  manner he had of telling that little. I "treated" again, and then
                  left, having grown tired of listening to nonsense.
            
            
               THIRD PAPER.
               After supper at Mr. Gault's, as soon as I could do so politely, I went out, and
                  going through the gate, I made a circuit, and approaching from the rear, climbed
                  the fence, and then stationed myself directly behind the arbor. It was some time
                  before I saw or heard anything, but my patience was rewarded at last, by the
                  approach of a lady, and upon a nearer view I discovered that it was Miss Lillie
                  Gault. She seated herself upon a bench in the arbor, and commenced singing one of
                  the popular airs of the day. As she concluded, I could scarcely control myself
                  from giving her an encore. Shortly after another
                  party approached, and that other party was no less than young Harry Ainsley. Can
                  this be a preconcerted affair, I
                  
                     Alice Dunbar persuades Charles Wintten, Jr., to elope with her, taking
                        with them two of his father's finest horses.
                   muttered. My doubts upon this score were immediately dispelled by Harry,
                  who said:—
               "Lillie, dear, I have come," he then sat down beside her.
               He has known Miss Lillie before securing a position in her father's mill, I
                  thought.
               "And do you really love me, Harry?" asked Lillie with a blush.
               "Yes, dear," he answered, in a manner which would indicate that he had already
                  grown tired of her.
               "And I am to be your wife?"
               "No, no, that can never be."
               "Why, oh, why? do you not love me?"
               "Yes, dear, better than life, but I must not deceive you longer. I am not a
                     man!"
               "I know it, Harry, but I can wait until you are," said she.
               For "love is blind," and she failed to comprehend him. I was now sure that Harry,
                  as he called himself, was a young woman in disguise.
               
               "To-morrow, dearest, I shall explain all, and perhaps we can yet be happy."
               "To-morrow then—"
               And this was all I heard, for they had left the arbor, and proceeded some distance
                  toward the house. A current of thoughts ran through my brain. Should I betray this
                  young woman's secret now, or await further developments (?) Whilst debating in
                  this way with myself, I was astonished at seeing young Harry (for so I must call
                  her) returning. He came quite near the arbor, and then turning, went in the
                  direction of Mr Gault's stables. This looked somewhat suspicious to me, as a girl
                  would not certainly carry her scheme (if scheme it might be called) so far as to
                  meditate an elopement with a girl. I followed her footsteps
                  cautiously. She had not proceeded far, when she was joined by a man, who suddenly
                  arose from behind some bushes. They held quite a conversation, but as I did not
                  dare to get nearer, for fear of discovery, I could scarcely hear what they said.
                  This I did learn, that the man's name was Sam, and that he was
                  waiting for Harry, to get the keys of the Stable.
               "I tell you it won't do, we have already taken two horses from Mr. Gault," said
                  the girl.
               "Alice Dunbar," said Sam.
               I started from my position, and uttered an exclamation, which, however, was not
                  noticed by the two.
               
               "Alice Dunbar, you're backin' out of this 'ere business, and as sure as you 'blow'
                  on me, I'll fix it so that we go to prison together, or swing
                     together."
               "Don't, Sam! you send the cold blood through my veins."
               "Yes, I know, you've got lots of cold blood, you have, why your blood is warmer
                  nor a chicken. You couldn't steal a horse unless I were by to encourage you."
               "Sam Colville," said she, and at that moment the moon came out from behind a
                  cloud, and shone directly upon them, thus affording me an excellent opportunity to
                  see their faces. There was a peculiar expression about the face of Colville, that
                  I shall never forget, and a scar upon his left cheek, added to his bad appearance.
                  "Sam Colville, you and I were brought up together from childhood, and even when a
                  school-boy you were hated for your ugly disposition, and now, for the first time
                  you are showing it in your actions towards me. When you met me a month or so
                  since, in New York City, and in a desperate condition, your devil's soul proposed
                  this horse stealing expedition to me, and I accepted upon the condition that
                     I should plan, whilst you executed. Now you are
                  dissatisfied. We will call it "quits."
               "No, we won't, I'm sorry I spoke so, but Gault has got another horse that I want
                  most 'confoundly' bad, and I've got a customer for one now, over in Dutchess
                  county."
               "Well Sam, I'll forgive you this once, and if I can arrange things to-morrow
                  night, you may take the horse. At eight o'clock you may come here, and await the
                  signal, which will be the cutting of a twig from yonder bush, if all is right, and
                  if not, a whistle from me."
               "All right, Alice, but don't have any more delays."
               "And now, good-night," said Alice, as she turned towards, the house.
               Here was a beautiful "nest" for me to pounce upon, but, I should be obliged to
                  wait till I could catch them in the act.
               Colville, shortly after the departure of Alice, cautiously retreated from his
                  hiding-place, and at last, having reached the fence, clim bed it, and disappeared
                  on the other side. I remained in my position some time, and then left the grounds,
                  wending my way towards the hotel. I arrived there at half past ten o'clock, and
                  went directly to bed. I could not, spite of all my efforts, get to sleep, from the
                  active manner in which my brain was working. At last I found myself in the land of
                  dreams.
               The next morning I awoke, and with many thoughts of my success in so soon
                  discovering the horse thieves, I prepared for breakfast. After I had finished the
                  meal, I went into the bar-room, and there found "our Dod," his "boonies," and the
                  justice of peace, with his "sticking-plaster assistant." I was warmly welcomed, as
                  my appearance was hailed as an "event" made "doubly important" from
                  the fact that a drink was expected. After having called for some "jig
                  juice," as Dan Bryant calls it, I entered into conversation with the "Hon.
                  Marmaduke Grouse," every word of which was listened to by his assistant. I sat an
                  hour or so talking to this learned man, when a servant of Mr. Gault, rushed into
                  the bar-room, and asked in a frantic manner—
               "Where is Mr. James Colley, the detective? oh, there you are," said he, seeing me.
                  "Master sent for you—he is dying—last night he was fatally stabbed by some unknown
                  person, and over one hundred thousand dollars taken from the safe, which he always
                  kept in his room. Indeed, sir, I do not believe he will live an hour."
               This was startling news, and coming as it did, so unexpectedly, rather astounded
                  me. The servant made a great blunder in speaking my name aloud, for no sooner had
                  he left, than Mr. Marmaduke Grouse, commenced saying that he felt proud of my
                  acquaintance. In this he was joined by his assistant.
               "We will work this thing up, Mr. Colley," said the "Hon. Marmaduke."
               "Yes," echoed his assistant, Mr. George Washington St. John Bollingbrooke
                  Blackstone Richards, "We will work it up."
               I turned to leave, and as I did so, I noticed that Sam Colville, Alice Dunbar's
                  accomplice, sat in the extreme corner of the room, an ashy paleness in his
                     face, and a nervous twitch in his eye. I knew perfectly well that Mr.
                  Samuel Colville would not steal, or attempt to steal any horses in the
                  neighborhood, now that he knew I was in town. With a hasty stride, I walked, or
                  almost ran towards the Gault mansion, and upon reaching it, went directly up
                  stairs to Mr. Gault's room. In the room, all was confusion. Mrs. Gault and her
                  daughter were kneeling by the bed-side, whilst the servants stood around with
                  tearful eyes, for Mr. Gault was a good man, and beloved by everybody. I could not
                  bear to break in upon them in their sorrow, for Mr. Gault was no more. He had died
                  before the servant reached me. As soon as the mourners could compose themselves, I
                  gave directions for the removal of Mr.
                  Gault's body to a lower room, at the same time adding strict injunctions that
                  nothing else in the room should be moved.
               I then locked myself in the room where the murder and robbery had been committed,
                  and examined everything closely. I went to the window, and imitated the manner in
                  which a burglar might enter. Still I was puzzled, for I could find nothing to
                  indicate that the murderer had entered from that way. Then I went to the door and
                  found that a person had tried to force the lock, but had afterwards used a key.
                  What was so strange to me—the lock had been forced a little, but from the
                     inside. I again went to the window, and this time discovered a
                  piece of coat lining caught on a nail, which had been driven in the wall, in—under
                  the window for the purpose of hanging out a bird-cage. This I put in my pocket for
                  evidence. Under the bed I found a dagger of very fine workmanship. I preserved
                  this also. I was interrupted by a knocking at the door, and upon opening it, saw
                  the "Hon. Marmaduke Grouse," an officer, and, of course, Marmaduke's
                  assistant.
               "Ah! Mr. Colley, we have come for the purpose of collecting whatever evidence
                  there may be, and before we do so, I'll tell you something. I did something which
                  goes to show that I was born for a judge, I caused the arrest of the young man
                  lately engaged by Mr. Gault, as clerk in the mill."
               "Why, man, the boy is—" a woman I was about to say.
               "Is what?" asked the justice of the peace.
               "Too young to be charged with murder."
               "I thought you detectives knew more than that; why I have saw—"
               "Have seen," suggested his grammatical assistant.
               "I have seen younger boys than him in prison for murder, in fact I have
                     went—"
               "Have gone," came from his assistant in a low voice.
               "Well I have gone up as witness agin 'em myself."
               "Against would sound better, your honor, if I may be allowed to say so."
               "Look here, George, don't correct me any more before people. I don't hire you to
                  learn me to speak correct but to write my papers
                     correct; I am older 'nor' you and should be allowed a certain
                     license."
               I left them searching for what I had already found. More news was yet in store for
                  me. Upon going down stairs I was informed by Pat, the hostler, that Mr. Gault's
                  trotting stallion, "Gov. Clark," was actually stolen while we were at the
                  death-bed of Mr. Gault. If things occur like this again, I shall actually have to
                  resign, to avoid being "put off the force," I said to myself, at hearing this last
                  intelligence. Now that this was Colville's work, I had not the least doubt. He had
                  probably heard the silly "justice" and his assistant talking over their plans in
                  the bar room, and had followed them, and then taken advantage of the "situation."
                  The reader will not be at all surprised to learn, that I suspected Golville of the
                  murder. It was evident that Alice Dunbar would be tried for the murder, and
                  circumstantial evidence would be strong against her. Now I determined to bring
                  this Colville to justice, and it would greatly add to the evidence against Alice
                  Dunbar, should I disclose the fact that she was a woman in disguise, and for the
                  present I resolved not to do so.
               The time for the trial came at last. In the meantime I had telegraphed a
                  description of Colville all over the State, and had also dispatched officers to
                  Dutchess County, and adjoining counties in search of him. The stallion had been
                  recovered, but nothing had been seen of Sam Colville. The morning of the trial I
                  went early to court, and waited somewhat impatiently for the case to be called. At
                  last young Harry Ainsley (for by this name she was still known in the
                  town) came in, accompanied by the "Hon. Marmaduke Grouse," his assistant, and an
                  officer. Marmaduke's face was all "wreathed in smiles," and his "self important"
                  manner showed that he thought himself "something."
               "George, have you 'collected' the evidence upon the book, which we got 'up to'
                  poor Mr. Gault's house?" asked the "Hon."
               "Your honor, I have written down every important item that could in any way be
                  considered evidence."
               "Good, very good, let the trial proceed."
               The witnesses were then called, and the judge noticing that young Ainsley had no
                  one to defend him, asked:—
               "Harry Ainsley, have you no one to represent you?"
               "No, your honor," she answered.
               "If you please, your honor, I will defend the young man," said I, stepping
                  forward, and at the same time showing him my papers admitting me to practice at
                  the bar, for you must know I had studied law, and been admitted
               "We will now call the witnesses for the commonwealth. Let Wallace Scarr be
                  called."
               Wallace Scarr was Mr. Gault's butler. As lie came in I said:—
               
               "Now, Wallace, think well before you speak. We are trying to discover your late
                  master's murderer, and the truth will go well to help us do so."
               "I will," said Wallace. "Well you see, about two days since, master 'took in' a
                  young man who called himself Harry Ainsley, the same as now stands arrested for
                  Mr. Gault's murder. Now from the first time I saw this young Harry, I didn't like
                  him, 'cause you see he was too particular. Why, he used to wash himself
                     three times a day, and he all but wore out the
                  looking-glass in the sitting-room looking into it so often, and—"
               "You will please to leave out your prejudices, and confine yourself to what you
                  saw on the evening of the murder," said I, interrupting Mr. Scarr.
               "Well, then to come to the 'focus.' You see I was up rather late that night, for
                  me and the cook is sparking, and as soon as I can lay up money enough, I intend to
                  marry that—"
               "Domestic affairs should be left out of the case," remarked the "self-important"
                  justice of the peace.
               "Look here, Mr. Marmaduke Grouse, Esq., are you tellin' this 'ere story or am I?"
                  retorted Wallace Scarr.
               "The witness may proceed."
               "Well, to come to the 'focus,' about two o'clock, me and Sal, that's the cook, yer
                  honor, heard a noise, and says I to Sal, Sal says I, there's something goin' on up
                  stairs."
               "I guess you're right' Wall,' for she calls me 'Wall' for short you know."
               "So, says I, let's go up and see. Now Sal is a big woman and she ain't afraid of
                  her 'weight,' and armin' ourselves with the poker and tongs we went up, but we
                  did'nt hear anything then, and so we concluded that master had got the toothache
                  or a pain in his head, from the fact that we heard groanin' shortly after,
                  proceedin' from his room. Then we went to bed, in separate apartments to be sure,
                  for we ain't married yet, you know."
               This last speech, despite the solemnity of the occasion, caused a roar of
                  laughter, in which the judge joined. This was nothing new, as he had been known to
                     "smile" often. As soon as quiet could be again restored, the
                  witness was cross-questioned by me.
               "I got up about five o'clock, and just as I was goin' down stairs, I met young
                  Ainsley rushin' in a wild manner, down to the door."
               "Good-mornia' Mr. Ainsley," said I.
               
               
                  
                     "I suddenly felt a blow from behind, and in a moment I was violently
                        jerked from my horse."
                  
               
               "Good-mornin'" says he.
               "And With that he opens the door, and out he goes. About half past six, and master
                  did not come down to breakfast. He had a bad headache last night, I told everybody
                  that remarked his absence from the table. Well to come to the 'focus,' when it
                  struck eight and no appearance of Mr. Gault, I told one of the girls workin' in
                  the house, to take up some breakfast to Mr. Gault's room. She went up and could'nt
                  get in, and knocking several times and receivin' no answer, she came down and told
                  me. Well, to come to the 'focus' I went up, and burst the door open, and there we
                  saw poor master on the bed with his throat cut from ear to ear, and his body
                  stabbed in several places. I then sent for Mr. Colley, here, and when he came,
                  poor master had breathed his last, quite above half-an-hour."
               "That will do, you may stand down. Call the servant girl who went up stairs
                  first."
               "Semantha Barbeau come into court.
               As Semantha came in, she trembled all over, as this was her "first appearance" in
                  court,
               "Semantha Barbeau state what you know of this murder."
               "If you please, sir, all that I know is, that our butler, sent me up stairs, about
                  seven o'clock, with some breakfast for Mr. Gault, as the butler said that Mr.
                  Gault was sick. I knocked at the door five or six times, and receiving no answer,
                  I went down, and told Mr. Scarr, that's our butler, if you please, sir, that I
                  could'nt get in, and afterwards, we all went up. On bursting the door, we saw
                  master with his throat cut, and I noticed that the safe, which master always kept
                  in his room, was broken open, and all the things in it gone.
               Cross-questioned.
               "The door looked as if the lock had been forced from the inside, and it was not
                  locked, but secured by a chair being placed against it."
               "The young man, Harry Ainsley, never spoke to any of the girls, He was rather
                  sullen in his actions towards us."
               The hostler next came into the witness-box.
               "I always get up early, yer honor, and on the morning of the murder, I got up
                  about as usual, and was fixin7 things when young Mr. Ainsley came out of the house
                  in a hurry, and as it was a strange thing to see him up before eight or so, I
                  said:—'You're up early, Mr. Harry?"
               
               "'Yes,' said he, and off he went towards 'Winddle's hotel' in a hurried
                  manner."
               Cross-questioned.
               "I was with the party when they went up to Mr. Gault's room, and we found the door
                  fastened on the inside with a chair. The murderer might have escaped from the
                  window, as a large tree grows just outside."
               The footman, and all the other servants were called, and corroborated the evidence
                  already given.
               "Gentlemen of the jury," commenced the counsel for the commonwealth. "You have
                  heard enough to convince the most stubborn mind, that the prisoner at the bar,
                  Harry Ainsley, is guilty of the murder of our late respected citizen Mr. Gault. A
                     pointed speech from me would, under the circumstances, be useless,
                  as the evidence given is sufficient to convict the prisoner at the bar. It must be
                  evident to you, that the prisoner, after committing the murder, tried to convey
                  the idea that the murderer came up the tree and entered the room, and then left by
                  climbing down again. In order to convey this idea, he placed a chair against the
                  door, and another near the window, as found by my brother practitioner, Marmaduke
                  Grouse, Esq."
               Just as he concluded, a noise outside caused every one in the room to look in that
                  direction.
               "Look here, Judge, I'd like to put in a word or two," said a very large woman,
                  entering.
               "That's my Sal, yer honor," said the butler.
               "Well, my good woman, you may tell the court what you know in regard to the
                  murder."
               "I don't know who is the murderer, but I have my suspicions, and what makes them
                  more stronger is, that the young fellow arrested for the murder, is not a man, but
                     a woman in disguise."
               Here was a "stunner" for me, as it knocked all my well laid schemes in the head.
                  Now that it was discovered that Harry Ainsley was not a young man, but, a girl in
                  disguise, it would go twice as hard with her, and frustrate my plan of getting
                  Colville upon the stand.
               The counsel for the commonwealth was looking in a defiant manner towards where I
                  sat.
               The judge now addressed the jury.
               "Gentlemen of the jury, you have heard the witnesses for the prosecution, and Mr.
                  Colley, the counsel for the defence, informs me that the only witness upon whom he
                  depended, has not arrived. Now, gentlemen, think well before you return your
                  verdict, but in doing so throw feeling out of the scale, and allow only justice to
                  over-balance it. Remember, a well-known and respected citizen has been foully
                  murdered, and while murderers arc allowed to go unpunished, no man's life is
                     safe."
               The jury then retired, and returning, brought in a verdict, of "guilty!"
               "Prisoner at the bar, what have you to say in your defence?"
               "I can only say that I am not guilty. In assuming this disguise, I sought to avoid
                  the persecution of a man whom I once called husband."
               I knew that she dare not mention Colville in connection with herself.
               "Prisoner at the bar, you are accused of the murder of Mr. Gault, and in passing
                  sentence upon you, I can only remark that it surprises, and at the same time pains
                  me, to see one so young, a murderer. Your being a woman makes it ten times worse.
                  What is your name?"
               "Mary Ainsley."
               I could have told that her name was Alice Dunbar, but it did not suit my purpose
                  to do so.
               "The sentence of the court is that—
               At that moment I beheld one of the officers whom I had dispatched in search of
                  Colville, about entering the room. I went over to him, and he whispered:—
               "We've caught Colville, and have now got him securely tied."
               "Good boy!" said I. "Your honor, my important witness has arrived, and I trust you
                  will hear his evidence before passing sentence.
               "Certainly."
               I then went outside, and seeing Colville, I stepped up to him, and said:—
               "It's all up, my boy; Alice Dunbar has confessed."
               "Darn her ugly picture, I thought as how she'd 'go back on me;' but, squire, will
                  it make it easy for me if I make a 'clean breast' of it?"
               "It may."
               "Well, then I'm darned if I don't."
               He was conducted to the court, and going in, he stood up in the witness-box, and
                  said:—
               
               "I'm goin' to make a 'clean breast' of this 'ere occurrence. You see
                  I was goin' to steal another horse from old Gault, for I had already taken two,
                  that is me and my confederate. Well me and my confederate, which is that girl
                  standin' there in disguise, (pointing to Alice Dunbar,) had agreed upon a signal
                  to 'rush' a horse off. I was waitin' for further developments, when a devilish
                  thought came into my head. I thought of old man Gault and his money, and what a
                  fine time I could have spendin' it. Now I had heard, as how, the old man kept his
                  money in a safe in the bed-room, and I determined to go into that room and take
                  it. I knew which room he slept in, and so I climbed up a tree, which stands near
                  the house,, and stepping off I found myself on the window-sill. Yer honor, when I
                  entered that 'ere room, no thought of murder came into my mind. Well, you see, in
                  stepping down I fell a little, and the noise. I made caused the old man to awake,
                  and springing out of bed he caught me around the body, and tried to secure me. The
                  moon was out bright, and I could see him plainly. Catching him by the throat I
                  held him for some time in that position, thus preventin' him from callin' out. The
                  old man had more strength than I gave him credit for, and I had some difficulty in
                  throwin' him. I saw it was no use foolin' any longer, so I pulled out my knife,
                  and in a rage cut the old man's throat, and to make sure, I stabbed him several
                  times. When I saw what I had done, I was sorry, but what was 'did couldn't be
                  undid,' and so I concluded to make the best of it. I wrenched the lock off the
                  door to make people think as how the murderer was in the house. Just as I was
                  goin' to leave the things, as I had fixed them, I heard a noise on the stairs, and
                  voices. I put a chair against the door and kept quiet. Well, after a bit, I
                  started to go. I secured all the 'valuables,' and then forgettin' all my plans, I
                  left the chair at the door, and put another against the window to get out. I
                  climbed out on to the tree, and got down, took one of the horses, and struck for
                  Dutchess county, and I hopes as how your honor will deal gently with me, seein' as
                  how this 'ere is my first mur—mur—occurrence."
               After the usual questions and formalities had been gone through with, Mr. Samuel
                  Colville was sentenced to be hanged.
               During the confession, an important event transpired. It was discovered that Alice
                  Dunbar had escaped.
               The murder, the trial of the supposed murderer, and afterwards the confession and
                  hanging of the real murderer, following, as they did, so soon after each other,
                  was the cause of great excitement to the inhabitants of Richland, and, indeed,
                  created no little noise throughout the country. My readers may remember the long
                  account which appeared in the "Police News." The account was furnished by me. A
                  picture of Colville was given in the paper, and also one of Mr. Gault. Now that
                  the murderer had been brought to justice, and the country cleared of the horse
                  thieves, I had no excuse for further delay in the neighborhood. But how about poor
                  Lillie Gault (?) Did she not need some one to console her (?) I confess that I
                  felt for her something more than pity. The next morning I called on
                  her. She received me with tears in her eyes. I spoke kindly to her, and she seemed
                  to want to confide in me, but maiden modesty forbade it. I made her promise to
                  write to me, in regard to anything that might occur. Of course I did not imagine,
                  for one moment, that Alice Dunbar would ever visit that section of the country
                  again, but I had no other excuse to ask her to correspond with me.
               With many regrets I left Richland. The next day I was comfortably seated in my
                  office, thinking over the late occurrences. I was interrupted by a rough looking
                  man who entered in an impudent manner, and seating himself on the other side of
                  the table, said:—
               "You've just come down from Richland, haven't you?"
               "I have, sir."
               "Been some high doings up there (?)"
               "Yes, a murder was committed."
               "The man Colville was hanged(?)"
               "Yes."
               "That man was my brother, and you were instrumental in having trim hanged. Take
                  that!"
               I was surprised by the report of a pistol, and hearing an unpleasant "wizz" in my
                  ears. My visitor had fired at me, and then sprang through the back window, climbed
                  the fence, and escaped to an adjacent alley.
               Several men rushed in the office inquiring as to the cause of the pistol report. I
                  informed them. The next day an account appeared in the New York papers, greatly
                  exaggerated—headed:—
               "Attempted assassination!" "Almost a murder in the Fifth Ward!!" "Heroic conduct
                  of Mr. James Colley, the celebrated detective!!!" "The would be murderer escapes
                  through a back window!!!!"
               A few days after, I received intelligence that several horses had been stolen in the neighborhood of Buck Eye,
                  Kentucky. The manner in which they had been stolen was exactly like the
                  depredations committed at Richland. Prom the fact that Cincinnati was Alice
                  Dunbar's native place, I concluded that she had gone there and afterwards to
                  Kentucky.
               I immediately packed up and started for Kentucky, stopping on the way in
                  Cincinnati, for the purpose of seeing Mr. Allston. He received me in a very warm
                  manner, remarking that he had heard of my exploits.
               "By the way, my boy," said he, "what connection has the Alice Dunbar, mentioned in
                  the Richland murder case, to do with our Alice Dunbar?"
               "I believe them to be one and the same."
               "Well, well, I never should have thought it, although it struck me as somewhat
                  curious, when I read the name. My nephew has become a most excellent young man.
                  All the foolish ideas, instilled by the presence of that bold, bad woman have been
                  overcome. He has taken to himself a wife, and a good woman she is too."
               "I am now on my way to Kentucky, for the purpose of patting an end to the wild
                  career of this female horse thief."
               "Do you mean that Alice Dunbar has gone into Kentucky?"
               "I do."
               "When do you propose starting?"
               "To-night."
               "Well, I wish you success."
               "Thank you."
               That night I was on my way to Buck Eye, where I arrived early the next morning. I
                  immediately started out to reconnoitre. Some five or six miles from Buck Eye, I
                  saw two men a distance ahead of me, earnestly engaged in conversation. They were
                  sitting on the side of the road, and when quite near them, I struck into the
                  woods, and came near enough to hear what they were saying.
               "John, we can make a nice little thing of this horse stealing."
               "Yes, but I don't like this idea of stealing," said John, who was an
                  innocent looking fellow, with scarcely brains enough to fill a small sized
                  hat.
               "Stealing!" said his companion, who was a much brighter individual, but one who
                  possessed a countenance not at all prepossessing "Stealing! why it's not stealing.
                  Look here, don't you believe in one man having as much as another? This 'ere world
                  was intended for all of us, and everything On it should be divided equally,
                     consequently
                  
                     Alice Dunbar escaping from the Prison at Buck Eye, Ky.
                   quently I consider myself an agent for the proper distribution of
                     worldly goods, and if you join me, you will be doing a good action
                  towards your fellow men. We'll commence on horses."
               "Well, I don't exactly look at it that 'ere way, but as you always had more
                  learnin' nor me, you ought to know, so I'll join you."
               "Now we are to get five dollars a day, and all we have to do is, to pass one horse
                  from this place, which they call a station, to another place, which
                  is a station also. There are six stations on the road,
                  and of course two men at each, so you see it's the easiest thing in the world to
                  pass a horse right through Kentucky into Ohio. The object of these
                     stations, is to have the same horse seen with different
                     men, and in that way throw the owners off their guard, as it's not so
                  easy to describe a horse as it is a man. Now our signal to be given at the station
                  is—'clear weather, but foul winds.'"
               "I guess I know everything now," said John.
               And thought I, there's another knows it too.
               I then retraced my steps back to Buck Eye, and arriving there, secured the
                  services of several of the officers.
               We all started out together, each man being mounted. We soon came to the place
                  where I met the two men. Before nearing the spot I bade the others stay behind,
                  and await a whistle from me. I then rode on, and presently a man stepped out into
                  the road, and said:—
               "How's the weather?"
               "Oh, the weather is clear, but the wind is foul," I answered.
               "That's our signal, John," said the man, calling to his companion.
               John came out, and as he did so, I said:—
               "This is a horse which I had left in my charge, and my signal after you have taken
                  it is—"
               "Well, this is all right," said he, taking the horse by the bridle, "but what's
                  your other signal?"
               "Why this," said I, whistling, and almost instantly the two men were surrounded,
                  and securely tied with ropes brought for that purpose.
               "Is this one of the agents," innocently asked John.
               "No, John, that is a non-conductor."
               "If you do not instantly inform me by whom you were engaged to pass
                  stolen horses," said I, assuming a tone of severity, "I will have you strung up on
                  yonder tree."
               "I was engaged by a young fellow, rather handsome, who gave me a five dollar bill
                  in advance. As God is my judge, I do not know the young man's name."
               
               "Where did you leave him?"
               "At Buck Eye."
               "That will do;" I then gave orders to keep the men well secured, appointing two
                  men to guard them, and leaving full instructions, I called the rest of the party
                  together, and then went on in the direction of the next station.
                  After a ride of about fifteen miles we came to the cross roads, and this, I
                  learned from the men, was the station. I rode up, and went through
                  the same business, as I did at the first station. These men were also
                  secured, and upon arriving in the town of Burrwalt, we were joined by others, and
                  the whole party went on and secured the men stationed at each of the other
                     stations. The officers and myself rode back towards Buck Eye. When
                  we arrived at the first station, we beheld quite a crowd collected'
                  around a tree, hanging to which was a young man. I rushed forward and cut him
                  down, and was surprised when I beheld the features of Alice Dunbar. I
                  felt her pulse, and was pleased to find that life was not yet extinct. Procuring a
                  bottle of brandy from one of the officers, I used it in a manner calculated to
                  restore her to consciousness, and was soon rewarded by seeing her open her
                  eyes.
               "Say, look here, mister," said one of the lynchers, "what right have you to meddle
                  with that 'ere young feller. Why he's a horse thief!"
               "Gentlemen, I am an officer of the law, and claim this young man as my prisoner.
                  You are violating the laws of God and man in trying to hang a fellow being without
                  even so much as a trial. You must let justice take its course."
               "Oh, justice be d—ned! It's too long taking time in dealing, and
                  sometimes it loses the game after all. So I say hang him up
                  "again."
               "Gentlemen, I should hate to kill any of you, but I am now doing my duty, and the
                  first man that dares to lay a hand on this young man, I will shoot, as I would a
                  dog!"
               "Fellers, this 'ere rooster don't seem to calculate as how there's ten to one agin
                  him," said the man that spoke first, and who seemed to be at the head of the
                  lynchers.
               The men moved towards my charge, and I felt that now was my time to disclose the
                  fact that the prisoner was a woman.
               "Hold!" said I, in a loud, clear voice; "would you hang a woman. This is not a
                  man, but a woman in disguise!".
               This assertion staggered them somewhat, but the leader came to their rescue.
               "Feller citizens, this 'ere woman stole our horses, and because she is a woman
                  should we forgive her. No 1 and again I say no! Why she might get married, and
                  then there would be no end to the little horse thieves. In hanging
                  this 'ere woman we do as we would in killing a "she snake," we rid
                  the country of a great many by killing one! I hopes as
                  how there ain't none of yer as hasen't got over your milk, and if
                  there is, why he had better go home and get a little."
               This speech was followed by roars of laughter from his rough listeners, and I must
                  confess it floored me completely, as no amount of eloquence could over balance
                  it.
               The lynchers came forward in a determined manner, but one thing I noticed, not one
                  of them had fire arms, so I hurriedly whispered to the officers, to fire low, and
                  try to wound them in the legs.
               "If you come," I shouted, "you come at your own risk!" and I then gave the order
                  to fire.
               Four men dropped, and the others stood still, astonished at my firing into
                  them.
               "Now," said I, "there are four more barrels in each of our pistols, and you will
                  be served in the same manner that your comrades were, if you move one step towards
                  us."
               We then placed Alice Dunbar between us, and moved in the direction of Buck Eye,
                  every now and then turning to see if we were followed.
               In less than two hours, Alice Dunbar, the female horse thief, was safely
                     ledged in the Antwerpt township jail.
               
            
            
               FOURTH PAPER.
               The township of Antwerpt was thrown into the wildest excitement. Business in Buck
                  Eye, and adjoining towns, was almost entirely suspended. A whole day being devoted
                  to talk over the late exciting occurrences. The manner in which the men at the
                  stations had been disposed of, and my bravery, as it was called, in claiming and
                  bringing my prisoner into town, in the midst of the infuriated lynchers, was the
                  principal subject for conversation. The men whom I caused to be shot, became my
                  fast friends, and I was voted by the town a "bully feller."
               
               The day appointed for the trial of Alice Dunbar, was fast approaching, and
                  excitement was again on "tip-toe." I visited my fair prisoner several times, and
                  spoke kindly to her, and promised to use my influence, toward making her
                  punishment as light as possible, if she in turn would promise to reform, and try
                  to lead an honest life. She was very cold in her manner towards me, and refused to
                  answer any questions that I might ask.
               On Wednesday, the 29th of June, Alice Dunbar escaped from prison. Although
                  diligent search was made, she could not be found. I went to the prison and
                  examined the cell in which they had placed her. Two bars had been filed from the
                  window, facing a rear street, and a long rope was still hanging out the window.
                  That she had been furnished with rope, file, etc., necessary to make her escape,
                  was quite evident. Now who could have done so? This was a question I could not
                  answer myself, and I knew of no one that could.
               I scarcely knew which way to go in search of Alice Dunbar, but after a little
                  thought, resolved to push forward in the direction of River View, which I
                  accordingly did. Arriving there I went to the hotel, having previously disguised
                  myself as a farmer. With about two ounces of brick dust upon my face, a rough
                  coat, and a pair of pants tucked into my boots. I looked for all the world like a
                  "practical farmer, native and to the manner born." Chancing to pick up the River
                  View paper, I became interested in an article—headed:—"The River View scandal,"
                  reading as follows:—
               "A scandal has become current in this town, to the effect, that a son of Mr.
                     Charles Wintten has eloped with a woman representing herself as a governess,
                     and under that pretense obtained a situation in Mr. Wintten's house. The young
                     man fell desperately in love with her, and they have left for parts unknown,
                     taking with them two splendid horses, jewels, money, etc. A full account will
                     appear in this paper as soon as we learn all the particulars."
               The paper was dated 5th July, and the next day a full account appeared. As I could
                  not explain in any better way, I will give the article word for word:—
               "On the 30th of June, a young and handsome woman came to the house of our
                  respected citizen, Mr. Charles Wintten; she represented herself to be a governess,
                  from Cincinnati, Ohio, out of employment. Mr. Wintten has two small children, and
                  as we have a very poor school in town, affording scarcely any facilities for the
                  proper education of the young, Mr. Wintten concluded to engage her. The terms
                  offered were REMARKABLY CHEAP, and Mr. Wintten thought that he had secured a good
                  governess for his children at a very low figure. She entered upon her duties
                  immediately. In a day or two it was noticed by Mrs. Wintten, that her son acted
                  very strangely when in the presence of Miss Loraine, for that was the name she1
                  gave. Well, to curtail a long story, the parents awoke to find that their boy had
                  gone, taking with him Miss Ida Loraine. Had this been the extent of the things
                  taken, Mr. and Mrs. Wintten might have easily recovered from the shock, but no?
                  not only had young Mr. Charles and his 'first love' left them, but two splendid
                  horses belonging to Mr. Wintten, together with jewels belonging to the family, and
                  a large sum of money. That the young woman is an adventuress, we have not the
                  least doubt. One of these days young Mr. Charles Wintten may return home, and if
                  he does, he will certainly have become 'a wiser and sadder man.' He will learn, to
                  his deep regret, 'all that glitters is not gold!'"
               The issue of July 7th, contained the following:—
               "We are informed, by Mr. James Colley the celebrated detective, that the young
                  woman (mentioned in our account published on the 6th), who eloped with Mr. Charles
                  Wintten, Jr., is no less than Alice Dunbar, the female horse thief, whose
                  celebrity has become almost world wide. Mr. Colley is now on her track, and will
                  doubtless secure her before long. She has as many disguises as a tiger has spots.
                  'Oh, Charley, thou hast caught a tartar, and thou hast, moreover, warmed a snake
                  in thine bosom.' Mr. Wintten will probably institute a search for his missing son
                  and other property."
               On the morning of the 8th, I passed through Burlington, having learned that the
                  fugitives had gone that way.
               They were seen to pass the town, but the affair not having been communicated to
                  the authorities, they were allowed to pass unmolested. Believing that they had
                  gone in the direction of Common-town, I "sailed for that port," as the sailors
                  have it.
               When I arrived within a short distance from the town, I beheld a wagon standing
                  near the hotel, but the rest is better explained by the "Commontown Democrat."
               "Saturday morning, before the town clock had notified the peaceful citizens of
                  Commontown, that the hour was eleven, there drove up to the door of our rather
                  obscure hotel, not a dozen rods from the terminus of the Burlington turn-pike, an
                  old fashioned buggy, whose wheels mournfully complained of lack of grease, and too
                  much exposure to sun and damp, drawn by two splendid horses, seemingly out of place when placed before the above
                  mentioned 'ginger-bread affair.' As the portly landlord slowly opened the door,
                  and rubbed his hands together, as if he had a large quantity of 'imaginary
                  soap-suds' on them, he smiled to himself, thinking, no doubt, that he had a fine
                  'harvest.' His thoughts were interrupted by a voice from the buggy.
               "'Here we are, Ida,' and then first the head belonging to the voice appeared, and
                  a body came almost in sight, and upon the owner jumping from the wagon, it was
                  fully in view. Suffice it to say, the voice, head, and body belonged to a young
                  man. He was dressed for an excursion—that is, he was dressed to kill; and that the
                  landlord and his boarders were not in the 'silent tomb,' was evident from the fact
                  that they at once retired to the barn to laugh, vulgarly termed 'snicker.' The
                  youngster carefully unwrapped an overcoat and a shawl or two, from around a
                  package that sat upright on the seat, seized hold of two small hands, gave a lift
                  and a pull and lo! another body appeared. This body
                  possessed a sweeter voice, a smaller head, and was somewhat lighter than the
                     other body. This body was a female body,
                  and a very neat little body at that. 'Woman is a queer vessel,' as
                  the sailors in the 'play' have it, and some are not as 'good as they look,' in
                  fact 'taters' couldn't be more deceiving. This one was 'alike, and yet not like,
                  bearing semblance of that which she was not.' The couple went in to a late
                  breakfast, in fact it was doubtful if they intended it for breakfast or dinner.
                  Two little boys were seen 'pitching pennies' to prove which meal the
                  couple called for. In five minutes afterwards nothing was to be seen upon the
                  'dreary waste' but the old quill-wheel-buggy, which leaned softly up against a
                  ditch to rest, sleeping that sleep known only to the innocent. That's
                  the quotation, if we remember rightly, but our memory is sadly out of repair,
                  owing to the difficulty experienced in collecting some small bills.
                  Breakfast over, the young man stands at the bar, meditatingly picking his teeth
                  with a jack-knife, of traditional proportions, when he hears the door open; he
                  pays not the slightest heed, though the landlord, who is measuring his length and
                  wondering if 'good boards could be cut out of that timber,' is thinking—'will this
                  young fellow see my sign over the bar, 'No Trust (?)'' However, he trusts the
                  young man will see it, and says not a word, when all parties are surprised by the
                  entrance of 'quite a good looking chap,' who afterwards proves to be a detective,
                  James Colley by name, a New Yorker by birth.
               
               
                  
                     Alice Durbar and her a accomplice, Sam Colville, running off "blooded"
                        horses from the farm of Mr. Gault, in New York State.
                  
               
               "'Prepare yourself for something awful! Charles Wintten, your father is outside
                  waiting for you,' says the, detective.
               "'I will never leave Ida,' answers the young man, in a truly romantic-novel style,
                  and further adding to the effect, by speaking in a dramatic voice.
               "'Charles Wintten, the woman whom you are about to wed, is one of the most
                  notorious in the country. She is known as Alice Dun-bar, the female horse
                  thief!"
               "The youngster wilted. The woman is secured by Mr. Colley, taken back to jail, and
                  locked up to await her trial. The young man sees his folly and returns home with
                  his father a repentant son. 'Let a fatted calf be killed.' So ends the only
                  tragedy which ever occurred in this town. Editors in search of sensation need not
                  expect one in this neighborhood for the next one hundred years to
                     come."
               The editor of the "Commontown Democrat," Mr. G. Altemus Weilman, is noted for
                  interspersing all his articles with a "streak of wit," and certainly the above is
                  a fair specimen.
               Alice Dunbar and myself were soon en route for
                  Buck Eye, where we arrived in due time. She was tried and sentenced to ten years
                  imprisonment. Shortly after, I received an invitation from Mr. G. Altemus Weilman,
                  to visit him. I saw his object, but as I had plenty of time on hand, I went to
                  Commontown. Of course Mr. Weilman wanted to get all the particulars in regard to
                  Alice Dunbar. I gave them to him, and the circulation of his paper was greatly
                  increased, after publishing them. I remained two weeks in Commontown, and then
                  left for Cincinnati. As I had been presented with a splended horse, by Mr.
                  Wintten, I determined to make the journey on horse-back. I started on the 24th of
                  July. When about half way between River View and Buck Eye, I suddenly felt a blow
                  from behind, and in a moment I was violently jerked from my horse. I knew nothing
                  further until I awoke and found my arms tightly secured behind my back. I was
                  sitting in an upright position, in a cave, containing two apartments, the one in
                  which I was imprisoned, being the smallest. After having made these observations,
                  I began wondering for what purpose I was detained, and by whom. These were
                  certainly not very interesting thoughts, and I was glad to have them broken in
                  upon by the entrance of a rough, bearded man, who smiled in a triumphant manner,
                  and said:—
               "How do you feel, Mr. James Colley?"
               "You know me then?" I asked.
               "To be course I do, and so does all the gang."
               
               "Why am I made a prisoner?"
               "Well, you see, you was gettin' a little too troublesome. You kinder bothered our
                     operations, and so we concluded as how we had better
                     lay you, which we has."
               "You have orders from some leader," I suggested.
               "Well, yes, seem' as how that 'ere leader is an old friend of yourn, I don't mind
                  tellin' the name of that 'ere friend, one as you take such delight in
                     follerin' and lookin' after. Our leader is Alice Dunbar, the
                  'female Jack Sheppard,' as you calls her, and the best horse thief in this 'ere
                  country."
               "The Devil!" I exclaimed.
               "No, not exactly the devil, but a near relation, a
                     sister, maybe, a she devil anyway."
               "Does she continue to give orders, now that she is in prison?"
               "In prison, why she's out of prison, my 'covey.'"
               She deserves the reputation she has gained, for she certainly has proven herself
                  to be a "female Jack Sheppard," said I, to myself.
               "What do you intend doing with me?"
               "The woman will tell you that."
               "When will she come?"
               "Soon enough."
               This was all the satisfaction I could get out of my guard. An hour or so passed,
                  and I was growing impatient, when Alice Dunbar appeared at the opening of the
                  cave.
               "May I come in friend Colley?" she asked.
               "You are inclined to be facetious, Alice Dunbar."
               "You used to be, Mr. Colley, but 'a change has come o'er the scene,'
                  the slave is now the master."
               "May I inquire in what manner, you expect to gain anything, by holding me
                  prisoner?"
               "It will be safer for me to operate."
               "How long am I to remain a prisoner?"
               "Just so long as I see fit to keep you. You are now in a cave known to none except
                  the gang, your friends can never reach you, and if you try to escape,
                  you will be shot down without mercy."
               "Alice Dunbar you seem to forget the time when I cut you down from a tree, and
                  saved your life."
               "No I do not. I remember it well, but I also remember that you were very kind in
                  securing me proper lodgings, afterwards."
               I saw that it was useless to attempt further parley.
               "You will at least give me a softer bed than these rocks to lie upon?"
               "You detectives can lie any where's, but if I find that you behave yourself
                  properly, I shall furnish you with a bed, at least, as good as the one furnished
                  me at the public building in Antwerpt township."
               "I thank you."
               "Sorry I couldn't say the same to you, when you left me in my
                  cell."
               With these words she left me. She was this time dressed in rough male costume,
                  wore a large hat on her head, and around her waist a black belt with buckle. Her
                  skin was stained with some preparation made from herbs, and false side whiskers,
                  made up a complete disguise.
               Days passed, and still I was a prisoner. My guard would taunt me, every other day,
                  by giving me different papers, containing accounts of my sudden disappearance, and
                  supposed murder, the grief of my family, etc. These articles drove me perfectly
                  frantic, and I took an oath, that, should I ever escape from my captors, I would
                  not rest till every one of the gang were brought to justice. One of the articles
                  ran as follows:—
               "On the twenty-fourth of July, Mr. James Colley left the town of Commonton, Ky.,
                  for the purpose of going to Cincinnati. Mr. Colley is well known as a detective,
                  and one who never shrank from his duty. He has been instrumental in the arrest of
                  the notorious horse thief, Alice Dunbar, and several of her accomplices, and it is
                  thought, as Alice Dunbar lately escaped from jail, for the second or third time,
                  that she has caused him to be murdered. His family consisting of a wife and four
                  children, are in great grief. Search is being made in all directions, but many
                  think it will be useless."
               Then followed a long account of my exploits, and especially those, connected with
                  Alice Dunbar. These accounts troubled me, and I resolved to attempt an escape that
                  night, if possible. When I was first imprisoned, my captors had placed ropes
                  around my ankles and arms to prevent my using either. During my captivity I
                  remained quiet, and so won upon my guard, that he untied my arms. As night came on
                  I began to work the rope fastened around my ankles, and at last was rewarded by
                  finding that I had it quite loose. About six o'clock my guard came in, and as
                  usual, commenced taunting me. This I did not notice, and he soon became tired of
                  his sport. After he had gone I began devising plans for my escape.
               
               About nine o'clock I crawled slowly toward the opening of the cave. I reached it
                  at last, and by the light of the moon, I plainly saw the principal obstruction
                  between me and liberty—the guard, I came upon him suddenly, his back being turned
                  towards me, and in a moment I had struck him a blow upon the head, with a largo
                  iron bolt. The blow was a severe one, as he fell forward upon his face, without
                  uttering, so much as a moan. 1 instantly forced the gag into his mouth, and
                  looking into his face, I saw it was useless to secure him, as he would not move
                  again, for some time to come. Time was precious, and should I fail, and be
                  re-captured, my life would be the forfeit. It would not do, however, to run yet,
                  as the noise I might make in so doing would be sure to bring down the gang upon
                  me. I walked cautiously forward, in what direction I knew not, but knowing that
                  each step placed me further from my late captors, I did not care.
               After walking at least an hour, I came out upon a road, which I soon recognized as
                  the Buck Eye turn-pike. My joy was great at this discovery, and turning in the
                  direction of the town, an idea struck me, that I might reach the place, secure the
                  services of some good men, return and capture the whole gang. Before starling I
                  cut a deep notch in a pine tree, standing directly in a line with the cave. I was
                  certain of this, for upon leaving the rendezvous of the horse thieves, I had
                  walked in a straight line, as near as possible. Having so resolved, I started on a
                  run towards Buck Eye, reaching it about midnight. I then went directly to the
                  residence of the justice of the peace, told the whole story, and in a half hour, I
                  not only had every officer in town in readiness to follow me, but, about thirty
                  able-bodied, men, and had it been generally known, I believe the whole town would
                  have gone in search of the horse thieves.
               We all started towards the cave, each man being well mounted, and in less than an
                  hour, we arrived at the tree. Here we all dismounted, and leaving our horses in
                  care of four or five men, we struck into the woods, moving as quietly as possible.
                  Supposing at last, that we were near the cave, I ordered the men to separate each
                  going in different directions, and so surround the cave. I went straight to the
                  cave, and directly I arrived near the opening. I was suddenly confronted by two
                  men, one of whom I recognized as my guard, the taunter.
               "So you couldn't find your way out, Mr. Colley?"
               "Oh yes, I found my way out, but concluded to come in
                  again."
               "Suppose you come in the cave, Mr. Colley?"
               "No, I do not intend to go in again, except of my own free will."
               "Now suppose we force you, Mr. Colley?"
               "You cannot do it."
               As I said this I beheld several faces, which I recognized as Buck Eye citizens.
                  The horse thieves did not see them, however, and the would-be taunter said:
               "We two, could easy do it, but we have twenty others at our call."
               He then gave a peculiar whistle, which was answered by about twenty men, who came
                  from the cave.
               "I have twenty men, and as many more, at my call," said I, and I had
                  no sooner said it, than the whole company appeared from all sides.
               The faces of the horse thieves presented one grand picture, of
                  dismay, terror, and humiliation.
               "Lay down your arms every one of you," said the Justice of Peace.
               With great reluctance they did so.
               "Some of you go to the cave immediately and search for the leader, Alice Dunbar,"
                  said I, in an excited manner.
               "It's no use," said one of the horse thieves, "she's on a 'cribb' tonight, and
                  she's 'cracked' it, long afore this."
               "The devil, you say!" exclaimed the Justice, who was not addicted to profane
                  language.
               This was too bad, after capturing all the gang, to have the leader escape us.
               "Well boys," said I, "we have one consolation, that of knowing we have broken up
                  the largest, and most fearless gang of horse thieves in Kentucky."
               "You're right, Mr. Colley," said one of the men, whom I recognized as the leader
                  of the party, who had determined upon hanging Alice Dunbar, about a month
                  previous.
               "You're right, Mr. Colley," he continued, "and don't you remember how Alice Dunbar
                  escaped us afore, and so will these 'ere thieves, too, if we don't hang 'em. Now
                  I'm in favor of Judge Lynch, he's the surest and
                     quickest. What say you, Mr. Colley, shan't we hang 'em?"
               "No, justice must take its course."
               "All right, Mr. Colley, you may think you're right, but I'm darned if
                     I do. How-sumdever you're a brave man, and I'm darned if
                     I' buck' agin you. Boys, I propose three cheers for Jim
                  Colley."
               
               Three cheers were given, and then we started for town. The next morning the papers
                  throughout the country were teeming with highly colored accounts of my "cruel
                  imprisonment," "escape from being entombed alive," "miraculous escape," "grand
                  manœuvre," "capture of about eighty horse thieves," "Alice Dunbar
                  still at large," etc.
               I immediately, upon arriving at Buck Eye, telegraphed to my wife, assuring her
                  that I was alive and well. I received a great many telegrams, congratulating me,
                  and wishing me future success. In Buck Eye, I could not walk upon the street
                  without being "asked in to drink," or have my hand shaken almost off my arm by an
                  enthusiastic old citizen. But the most provoking of all, was to have a crowd of
                  little boys follow me everywhere, and shout:
               "There goes Jim Colley!" "Hellow, Colley," etc.
               In the night I couldn't sleep. About fifteen or twenty young men of the town,
                  without any musical ability, but with fearful musical instruments,
                  would congregate in—under my window, and play that tune, long since made odious by
                  the organ grinders, "Champagne Charlie."
               I made up my mind to leave the town, for two reasons. In the first place, I could
                  not stand the enthusiastically worded congratulations of the male and female
                  portion of the Buck Eye inhabitants.
               Alice Dunbar was still at large.
               I thought it a good idea to disguise myself in female costume, I had never done so
                  before. One thing was bad, I would have to sacrifice my mustache. It was
                  "business," and off it came. I left town early one morning, and when out of sight,
                  put on the costume.
               Having fixed myself in a manner which, to me, felt anything but comfortable, I
                  started in the direction of East Levingtown. Arriving there I went directly to the
                  hotel, sought a private apartment, and sent for the landlord. He came in, and I
                  said:
               "Mr. Noll, can you keep a secret!"
               "Well, madam, it's according to the nature of the secret."
               "In the first place, I am not a woman."
               "No! You surprise me."
               "As you value your life, do not repeat one word of what I am about to tell you. I
                  am James Colley, detective. At present I do not wish to be known. During the day I
                  shall remain in my room, and wish to be known as Mrs. Le Blon. At night I shall go
                  out in my proper costume, but of course, unobserved. Now, I want a good young man,
                  one whom I may trust. I have reason to suppose that Alice Dunbar is in this town,
                  under some alias, and I wish to ascertain if
                  such is the case. An honest young man, to act as a spy, would be of great benefit
                  to me. Do you know of any?"
               "Mr. Colley, allow me to shake hands with you. Your secret with me is inviolate. I
                     do know of a young man that I think will suit you—my son. I'll
                  send him up directly, if you say so."
               "Do, if you please."
               "I will tell him all that you have told me, and he will then be ready to enter
                  upon the duty."
               "Thank you, Mr. Noll."
               Soon after, young Henry Noll came into my room, and I gave him the necessary
                  instructions, and he at once entered upon his duties. Late in the afternoon, he
                  came in and brought the information that a woman, answering the description of
                  Alice Dunbar, was acting in the capacity of governess in the family of Mr. Harry
                  Lind, a rich lumber merchant, residing in East Levingtown. I thought the matter
                  over, and concluded to wait until the morrow.
               It appears that the woman had been in the family something over a week, and was
                  highly spoken off for her quiet demeanor. She was very good looking, and rumor had
                  it, that a match might be made between Theodore Herr, brother-in-law to Mr. Lind,
                  and the beautiful governess. Mr. Herr, was stopping with his brother-in-law. He
                  was not without a rival, for rumor also had it, that young Maurice Lind, was a
                  great admirer of Gertrude Gramio, as she was called. It was said that Maurice's
                  ardent passion was not returned.
               Fatal passion! But I will not anticipate. The next day I had planned to make a
                  "descent" upon the "hawk."
               Who can tell what a day may bring forth (?) The next day a tragedy occurred that
                  created no small amount of excitement all over the country. 
                     
                        "Yes—loving is a painful thrill,
                        And not to love, more painful still;
                        But surely 'tis the worst of pain,
                        To love, and not be loved again!"
                     
                   So young Maurice Lind, must have thought.
               The tragedy which I speak of, is well explained by the "Levingtown Weekly
                  News:"
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "A DARK AND BLOODY DEED."
                           "Our readers are well acquainted with the name of Lind. Mr. Harry Lind
                              being a prominent merchant of this place. His household consisted, one
                              week since, of himself and wife, his son Maurice, about twenty-one
                              years of age; and his brother-in-law, Mr. Theodore Herr. One day,
                              there came to the Lind mansion, a beautiful young lady, Miss Gertrude
                              Gramio, who brought the best of references, and Mr. Lind secured her
                              services as a companion for his wife. Mr. Theodore Herr, and Miss
                              Gertrude soon became acquainted, and were often seen together. With
                              young Maurice it was love at first sight,' but what, to him, seemed
                              his polar star of life—her affection—was not at all reciprocated by
                              her. She could not be taught to love him, and, in fact, repeatedly
                              repulsed all his advances.
                        
                     
                  
               
               She would not walk with him, and where he esteemed her his idol, or as he was
                  heard to say—"his life, his all," she as a lady had cogent reasons—her own heart's
                  secret—that caused her to refrain from any manifestation that might be interpreted
                  as the acceptance of his mysterious passion. Although this feeling of love, which
                  haunted young Maurice, morning, noon, and night, and Miss Gramio's evident feeling
                  of unconcern for him, were partially known to the family, they were but little
                  thought of, as his known gentlemanly deportment and traits, were such as allayed
                  all suspicion of his ever attempting anything wrong. But here the confidence
                  reposed in human nature failed.
               Last night he came home rather later than usual. About twelve o'clock he came in,
                  and went up to his sleeping apartment, sober and clear-headed it is believed.
               A moment to consider the position of the rooms in the house. The front room on the
                  third floor, was Maurice's, and the large back one, Miss Gertrude's. Between these
                  two, was a smaller room, This was occupied by Mr. Herr. On the second floor, front
                  room, slept Mr. and Mrs. Lind.
               Mr. Herr always kept a pistol, loaded, and marked "hands off," in a small closet,
                  belonging to his room. In his pocket was a bunch of keys, the smallest of which,
                  unlocked the closet. These fact; were well known to Maurice. In passing up to his
                  room, Mrs. Lind heard him, and quietly remarked to her husband, "Maurice is late
                  to-night." He entered his apartment, (with a bottle of chloroform it is believed,)
                  but not to remain. After partly disrobing himself, taking off all his superfluous
                  clothing, boots, etc., he thoroughly
                     Alice Dunbar, whilst in male attire, is seized by an infuriated mob of
                        Lynchers, and hanged to a tree.
                  
                   soaked a towel with chloroform and then
                  laid it by for a moment until he could secure another deadly agent. Stealthily he
                  left the room, entered Mr. Herr's, searched about, and, after finding his pants,
                  abstracted the keys therefrom, and just as fox-like leaving, sought the closet.
                  This door he had to unlock, which he succeeded in doing without awakening Mr.
                  Herr. He found Mr. Herr's pistol, a five-barrelled revolver, which he knew was
                  there. He also knew it was loaded. Murderous like, he stole back to his room,
                  grasped the towel saturated with, chloroform, and quietly, noiselessly, stole to
                  the open door of her "whom he loved." She was fast asleep. He pushed the
                  half-closed door further open, and then quietly stepped to the bed behind her and
                  covered her face with the towel. Her life was saved through his ignorance. Maurice
                  did not know what an agent he was dealing with, and the excessive quantity thrust
                  into his victim's face strangled her, and she awoke. At once she recognized
                  Maurice, and indignantly inquired what he meant, and with heroic courage struggled
                  from the firm grasp of the villain who desired to render her unconscious—for what
                  God only knows.
               When freed from Maurice, Miss Gertrude rushed from the room to the head of the
                  stairs, and cried for help, using Mrs. Lind's name. These screams elicited answers
                  from the room below, when Maurice, knowing his attempts had failed, slipped
                  quietly to his own room, and lay down on the outside of the bed. The trembling
                  girl hurried, almost fell, down stairs towards Mrs. Lind's room, whom she met at
                  the threshold of her door, when almost fainting, she half swooned upon the bed,
                  unable to speak a word.
               Mrs. Lind and her husband were not yet aware as to the cause of her alarm, and
                  they commenced a search for robbers,, as they supposed. Maurice at this time,
                  slipped from his room, and down stairs again. Reaching Mrs. Lind's room, he found
                  Miss Gertrude, and this time he determined to make his work sure.
               Miss Gramio, had but just recovered from her swoon, and seeing Maurice, she became
                  so frightened, as to be unable to speak. He took deliberate aim at her, but she
                  had presence of mind enough to raise her arm, and as she did so, the ball went
                  crashing through it. Maurice evidently thought his work done, for he left the room
                  immediately, and went to his own. By this time the whole household had become
                  fearfully alarmed. On the stair-way, Maurice met his mother and Mr. Herr. The
                  latter asked him the cause of the pistol firing, but received no answer. Shortly
                  after, another shot was fired, but this time on the third floor. Mr. And Mrs. Lind rushed up stairs, and found
                  Maurice lying upon the floor with the saturated towel bound over his face, and a
                  large shot, directly through the heart.
               The excitement, as must be conceived by all, was of the most intense character,
                  and the rumors that, like wildfire, spread through the town, magnified the heinous
                  crime almost tenfold, until passers-by looked upon the house as an ill-omened
                  mansion, and stared tremblingly as they passed slowly by it.
               Coroner Williamson, later in the day, proceeded to the dwelling, and impanelling a
                  jury, took a mass of testimony, mainly corroborative of the foregoing, but a
                  portion of which is so interesting, and bears directly upon the doings of my
                     wicked heroine, that I think the reader will forgive me, in
                  placing it before him. I of course, managed to gain an entrance, and in my
                  disguise sat all through the testimony.
               Miss Gramio testified:
               I was aroused from my sleep about one o'clock by hearing a slight noise, like the
                  creaking of a door; immediately I felt a towel saturated with chloroform on my
                  face; I was stifled, and exerting all my strength, I forced myself from the
                  application. The gas was burning in my room, and I recognized the person who was
                  in my room, and who applied the chloroform to my face—it was Maurice Lind, the
                  deceased. I was somewhat stupefied, but was sufficiently conscious to be able to
                  spring from my bed, reach the head of the stairs, and call for assistance. Mrs.
                  Lind called for me to come down into her room, which I did, but how, I know not,
                  as I must have fainted shortly afterwards. In fainting, I of course fell, and in
                  so doing, barely reached the bed. I must have lain there some time, when I awoke
                  and saw Maurice in the room, and just about to point a revolver at me. I was so
                  horrified, as to be unable to call for assistance, but just as he fired, I raised
                  my arm, and received the shot, intended for my heart, in my arm, making an ugly
                  wound. The deceased after firing at me, turned and hurriedly left the room,
                  supposing no doubt, that he had killed me. I cannot imagine why Maurice Lind
                  should have attempted my life, as my relation, (during the short time I have known
                  him,) and associations with him have been of a friendly, but not intimate
                  character, I had to struggle very hard to free myself from the towel which was in
                  the hands of Mr. Maurice Lind.
               Testimony of Mr. Harry Lind, father of Maurice:
               I was aroused about one o'clock to day by hearing Miss Gramio screaming in her
                  room. My wife called her down, and we carried her, in a fainting condition, to the
                  bed. We then went out to ascertain the cause of the alarm. We thought, as much as
                  could be, that there were robbers in the house, and while we were in search of
                  them, we heard firing in our room. My wife and Mr. Herr, my brother-in-law, came
                  down stairs, and in so doing, met my son going up. My wife was too frightened to
                  speak, but Mr. Herr asked Maurice what was the matter, but my son did not answer
                  him, only giving him a wild look. We then went into our room, which is on the
                  second floor, and found Miss Gertrude, lying upon the floor, unconscious, with a
                  pistol wound in her arm. Shortly afterwards we heard more firing, and going up to
                  Maurice's room, found him with a towel tied over his face, and shot through the
                  heart. My son had committed suicide. (Here the witness wept.) That he was not in
                  his right mind, I have not the least doubt. He has always been a dutiful son,
                  acted in a gentlemanly manner, kept the best of hours, and was, previous to his
                  death, respected by all that knew him.
               Testimony of Theodore Herr, brother-in-law to Mr. Lind:
               Was, well acquainted with the deceased. His habits, as far as I can judge, were of
                  the best. I inferred from a remark he made to me, saying, my head appears to be
                  paralyzed; that his head was afflicted, no previous act of his lead
                  me to that opinion. His disposition was nervous, highly so. I had a five-barrelled
                  pistol, which I kept in a closet in my room, always loaded. This was well known to
                  the deceased. The key of the closet, I had among a great many others,, hanging on
                  a ring. These keys I kept in my pantaloons pocket. The closet key was in the bunch
                  when I went to bed, which was near eleven o'clock. When I was aroused this
                  morning, I found the closet open, and the keys in the door. The pistol, I
                  instantly noticed, had been taken down. I never heard Maurice threaten the peace
                  or happiness of Miss Gramio; know of no cause why he should injure her; did not
                  notice that his mind was affected after Miss Gramio refused his offer of
                  marriage.
               The jury returned the following verdict:
               "Maurice Lind came to his death by shooting himself through the heart, on the 20th
                  day of August, at East Levingtown, Ky."
               Now, thought I, will be an excellent chance for a denouement.
               "Gentlemen," said I, rising, "the young woman who has just testified, is not
                  Gertrude Gramio, but Alice Dunbar, the horse thief."
               Everybody looked towards me, surprised at such a masculine voice, coming from a
                  woman. I noticed this, and began disrobing myself. I had my own clothes under the
                  assumed costume, and as I took off the disguise I said—
               "Gentlemen, I am James Colley, detective, and I do here swear that
                  that woman, is no other than, Alice Dunbar"
               A scene here ensued that defied description. Alice Dunbar was arrested, Mr.
                  Theodore Herr, stood perfectly astonished, and seemed unwilling to believe my
                  assertion, whilst a general congratulation was given oh all sides.
               In a few days I left for home, where I was welcomed in a hearty manner by all my
                  old acquaintances, and a great many new ones.
               In time the trial of Alice Dunbar was announced, but it never came off. A large
                  fortune was left her in England, and through its magic influence it
                  was actually proven, that the real Alice Dunbar, had been shot at the time
                     her gang was captured, and that the woman, whom I had
                     thought was Alice Dunbar, the horse thief, was as she claimed to
                  be, Gertrude Gramio; from Maine.
               I expected every day to be summoned as a principal witness, but the trial was
                  hurried through, and Alice Dunbar, alias
                  Gertrude Gramio, sailed for Europe, on the first day of September, and is now
                  probably living under an assumed name in that country.
               Money is too often the means of allowing rogues to escape, a well-merited and just
                  punishment.
               
                  The Public's servant,
                  JAMES COLLEY, Detective.
               
               THE END.
               Send for our Catalogue of Cheap and very Salable Publications.
               BARCLAY & CO., 610 ARCH STREET, PHILADELPHIA.
            
         
      
      
         
            DR. KŒNIG'S BRAZILIAN BALM OF LIFE.
            THE BEST BLOOD PURIFIER IN THE WORLD!
            IT WILL EFFECTUALLY CURE LIVER COMPLAINT, PILES, DYSPEPSIA, AND ALL DISEASES ARISING
               FROM A DISORDERED STOMACH.
            This Compound is prepared from a recipe of the late DR. KŒNIG, in hose practice it
               has been successfully used for forty years, in Europe, from hence its ingredients are
               imported. It has cured thousands who had given up all hopes of relief.
            PRICE, PER BOTTLE, $1.00; or, SIX Bottles for $5.00.
            SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY JOHNSTON, HOLLOWAY & COWDEN, 602 Arch St.,
               Philadelphia.
            AND RETAILED BY ALL OTHER PRINCIPAL DRUGGISTS.
            
               Please read the Letters following, and call upon the Writers if you
               choose.
            
               READ THIS!
               LIVER COMPLAINT CURED.
               
                  The following was sent to us unsolicited by Mr. Barclay, the well
                  known publisher of this city.
               DEAR SIR:—and the hope that others may be benefited by your invaluable medicine,
                  alone prompt me to make the following statement:—Last winter, after lingering
                  along for some weeks, more than half sick, I was finally taken down with the worst
                  form of "Liver Complaint." After exhausting nearly the whole list of
                     Remedies without relief, I was finally induced to try
                     your remedy, an, in one week, I was able to go to my
                  office, and now I can truly say I owe my unusually good health, under Providence,
                  to your BRAZILIAN BALM OF LIFE.
               With the hope that others may be benefited as I have been, I am
               
                  Your grateful friend,
                  E.E. BARCLAY,
                  
                     610 Arch St., Philadelphia, Pa.
                  
               
            
            
               PILES CURED.
               
                  Read the following from a well-known machinist and highly respectable
                     citizen:—
                  PHILADELPHIA, May 17th, 1869.
               
               DEAR SIR:—I have suffered from Piles for more than thirteen years, during which
                  time I have tried various remedies, but all to no purpose. About two months ago I
                  was persuaded to try your invaluable Brazilian Balm of Life. I have taken seven
                  bottles of it, and can say that I am perfectly cured. I cheerfully recommend it to
                  all suffers from Piles, and am willing to give personal reference concerning my
                  case.
               
                  EDWARD SCHMIDT, 315 Vine St., Philadelphia.
               
            
            
               DYSPEPSIA CURED.
               
                  A lady sends us the following:—
                  PHILADELPHIA, June 25th, 1869.
               
               DEAR SIR:—When first informed of some remarkable cures by your medicine, I was
                  reduced to a most deplorable condition of mind and body by the Dyspepsia. My mind
                  had been so impaired that I regarded my best friends as my worst enemies. I was
                  continually foreboding evil. My whole body was so numb, my blood in such an
                  impoverished condition, and my entire system so prostrated, that my physicians
                  gave me little encouragement of relief. It is now two months since I commenced the
                  use of your Brazilian Balm of Life, and, as all my friends will testify, I am now
                  in the enjoyment of perfect health.
               
                  MARY L. MACE,
                  
                     109 N. 5th Street, near Arch Street.
                  
               
               The above are selected from more than a thousand similar letters.
            
         
         
            
            PRICES OF OUR PUBLICATIONS.
            
               The Mine of Wealth, containing Secrets never before published. 50
               The Great Conspiracy: Full Secrets of the Assassination Plot. 50
               The Black Crook: A book of Thrilling interest. 50
               Recent Remarkable Discoveries in Central Africa,. 50
               Life and Trial of J. H. Suratt, for the Assassination of President Lincoln.
                  25
               The Strange History of the Elopement of Miss C. Edgefield, of Frederick, Md.
                  25
               Miriam Rivers, The Lady Soldier; or, General Grant's Spy. 25
               The Demon of Andersonville; or, The Trial of Wirz. 25
               The Great Impeachment Trial of Andrew Johnson. 25
               Juan, the White Slave, and the Secessionist's Daughter. 25
               The Volunteer's Roll of Honor. A collection of Heroic deeds. 25
               Tales of the Picket Guard; or, Blue Devils Driven from Camp. 25
               Dora, Heroine of the Cumberland; or, The American Amazon. 25
               Pauline of the Potomac; or, The Female Spy. 25
               Assassination of President Lincoln. The terrible Tragedy at Washington.
                  25
               The Trial and Conviction of George S. Twitchell, Jr., for the murder of Mrs.
                  Mary E. Hill, his Mother-in-Law. 25
               Captains Speke's and Grant's Travels and Adventures in Africa. 25
               General Corcoran's Captivity. An authentic and thrilling narrative. 25
               Trial of the Assassins and Conspirators, for the murder of Abraham Lincoln.
                  25
               Trial, Confession, and Execution of Antoine Probst. 25
               Miss Coleson's Narrative of her Captivity among the Sioux Indians. 25
               Household Treasure, containing several hundred valuable Receipts. 25
               The Whole History of Miss Adeline Fosbenner. 25
               The Life and Remarkable Career of Adah Isaacs Menken, the celebrated American
                  actress. 25
               The Wild Woman; or, The Wrecked Heart. 25
               Leoni Loudon, the Modern Niobe. A most thrilling and romantic narrative.
                  25
               The Life and Confession of Bridget Dergan, who murdered Mrs. Ellen Coriell, the
                  lovely wife of Dr. Coriell, of New Market, N. J. 20
               Ella Cameron. A Revelation of Deceit and Treachery. 20
               The Lady Lieutenant. 20
               The Rival Rebel Cousins; or, Life and Love in Secessia. 20
               The Heroine of Tennessee. 20
               The Beautiful and Accomplished Charlotte Temple. 20
               St. George de Lisle; or, The Serpent's Sting. 20
               Adelaide Lane. 20
               Henry Madison. 20
               Emma Woodley; or, A Sister's Wrongs Avenged. 20
               Elizabeth Masters, the Doubly Affianced. 20
               The Rebel Pirate's Fatal Prize. 20
               The Pirate's Bride. 20
               M. H. Everett. 20
               Charles L. Marshall. 20
               Six Months in Secessia. 20
               Gertrude Morgan's Adventures among the Indians of the Far West. 20
               The Underground Railroad. 20
               The Witty Sayings and Comic Exploits of George Buchanan, the King's Fool.
                  20
               A collection of Seven different kinds of New Song Books, with illuminated
                  covers, entitled Jolly Boy's Songster, Negro Melodies, Fenian Songster, Ever of
                  Thee Songster, The Thistle Songster, Grant and Farragut Songster. 15
            
            All the above sent to one address, postage paid, on receipt of Ten Dollars; or any
               one, or more, on receipt of price. Address,
            BARCLAY PUBLISHING HOUSE, 610 Arch Street, Philadelphia.
         
         
            
            
               
                  Alice Dunbar, whilst in male attire, is seized by an infuriated mob of
                     Lynchers, and hanged to a tree.
               
            
         
      
   
