
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Chronicles of the "Great Peace Jubilo" .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6050 wright2-0522A
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               PRICE, TEN CENTS.
               THE CHRONICLES OF THE "GREAT PEACE JUBILO."
            
         
         
            
               "Let us have peace."
            
         
         
            
               BOSTON:
               
                  NEW ENGLAND NEWS COMPANY,
                  
41 COURT STREET,
Sole Agents for the Publisher.

               
            
            1869.
         
         
         
            
            PRICE, TEN CENTS.
            
               THE CHRONICLES OF THE "GREAT PEACE JUBILO."
            
            
               
                  "Let us have peace."
               
            
            
               BOSTON:
               NEW ENGLAND NEWS COMPANY, 
                     41 COURT STREET,
                     Sole Agents for the Publisher.
                  
               
            
            1869.
            
            
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1860, by J. BROWN. In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts.
               
                  Rockwell & Churchill, Printers
                  122 Washington St.
               
            
         
          
      
      
         
            The Chronicles of the "Great Peace Jubilo"
            CHRONICLES OF THE PEACE JUBILO.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               IT came to pass in the first year of the reign of Ulysses, son of Jesse, that one Gil More, chief musician and leader of the band of Hubites, conceived the idea of holding an immense "Peace Festival."
               A great war between the North and South had long caused streams of blood to flow throughout the land; but union being restored, the noble heart of Gil More was well-nigh bursting with grateful enthusiasm. So he said, "Let all the nation, including New Jersey and Connecticut, hold carnival. Let the chief singers and players,—all fifers and fiddlers and blowers,—all bands throughout Columbia,—join their glad strains. For," thought he, "ought not every creature; from the 'isles of the sea' to the Connecticut Valley, and from Dixie's Land to the North Pole, to blend their hands and voices in one mammoth Jubilee?"
               Whereupon this one Gil More did launch his ideal barque upon the ocean of public opinion, and after the sea-sickness of first disappointments, and the tempest-tossings of rebuke from unappreciative and unfeeling mortals, the noble vessel finally returned to him with victorious results and many a hearty God-speed.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               The seeming "wise men of Gotham," rich in lands and stores and merchandise, listened to the project of a "Jubilee," but turned their "deaf ears" to any plea for its being rendered within the limits of their glorious city! 
               Then thought Gil More, "I will return to the land of the Hubites. There are wealth, culture, refinement, artistic and musical taste, such as no other country can boast of. There the strong, the brave, the noble, the enterprising, the poor in spirit but proud in name, will help forward this gigantic and soul-inspiring "Festival of Peace."
               Now the Gothamites being a mighty race, with long heads, but longer purses, thought all wonderful things to merit world-wide reputation must originate in their brain, and be set forth within their boundaries. (But it was not so to be this time!)
               The men of Athens, moved to the very depths of their beings, and to the depths of their pockets, did gather round Gil More, and voted that he should blow his trumpet from their historic heights, and that the Athenians should have all the glory of instrument and song. They looked with most benignant expression one upon another, saying, with characteristic istic complacency, "Is not our dominion the very 'hub' of the universe? Besides, did not we and the brethren upon our borders go forth first to battle? And did not our brave men, who survived musket and sword, return, bearing the sheaves of peace with them?"
               Old Plymouth Rock and Bunker Hill towered more loftily than ever in the minds of patriotic Athenians; and the oldest families of "Beacon Hill," and "State House Highlands," said, "Let us have peace,—and the 'Peace Jubilee' upon our broad 'Common.'"
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               And it came to pass, when certain men among the Hubites found out that Gil More and his friends were planning to build their structure upon the Common, they became exceedingly wroth, and they said, loudly, "We will not allow our beautiful green, sacred in the hearts of modern pilgrims, and beautiful to the eyes of our entire Commonwealth, to be thus sacrileged and injured by building committees, and so much tramping upon the grass. Others cried out, "No; our children and grandchildren with their posterity inherit this promised land.
               "They shall possess it for their hunting-ground. They shall fish in its ponds, and drink in its fountains. We will have no immense tabernacle, with surrounding shanties for the vending of refreshments and small wares, to cover our beautiful and majestic green."
               Therefore, the council-men, and aldermen, and music-men, and followers of Gil More, turned away from the frog-pond and the croakers, and lifting their eyes upward said, "We will possess the 'new land,' and Saint James Park shall be the beloved spot where peace and song shall be proclaimed." Then the architects and builders were summoned, and the lumber made ready.
               Then the singers and players were invited, and they became merry.
               Then said Gil More, "The many thousand voices, forming a stupendous chorus, shall be kept in tune by our worthy Tour Jay. And all players upon the viol shall be led by O Lee Bull. The great organ shall have 1,011 pipes, and be acted upon by Billy Cox. Besides, our queen of song shall be Pay Rep Perr, and Addie Fill Lips shall give the minor solos."
               Now, while the voices of the multitude were being put in tune, and all the stringed and wind instruments were being waxed and oiled and prepared for the great blowing and bowing and fingering, the builders and master-workmen were busy at St. James Park erecting the spacious structure wherein thousands from the ends of the earth and Chicago should assemble to hail the "year of Jubilee."
               The Athenians being a classic race, well versed in poetry and public libraries, and having many savans and men skilled  in arts, sciences, and music,—besides as the selections to be rendered during the Festival were from the "old masters,"—it was thought fitting that the classic name of "Coliseum" should be given to the famous building.
               And it came to pass after many days that the Coliseum neared its completion; and after the space of two months and fifteen days it was ready for the actors and for the lookers-on.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               The Coliseum being completed, and the preparation days having ended, all things were ready, and all the tribes were eager; to enter upon the glorious fete.
               Gil More proudly led the entire musical forces into the Ark of Peace.
               Then did Tour Jay, and Ice Berg, and Sir Rann take to their choruses, while Dodworth, of the Gothamites, led his band, and thousands of performers upon all known, and some unknown instruments, from the north, south, east, and west, filled up "the spaces."
               Now, the first day of this grand Jubilee was, to the minds of all Hubites, a "perfect success."
               Such an influx of people from all parts of the globe surprised even "the oldest inhabitant."
               Races and tribes of all colors and sizes, including many carpet-baggers and baby-carriers, came to Athens, some with doughnuts in hand, others with "dough faces," as soon as the day dawned, saying, "Let us have peace!"
               In one little alley, it was said, "forty thieves" were congregated; and several of the race known as pickpockets had their attention arrested by the near view of tombs and station-houses.
               This, with the exception of a few rogues (for the Hubites were a good-ly race, objecting to immoral pursuits, and always punishing the guilty), is all we have to chronicle as disturbing the public peace.
               Many brethren from Chelsea, Dorchester Heights, and all the surrounding villages, besides the natives of the "sunny South," African tribes, Hoosiers, and Californians, did gather at the Coliseum, and drink their fill from the Apollonian fountains.
               And it came to pass, when all the men and women were seated in the building which the Hubites had erected, they were Ha(i)led by the chaplain of the house, and afterward treated to Rice.
               Then did the "full chorus" burst upon the ears of an astonished multitude.
               Then followed many soul-stirring strains from soloists and instrumentalists, until hours had fled and the performances were no more.
               Thus did end the first day of the Carnival val of Peace; and all proclaimed it a grand success.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               The second day was like unto the first, only more so!
               The chief ruler over the entire land was expected to enliven the scene.
               This man, Ulysses, the son of Jesse,  had been mighty in battle, and had won  many laurels; therefore the voice of the  land had called him to be king, and bade him dwell under the shadow of the capitol.
               All the chiefs and patriarchs of the Athenian republic escorted, in triumphal procession, from the borders of their domain, Ulysses first to the banqueting house of St. James.
               Then did they bring him to the hall of the lawgivers and present him to the Sanhedrim.
               After the usual salutations and hand-shakings, this great warrior and ruler of the people did make (as is his custom) a lengthy oration in praise of the purity and incorruptibility of the legislators and detectives of this noble branch of the republic.
               After imbibing a glass of Cochituate water and feeling refreshed, he left the "Jewell" of "the House," and was drawn by six horses to the point where he was to inspect the chief Butler and six thousand of his "co-patriots in arms."
               Now permission had been Grant-ed to this Ulysses, son of Jesse, to be one at the Jubilee, for he had said, "Let us have peace."
               Therefore, upon the second day of this memorable occasion, did the chief ruler appear. Music was in his sole, but he had little "ear." So he sat unmoved until the heavy tones of the "anvil chorus" compelled him to "beat a retreat." Then did Ulysses retire to his tent enjoying the calumet of peace, surrounded by his worshipful subjects.
               Thus did the second day's performance end in smoke.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               The sun rose most gloriously on the morning of the third day's performance.
               Such crowds did press against the Coliseum, that, had it been built of ordinary  stuff, the house would have fallen in fragments.
               No "standing up" or outside seats could  be procured, though some of the Hubites and representatives of other tribes did offer their gold and silver in large sums for the great privilege of entering within the musical arena.
               New Bedfordites were compelled to  return to their whales, for "the elephant" they could not see, though some, more brave than their brethren, did wait over for the next day's chance.
               Multitudes went away sorrowing because they could not hear the chorus with anvils, while others wept profoundly because they couldn't get "Hail Columbia!"
               Truly was this a great day among the Hubites, and to the inhabitants of Pigville more so. For Bunker Hill, with its battle memories, did cause many troops to "shoulder their muskets," and many fifers and drummers to "turn out" their toes.
               The dwellers of Pigville and the coasts thereof, the men, women, and children of the Commonwealth, besides the incomers from foreign ports, all that could not squeeze into the Coliseum, did gather to make "festive" the scene and celebrate an anniversary of "the Battle of Bunker Hill." The "big organ," the peculiar pride of the Hubites, did peal forth its strains of patriotism, and almost deafened the rural sight-seers who sat within old Music Hall, with eyes and ears wide open to catch their money's worth.
               The booming of cannon, the ringing of bells, the parade of troops, the exhibition of double-headed woman and five-footed cattle, the "baby show," the grinding of hand-organs and monkeys, the display of "Humpty Dumpty" and Lingard, added to the effective performances of the third day's jubilee.
               But "the ball" did not fully "open" until "the shades of night were falling fast."
               
                  I.
                  At midnight, in St. James' Park, 
                  Merrily sped the hours;
                  Round the Col'seum all was dark,
                  Within how bright the flow'rs! 
                  In crowds they came, the brave, the fair,
                  Eager to dance and sing,
                  Eager to drive away dull care,
                  So light upon the wing.
               
               
                  II.
                  They danced, the gay ones, long and well,
                  Until the dawn of day; 
                  They flirted much, but dared not tell
                  The love that would hold sway. 
                  Gil More, the hero of queen hearts,
                  Did gain so much encore!
                  If others failed he played his parts,—
                  So all could him adore.
               
               
                  III.
                  All hailed the glorious Jubilee
                  Of Peace throughout the land;
                  All cheered the noble Gil More
                  And his most perfect band.
                  From all glad hearts and voices
                  Went forth one hymn of praise,
                  Which swelled the mighty choruses
                  All through the festal days.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               Many poor unfortunates, who were unable to gain access to the Coliseum on the third day, tossed restlessly upon their couches, and in their midnight visions rising to secure their longed-for "standing seats," found their hopes dashed, themselves selves floored, and their chorus a "miserere."
               How gladly did the Hubites who had failed, as yet, to get any of the Jubilee, and the remnant of other tribes, greet the first rays of the fourth day's morning light!
               How quickly did they clothe themselves, and with what energy and enthusiasm did they rush to the breakfast rooms for "baked beans and brown bread"!
               After hours of waiting, being "too full for utterance," they went forth to St. Joachim's to spend a dollar!
               While strangers and foreigners were tramping about "the Hub," feasting their eyes upon Faneuil Hall, the Old State Hose, Joy's Building, the Brewer Fountain, Ether Monument, Salom's Bazaar, and Houghton's, all the choristers of country towns who had so faithfully drilled their little bands to the classical airs of "Captain Jinks," "Up in our Balloon," and "On the Beach at Long Branch," gathered at the Coliseum to rehearse unitedly the grand symphonies of Beat Hoven, Meddle Some, and Hand Well.
               And it came to pass that forty thousand souls were crowded in the great audience-room that day, at the third hour, to see and to be seen, to hear and to be heard.
               In the midst of the vast assembly were many of the nation's lawgivers and capitol-men.
               Upon the luxurious sofas of green sat the defiant Sumner, the conscientious Wilson, Banks the general, Claflin the governor, and Peabody the banker.
               Now, upon this day, Gil More refused to give the people "the great chorus, with anvils," notwithstanding many voices from the balconies above and the parquette below did vehemently insist upon having this striking music.
               Now, the performances being ended with the "Hallelujah Chorus," the people walked to and fro, examining the numerous paintings, devices, mottoes, and general eral decorations; and as they passed through the corridors of the audience-room into the outer saloons, they did all cast one "last fond look" behind at "the Angel of Peace."
               All the wealthy races, having spare change, did invest in black-walnut medallions, purchasing those with such faces carved thereon as would bring vividly to mind the "head singers" and players.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               Now, it was a well-established fact all through the universe that the Hubites had the best institutions of learning "pro bono publico" that could be found in the heavens above, the earth beneath, or the waters under the earth.
               This fifth day of jubilee was to furnish practical proof to the amusement-seekers, that the little sons and daughters of Athens, trudging up "the hill of science," could turn aside and make such melody within the Coliseum as the heathen from New Jersey had never heard.
               So it came to pass that ten thousand little dears gathered at St. James Park, and with merry voices did shout "Hail Columbia" most affectingly!
               Let it be here recorded that the fond fathers and mothers were not "backward in coming forward" to listen to the bold voices of their little "Toms, Dicks, and Harrys," and to see the effect of white dresses and Roman sashes upon Minnie, Jessie, and Clara, who were to occupy the "front seats."
               Moreover, let it be said that the juvenile world had never experienced such crimping, curling, and frizzing of albino locks; and those children who evinced no such barber-ous treatment had met with "hair-breadth escapes"!
               The fifth day waxed warmer than the preceding ones, and the little Hubites, singing their "melting lays," would have grown beautifully less, had not an Ice Berg been before them.
               The oldest and most aristocratic families of Athens enjoyed the music, as well as the learning, of the schools; and were compelled to admit that public institutions could bring forth as much knowledge, as much poetry and song, as their favorite Chester Park, Park Street, or Hall of Chauncey Schools.
               The wealthy, the proud, the royal-born natives did say, "Let us join hands with our brethren, poorer, more humble, but of respectable parentage," and cause our realm to be more democratic.
               Let one important fact be here chronicled, namely, that on of the most distinguished Athenian dames, renowned for her patriotism and philanthropy, her good words and works, was invited to the entire week's Jubilee, without paying a cent!
               Also, one venerable Mason, "free" indeed, if not in name, was requested to be present on the same terms.
               Let the names of Lowell Mason and Mrs. Harrison Gray Otis, with those of Washington and Lincoln, long live in the hearts of our country-men.
            
            
               FINIS.
               The chronicles of St. Jubilo are ended.
               If facts have been omitted which should have been recorded, let other Saints take up their quills and complete these imperfect chapters.
               As for "the Hub," may its shadow never be less, nor its hand-organs and monkeys more numerous.
               The last words of "Jubilo" are, "Let us have peace."
            
         
      
   
