
    ----CITATION----
        Cooke, John Esten, (1830-1886). Her Majesty the Queen .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6147 wright2-0617
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
               A NOVEL.
            
            BY JOHN ESTEN COOKE, AUTHOR OF "DOCTOR VANDYKE," "SURRY
               OF EAGLE'S NEST," "THE VIRGINIA COMEDIANS," ETC.
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
            
            1873.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, by J. B. LIPPINCOTT
                  & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.
               LIPPINCOTT'S PRESS,
               PHILADELPHIA.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               BOOK I.
               I.—Cecil Court. 5
               
               II.—My Adventure at Wendover. 11
               
               III.—The Lady of Wendover again. 14
               
               IV.—How Harry had come to drive a Coach all the Way to Scotland. 19
               
               V.—I enter the Queen's Guards. 24
               
               VI.—Horses for France. 27
               
               VII.—What took place by Moonlight in Oatlands Park. 31
               
               VIII.—What a Pie contained. 36
               
               IX.—I go to Rosemary Lane, and meet with an Ugly Adventure. 39
               
               X.—A Terrible Personage. 44
               
               XI.—The Cavalier in Purple Velvet. 50
               
               XII.—The Little Queen. 53
               
               XIII.—My Traveling-Companion. 57
               
               XIV.—I make the Acquaintance of Mr. Cromwell. 62
               
               XV.—A Combat by Moonlight. 65
               
               XVI.—Sir Theodore Mayherne. 70
               
               XVII.—I visit a Gentleman afterwards famous throughout the World. 72
               
               XVIII.—A Moonlight Colloquy, and what followed it. 78
               
               XIX.—The Sting of an Insect. 83
               
               XX.—Good-by, Sweet-heart! 90
               
               XXI.—How I was compelled for a Time to take no further Part in Public Affairs.
                  95
               
               XXII.—The Portrait of Strafford. 100
               
               XXIII.—I return to Cecil Court. 105
               
            
            
            
               BOOK II.
               I.—Dreams at Cecil Court. 109
               
               II.—A Friend of the King. 114
               
               III.—A Friend of the Parliament. 117
               
               IV.—A Young Gentleman without Opinions of any Consequence. 122
               
               V.—I am conducted before Prince Rupert. 128
               
               VI.—Swords and Plumes at Cecil Court. 135
               
               VII.—Brothers. 141
               
               VIII.—I visit the Hague. 144
               
               IX.—A Good Wife. 147
               
               X.—My Fate. 151
               
            
            
               BOOK III.
               I.—The Adventures of a Queen. 155
               
               II.—A Female General. 160
               
               III.—Harry and I. 167
               
               IV.—I go with Lord Falkland to his House of Great Tew. 173
               
               V.—The Last Greeting. 178
               
               VI.—Chalgrove. 181
               
               VII.—Newbury. 188
               
               VIII.—I meet with an Old Acquaintance in Disguise. 194
               
               IX.—Angel and Pigmy. 199
               
            
            
               BOOK IV.
               I.—Bedford House in Exeter. 204
               
               II.—I am sent with a Flag to Lord Essex. 211
               
               III.—Lord Essex. 213
               
               IV.—The Fate of a Queen. 218
               
               V.—The Courage of a Woman. 227
               
               VI.—My Promise. 232
               
               VII.—The Last Hope of the King and of the Cecils. 237
               
               VIII.—Back to Cecil Court. 242
               
               IX.—I go to Charlecote and meet with an Adventure. 244
               
               X.—The Flight from Charlecote. 249
               
               XI.—On the Highway. 256
               
               XII.—My Parting with Frances Villiers. 259
               
            
            
               BOOK V.
               I.—On the Bridge near Holmby House. 262
               
               II.—Tailor turned Soldier. 265
               
               III.—The Escape from Hampton Court. 268
               
               IV.—Carisbrooke Castle. 275
               
               V.—Eikon Basilike. 278
               
               VI.—The Plan of Escape. 281
               
               VII.—The Hour at Last. 285
               
               VIII.—The Scene at Westminster Hall. 290
               
               IX.—The Hammering. 298
               
               X.—The Walk to Whitehall. 303
               
               XI.—The Execution. 308
               
               XII.—So went the King white to his Grave. 312
               
               XIII.—An Old Cavalier of the King. 315
               
               XIV.—The House beside the Highway. 319
               
               XV.—Home Again. 322
               
               XVI.—A Friend in Need, and Indeed. 323
               
               XVII.—Virginia. 328
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Her majesty the queen
            
            HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
            
               BOOK I.
               
                  I. CECIL COURT.
                  MY life has been so restless and adventurous that I go back with delight to my
                     early years, spent at the old home of my family in Warwickshire, England.
                  Cecil Court was a peaceful, charming old place, on the banks of the Avon,
                     low-pitched, built of brick, with Elizabethan windows, a flower-decorated
                     terrace, and approached by a broad avenue overshadowed by lofty elms. You
                     entered a large hall running from front to rear, with a winding staircase on
                     the right, the balustrade, like the wainscoting, of heavy oak, carved and
                     darkened by age. On the right was the sitting-room, with polished oak floor,
                     tall-backed chairs, a wide fireplace with huge old andirons, a tall
                     mantelpiece, and a dozen portraits on the walls. This apartment was, properly
                     speaking, the dining-room, the drawing-rooms occupying the opposite wing, but
                     in progress of time it had come to be used as the sitting-room, and our old
                     neighbors invariably went thither unannounced to find my father. On the second
                     floor were the chambers, which were
                     numerous and furnished in the style of the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
                  The family estate was by no means large, consisting indeed of but a few
                     hundreds of acres, cultivated by two or three old tenants, grown gray-headed on
                     the place. My father had never given his assent, however, to any diminution of
                     the size of the old Cecil Court park,—an extensive chase of the freshest and
                     greenest turf, dotted with century oaks, beneath which the cattle grazed
                     undisturbed, and a few deer wandered, tame and confiding. Seen from a distance,
                     through the waving foliage of its great trees, Cecil Court was a peaceful and
                     attractive picture. On the right, beyond a green hillock, gleamed the still
                     waters of a pond and the dancing waves of a little stream. The sylvan scene was
                     calm and friendly, and you would have said that life here was as tranquil and
                     serene as the slow movement of the white clouds floating over the blue sky.
                  Our household was small, consisting only of my father, my elder brother Harry,
                     my younger sister Cicely, an old housekeeper, and a few old servants, whose
                     heads had turned white in the service of the family, and who performed their
                     duties with the regularity and more than the silence of machines. I often think
                     now that a large part of the happiness of human beings depends upon the
                     possession of such silent old household attendants. Never a word was uttered
                     nor an order given. Comfort, kindness, and silence reigned, and the exact wine
                     my father wished was placed at his elbow, without a word addressed to the old
                     major-domo waiting, calm and silent, behind his chair.
                  Do not fancy from this picture, worthy reader, that the Cecils were very
                     well-to-do in the world. We had barely enough; and although the country-people
                     called my father "the Squire," and took off their hats to him with the
                     profoundest deference, that was more a tribute to his kindly nature, which made
                     all love him, than to his possessions. The estate had once been very large, but
                     had dwindled away. Still, we had enough to live upon as gentlefolks, and my
                     father's fondness for reading and study caused him to forget the narrowness of
                     his fortunes. He was a very tall and distinguished-looking person, with long
                     gray hair, which he powdered and tied with a ribbon, a broad and lofty
                     forehead, blue eyes full of candor and simplicity, and lips wearing habitually
                     a smile of great sweetness. His dress was plain, but about his whole appearance
                     there was an air of grace and distinction which never changed. His manner was
                     the same to a peer of the realm and to a plowman,—his bow to the last as
                     courteous as to the first. In a word, good reader, my father was a gentleman of
                     extreme pride, simplicity, and naturalness,—thought himself, I dare say, as
                     good as the peer, and perhaps in many things no better than the plowman.
                  I do not remember my dear mother, who died in my infancy, taking away with her,
                     people said, much of the sunshine of my father's life,—for to the last they
                     were more like young lovers than old married people. For her, my father kept
                     his courtliest bows and his sweetest smiles. The great aim of his life seemed
                     to be to make her happy; and when she died, the old neighbors said that he went
                     about as though he had lost something
                     without which he could not live. This, however, was before my time, and when I
                     first remember him my father had regained his calmness, at least. His smile was
                     full of sadness, but of great sweetness too, as I have said. Once I found him
                     in tears, gazing at a withered flower my dear mother had given him upon their
                     wedding-day; but such evidences of emotion were infrequent. I recall him now,
                     most clearly, sitting in his great arm-chair, reading a folio containing the
                     dramas of his friend and neighbor Mr. Shakspeare, whom he knew in his own
                     younger days, and esteemed highly.
                  A few words will introduce my brother Harry and my sister Cicely. Harry was a
                     year or two my senior, a brave, handsome youth, full of sunshine and gayety,
                     who had hunted every fox in the county from his boyhood, and ended by entering
                     that select company of young gentlemen, the Queen's Guardsmen, at Hampton
                     Court. In doing so, he had consulted both his own wishes and his love for me.
                     The revenues of Cecil Court were insufficient to send us both to Oxford, and,
                     as I was destined for the law, Harry declared that I should go, he becoming a
                     guardsman. I accordingly went to Oxford, and Harry to London,—I became a
                     fellow-commoner of Baliol College, and he a gay young gallant. When this
                     history opens, I had just returned to Cecil Court, and Harry was in the
                     Guards.
                  Of Cicely, my little sister, I shall say nothing at this time, and scarce more
                     of that important personage, the writer of these memoirs. The said gentleman,
                     Edmund Cecil by name, was a country youth who fancied himself a great
                     philosopher; liberal in politics, but a monarchist for all that, and by no
                     means pleased with the near prospect of becoming a denizen of the Inns of Court
                     at London. It would have pleased him far better to have remained at Cecil Court
                     in idleness,—reading, dreaming, wandering about the old park, and shaping
                     cloud-castles for his own entertainment. He was, in truth, a most useless and
                     incapable person, content to let the current waft him, without using his oars,
                     and asking only silence and liberty to peruse the pages of Mr. William
                     Shakspeare, for whom he had inherited his father's fondness.
                  Such a life was impossible, however; and one day my father informed me that he
                     had made every arrangement for my entrance at the Inns of Court. My lodgings
                     had been engaged in Essex Court, with young Master John Evelyn, and nothing now
                     prevented me from commencing the study of my future profession.
                  "'Tis the best career I can think of for my boy," my father said, with his
                     sweet smile, now filled with tenderness. "Cecil Court goes to Harry, but
                     perchance you will be Chief Justice some day, my son. So take the old sword
                     yonder,—every gentleman should wear a sword,—the best horse in the stable, and
                     Dick the hostler will ride with you to London."
                  My heart sank at the very phrase "Inns of Court," but there was some
                     consolation in that magical word "London."
                  "I will be ready at daylight, sir," I said, taking my father's hand and kissing
                     it.
                  "That is well, my boy; and I need give you few counsels. Be a good man, my
                     dear; be honest and true. Study hard; for remember 'tis the educated brain that rules the world. Avoid as far as
                     possible the political commotions just beginning; for neither on the king's
                     side nor the parliament's is the full right. The Cecils must be of the royal
                     party, if the issue comes; but his majesty construes his prerogative far too
                     liberally for my views. With him you must side nevertheless, if honor will let
                     you, and you side with either. But remember that the Cecil honor is above and
                     before all,—even that of the king, who is, after all, but the first gentleman
                     of his kingdom."
                  My father stopped, and laid his hand upon my head.
                  "God bless my boy!" he said, in a faltering voice; and, turning away, he went
                     out of the room, leaving me in tears.
                  At daylight I set out for London. The whole household had assembled to bid me
                     good-by, and the old servants uttered many earnest blessings, for in their eyes
                     I was yet but a child. Then my father pressed my hand closely, Cicely put her
                     arms around my neck and kissed me, her face wet with tears, I mounted, waved my
                     hand, and, followed by joyous Dick the hostler, went forth into the future.
                  My father stood on the old porch until I was out of sight. Reaching an eminence
                     distant half a mile from the hall, it again appeared, and my dear father was
                     standing there still. My heart went back to him, and to all the familiar
                     localities I was bidding farewell to. With something strange in my throat which
                     seemed about to choke me, I gazed long from the hill on the fields and forests
                     of my childhood; then, turning my horse's head, I set forward at a gallop,—Dick
                     the hostler made his best effort to keep up with me,—and Cecil Court
                     disappeared from my eyes.
                  I was afloat upon the surge of that ocean which is called the great world.
               
               
                  II. MY ADVENTURE AT WENDOVER.
                  AS though to indicate the adventurous character of the career I was to run, a
                     singular incident befell me on this the first day of my journey.
                  But first I will attempt, reader, to present you with an outline of myself as I
                     thus went forth from the family nest,—a callow fledgeling, scarce winged as
                     yet,—gazing around me eagerly on the fertile lands, on the old minsters and
                     castles, and the fields so soon to be trampled.
                  The Edmund Cecil who thus rode to seek his fortune, was a youth of
                     twenty-three, slight, active, with brown eyes, and hair of the same color; and
                     he wore a dark cloth riding-habit, chamois boots, a hat with a black feather,
                     and the old family sword clattering against his hunting-spurs. A downy mustache
                     and royale, after the fashion of the time,
                     set off the face,—a face in which, I think, hope and happiness must have shone;
                     for the youth found something charming in the idea of London, whither he was
                     going, and bestrode with delight his favorite hunter from the Cecil Court
                     stables. There were not many there now; the Cecils were poor; but what was
                     poverty to the young knight-errant
                     errant? Youth was stronger,—youth, the source of nearly every joy; to return to
                     which to-day, when my pulse rarely throbs, I would give all the experience and
                     wisdom I have since acquired! Experience? Wisdom? The tints of autumn are
                     charming, and the sunset is of solemn beauty; but spring is sweeter than
                     autumn, the dawn fresher than evening! My old age is happy, and I am content
                     with it. But oh for the curls and roses, the eye and pulse, of twenty!
                  I passed Aylesbury, in Buckinghamshire, and slept at the Cat and
                     Bagpipes, an inn in the small town of Wendover. I had just descended at
                     sunrise, and was about to resume my journey, when a traveling-carriage, coming
                     from the north and drawn by four spirited horses, rattled up to the door, and
                     through the window I caught sight of an exquisite face. It was that of a young
                     lady apparently about twenty, her countenance half concealed by a cloak and
                     hood. I could still discern its outlines, however; and its rare beauty was
                     unmistakable. The cheeks were rosy, the eyes large and earnest, the lips mild
                     and full of a charming innocence and sweetness. Such was the occupant of the
                     coach,—a woman, evidently her attendant, being the sole other person
                     visible.
                  he coach stopped, and the driver leaped down.
                  "Fresh horses for London!" he cried to the portly landlord, who had hastened
                     out.
                  At the sound of that voice I started, and my whole attention was now
                     concentrated upon the speaker. He was a mere coachman, at least in
                     costume,—huge overall, plain beaver, a handkerchief bundled around his throat,
                     and heavy top-boots. I went closer, and looked under the low hat. The coachman
                     was my brother Harry, of the Queen's Guardsmen!
                  Our eyes met, and he turned quickly, endeavoring to conceal his face. I began
                     to laugh, and called out,—
                  "Don't you know me, Harry?"
                  Thereat the supposed coachman turned, and whispered,—
                  "'Ware hawks, Ned!—on secret service for her majesty!"
                  He said no more, but went to the coach and seemed to propose that the young
                     lady should breakfast therein; for, in compliance with a rapid order, food was
                     brought, and she ate hastily.
                  Meanwhile fresh horses were rapidly attached; the postilion mounted; Harry
                     cracked his whip with the air of a born Jehu, and the carriage set off, the
                     horses going at a gallop.
                  Harry had carefully avoided a private interview. He had simply whispered, in
                     passing me,—
                  "I will see you in London."
                  Ten minutes afterwards, the carriage had disappeared over the crest of a hill,
                     leaving me standing in the middle of the street gazing after it.
                  I hastened to follow; but it was half an hour before I got to saddle. I then
                     rode on rapidly, but did not catch up with the carriage. It had disappeared
                     like a dream,—a visionary equipage drawn by phantom horses.
               
               
                  
                  III. THE LADY OF WENDOVER AGAIN.
                  LONDON was visible, as I approached, from a great distance, with its canopy of
                     smoke; and I cantered gayly into the famous city, making my way, after
                     inquiries of wayfarers, towards Essex Court, where my lodgings had been
                     engaged.
                  In front of the palace of Whitehall, with which I was familiar from one other
                     visit in my boyhood to London, a very great crowd had assembled. So dense was
                     the mass of human beings that I pushed my horse through it with difficulty,
                     followed by Dick the hostler; and the appearance of this crowd was singular. It
                     consisted, apparently, of apprentices of the various trades in the City, their
                     hair cut extremely short; and almost all carried in their hands staves upon
                     which were placards bearing the word "Liberty." The great mass of human beings
                     uttered vociferous cries, and kept their eyes fixed upon the palace, in front
                     of which I now saw a long row of carriages drawn up, with the royal arms upon
                     the panels.
                  "What is the cause of this excitement, sir?" I said to a burly individual
                     standing near me.
                  "The tyrant is about to fly with his family, and we are come to stop him," was
                     the stern reply.
                  "The tyrant, sir?" I said.
                  "Others call him Charles the First of England."
                  "Good heavens, sir!" I exclaimed, "'tis not possible that violence is meant by
                     his majesty's faithful subjects to his person and his family!"
                  My interlocutor looked fixedly at me, and, tightening the grasp on his stick,
                     was apparently about to take the offensive, when a great wave bore him ten feet
                     from me. A hand caught my bridle, and my horse was thrown on his haunches. A
                     moment afterwards, hoof-strokes were heard: a detachment of the king's
                     bodyguard pushed their horses through the crowd, the procession of coaches
                     filled with ladies followed, and another detachment brought up the rear.
                  I had been swept away, still on horseback, by the great wave, and was looking
                     at the carriages, when I recognized in one of them the face of the young lady
                     whom I had encountered at Wendover. She was clad in velvet and laces now, and
                     was even more beautiful. I was gazing at the calm, proud face, conscious of
                     little save her very great loveliness, when a man rushed up to the coach,—it
                     was my burly friend with the staff,—thrust the "Liberty" placard into the young
                     lady's face, and uttered some words apparently of insult; for the calm face
                     quickly flushed. This proceeding enraged me; and, leaping to the ground, I
                     grasped the person guilty of this indignity by one of his ears, dragging him
                     violently back. He uttered a yell of anger at this unceremonious assault,
                     turned, and caught me by the throat; and, although I had drawn and directed my
                     sword's point towards his breast, I was about to be dragged down and trampled
                     under foot by the crowd, when a voice near me cried,—
                  "Hold hard, Ned! We are coming."
                  
                  It was the voice of Harry, who rode at the head of the detachment of horse in
                     rear.
                  "You will please allow me to pass, good people," he said, in his loud, hearty
                     voice. "I don't want to ride against anybody; and, as this gentleman is my
                     brother——"
                  He pushed at my big opponent, struck him with his horse's chest, and drew me,
                     hot and furious, towards him.
                  "'Ware hawks, Ned!" he said, laughing. "There's Dick brandishing his arms and
                     holding your horse. Mount, and fall in with the Guards! or I think these
                     worthies will eat you up!"
                  Dick had pushed through and reached my side, still clinging to my horse's
                     bridle. I threw myself into the saddle, and took my place in the line,—Dick
                     imitating me. No further violence was offered any one; and an hour afterwards
                     the procession of coaches, containing, as I now ascertained, the queen, the
                     royal family, and maids of honor, issued from London.
                  Then I saw rising before me the imposing walls of Hampton Court; the procession
                     passed through the park; the Guards were drawn up in a double line, and between
                     these walls of silk, plumes, and steel, the queen and the rest entered the
                     palace.
                  I was looking with interest and admiration upon the bevy of beautiful young
                     ladies as they passed in and disappeared, when the voice of Harry beside me
                     said,—
                  "What was the trouble about yonder, Ned?"
                  I told him all.
                  "Oho! Well, that's like a Cecil! And it was the fair Miss Frances Villiers
                     whose knight you became,"
                  "Is her name Frances Villiers?"
                  "Yes; her Majesty's favorite maid of honor."
                  "Well, I think I did right, Harry——"
                  "You won the right to enter the guards of her majesty; and I'll apply for your
                     appointment before I sleep, Ned. Come on! follow me to the guardroom."
               
               
                  IV. HOW HARRY HAD COME TO DRIVE A COACH ALL THE WAY TO SCOTLAND.
                  THE guard-room at Hampton Court was an apartment of large extent, with tables
                     against the wall beneath the tall windows, and around these tables a number of
                     the gay young gallants of the Guards were already engaged at dice,—laughing,
                     jesting, and exchanging comments on the events of the morning.
                  Harry had just made me acquainted with some of his friends,—and I could see at
                     a glance that he was a favorite with the mercurial young gentlemen of the
                     Guards,—when an usher entered, glided to him, and spoke in a low tone.
                  "Wait here, Ned," he said. "I am sent for." And taking his gray beaver, with
                     its floating plume, he followed the usher.
                  He was absent for a quarter of an hour, during which time the guard-room
                     resounded with jests, laughter, the rattle of dice, and the clatter of flagons
                     on the tables. I was gazing at this animated scene, when Harry touched me on the shoulder, made a sign to me
                     to follow him, and, leading the way, conducted me through a long corridor to
                     the left wing of the palace.
                  "You are about to enjoy the satisfaction of being thanked for your chivalric
                     gallantry, Ned, by the prettiest pair of lips at the court of England," said my
                     brother, laughing. "Come on! Be firm, but determined; modest, but devoted!"
                  And, still with his gay laugh, Harry opened a door, beyond which, in a small
                     but richly-decorated apartment, I saw seated the young lady of the inn at
                     Wendover.
                  "I have the honor of presenting my brother Edmund, Miss Villiers," Harry said,
                     bowing low, with his plume trailing on the floor. "He begs to assure you of his
                     very profound respect." And Harry discreetly fell back.
                  The young lady inclined her head graciously, in response to my low bow, and I
                     observed in her bearing the same air of calmness and repose. Nothing seemed to
                     shake this singular serenity.
                  "I fear you make quite a court ceremony of this interview with a simple maid of
                     honor, Mr. Cecil," she said to Harry; and it is impossible to conceive anything
                     sweeter and calmer than the accents of her voice. Raising her great, limpid
                     eyes to my face, she added, "Mr. Cecil has informed me that it was yourself to
                     whom I was indebted for assistance to-day, sir; and I thank you sincerely."
                  The beautiful girl abashed me. I could only bow low again, when Harry's gay
                     voice interposed.
                  "Ned is-overcome, Miss Villiers. In a word, accept the devotion of the Cecil
                     family at large; and should you kindly take us under your ladyship's
                     protection, secure my brother's appointment to a place in the Guards."
                  I could not protest that I was about to become one of the long-robe
                     fraternity,—to be frank, I was quite ashamed of the fact,—and, with a throb of
                     satisfaction, remained silent.
                  "Mr. Cecil wishes an appointment?" said Miss Villiers. "I am sure he may secure
                     that."
                  "He is discreet as well as brave," Harry said, quietly. "He saw and recognized
                     me at Wendover."
                  The young lady turned her head quickly, and a slight color came to her
                     face.
                  "I am sorry, sir," she said, somewhat stiffly. "I had hoped——"
                  "That no one save myself and her majesty was informed of that escapade? But
                     think, Miss Villiers, I alone was to blame."
                  He turned to me, and added, "This is the best time and place to inform you
                     frankly, Ned, of the meaning of that encounter. It is due to Miss Villiers, who
                     has not ceased to cherish sentiments of displeasure towards me. Know, then,
                     that Miss Villiers is confidential maid of honor to her majesty, and that her
                     devotion knows no bounds. Well, her majesty desired, recently, to send an oral
                     message to his majesty, who is in Scotland. The times are troubled and
                     dangerous; written communications are liable to be intercepted: in a word, Miss
                     Villiers offered to go to Scotland and convey the message in person. Am I
                     right, Miss Villiers? and have I your permission to proceed?"
                  
                  "Yes, sir," returned the young lady, with the slight color still in her cheeks.
                     "I even desire that Mr. Cecil shall be informed of the meaning of that singular
                     adventure."
                  "I see that your displeasure continues, madam," said Harry; "but I can only
                     submit. Pardon me, I pray you, for still speaking of you in your presence as
                     though you were absent."
                  He bowed, and went on, addressing himself to me.
                  "Her majesty accepted the offer of Miss Villiers, and it was arranged that she
                     should travel with a lady's maid only, but the coach was to be driven by an old
                     and trusted servitor. When it left London it was I, however, who drove, and for
                     a simple reason. A young lady would necessarily be exposed, traveling thus
                     alone, to peril; so I locked up the old servitor, mounted the seat of the
                     coach, and it was only when it had proceeded a day's journey, nearly, that Miss
                     Villiers perceived the ruse. I need not say that she was very angry, and
                     perhaps justly angry. But the die was cast; the message was pressing. The coach
                     continued its way, and beyond Doncaster the advantage of being driven by an
                     able-bodied young man in place of an infirm old servitor became apparent, did
                     it not, madam?"
                  And, with lurking enjoyment of his triumph in his handsome eyes, Harry turned
                     to the young lady.
                  "Continue, sir," she said.
                  "Footpads, Ned!" Harry said, laughing. "The coach was attacked. The coachman
                     heroically discharged his pistols and unhorsed one of the knights of the road;
                     the rest fled. The coach imitated them, and we reached Scotland, to return
                     speedily over the same ground London-ward. In traveling, no time was lost. The
                     coach was driven on day and night, as you may understand from the fact that we
                     reached Wendover as you were coming down to breakfast. Peste! as her majesty's French maids say, I have not yet caught
                     up with my lost sleep. I nod in the saddle, and snore while rattling the dice!
                     To conclude, Miss Villiers most generously made my peace with her majesty. I am
                     becoming a court favorite, they tell me; and after the assault of the footpads
                     I regained, and still enjoy, the luxury of a good conscience and an exalted
                     opinion of myself."
                  It was impossible to resist Harry's gayety. A smile came to Miss Villiers's
                     lips, and she said,—
                  "Mr. Cecil was born to be an advocate in the courts of law. He will end by
                     forcing me to thank him for locking up the queen's servitor."
                  "No, madam," said Harry, bowing low, and speaking with an earnestness in strong
                     contrast to his former levity; "I shall be content if you pardon a very
                     audacious escapade——"
                  As he uttered the words, an usher summoned Miss Villiers to attend the queen.
                     She rose, and for the first time I observed the queenly outline of her person.
                     There was something regal in her; a slight bend in her neck gave her appearance
                     an indescribable grace. She smiled faintly, inclined her head, and, gliding
                     rather than walking, disappeared.
                  "By heavens, she's a queen!" exclaimed Harry. "Come, Ned, and rest easy; from
                     this moment you are as good as one of her majesty's Guards: My pockets are full of gold; I make you a present
                     of your uniform! Long live her majesty—and her maids of honor!"
               
               
                  V. I ENTER THE QUEEN'S GUARDS.
                  I SHARED Harry's bed that night, and was waked by the trumpet sounding
                     reveillé.
                  The Guardsmen paraded in the court,—stiff, motionless, sitting their horses in
                     line, and answering gruffly to their names as the roll was called. The gay
                     gallants of the guard-room were turned to wooden figures; but at the order to
                     return to quarters they again broke forth into jests and laughter.
                  As Harry came in, his rapier rattling against his boots, I saw that he held a
                     paper in his hand.
                  "Here is what one of the queen's ushers has just brought, Ned," he said.
                  I looked at the paper; it was my appointment to a place in the queen's
                     Guards.
                  "You see Miss Villiers stands by her friends, Ned," said Harry. "Come and don
                     one of my old uniforms. From this moment you are a Guardsman!"
                  He laughed, and put his arm round my neck. Of all the faces I ever saw, Harry's
                     came nearest sunshine when he thus laughed.
                  The day passed in a round of excitement. I did not reflect upon the scant
                     respect paid my father in thus cavalierly turning my back on the profession for
                     which he had destined me. Had the eyes of Frances Villiers already worked their
                     magic on me? I know not; but I hailed the change in my destiny with delight.
                     Let me add here, as I shall pass soon to stirring events, that my dear father
                     manifested no displeasure at the unceremonious step thus taken, but sent me his
                     full approval; and I had no sooner received my appointment then I set about my
                     arrangements. These were speedily made. The tailor of the Guardsmen, in
                     Rosemary Lane, near the Tower, came and took my measure for my uniform,—in the
                     mean while I donned an old one of Harry's;—Dick the hostler declared his strong
                     wish to remain and attend to my horses, and so behold me suddenly a
                     full-fledged guardsman of the queen!
                  I was to commence my duties more speedily than I supposed. I had just entered
                     the guard-room, about noon, when Harry came in, and I could see that he was
                     angry.
                  "What is the matter?" I said.
                  He drew my arm through his own, and dragged me rather than led me out.
                  "The matter is insolence and cruelty, Ned!" he said, with a sort of growl
                     peculiar to him when anything moved him. "The crop-eared knaves in parliament
                     have insulted her majesty!"
                  "Insulted?"
                  "Judge! Here comes to-day a messenger with a paper from that rascal Pym and the
                     rest, that her majesty 'must surrender her young family into their hands during
                     the absence of the king, lest she should take an opportunity of making papists
                     of them.'"
                  
                  "And her majesty has replied?"
                  "That her sons were under tuition of their governors, who were not papists: she
                     obeyed the will of her husband that they should not be brought up in her
                     religion. And this is not all!"
                  "What more, Harry?"
                  "Secret information has just arrived that a parliamentary order has been sent
                     to a magistrate near Oatlands, where the royal family now are, to be ready with
                     a part of the militia in the park of the palace tonight,—where he would be
                     joined by a body of cavalry,—and await further orders."
                  "They mean to seize on the royal family!"
                  Harry burst out into such oaths as I will not record.
                  "At their peril!" he said. "I say no more now, but——"
                  The trumpet was heard without, sounding "Boots and Saddles," and the palace was
                     in commotion. Harry was hastening out, when an usher came in, looking rapidly
                     around.
                  "I am ordered to summon the first two gentlemen of the Guards I meet, to her
                     majesty's presence," he said.
                  "Come on, Ned!"
                  Harry was already rushing after the usher. I followed. We passed along a great
                     corridor, through a magnificent suite of apartments, then into an antechamber,
                     where, at a sign from the usher, Harry paused, while we were being
                     announced.
                  "Let them come in!" exclaimed a voice in a decided French accent.
                  A moment afterwards I had followed my brother into a large apartment richly
                     furnished and half filled with maids of honor, among whom stood a lady clad in
                     black, with a pallid face and piercing eyes. This lady, I heard, afterwards,
                     was the secret enemy of her majesty, Lady Carlisle.
                  In one corner, near a prie-dieu, stood a
                     father confessor in black robes. On the carpet gamboled a small black dog, the
                     famous Mitte, so intimately associated with her majesty's wanderings and
                     perils.
                  Lastly, at a table, where she wrote rapidly, sat the queen.
               
               
                  VI. HORSES FOR FRANCE.
                  HER majesty Queen Henrietta Maria—or "Mary," as King Charles and his followers
                     always called her—seemed to labor under great emotion.
                  She was a very beautiful person of about thirty, of an exquisite clear brunette
                     complexion, with glossy brown hair, and large black eyes which sparkled like
                     stars. It was impossible not to admire her extreme delicacy of features and the
                     noble and imposing air of her whole person. I am not skillful in costume, and
                     rarely recall what a human being wears, but I remember the rich brocade the
                     queen wore that day, the full lace ruffles, the little cape, called a berthe, I think, and the bodice finished around the
                     bosom and at the waist with a purple band. A string of pearls confined her magnificent brown hair; on her bosom
                     lay a cross suspended from a necklace: it was in this very costume, I think,
                     that she was drawn by the great painter Vandyke, and inspired in Mr. Edmund
                     Waller, the poet, the fine lines,— 
                        
                           "Beauty hath crown'd you, and you must have been
                           The whole world's mistress, other than a queen!"
                        
                      When I first saw "the whole world's mistress," on that autumn day at
                     Hampton Court, she was in a rage; the fine eyes flashed, and the clear brunette
                     face was crimson with anger.
                  "The messengers!" she said, without looking up, and continuing to write
                     rapidly.
                  The usher respectfully approached and uttered a few words. The queen raised her
                     head, and one of her slender and beautiful hands went rapidly and nervously to
                     the cross upon her bosom. She had opened her lips to speak, when a second usher
                     entered and asked an audience for some one whose name I did not hear.
                  "The magistrate! the very one! Admit him!" came from the queen, quickly.
                  The usher hastened out, and soon returned with a portly, red-faced justice, who
                     bowed low.
                  "I crave permission to lay this order before your majesty," said the justice.
                     "It is from the parliament, and directs me to summon the militia and patrol
                     Oatlands Park."
                  "Obey your order, sir!" exclaimed the queen.
                  "I must disobey your majesty. Nothing will ever induce me to obey any order
                     other than her own or the king's."
                  The queen rose with a brilliant flash of her proud eyes.
                  "Thanks, sir! thanks! His majesty shall know of this. But return and do exactly
                     what the parliament has dictated, and be tranquil. We shall further explain
                     this: at present return and obey your orders."
                  There was no room for reply. The magistrate left the apartment, and the queen
                     resumed her seat and wrote a few more lines.
                  "This to Lord Digby, in London," she said, extending a paper towards Harry, who
                     bowed low as he received it.
                  "This to its address," the queen added; and as she held out the paper her eyes
                     met my own.
                  I thought I heard at the same moment a faint murmur from Miss Villiers, who
                     stood near the queen.
                  "It is well; lose no time, Mr. Cecil."
                  I retired blushing with delight at this utterance of my name by the queen. She
                     was so beautiful as she sat there with that ring of rose-buds, her maids of
                     honor, around her, that the sternest Puritan, I think, would have flushed with
                     pleasure as I did.
                  Harry and myself left the court-yard at the same moment, at a gallop.
                  "Huzza for Queen Mary!" he cried, as he disappeared.
                  The note to Lord Digby, as I afterwards ascertained, contained an urgent
                     request that his lordship would muster his friends and proceed on that very
                     night to Oatlands Park. The letter borne by myself was addressed to a gentleman residing some miles
                     from Hampton Court, who possessed a stud of horses famous for blood and
                     speed,—the queen designing to make use of them in bearing off her children, if
                     necessary, to France.
                  I soon reached the old manor-house of the gentleman in question,—Colonel Edward
                     Cooke, of the royal forces. Colonel Cooke was a tall and stately old cavalier,
                     with piercing eyes, a stern expression, but slightly ameliorated by the ghost
                     of a smile, and the bearing of a thorough soldier.
                  "Say to her majesty, sir," he said, with a bow, as he read the note in his
                     great hall, "that all I possess is at her command,—including my heart and
                     sword,—both by day and by night."
                  With this reply, which I saw, from the sudden flash of the eye, came from the
                     speaker's heart, I returned to Hampton Court; and the response of Colonel Cooke
                     was conveyed to her majesty by Miss Frances Villiers, who was installed in the
                     antechamber as a sort of adjutant-general.
                  "Her majesty bids me thank you, Mr. Cecil," the young lady said, coming out
                     again and gazing at me with her great calm eyes. "I counsel you to sup now: the
                     Guards will move in half an hour."
                  As she spoke, the trumpet sounded "To horse!" the Guards rapidly drew up in the
                     court-yard; and, with a decided gnawing in his stomach, Mr. Edmund Cecil took
                     his place in the line.
                  Every man was fully armed, and an expedition of some sort was evidently on the
                        tapis.
                  
               
               
                  VII. WHAT TOOK PLACE BY MOONLIGHT IN OATLANDS PARK.
                  AS night fell, an odd cavalcade left Hampton Court. It consisted of a number of
                     coaches, containing her majesty and the ladies of her suite; behind these the
                     Guards; and behind the Guards a motley rout of ushers, footmen, serving-men of
                     every description, and even scullions from the kitchens,—all, with scarce an
                     exception, bearing arms of some sort. So quaint was this armament, indeed, that
                     it was difficult to restrain one's laughter. The serving-men carried cleavers
                     and carving-knives, and the scullions had caught up the spits and other weapons
                     more useful in peace than in war. Altogether, the spectacle was a comedy, whose
                     fantastic humor still moves me, as it returns to my memory.
                  What did it mean, everybody asked himself, and whither was her majesty going?
                     The reply was that she was "going to spend the evening in the park at
                     Oatlands;" and doubtless it was her majesty's desire that her household should
                     go too, as she had ordered their attendance, with the singular direction that
                     every one should be armed!
                  No one of this generation will ever look upon Oatlands,—the ancient dower
                     residence and favorite resort of the queens of England for so many
                        reigns,—with its old walls, its
                     moat and fosses, its shady park and secluded landscape. It was leveled to the
                     ground during the civil wars, and is only a name now; but on that autumn
                     evening of 1641 it was yet untouched. As the queen entered the vast park and
                     drew near the ancient building, frowning from behind its moat and with the
                     drawbridge up, the great oaks waved their variegated arms above the queer
                     cavalcade,—their tops silvered by the first rays of the rising moon.
                  Suddenly the trumpet of the Guards rang out; and as the queen's coach stopped
                     before the drawbridge, the palace front became alive with faces. Then the
                     drawbridge was seen to descend, the coaches entered, and the Guards, followed
                     by the motley rout, clattered over the bridge.
                  The queen was assisted from her coach by a tall and bland-looking gentleman of
                     about sixty, richly clad,—Lord Harry Jermyn, as I soon discovered, her grand
                     equerry and confidential secretary.
                  Lord Jermyn smiled, and uttered a few words.
                  "It is well, my lord," her majesty replied. "Have my palfrey saddled, and be
                     ready to attend me."
                  The broad portals of the palace then swallowed the bevy of fair ladies; the
                     Guards, followed by their nondescript allies, recrossed the drawbridge, and
                     were drawn up in the park; and, to return to myself, I remained for half an
                     hour suffering the pangs of starvation.
                  Then, in the half-gloom, horses' hoofs were heard upon the drawbridge, a lady's
                     scarf glimmered in the moonlight, and the queen appeared, mounted upon her
                     palfrey, attended by Lord Jermyn, who rode at her side.
                  The queen rode straight to the officer commanding her Guards, and gave him an
                     order. He immediately turned, and ordered,—
                  "Attention! Form squads of three, passing off from the right, and patrol the
                     park. If any suspicious characters are encountered, arrest them, and report
                     with them here. March!"
                  At the word, the Guards separated into squads, and scattered in every
                     direction. I followed with two companions a by-way winding through the densest
                     portion of the park; and we were riding on, keeping a good lookout, when the
                     trampling of hoofs was heard in front. I was in advance of my companions, and,
                     drawing rein, ordered, "Halt!"
                  The tramp drew nearer, and in the moonlight I saw advancing a body of about one
                     hundred horsemen. I repeated the order to halt, and drew my pistol, cocking it.
                     The column halted, and a single horseman rode forward.
                  "This is a patrol?" the horseman said, in a commanding voice.
                  "Yes. What party is that?"
                  "Friends of the queen. Permit us to pass."
                  "Impossible, sir. I do not know you," I replied.
                  "Move aside!" was the response, in a haughty tone; and, as he spoke, the
                     horseman advanced upon me.
                  "Halt, or you are dead!" I said, putting my pistol to his breast; whereat he
                     paused, in some astonishment.
                  "I am Lord Digby, come hither by the queen's order," he said, gruffly.
                  "I do not know your lordship. You have, doubtless, your order on your
                     person?"
                  "I have." And, drawing his sword with one hand, he presented with the other the queen's letter.
                     A glance at it in the bright moonlight terminated every doubt.
                  "Pass, my lord," I said, bowing. "Your lordship will appreciate my course. Our
                     orders are imperative to stop all persons."
                  "Your name, sir?"
                  "Edmund Cecil, of her majesty's Guards, my lord."
                  His lordship simply saluted, and ordered, "Forward!" as I rode into the wood
                     with my companions. I had made an enemy of Lord Digby, it seemed; but then I
                     had carefully obeyed orders; and, careless of the consequences, I continued to
                     patrol the park with my two companions.
                  Nothing suspicious met our eyes, and we were returning in the direction of the
                     palace, when I saw, through a vista in the trees, a party of about twenty
                     horsemen. We rode at once towards them; and one of my companions demanded who
                     they were. No reply was made; and I rode in advance, repeating the question.
                     The group of horsemen grew agitated, and moved to and fro. The movement
                     unmasked one of the party, who carried a fat buck across the saddle in front of
                     him.
                  "You are poachers, assailing the king's deer!" I cried. "Halt, and give
                     yourselves up!"
                  A shot replied. It issued from a sort of blunderbuss in the hands of one of the
                     party, and the bullet passed through the rim of my gray beaver. I fired in
                     return, and drove my horse at the owner of the blunderbuss, reached his side,
                     closed in with him, and recognized the burly young man who bad insulted Miss
                     Villiers on the way to Hampton Court.
                  I had clutched him by the throat, and had nearly dragged him from the saddle,
                     when he struck me a heavy blow on the temple, which threw me to the ground. As
                     I fell, I heard cries and the trample of hoofs; the poachers fled; and I saw
                     around me a confused crowd, in the midst of which the bright moonlight fell
                     upon the flashing eyes and enraged face of the queen. It was the lioness, ready
                     to protect her young,—to contend in person, if necessary, with those bent on
                     robbing her of her children. The beautiful face was superb in its wrath and
                     defiance: it towered above me for a moment, and then I lost consciousness.
                  I was lying on a couch in the palace when I regained my senses, and some one
                     was bathing an ugly wound on my temple, which bled freely. As all traces of it,
                     save a slight scar, have disappeared for thirty years or more, I will not weary
                     the reader with a tedious account of this particular "broken head." One
                     incident remains unalterably in my memory, however. A beautiful face appeared
                     for an instant at the door, and a low, sweet voice said,—
                  "Her majesty desires to know if Mr. Cecil's hurt is dangerous."
                  The leech replied in the negative, and the face disappeared; but a blessed
                     influence remained with me. It was the voice of Frances Villiers which had
                     uttered those low words,—the eyes of the beautiful girl which had sent their
                     healing balm into my heart. I fell asleep soon afterwards, and dreamed of the
                     face. From that moment I seldom lost sight of it, waking or sleeping: in a
                     word, Frances Villiers began to be, what she very soon became, the sole object of my waking thoughts and my
                     dreams.
                  Such had been the events of the night in Oatlands Park. The lioness had mounted
                     guard over her offspring, defying her enemies; and the long moonlight night
                     passed undisturbed.
               
               
                  VIII. WHAT A PIE CONTAINED.
                  ON the next morning I got up, buckled on my sword, and reported for duty. Harry
                     came up and hugged me with ardor.
                  "Here's the hero of the encounter!" he cried, "the only human being everybody
                     talks of——"
                  "Even her majesty," said a grave and courtly voice behind me; and, turning
                     round, I saw Lord Digby.
                  His lordship smiled with an air of great courtesy, and held out his hand.
                  "I have come to compliment your good soldiership, Mr. Cecil, in persistently
                     halting me in the park last night," he said. "You serve her majesty as she
                     ought to be served, and I offer you my compliments, sir."
                  He bowed, and passed on, leaving me charmed at my sudden importance! I seemed
                     about to become somebody! A lucky accident had raised me from obscurity, and I
                     had even attracted the attention of her majesty,—who from that moment, as the
                     reader will perceive, remembered my name and honored me with her august
                     regard.
                  The court returned on the same evening to Hampton Court; but before the cortége
                     left Oatlands an incident of a very comic nature occurred,—one which made
                     everybody laugh, and introduced an afterwards famous personage.
                  I had just risen from the mess-table in the guardroom, where I had dined, when
                     shouts of laughter from the great hall of the palace, where her majesty was
                     also dining, attracted our attention. So loud and unceremonious was this
                     laughter that it drew us irresistibly towards the door. I hastened thither with
                     the rest, glanced through the half-open door, and at first was almost unable to
                     believe my eyesight.
                  Her majesty sat at table with her maids of honor and attendant lords, and on
                     the broad board, immediately in front of her plate, knelt a figure scarce two
                     feet in height,—a manikin clad in full cavalier costume, with top-boots, a
                     minute sword at his side, with a plumed beaver in one hand, and the other hand
                     upon his heart.
                  Behind the dwarf was seen a huge pie, from which he had popped up, I soon
                     discovered, at the moment when the pastry was cut. The queen had started back
                     in utter amazement, but the dwarf had respectfully stepped towards her plate.
                     There he had stopped, fallen upon one knee, and offered his respectful homage
                     to her majesty, his hand resting devotedly upon his heart.
                  As I reached the door and took in this odd spectacle, the shouts of laughter,
                     defying all ceremony, ceased. Her
                     majesty turned towards Lord Jermyn, and said, in high good humor,—
                  "We owe this surprise to you, my lord."
                  Lord Jermyn, with his bland and courtly smile, returned,—
                  "Your majesty has concluded justly: the comedy comes after the melodrame. This little gentleman is one of your
                     majesty's most faithful subjects, and, knowing your majesty's taste for small
                     people, I have planned this surprise."
                  The queen gazed with suppressed smiles at the dwarf, and then at Lord
                     Jermyn.
                  "Thanks, my lord. We accept your gift, and take into our service—how call you
                     him?"
                  "Geoffrey Hudson, your majesty."
                  The queen extended her hand and drew the small sword of the manikin from its
                     scabbard. With the same expression of struggling merriment, she then touched
                     the dwarf's shoulder with the weapon, and said,—
                  "Rise, Sir Geoffrey Hudson: we take you into our service."
                  The manikin rose, and made a bow so profound that his head nearly touched the
                     table. He was scarce two feet, as I have said, in height.
                  "I thank your majesty," he said, in a small, piping voice, "and will endeavor
                     to serve her faithfully, however small my stature."
                  A great laugh saluted the words, and the dwarf's face flushed with anger, as he
                     darted quick glances around him.
                  "I recommend caution to gentlemen who would avoid Sir Geoffrey's sword-thrust!"
                     said Lord Jermyn, laughing.
                  And Sir Geoffrey having leaped nimbly to the floor, where he walked up and down
                     with great gravity and dignity, the banquet proceeded and terminated.
                  When her majesty set out on her return to Hampton Court in the afternoon, I
                     observed that the singular manikin had been furnished with a seat among the
                     maids of honor in one of the coaches. The taste for such strange beings was at
                     that epoch a passion almost: thus, the young ladies welcomed him warmly,
                     instead of betraying any aversion; and on the arrival of the queen at Hampton
                     Court he was supplied with an apartment, and became formally a member of the
                     royal household.
                  He will reappear more than once in the progress of these memoirs; and an event
                     which I shall relate in its place will show that, small as this strange human
                     insect might be, his sting was mortal.
               
               
                  IX. I GO TO ROSEMARY LANE, AND MEET WITH AN UGLY ADVENTURE.
                  I WAS quite charmed with the new course which my life had now taken,
                     and—thinking continuously of a young lady with great, calm eyes—grew sedulous
                     of my personal appearance, and thought of my tailor.
                  Going to try on my new uniform, I met with two personages, the one fantastic, the other
                     terrible; and of these I shall now speak.
                  The name of the tailor was Joyce, and his shop was not far from the Tower. The
                     gentlemen of the Guards had made him the fashion, by a species of caprice: he
                     had sent to take my measure, on receiving a message from Harry; and the
                     emissary, when leaving me, requested with an air of importance that I would
                     come to his master's shop and try on the uniform "during the process of its
                     construction," as nothing caused Mr. Joyce such pain as to supply gentlemen
                     with ill-fitting garments.
                  I hastened therefore, a day or two after the events just described, to visit
                     the shop of Mr. Joyce, tailor, in Rosemary Lane. Leaving my horse in the
                     Guardsmen's stables at Whitehall, I proceeded on foot; and it was nearly
                     evening when I at last reached Rosemary Lane, where a tall house toppling
                     forward was pointed out to me as the shop of the tailor.
                  He was at work as I entered,—a small, important-looking man, snipping viciously
                     with a great pair of shears,—and greeted me with a nonchalant air, very unusual
                     in a tradesman. Summoning an apprentice, he gave him an order, and, taking no
                     further notice of me, strolled to the doorway. His hands were thrust beneath
                     his coat-skirts, he carried his nose in the air, and only returned to the lower
                     world, as 'twere, when his apprentice brought the half-finished coat.
                  At a sign from him the apprentice approached me. I removed my coat, and tried
                     on the new garment. He of the elevated nose then walked around me and surveyed
                     me from all sides.
                  "Take up in the waist," he said to the apprentice. "More—more—not so
                     much—more—there."
                  He then gazed at me from head to foot.
                  "If you would hold up your head," he said,—"there. The coat will fit. Be good
                     enough to write your name here."
                  He laid a large ledger before me. I saw there the names of Ireton and
                     Cromwell.
                  "So you are court and parliament tailor indifferently?" I remarked,
                     laughing.
                  "Yes," said Mr. Joyce, carelessly. "I make for Guardsmen and parliament people,
                     the court and the Roundhead class, as the new term has it."
                  "And your own politics?"
                  "Roundhead," said Mr. Joyce, coolly.
                  He then drew his hands from beneath his coat-skirts, informed me that my
                     uniform would be sent me in three days, turned his back on me, and began
                     snipping away again with his great shears.
                  Such was my first sight of this personage, who was to become historic. I went
                     out of his shop, half angry and half amused. But night began to fall, I was far
                     from Whitehall, and the narrow and winding street—a sort of ditch between the
                     tall, toppling houses on each side—was far from presenting a very cheerful
                     appearance. There was something decidedly cut-throatish, about it; and footpads
                     then swarmed in London. A dim lamp beginning to twinkle at long intervals, from
                     the ropes suspended across the street, only rendered darkness visible, to use
                     Mr. Milton's fine expression. So I determined to issue from this
                        suspicious-looking place as soon as
                     possible, and set forward, walking rapidly towards the Tower.
                  I had gone about two hundred paces, when a roystering party of apprentices
                     apparently, armed with clubs, came towards me, and, as they passed, one of them
                     jostled me rudely. As he did so, I looked at him; our eyes met: it was the
                     burly young man with whom I had grappled in Oatlands Park.
                  "Fall on!" he shouted, suddenly. "I know this popinjay, and you know him! He
                     chased us in the park,—and he pulled my ear, the fiend seize him!"
                  As he uttered these words, the speaker rushed upon me, lifting his club to
                     brain me.
                  "Hark! tackle to him, Hulet!" cried his friends; "show him——"
                  A hoarse growl from my enemy drowned the rest. He struck straight at me, and
                     his associates closed in on me at the same moment, reminding me of a pack of
                     hounds around a hare.
                  I was not precisely a hare, however, and I had my rapier to meet the cudgel.
                     With the determination to give a good account of one or two of my assailants at
                     least, I lunged at the man called Hulet, and ran him through the fleshy part of
                     his arm. The wound seemed to render him furious. He aimed a blow at my head
                     with his cudgel; I parried; the blow fell on my rapier, and the treacherous
                     iron snapped within a foot of the hilt.
                  A loud cry followed; my assailants closed in upon me, forced me to the wall,
                     struck at me, keeping out of reach of my sword-stump,—and I began to realize
                     that in a few moments I would probably be knocked down and left senseless or
                     dead on he paving-stones.
                  I looked hastily around. All the shops were closed. I was in front of a
                     gloomy-looking house, whose windows were fast-barred, and against the door of
                     this house my assailants had now forced me.
                  "Kill him, Hulet!" rose in a wrathful shout, and the whole party threw
                     themselves upon me, aiming at my head with their clubs. I endeavored in vain to
                     parry this storm of blows; my back was against the door of the gloomy house; I
                     lunged with my sword-stump, shouting for the watch without result; then a heavy
                     blow fell upon my forehead, and I staggered, dropping the stump of my
                     weapon.
                  As I did so, the door against which I leaned opened suddenly, and I felt myself
                     dragged in. As the apprentices rushed towards it, it was shut in their faces. I
                     then heard a bar fall, and a chain drawn across the door. A voice said, "You
                     are safe, sir,"—the voice of a woman; and, half conscious, half fainting, with
                     a tremendous buzzing in my ears, I found myself led into an apartment, where
                     there was an arm-chair: into this I fell, and the same voice said,—
                  "God be thanked! They have not killed you, sir!"
               
               
                  
                  X. A TERRIBLE PERSONAGE.
                  I RAISED my languid eyes and gazed at the speaker. She was a girl of about
                     twenty, evidently of the middle or lower class, but pale,—I might say
                     aristocratic,—and with large blue eyes, which looked at me with womanly
                     sweetness and a sort of sad sympathy.
                  In her face this air of sadness predominated. A deep melancholy seemed to weigh
                     upon her, banishing all her smiles and roses.
                  "You are safe, sir," she said, in the same low, sweet voice. "These brawls are
                     growing terribly common. If I had not heard the noise of staves and the cries,
                     you might have been murdered."
                  "I had indeed scarce a chance of preserving my life, I think," I returned;
                     "but, thanks to your courage, I am scarce hurt."
                  "Your head, sir——"
                  "'Tis nothing; a little faintness."
                  "I will prepare a reviving draught."
                  And, with deft fingers, the maiden busied herself in mingling a flagon of wine,
                     sugar, and spices, which she presented to me with the same air of sad sweetness
                     and grace.
                  I had half emptied the draught, when a door in rear of the apartment opened,
                     and a man of tall stature, carrying a little, curly-haired child upon his
                     shoulder, came into the room. At sight of me he stopped, almost started, and
                     seemed about to retire. Before he could do so, the maiden went forward hastily,
                     and spoke to him in a low tone. Thereupon he bowed, and came forward, saying,
                     in a deep, melancholy, and tremulous voice,—
                  "You are welcome, sir."
                  The man's whole demeanor agreed with the voice. Never have I seen a human being
                     the victim, apparently, of such profound and hopeless depression. There was
                     something sepulchral, almost, in the expression of his long, thin face, around
                     which fell hair once black, but now threaded with silver. The eyes were sunken
                     in their sockets and surrounded with dark rings. The thin lips wore an
                     expression of utter discouragement. His dress was simple, and not striking in
                     any particular,—that of a retired trader,—of dark and plain stuff. His manner
                     in advancing was almost painfully hesitating and reluctant.
                  "My father, sir," said the maiden, whose sadness remained unchanged. "I have
                     explained your presence; and now you must require food, sir. You shall have the
                     best our poor house affords."
                  The maiden proceeded then to busy herself spreading food upon a small table,
                     and, the man having taken his seat opposite me, we entered into conversation.
                     Meanwhile, the child played about the room, turning everything upside down and
                     laughing gleefully. The melancholy personage followed all these gambols with a
                     glance of sorrowful affection, leaning back in his chair; when all at once I
                     saw him rise quickly and hasten
                     towards the child, who had half opened the door of a sort of closet in the
                     wall.
                  The man dragged him back quickly, and hastily closed the door. As he did so, I
                     caught what appeared to be the gleam of some bright steel object, and I know
                     not what sombre influence this abrupt movement of the man exerted upon me. His
                     pale face had flushed, his bosom heaved; and, glancing accidentally at the
                     maiden, I saw that she was trembling and seemed about to burst into tears.
                  What was the meaning of this strange scene? I vainly asked myself that
                     question. The man offered no explanation. Resuming his seat, and holding the
                     boy on his knee now, he gradually grew composed again, and continued the
                     conversation in which we had been engaged when he started up. It had related to
                     the public events of the time, and the struggle going on between King Charles
                     and his parliament.
                  "I know not which side you espouse, sir," said the man, in his melancholy and
                     tremulous voice, "but I confess to you that my sympathies are with his
                     majesty."
                  "And mine; but would he were well out of this dangerous conflict!"
                  "His majesty will not rid himself of his enemies until force is employed."
                  "Force? Ah! you mean the exercise of the royal right to try and punish. But
                     that is perilous, 'tis said. The superior strength seems on the other side.
                     Witness Strafford, on Tower Hill: these men tore him from the very arms of the
                     king."
                  At the name of Strafford my host became as pale as a corpse.
                  "Yes," he said, in an almost inaudible voice.
                  "If they drank the blood of Strafford, that powerful and resolute enemy, any
                     man's head in the kingdom may fall. 'Tis said that never was human being more
                     resolute than he; and the story is that his eyes opened and his lips muttered
                     some words even after his head was severed."
                  My host's pallor had become fearful.
                  "'Tis true," he murmured. "I——saw him!"
                  "You were present at his execution?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Sufficiently near to see plainly?"
                  "Sufficiently near."
                  "Then this theory that life continues after decapitation is well founded?"
                  "Yes."
                  The voice seemed to issue from some sepulchral vault. The man's eyes were
                     fixed, almost stony.
                  "Life continues—for hours almost—after—decapitation," he said, in a slow,
                     tremulous, monotonous voice, with a strange absent intonation, as though the
                     speaker were soliloquizing. "The brain, when the neck is severed, is like a
                     besieged fortress,—besieged, but not yet taken; the outposts are carried,—its
                     communications are cut off,—but life is there still;—the facial muscles
                     act,—the lips move,—the eyes open,—the volition is maimed, but not
                     paralyzed,—the teeth snap,—the brows contract. I have—seen that!"
                  He stopped, his pale face bathed in cold sweat. At the same moment the maiden,
                     whose cheeks were as wan almost as the speaker's, came to him, touched his
                     shoulder, and said, in a faint voice,—
                  
                  "There, father; you frighten our guest. Supper is ready."
                  The man uttered a sigh almost as profound as a groan. The maiden placed before
                     me a small table, upon which food was arranged, and, looking at the man,
                     added,—
                  "Your supper, father."
                  He shrank back. "No, Janet," he murmured; "it would be disgraceful thus to take
                     advantage of——" He stopped.
                  "True," the maiden said, turning away with a quivering lip. "I had forgotten,
                     father. I thought that kindness offered and accepted made us equal. Yes! yes!
                     pardon me! We have no right to——"
                  The rest of the sentence was drowned in a sob. I could scarce swallow a few
                     mouthfuls. The strange scene banished all desire for food. I rose, and
                     said,—
                  "Thanks for your hospitality, sir; and yours, my kind, good friend. I have
                     regained all my strength now, and will take my departure, with warm thanks. You
                     have saved my life, I think, friends; and Heaven will reward you."
                  "God grant it!" came from the man, who rose, his hand resting tenderly and
                     watchfully on the bright head of the child.
                  "Let me look and see if the street is safe before you go, sir," said the
                     maiden.
                  She went to the door, and returned in a moment, informing me that she saw no
                     one.
                  I put on my beaver, and, going to the door, said, "Thanks, friends, again; and
                     now farewell."
                  As I spoke, I extended my hand towards the tall man, but he suddenly drew
                     back.
                  "I cannot—touch your hand, sir!—As I could not sup with you——"
                  I gazed at him in astonishment.
                  "It would be—disgraceful!"
                  His tones were broken, and the words seemed forced from him.
                  "You do not know who I am,—and yet you came near knowing.—My dear child opened
                     that terrible closet!"
                  "The closet?" I murmured, overcome with astonishment. "I saw nothing."
                  "Nothing?"
                  "Save what appeared to be the gleam of steel."
                  The man half thrust me towards the door behind him. The maiden Janet bent down
                     weeping, her face covered by her hands.
                  "That steel was——shall I tell you, sir?"
                  A sort of convulsion passed over the speaker's face.
                  "Speak!" I said, almost trembling.
                  "It was the axe of the executioner! I could not sit with you at table, or take
                     your hand when you offered it, I am Gregory Brandon, the headsman of
                     London!"
                  As he uttered these words in a hoarse and stifled voice, the headsman groaned.
                     A moment afterwards he had closed the door: I was alone in the dim-lit
                     thoroughfare: from behind the door I heard a second groan, with which mingled
                     the sobs of a woman.
               
               
                  
                  XI. THE CAVALIER IN PURPLE VELVET.
                  I ISSUED from Rosemary Lane, passed beneath the shadow of the Tower, which rose
                     grim and lugubrious above the houses, reached Whitehall, mounted, and returned
                     towards Hampton Court, plunged in thought, and overcome by the strange scene
                     which I had witnessed.
                  I had been the guest of the headsman! But for this terrible person's refusal to
                     accept the hand I had offered, my own would have clasped the bloody palm which
                     had severed so many necks.
                  I shuddered almost at the thought,—living over the whole scene again. The hand
                     resting so tenderly on the bright curls of the child had struck off the proud
                     head of Strafford! Within a few feet of me, there in that mysterious closet,
                     was the frightful instrument which had so often cut through flesh,
                     blood-vessels, and vertebræ, from whose keen, impassive edge human blood had so
                     often been wiped! Seated opposite me in friendly talk, the talk of guest and
                     host, was the grim human being who had entered the cell of the condemned as
                     with the tramp of a fate, bound the firm or trembling arms, hobbled the feet
                     with the inexorable cord, and, striking the victim on the shoulder when the
                     moment came, had muttered, in his hoarse voice, "You belong to me now I"
                  All the way to Hampton Court I was thinking of my singular adventure; but as I
                     came in front of the palace a figure, visible through one of the tall windows,
                     banished every other thought. It was the figure of Frances Villiers, standing
                     erect in the full light of the flambeaux flooding the apartment. She was clad
                     in rich brocade, cut low, so that her exquisite neck was clearly revealed; the
                     beautiful head, with the looped-up pearls, was bent towards one fair shoulder.
                     She was smiling with her habitual expression of grave sweetness, and apparently
                     listening to some one.
                  I drew rein, and, concealed beneath the shadow of a great oak, gazed long at
                     the girl who had now become more dear to me than my life. In a day, an hour, as
                     it were, I had come to love her with all the power of my being. She had waked
                     up my slumbering heart, and henceforward I felt that she, and she alone, was my
                     queen!
                  Pardon this gush of romance, friend,—'tis an old gray-head that indulges in it.
                     Many decades have flown since then; I am aged, and the bloom of life is gone;
                     but I remember, and will until I die, the beautiful figure I gazed on that
                     night through the windows of the palace of Hampton Court.
                  I was still watching the exquisite figure, as it moved to and fro in attendance
                     on the queen, when a sudden trampling was heard in the great avenue, and a
                     party of horsemen, three or four in number, came on at headlong speed.
                  The incident aroused me from my reverie with something like a shock. Who were
                     these horsemen who presumed to ride in so careless a manner towards the palace? It was lèse-majesté, almost, to pay this small respect to the queen.
                     Could some partisans of the parliament design an insult, or a raid on the deer?
                     Resolved to know, I spurred to meet them, and, interposing myself in the way,
                     ordered them to halt.
                  No attention whatever was paid to my order. On the contrary, I was nearly
                     ridden over. A cavalier, richly clad in purple velvet slashed with satin, a
                     deep lace collar, and wearing a gray beaver with a feather, rushed by me at
                     full speed; the rest followed. They all clattered to the great gateway, and
                     then a sudden commotion followed, to ascertain the character of which I
                     hastened to the palace.
                  The Guards were hastening to form line, and every sword was brought to the
                     salute. The cavalier in the purple velvet habit had leaped to the ground. He
                     was a person of middle age, with curling hair worn long, mustache and royale,
                     large, mournful eyes, a long, thin face, and a very graceful person. There was
                     something commanding in his air, and I was not long left in doubt as to his
                     identity. The palace was in commotion; figures passed and repassed hurriedly in
                     the queen's apartment, at which I had been gazing; then, as the cavalier of the
                     velvet habit gave his bridle to one of his attendant gentlemen, the great
                     staircase suddenly blazed, the flambeau-bearers descended, and in the midst of
                     her maids of honor, gathered round her like a flock of doves, her majesty the
                     queen was seen to come rapidly down the staircase.
                  As she came, the melancholy face of the cavalier filled with smiles. It was the
                     expression of a husband who loves his wife and returns after long absence. He
                     hastened towards her; they met in the full light of the flambeaux, and were
                     clasped in a close embrace.
                  "Sweet heart!" exclaimed the cavalier, with glowing cheeks.
                  "Dear heart!" was the queen's response, in a murmur, and on the two faces I
                     could see the sunshine of the heart.
                  They then drew back, as though to avoid the eyes of those around them, and
                     passed up the great staircase between a double line of lords and ladies, her
                     majesty leaning fondly on her companion's arm. The light of the flambeaux fell
                     upon them in a sort of glory. They disappeared, and, as they were lost sight
                     of, a great shout rose, rolling through the palace,—
                  "Long live their majesties!"
                  I had seen King Charles I. at last. He had left his escort on the road from
                     Scotland, mounted his horse like a common cavalier, and, attended by only a few
                     of his lords, had ridden straight to Hampton Court to see Queen Mary.
               
               
                  XII. THE LITTLE QUEEN.
                  SCANDAL said that their majesties had not been always so devoted, or at least
                     that furious storms had swept the matrimonial skies.
                  From London, the young king, just married by proxy, had hastened to Dover to
                     meet the little queen of sixteen;
                     caught her in his arms when she offered to kneel; and, in reply to her address,
                     "Sire, I am come into this your majesty's country to be at your command,"
                     exclaimed, "You have not fallen into the hands of enemies and strangers, and I
                     will be no longer master myself than while I am servant to you." And then what
                     the French call enfantillages followed. The
                     king, noticing that her head reached to his shoulder, glanced at her feet to
                     ascertain if her height were not due to her high-heeled shoes. Whereupon the
                     little queen drew aside her skirt, exhibited her small feet with all the
                        coquetterie of a French girl, and said,
                     "Sire, I stand on my own feet; I have no help from art: thus high am I, neither
                     higher nor lower!"
                  This joy and laughter of the little daughter of the famous Henry of Navarre was
                     truly a strange contrast to her after-woes. But then all was bright and
                     smiling. The fatal conflicts of the future threw no shadows before. The
                     youthful pair were greeted by great crowds upon the Thames, and fêted
                     everywhere; and no raven croaked from the hollow tree to interrupt the joy,
                     romance, and sunshine of their nuptials.
                  I have seen the portrait of Queen Henrietta at this period, painted by Vandyke,
                     and the face and form are exquisite. In the picture she has a fair complexion,
                     fine dark eyes, and hair of a chestnut color, The slight and delicate figure is
                     clad in a dress of white satin, with a tightly-fitting bodice decorated with
                     pink ribbon; the sleeves full, with ruffles; the arms encircled by bracelets.
                     Around her neck she wears a fine pearl necklace; a red ribbon twisted with
                     pearls is woven amid her glossy hair behind the head. 'Tis a gracious, smiling
                     maiden, full of youth and joy, on whose forehead grief has never cast its
                     shadow.
                  The shadow was approaching: private infelicities preceded the public; the fond
                     lovers were to come to angry words, and criminations and recriminations.
                  All arose from the Catholic attendants of the queen, who fostered in every
                     manner the religious differences between the pair, and went so far as openly to
                     defy the king. Under this he was restive; and one morning his wrath burst
                     forth. He came to the queen's apartments at Whitehall, and found the French
                     ladies curveting and dancing in the presence of her majesty. The scene shocked
                     his ideas of dignity and ceremony: he took the hand of the queen and conducted
                     her to his own apartment, where he locked her majesty in; then he sent word by
                     Lord Conway to the French ladies to leave Whitehall and repair to Somerset
                     House, where they were to await his pleasure. Thereupon rose a grand lament and
                     the din of angry female voices. Loud cries arose; defiant words were heard,—in
                     the midst of which a guard appeared, and with little ceremony caused them to
                     vacate the apartment, the door of which was inexorably locked behind them.
                  A sad scene ensued between, their majesties thereupon. The queen ran to the
                     window to bid her dear French attendants farewell. The king drew her back,
                     saying, "Be satisfied; it must be so." The queen broke from him and rushed to
                     the window, the panes of which she struck so violently with her clenched hands
                     that the glass flew to pieces and crashed down into the court. The king
                     succeeded at last in drawing her majesty away from the window,—the shocking scene ended,—and the king wrote his
                     grace the Duke of Buckingham, "I command you to send all the French away
                     to-morrow out of the town,—if you can, by fair means, but stick not long in
                     disputing; otherwise force them away, driving them away like so many wild
                     beasts, until you have shipped them, and so the devil go with them."
                  The command was obeyed: in the midst of a great mob, hooting at and cursing the
                     Frenchwomen, the ladies were ejected from Somerset House. They retreated,
                     raging, scolding, gesticulating, and were sent out of the country. The king had
                     conquered.
                  There were other painful scenes. The king himself related how, after retiring
                     to bed with her majesty one night, they had a passionate altercation as to the
                     appointment of the queen's revenue-officers. Read the narrative: 'tis painful.
                     The king, falling into a rage, bade her majesty "remember to whom she spoke!"
                     To which she replied, with passionate weeping, that "she was not of such base
                     quality as to be used so!" There is a long distance, you see, reader, between
                     this state of things and the scene I witnessed at Hampton Court. In the one
                     case it is husband and wife squabbling and scolding like Jack and Gill fallen
                     out; in the other it is the fond pair embracing each other, with "Dear heart!"
                     "Sweet heart!" heard between their kisses!
                  We old people have seen that often on our journey through life! Alas! men and
                     women grow angry, are unjust and unkind, often; but happy are the married pairs
                     who truly love and cherish each other. The sunshine comes after the storm; all
                     clouds disappear; and even after that scene in which their majesties struggled
                     at the broken window in Whitehall, 'tis said that the king and queen made
                     friends speedily and "were very jocund together!"
               
               
                  XIII. MY TRAVELING-COMPANION.
                  I WAS sent at daylight on the morning succeeding the king's arrival, to bear a
                     dispatch to Woodstock Palace for her majesty, and, having fulfilled my duty,
                     determined to gallop across country and spend an hour with my father at Cecil
                     Court.
                  I shall not dwell upon this visit, which was a very great pleasure to me,—home
                     events are not of interest to all,—but come to my first meeting with a very
                     noble as well as a very famous man, whom I encountered on the highway, in
                     Buckinghamshire, towards evening, on my way back to London.
                  I had just emerged from a belt Of woods, and saw the sun setting across the
                     beautiful fields, when a horseman riding in front of me attracted my attention,
                     and I was very soon beside him.
                  He turned his head, and bade me good-day so courteously that I checked my
                     horse's speed and rode on with him. He was a man of middle age, clad in a rich
                     dark pourpoint, and wearing a black hat and excellent riding-boots. His figure
                     was lofty and commanding manding; his
                     face very noble, and full of grave courtesy and sweetness. When he spoke, his
                     voice had an extraordinary calmness and simplicity, which simplicity was indeed
                     plain in every detail of face, figure, and bearing.
                  In ten minutes I felt entirely at my ease with the stranger, and we rode on
                     side by side, conversing upon public events with perfect freedom.
                  "His majesty has returned from Scotland," said my companion. "I am glad to know
                     that: her majesty will be made happy by seeing him again."
                  I smiled, and said, "You are plainly a royalist, and not one of the new party,
                     sir."
                  My companion smiled in his turn. "I am scarce a royalist in the ordinary
                     meaning of the term, sir; but sure 'tis a pleasure to all honest men to know
                     that a good husband is safely restored to his wife, and to contemplate with
                     satisfaction the little domestic picture of their meeting."
                  "Assuredly; and, after all, the king is not perhaps so black as he is
                     painted."
                  "He is not, sir. It is the vice of partisan feeling to drive men to extremes.
                     His majesty, in my opinion,—to be frank,—has committed very great faults. It is
                     scarce too harsh, I think, to say that his conceptions of the royal
                     prerogative, if carried out, would overturn all civil liberty; but that is no
                     proof that he is cruel or licentious, or a despot from love of despotism." The
                     words were uttered with great sadness.
                  "Shall I imitate your frankness, and utter my thought plainly, sir?" I
                     said.
                  "Surely."
                  "Were I his majesty, then, I should fear adversaries holding your views more
                     than all the Pyms, Cromwells, and Hampdens in the world."
                  "The Hampdens?" asked the stranger, smiling. "Do you refer to Mr. John Hampden,
                     the member from Buckinghamshire?"
                  "The same, sir."
                  "Is he so violent and dangerous a personage?"
                  "I do not know Mr. Hampden, but such is his reputation."
                  The stranger rode on for some moments in silence.
                  "I had not supposed that Mr. Hampden bore so bad a character," he said, at
                     length. "What are the grounds, I pray you, sir, of such an opinion of that
                     gentleman?"
                  "His prominence in opposition to the levying of ship-money by his majesty. Mr.
                     Hampden was the first person of high position who opposed the royal
                     prerogative."
                  "True," the stranger said, somewhat sadly; "and so the fellow-subjects of Mr.
                     Hampden—honorable gentlemen—think him violent, and a demagogue! Pity!—but may
                     we not regard Mr. Hampden's motives as conscientious?"
                  "His friends do, doubtless,—not the adherents of his majesty."
                  "That sums up all, I fear, sir," the stranger returned; "and I will not
                     undertake a defense of Mr. Hampden,—of whom, however, it may be said with truth
                     that he risked a good estate rather than pay twenty shillings without warrant
                     of law for the exaction. Yes, his friends will defend him, his adversaries
                     denounce him, as you say. To the
                     first, he is a sincere lover of law and liberty; to the second, a pestilent
                     demagogue, itching for notoriety and power. So be it: one day his true
                     character will doubtless be known."
                  "Meanwhile, were I acquainted with Mr. Hampden, I think I should give him some
                     advice, sir," I said.
                  "And pray what would be the advice?" my companion said, smiling
                     courteously.
                  "Not to act with Pym, Ireton, Cromwell, and other extremists, who are ready to
                     go all lengths."
                  "'All lengths' is a strong expression, sir," the stranger returned, with his
                     immovable grave sweetness. "The gentlemen you name have the repute of aiming
                     only at a redress of grievances."
                  "They will not stop there."
                  "You would say——"
                  "That revolutions begin with the pen, and end with the sword,—and shall I add
                     something more terrible?"
                  "What?"
                  "With violence: the cup of the poisoner or the axe of the headsman."
                  My companion started, and his countenance grew cold and stern in an instant. A
                     flash darted from his eyes, and his cheek became pale.
                  "That is a bitter charge against good men," he said. "What induces you to
                     believe that any living Englishman is ready to turn assassin?"
                  "The philosophy of revolutions," I returned, "and the history I have read."
                  "And the political struggles of the period we live in may result in the death
                     of his majesty, you think, by the hands of his own subjects?"
                  "'May' has many meanings, sir. 'Tis not impossible,—is it?"
                  My companion rode on without uttering a word. A mile at least was passed over
                     thus, in profound silence. Then the stranger raised his head, which had been
                     drooping. "You have broached a terrible idea," he said; "one which my mind
                     never up to this time entertained. I will not discuss it. I shrink from the
                     very thought with a species of horror. I can conceive that Mr. Cromwell and
                     others might oppose the king,—even in open combat on the field of battle,
                     perhaps; either side may inaugurate that struggle, and the other will accept
                     the gage of defiance; but that the king's life can ever be threatened with
                     poison or the executioner's axe on this soil of England,—that, sir, I will
                     never believe,—never! the thought is too frightful!"
                  "I hope 'tis only my fancy."
                  "And I, sir. I cannot speak for others; but for one of those you have named I
                     can answer without hesitation. He might oppose the king's adherents—even the
                     king himself—in battle; but he would sooner lay down his own life than touch
                     with a finger the person of his majesty. I can answer for that person, I say;
                     and I have the best of all rights to do so,—for I am that John Hampden of whom
                     we have spoken."
               
               
                  
                  XIV. I MAKE THE ACQUAINTANCE OF MR. CROMWELL.
                  I WAS so much astonished at this sudden revelation of the identity of my
                     traveling-companion, that I gazed at him in stupid silence.
                  Thereupon the cordial smile returned to his fine face, and he said,—
                  "We have conversed under a mask, as 'twere, sir; and I take no umbrage at the
                     opinions you have expressed of a certain Mr. Hampden. I confess, even, that the
                     maxim noscitur a sociis bears with some
                     justice upon him, and perhaps justifies your views of him. But now let us
                     abandon these mooted subjects. We differ in political views, but I dare to say
                     that you are as true and honest an English gentleman as any. I would fain claim
                     for myself the same character: I am called hospitable at least, and there is my
                     house through the oaks. Will it please you, sir—see, the sun has set—to spend
                     the night with me?"
                  I refused, and then accepted. There was something so gracious and noble in my
                     companion's utterances that I could not resist.
                  "Thanks, Mr. Hampden," I said. "I accept your hospitality as cordially as you
                     offer it. I am named Edmund Cecil,—a poor guardsman of the queen."
                  "Of the Cecils of Warwickshire?"
                  "The same."
                  "I know your father well, and esteem him highly, Mr. Cecil. But here is my poor
                     house."
                  We entered a great park, and just at dusk came in front of a large and handsome
                     manor-house, built in the Elizabethan style, and indicating wealth and
                     consideration in its proprietor.
                  In the great drawing-room I was presented to Mr. Hampden's charming household;
                     and in the faces which greeted me with smiles, as in all the appointments of
                     the mansion, I observed that indefinable grace and distinction which never
                     deceives.
                  I had just returned the hospitable greetings of the amiable family, when there
                     came into the apartment a robust personage, clad in a dark cloth suit entirely
                     without decoration, heavy boots covered with dust, and an old slouch hat
                     discolored by sun and rain. This personage, despite the negligence of his
                     attire, had yet something lofty and imposing in the carriage of his person: he
                     advanced with an air of almost haughty independence,—absorbed, it would seem
                     from the absent expression of his large eyes, in thoughts wholly disconnected
                     from his surroundings.
                  "The terrible Mr. Cromwell!" said my host, in a low tone, smiling as he spoke.
                     And I was presented to the personage who so completely justified afterwards the
                     adjective now applied to him in jest.
                  Mr. Cromwell saluted me in an absent manner, and then removed his hat, which he
                     seemed to have forgotten. I soon learned that he had just arrived from
                     Huntingdon, riding out of his way, to accompany Mr. Hampden, his cousin, to
                     London; and the evening passed in desultory conversation. What chiefly
                        impressed pressed me in this
                     afterwards celebrated man was his rough earnestness, the pith and force of his
                     utterances, which seemed to go right to the core of every subject, and the
                     occasional employment of scriptural names and phrases in his conversation. I
                     never before heard Ahab, Baal, Og, and other Biblical personages alluded to
                     with such frequency or apparent gusto. And Mr. Cromwell never smiled; he was
                     profoundly in earnest, and all his utterances were weighty. Even when relating
                     how an ape had snatched him from his cradle, when an infant, and borne him,
                     chattering, to the roof of his father's house, and how he had been rescued from
                     drowning, when he had already sunk twice, and his nose and mouth were filled
                     with water, he did not indulge in the faintest approach to a smile, but
                     garnished those narratives, like the rest of his discourse, with names and
                     allusions from the Old Testament Scriptures.
                  This culminated when at bedtime he offered up a prayer. It was an extraordinary
                     prayer, deeply earnest and devout; I might almost say passionate in its evident
                     outpouring from his inmost heart; but here too were the inevitable Old
                     Testament names and references. When Mr. Cromwell rose from his knees, after
                     his long and fervent prayer, his eyes were as dreamy as though fixed upon
                     another world: he scarcely returned the addresses of the family, and retired
                     from the room with the absent air of one who is walking in his sleep.
                  Such was the appearance of this extraordinary person on that evening. He was
                     commonplace; he became terrible. He wore plain cloth; he came to wear royal
                     velvet. He was then Mr. Cromwell, unknown save as a country member.; he was to
                     become known throughout the world as the slayer of King Charles I., the Lord
                     Protector of England, and one of the greatest sovereigns that ever sat upon the
                     English throne.
                  On the next morning I bade Mr. Hampden and his excellent household farewell,
                     and, riding rapidly to make up for lost time, arrived late in the evening at
                     Hampton Court.
               
               
                  XV. A COMBAT BY MOONLIGHT.
                  AS I dismounted in the court-yard of the palace, Harry came out and hugged me
                     after the French fashion introduced by the followers of her majesty.
                  "Here's a laggard!" cried Harry. "What was the attraction at Woodstock, Ned?
                     Did you lose yourself in the labyrinth built to hide Fair Rosamond?"
                  "I don't believe there is any labyrinth, Harry; and I've been to Cecil
                     Court."
                  I proceeded to give my brother news of home, and to describe my meeting with
                     Mr. Hampden; then, seeing signs of unwonted activity in the palace, I asked
                     their meaning.
                  "His majesty is to make his royal entry into London to-morrow. You are just in
                     time, Ned. We're all going,—Guards, courtiers, maids of honor, dwarfs, and
                     all!"
                  
                  "Dwarfs?"
                  "I mean that his worship Sir Geoffrey Hudson, now become a great favorite with
                     her majesty, will grace the occasion with his presence, no less than the
                     largest of us. And do you know, Ned, this little manikin and mere
                     hop-o'-my-thumb is a decided character?"
                  "I should think as much."
                  "I mean that he is no mere plaything, weak in head as in body, like the rest of
                     his pigmy species, but a man in feeling, and in brain too,—grave, serious, and
                     courageous. His deformity is a source of deep mortification to him; and when
                     the maids of honor caress him lap-dog fashion, he looks at them as though he
                     would bite them, uttering a singular sort of snarl, and plainly resents their
                     treatment of him as though he were a plaything."
                  "And towards the men?"
                  "He is stern and bitter. 'Tis the fashion to tease him; and that sallow-faced
                     Coftangry of the Guards takes the lead. Hark! there they are in the guardroom
                     now. I hear the piping voice of the dwarf and the gibing tones of Coftangry.
                     Let us go see!"
                  We entered the guard-room, where a singular spectacle presented itself. Some
                     young noblemen of the Guards—for half the company were lords—were standing in a
                     circle around some object upon the floor, which I made out on a nearer approach
                     to be the figure of the dwarf. The manikin, who was less than two feet in
                     height, wore a very rich costume,—velvet cloak, plumed beaver, silk stockings,
                     and high-heeled shoes with large rosettes. At his side hung a miniature dress
                     sword, about the length of a knitting-needle; and his face flamed with anger,
                     as he fixed his eyes spitefully upon a tall, sallow-faced young gentleman with
                     a sneering expression of countenance, who was teasing the pigmy for the general
                     amusement.
                  "Come, come, your knightship," said Coftangry, with a sneer; "dance a galliard
                     for our entertainment. Hop, hop, Sir Hop-o'-my-thumb!"
                  "Were I a lady, sir," said the dwarf, in his thin, piping voice, "I know what I
                     never should do."
                  "What is that, pray?"
                  "I should never hop in a galliard with such a tallow-faced anatomy as
                     yourself!"
                  The retort raised a loud laugh. Coftangry was immensely unpopular, and the
                     dwarf had touched his tender point,—his lath-like body and sallow
                     complexion.
                  "'Twas but yesterday," piped the dwarf, "that I overheard two of her majesty's
                     maids of honor conversing. One said, 'Who is this Coftangry, and how do such
                     people get to court?' 'I know not,' returned the other, 'unless they are dug up
                     and brought as curiosities.'"
                  A second laugh came from the group, and Coftangry grew furious.
                  "If you were not a wretched pigmy," he cried, losing his self-possession and
                     giving way to anger, "I would chastise you upon the spot!"
                  The dwarf bounded with rage.
                  "Chastise me? You dare not attempt it! I wear a sword!" he shrilled.
                  "Ha, ha!" came from Coftangry, in forced merriment; "a skewer, you would
                     say!"
                  
                  The dwarf whipped out his weapon, and the circle suddenly widened.
                  "No fighting in the palace, gentlemen!" cried one of the young noblemen, with
                     mock earnestness.
                  "True," the dwarf growled, returning his sword to its scabbard; "but this
                     tallow-face has gibed at me, and I return his insult—thus!"
                  With incredible agility, the pigmy leaped upon a chair, thence to the long
                     table near, and, before Coftangry divined his intention, bestowed a violent
                     slap upon the Guardsman's face. It was delivered with all the energy of hatred,
                     and rang through the apartment. Coftangry uttered a cry of rage.
                  "Woe to you, cur!" he shouted; and he was about to smite the erect and defiant
                     dwarf to the earth, when a hand was laid on his shoulder, and Harry's voice
                     said,—
                  "You don't mean to strike that little man, I hope, sir? You will exterminate
                     him!"
                  "Who are you?" growled Coftangry, wheeling round.
                  "My name is Cecil, sir," was the reply.
                  "Well, I counsel you, Mr. Cecil, to attend to your own affairs!"
                  Harry flushed red, and went close to Coftangry.
                  "I make this my affair, sir," he said, "since 'tis always the business of a
                     gentleman to protect the weak from outrage."
                  "You shall answer for this intrusion!"
                  "I am quite willing to do so, sir," said Harry, in a low tone. "The moon is
                     shining; there is the park; five minutes' walk will take us out of view."
                  Coftangry had, apparently, not expected a proposition so sudden and direct. He
                     was silent for a moment, and became very pale, but he saw that all eyes were
                     fixed upon him. The consequence was that fifteen minutes afterwards Harry and
                     himself were standing opposite each other, sword in hand, in a remote portion
                     of the park, a number of the Guardsmen having accompanied the adversaries to
                     witness the encounter.
                  Such affairs were at that time of every-day occurrence, and seldom resulted in
                     more than a few scratches, when the friends of the parties would declare that
                     honor was satisfied.
                  Such was the result on this occasion. It was a singular encounter,—a very
                     burlesque. Harry lunged, expecting his opponent to parry. He did nothing of the
                     sort, and Harry ran his sword-hand on Coftangry's point, wounding himself.
                  "'Tis plain you're no swordsman, sir; I will therefore disarm without hurting
                     you," said my brother.
                  As he spoke, Coftangry's rapier flew twenty paces, Harry coolly returned his
                     sword to its scabbard.
                  "Take your life, sir," he said; "I have no use for it. Good-evening, sir."
                  And, winding a handkerchief around his bleeding hand, he left the spot,
                     accompanied by his friends.
                  Such was the termination of the impromptu duel; beginning and ending in a few
                     minutes, under the moonlight in Hampton Court park. I have spoken of it because
                     it was the preface to a duel with more deadly results; but that incident will
                     be narrated in its place.
                  
                  I pass to the king's entry into London now, and to the great and unfortunate
                     events which marked the few succeeding days.
               
               
                  XVI. SIR THEODORE MAYHERNE.
                  THE royal entry into London was an imposing pageant. The king rode in front on
                     horseback, reining in his spirited charger, decorated with rich housings; and
                     on his left hand rode the Prince of Wales, afterwards his majesty Charles II.,
                     at that time a handsome boy of eleven.
                  Behind the king came the queen, in her state-coach drawn by six white horses,
                     their heads and backs surmounted by nodding plumes. And in the royal coach also
                     rode the children of her majesty, bright-faced little ones, looking with ardent
                     interest upon the crowd. Then came the coaches, with the royal suite; behind,
                     the Guards; last of all a vast multitude following, crowding close, and
                     shouting, "God save the king!"
                  'Tis impossible to recall this scene, when that cry was heard for the last
                     time, without sadness and a sinking of the heart. Alas! the dark hours were
                     coming, the shadow was even then descending upon those human beings.
                  The procession reached Whitehall and disappeared; then the crowd dispersed.
                  I was just unbuckling my sword, when Harry, who had entered the guard-room of
                     the palace a moment before me, said,—
                  "This hand of mine hurts confoundedly, Ned! Serves me right for fighting with
                     that awkward cub Coftangry! It is swelling. I wish you would go ask my friend
                     Sir Theodore Mayherne to come look at it."
                  "Sir Theodore Mayherne, Harry? Who is he?"
                  "Their majesties' household physician, and a great friend of mine. He lives in
                     Gray's Inn Lane, and is a perfect wolf, but an excellent surgeon and
                     gentleman."
                  I set off at once to find the wolf, and soon reached Gray's Inn Lane, where I
                     was directed to a handsome house and admitted by a servant in black. A moment
                     afterwards, a portly personage, with long gray hair flying about his face, and
                     the air of a lion interrupted in his repast, entered the room like a
                     hurricane.
                  "Your pleasure, sir!" thundered the lion, wolf, or hurricane,—whichever the
                     reader pleases.
                  "Sir Theodore Mayherne, I believe, sir?"
                  "An absurd question! Who else could I be?"
                  I smiled. "You might be a thunder-storm! if that response be not too
                     unceremonious, Sir Theodore."
                  "Unceremonious? Not a bit! I hate ceremony! A thunder-storm? Ha! ha!" And the
                     portly person shook. "That is the way I like people to talk to me," he added:
                     "it's natural, expresses the thought. I'm sick of mincing and cant, and bowing
                     and scraping, and French ways! What's your business?"
                  I saw that I had to do with an original who liked coming to the point.
                  
                  "Harry Cecil, of the queen's guards, has hurt his hand in a duel, and wishes
                     you to come look at it."
                  "Harry Cecil!—a crack-brained jackanapes! What the devil have I to do with
                     Harry Cecil? 'Tis as much as I can do to patch up her majesty's nerves, broken
                     down by her popish fasts and vigils and penances and all the rest of their
                     devil's inventions!"
                  I rose and bowed. "Thanks, Sir Theodore. I will tell Harry you are coming,
                     then." The thunder-storm looked at me with a lurking smile. "He is at
                     Whitehall," I added.
                  "Well, I'll come! These scatterbrains, with their roystering and fighting, and
                     drinking and swearing,—mark my words, sir, the canting rascals of parliament
                     will clip their love-locks! Harry Cecil is one of the worst of them,—your
                     brother, from the likeness, no doubt,—a pestilent rascal!" And, turning his
                     back upon me abruptly, Sir Theodore Mayherne, physician to their majesties,
                     disappeared from the apartment.
               
               
                  XVII. I VISIT A GENTLEMAN AFTERWARDS FAMOUS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
                  I LEFT the house of the original character with whom I had thus become
                     acquainted, and was walking along Gray's Inn Lane on my way back to Whitehall,
                     when there came forth from a handsome house a tall and noble-looking gentleman,
                     in whom I recognized at once my host of Buckinghamshire, Mr. Hampden.
                  "Give you good-day, Mr. Cecil," he said, grasping my hand with cordial regard:
                     "it seems our fate to encounter each other. What brings you to Gray's Inn Lane,
                     where I reside, on this chill morning?"
                  I explained my mission, and Mr. Hampden shook his head.
                  "You young gentlemen are too fond of that sword-amusement, I fear," he said;
                     "but 'tis, unfortunately, out of my power to preach at length on this vice. I
                     once practiced it."
                  "Is it possible?" I said, smiling; "the grave and serious Mr. Hampden, of the
                     parliament?"
                  "He was once as bad as the worst, Mr. Cecil! Let us be honest! And I think even
                     my good cousin Cromwell must plead guilty to the same charge."
                  "Mr. Cromwell! that enthusiast in matters of religion!"
                  "Was in his youth a roystering blade, fond of catches at midnight and the foam
                     of flagons! Thus you see, Mr. Cecil, neither the grave Mr. Hampden nor the
                     pious Mr. Cromwell can with a very good grace preach peace and order to the
                     young gentlemen of this generation! I know but one person who seems to me
                     immaculate,—a young man whose genius will render his name more famous than all
                     others of his epoch. He lives in Aldersgate Street, and I am going to visit
                     him. Will it please you to accompany me?"
                  "With great pleasure," I said; and ten minutes' walk brought us to a small
                     house, set in a contracted garden.
                     From within the house was heard the sound of an organ.
                  "Our friend is playing upon his organ: 'tis his favorite entertainment," said
                     my companion. "I will use no ceremony, and enter, since he would never hear our
                     knocking."
                  He opened the door as he spoke, and led the way to an apartment on the right of
                     the entrance. It was poorly, almost meanly, furnished; in one corner stood a
                     small erect organ with green hangings above, and at this organ sat a man of
                     about thirty, playing a devotional piece, in which he was so absorbed as not to
                     notice our entrance.
                  Mr. Hampden approached and touched him on the shoulder. He turned his head, and
                     I never saw a face of more delicate beauty. The eyes were large and thoughtful;
                     the lips thin, with an expression of grave austerity; the cheeks rosy, the high
                     forehead as fair as a woman's, and around this beautiful countenance fell long
                     fair hair, parted in the middle and reaching to the shoulders.
                  He rose, and bowed with grave courtesy, taking Mr. Hampden's offered hand.
                  "I have brought my friend Mr. Cecil to see you, Mr. Milton," said my
                     companion.
                  Mr. Milton repeated his salute.
                  "Of her majesty's Guards, I believe, sir," he said, glancing at my uniform. "I
                     witnessed the royal entry to-day,—a very imposing spectacle."
                  "You?" said Mr. Hampden. "Then wonders will never cease. I had supposed you
                     safe at home here, composing your poems or treatises, Mr. Milton. What fancy
                     now possesses you, and when will you carry out your design of writing your epic
                     on paradise lost by our first parents?"
                  Mr. Milton shook his head somewhat sadly.
                  "Never, I fear," he replied.
                  "Are you afraid that our father Adam would not support you in your favorite
                     theory?"
                  "What is that, Mr. Hampden?"
                  "Polygamy—that 'tis allowed in the Scriptures."
                  "Do you deny that it is therein taught? The proof is very easy," said Mr.
                     Milton, quietly.
                  "And so you, Mr. Milton, I, and our friend Mr. Cecil have, each and all of us,
                     the right to espouse two, or ten, or twenty wives, if we fancy?"
                  "Yes," said Mr. Milton; and he was going to open an Old Testament Scriptures,
                     when his friend stopped him, smiling.
                  "I fear you will corrupt our consciences, my worthy sir. We are not of the line
                     of the patriarchs. Let us leave polygamy and return to letters. You are engaged
                     in composing something other than political, I trust. 'Tis so wearisome, that
                     species of discussion. Ah! here are some sheets. Is it permitted me to look at
                     them?"
                  Mr. Milton made a movement with his hand.
                  "'Tis only some rhymes of the woods and fields," he said. "I please myself in
                     the din of this great city by thus returning to my youth in fancy."
                  Mr. Hampden had taken up the written sheets, and now read aloud in his deep and
                     musical voice a truly exquisite passage from the afterwards celebrated poem
                     styled "L'Allegro," a name no doubt bestowed upon it in consequence of Mr. Milton's fondness for
                     the Italian tongue. The reader was plainly an expert in the difficult art of
                     managing the human voice. A charming sweetness marked his intonation, and the
                     glow upon his cheeks indicated the admiration with which the lines of the
                     poet—yet unknown—inspired him.
                  The reading ended, and I, at least, was silent from admiration. I think Mr.
                     Hampden was pleased with this expression of my face; for he said to me,—
                  "Is not that pure music, sir?"
                  He turned, as he spoke, to Mr. Milton, and said, in his deep rich voice,—
                  "'Tis truly like a breath from the fields of England, Mr. Milton, and the
                     melody to my ear is wonderful. But 
                        
                           'Sweetest Shakspeare, fancy's child,
                           Warbles his native wood-notes wild,'
                        
                      does injustice to greater men, I think,—to Mr. Beaumont, Mr. Fletcher, and
                     rare Ben Jonson."
                  "Such, I know, is the common opinion, Mr. Hampden," said the other; "but I
                     cannot share it. The brain that originated 'The Tempest' and conceived the
                     wonderful tragedy of 'Hamlet, Prince of Denmark,' is, to my thinking, the
                     greatest in our English letters. Others are tall; Shakspeare is a giant,
                     me-thinks. I would be content, wellnigh, to have reached gray hairs could I
                     have seen and talked with him."
                  I said with a smile, when my host thus spoke,—
                  "I think my father would exchange ages with you upon that understanding, Mr.
                     Milton. We live near Stratford-on-Avon, and Mr. Shakspeare was a good friend of
                     my father when the latter was young. He often came to Cecil Court, as our house
                     is named, and was excellent company, and full of smiles and sweetness, I'm
                     told. You cannot know him now, since he is long dead; but if you will visit us
                     you shall sit in the chair he was accustomed to use, drink from his favorite
                     cup, and see his name which he wrote with his own hand on a window-pane."
                  "That would please me greatly, sir; but I am a prisoner here, I fear. I teach
                     children for bread, and the birds have flown but recently. You must go?" for I
                     had risen some moments before. "Thanks for your visit, Mr. Cecil," said Mr.
                     Milton; and, conducting me to the door, he made me a bow of much grace, in
                     which he was imitated by Mr. Hampden, who remained.
                  Such was my first interview with the afterwards famous author of "Paradise
                     Lost," a poem so grand that its fame must extend throughout the world. I
                     afterwards read with wonder those august verses, and thought of the long-haired
                     young author. His "Co-mus" and "L'Allegro" and "Il Penseroso" pleased me even
                     more. The latter, published a few years afterwards, have a singular charm for
                     me. In reading them, even now, a delightful freshness exhales from them; I fall
                     to dreaming under the influence of that exquisite music, and forget the
                     bitterness of the political partisan in my admiration of the sublimest of the
                     English poets.
               
               
                  
                  XVIII. A MOONLIGHT COLLOQUY, AND WHAT FOLLOWED IT.
                  I RETURNED to Whitehall; and on the same night occurred an incident which
                     revealed to me the secret springs of one of those events which overturn
                     monarchies.
                  It was nearly midnight, and I was passing beneath the trees of St. James's
                     Park, near the palace, when the figures of two persons approached, and by the
                     bright moonlight I could see that they were in animated conversation.
                  "I swear to your majesty that I speak upon sure information!" said the voice of
                     Lord Digby. I recognized it without difficulty, though the speaker was greatly
                     moved.
                  "'Tis impossible!" replied the voice of the king, which was equally
                     unmistakable. "Impeach the queen? Wherefore? 'Twould be too infamous and
                     absurd, Digby!"
                  "Infamous? Yes, your majesty! But absurd?"
                  "Have they aught against her?"
                  The other was silent.
                  "Speak!" the king said. "Whereon can impeachment of her majesty rest?"
                  "Will your majesty permit me to speak without ceremony?"
                  "Yes; speak plainly! You rack me, Digby! My heart sinks. Speak! How and why
                     should these people impeach my wife?"
                  "Her majesty is a papist, sire."
                  "Content!—but that is naught. What more?"
                  "She is striving to convert her husband!"
                  "'Tis false! She has never attempted any such thing!"
                  "They profess to believe it, no less, your majesty."
                  "They will profess to believe anything to my prejudice or hers! Aught
                     more?"
                  "They declare that your alleged attacks on the privileges of parliament are in
                     consequence of her majesty's arguments, and from the fact that you cannot
                     resist her appeals."
                  "False! false! All false, Digby! Woe to these slanderers!"
                  "They are powerful, your majesty."
                  "I will show them that I too am powerful."
                  "Beware, sire! Let an humble subject speak plainly. They will crush you!"
                  "Crush me? 'Tis well, Digby. I will save them the trouble by first crushing
                        them!"
                  I had drawn aside to permit the king and his companion to pass. Lost in the
                     shadow, they did not perceive me; but I could see the king's expression of
                     wrath, and Digby's unconcealed joy, as the moonlight fell upon their faces.
                  "I will strike at the leaders in this infamous scheme!" exclaimed the king. "I
                     have the names here in my heart!" He struck his breast as he spoke. "From this
                     moment I swear to strike them without mercy!"
                  As the king spoke, he passed beyond hearing, and a moment afterwards the two figures had
                     disappeared in the palace.*
                  
                  
                     *Lingard, the parliamentary historian,
                        alludes to the proposed impeachment of the queen. He says, "Some hints had
                        been dropped by the patriots of an impeachment of the queen; the information
                        was conveyed to Charles, and urged him to the hazardous expedient of
                        arresting the six members."—EDITOR.
                  
                  Shall I relate what followed the incident in St. James's Park? This is not a
                     history of the reign of King Charles I.; I would not repeat what is contained
                     in the great histories,—above all, would not discuss the squabbles of king and
                     parliament. But a few words are necessary here, to explain after-events. It was
                     King Charles who defied his enemies first, and in a manner most weak and
                     imprudent.
                  In brief words, his majesty sent one of his household to prefer a charge of
                     treason against five prominent members of the parliament. On the next day he
                     demanded the persons of the five; and, the parliament refusing to surrender
                     them, the king proceeded at the head of an armed guard to arrest them in
                     person.
                  It is said that the gods make lunatics of those whom they are going to destroy.
                     His majesty was acting illegally, he was also acting madly. Time never was when
                     a king of England was an irresponsible despot, unchecked by any law and
                     competent to seize upon the persons of its representatives. As yet, however,
                     respect for the kingly authority was great; and it was thought best by the
                     parliament that the five members should escape. Time was given them for this by
                     the intrigues of Lady Carlisle, the black-eyed Venus whom I had seen at Hampton
                     Court. The king had just left Whitehall, and the queen in great agitation sat,
                     watch in hand, with her eyes on the dial. The king had indicated an hour
                     when—should no "ill news" come from him—all would be well; and, the hour having
                     arrived, the queen exclaimed to Lady Carlisle,—
                  "Rejoice with me, for at this hour the king is, as I have reason to hope,
                     master of his realm; for Pym and his confederates are arrested before now!"
                  The words are said to have caused Lady Carlisle to give a great start. She was
                     a friend, secretly, of the enemies of the king. She invented some pretext now
                     to leave the queen's apartment; hastened out, sent a messenger to warn the
                     threatened members, and, owing to delay in the movements of the king, the
                     messenger arrived in time.
                  When his majesty entered the Parliament House, the birds had thus flown. A
                     violent scene ensued. Loud cries of "Privilege! privilege!" rang through the
                     hall. The Speaker knelt to his majesty, but refused to pledge himself for the
                     delivery of the accused, and the king retired, discomfited.
                  With this crow-bar King Charles I. overturned his throne. London suddenly
                     blazed with rage at the attempted arrests. Great crowds escorted the members of
                     parliament to the hall; the king retired ingloriously to Hampton Court, and
                     from thence sent word that he would abandon the prosecution of the members and
                     respect parliamentary privileges!
                  Oh, inglorious! He was brave, and not deficient in intelligence,—what made him
                     thus act with such folly and timidity? 'Twas not conviction of having acted
                     wrongfully: his majesty believed in his kingly prerogative rogative always. Was it the spirit of intrigue,
                     the intent to temporize?
                  A great sovereign, observant of the right, would never have begun that bad
                     business. A resolute despot would have marched upon the malcontents and crushed
                     them then and there. King Charles did neither. He struck the tiger with his
                     whip, and, when the animal turned snarling, retreated before him. From that
                     moment he was doomed, and was king only in name.
                  This occurred wellnigh half a century since. King and parliament are gone. I,
                     an exile, am only musing and thinking, "How strange was all that!"
                  The royal family had all gone back to Hampton Court; and the queen was in
                     despair, it is said, when she learned that her indiscretion had prevented the
                     arrest of the members. Madame de Motteville, whom I knew well afterwards,—her
                     majesty's intimate friend,—told me of the meeting of Charles and his queen
                     after the attempted arrest. The queen threw herself into the king's arms, and
                     with passionate tears upbraided herself for her fault. In narrating the scene
                     to Madame de Motteville, she stopped, choked with tears, and sobbed out praises
                     of her husband's unaltered tenderness. "Never did he treat me with less
                     kindness," she faltered out, "than before it happened, though I had ruined
                     him."
                  Events from this time rushed onward. It soon came to be whispered through the
                     palace that her majesty was going on a visit to Holland, with the design of
                     conducting the princess-royal, then a child, to her child-spouse the Prince of
                     Orange.
                  The parliament had issued a circular to the nobility, calling on them to arm
                     and prevent the king from withdrawing farther than Hampton Court. Strange to
                     say, however, they scarcely opposed the projected journey of the queen to
                     Holland.
                  Before the queen's departure a singular event occurred, and this event I shall
                     now relate.
               
               
                  XIX. THE STING OF AN INSECT.
                  I WAS posted one night on guard in the anteroom to the queen's apartments, and,
                     having been up very late on the preceding night, leaned against the doorway,
                     half dozing.
                  From this condition I was aroused by a light footfall approaching along the
                     corridor; and a moment afterwards the dwarf, Sir Geoffrey Hudson, made his
                     appearance, laboring under great excitement.
                  My brother's espousal of his cause had made him the friend of the whole Cecil
                     family; and, seeing me, he now stopped, and began to speak in a piping voice,
                     which indicated froth agitation and anger.
                  "I have discovered who did all the mischief," he squeaked.
                  "What mischief?" I asked.
                  "Warning the parliament people that his majesty was coming to arrest them."
                  "Ah? Tell me."
                  The dwarf looked guardedly around. Then he made signs that I should sit down on a bench under
                     one of the windows. I did so; and then the manikin mounted with surprising
                     agility to the sill of the window, where his position enabled him to lean down
                     close to my ear.
                  "Coftangry!" he whispered.
                  "Is it possible? One of the queen's guardsmen! What object——"
                  "He was the tool only."
                  "The tool of whom?"
                  "My lady Carlisle."
                  I stared at the small speaker. "It is not possible!" I said.
                  "I know it!" was the venomous ejaculation. "Coftangry is mad about
                     her ladyship. Her eyes have turned his head. I saw them together, whispering
                     hurriedly in one of the corridors, that day his majesty went to the parliament.
                     I saw Coftangry hasten out,—lost sight of him,—but this evening discovered
                     all."
                  "In what manner?"
                  "I was lying beneath a couch in the antechamber to the blue-room. Her ladyship
                     came in with Coftangry, and sat down on the couch. I heard every word they
                     said; he is mad about her; and she made him betray the queen!"
                  It was impossible to doubt the sincerity of the speaker. He was passionately in
                     earnest; his eyes blazed, and his small form trembled with excitement.
                  "An ugly affair!" I said; "and I will take prompt action in the matter. The
                     queen's guardsmen shall not rest under the imputation of harboring a spy and
                     traitor in their ranks."
                  "No," said the dwarf; "you must promise me to leave the affair in
                        my hands."
                  "In your hands?"
                  "Yes. I exact that, Mr. Cecil,—for the moment, at least."
                  "What course have you determined upon?"
                  "That is my affair."
                  "I cannot make you any promise," I said. "This concerns her majesty."
                  The dwarf knit his brows, and reflected for a moment. At last he said,—
                  "When were you posted here, Mr. Cecil?"
                  "An hour and a half ago. But why do you ask?"
                  "What is the length of your watch?"
                  "Two hours. But how can that interest you?"
                  "It interests me greatly," was the cool reply of the dwarf. "And, as I have now
                     told you all, Mr. Cecil, I will bid you good-evening."
                  As he uttered the words, he sprang to the floor with his habitual agility, made
                     me a bow full of grave courtesy, and then hurried off in the direction of the
                     ground-floor of the palace. I looked after him in some astonishment, unable to
                     make out his design, and reflecting upon the tenor of his statement.
                  So the subtle and brilliant glances of my lady Carlisle had made Coftangry a
                     traitor! Lured on by her caressing eyes and ruby lips, he had sold faith and
                     honor! I was still meditating on this piteous exhibition of a man's weakness,
                     when footsteps approached. It was the new guard coming to relieve me; and I was
                     soon free to return to the guard-room.
                  As I descended and approached the door, I heard a, loud altercation. I hastened on, entered the
                     guardroom, and saw Coftangry and the dwarf facing each other, both raging.
                  "You are a traitor! Are you a coward too?" came in piping tones, full of wrath,
                     from Hudson.
                  "Is this pigmy to continue thus to insult the queen's guardsmen?" exclaimed
                     Coftangry.
                  "This pigmy," hissed the dwarf, "is as well-born as you are!—is, moreover, a
                     belted knight, which you are not, and defies you to single combat!"
                  The words raised a storm in the guard-room; but a large majority sided with the
                     dwarf.
                  "He is right!" cried one. "Beware how you refuse him, Coftangry. You will
                     dishonor her majesty, who has knighted him."
                  The tumult continued for fifteen minutes longer; then everything grew quiet.
                     The dwarf had carried his point. On the next morning at daylight, Coftangry was
                     to meet him in a secluded part of the park, each on horseback with pistols, in
                     order to equalize the combatants.
                  I was a witness of the singular scene which duly followed this arrangement.
                  Just as the first streak of dawn was seen above the great oaks of the Hampton
                     Court park, Coftangry and Sir Geoffrey Hudson, his diminutive opponent, made
                     their appearance on horseback at the retired spot selected for the encounter.
                     Each was accompanied by one friend; and a number of the Guardsmen who had
                     followed them formed a group near.
                  The countenance of Coftangry wore a satirical and mocking expression, which,
                     added to his sallow complexion plexion, did not render him a very attractive
                     spectacle. He seemed to regard the whole affair as an "excellent jest," and,
                     drawing his cloak around him, took his place with an air of mingled amusement
                     and disdain.
                  The dwarf was cool and determined. His eyes were fixed upon his adversary with
                     an expression of cold menace. He wore a light velvet cloak, from beneath which
                     protruded his minute sword; over his brow drooped a plumed hat. It seemed
                     impossible that his short legs could enable him even to retain his seat on the
                     big horse he rode; but he did retain it, holding the reins and directing the
                     animal with the ease of a perfect horseman.
                  In five minutes all was arranged, and the adversaries were placed near and
                     facing each other. Then the word was given, and the dwarf drew his pistol.
                  Coftangry, with a short laugh, drew—a squirt.
                  
                  "Here is the weapon I have chosen to meet this chivalric paladin!" he said. "I
                     feared lest a pistol-bullet might prove a cannon-ball to this sparrow!"
                  He raised the squirt, and, uttering a second laugh, aimed at the dwarf.
                  "Ready!" he said.
                  A flush of rage rose to the face of Hudson.
                  "Are you a gentleman, or a clodhopper?" he snapped. "Or simply a coward?"
                  "Come on!" cried Coftangry, with feigned laughter; though it was easy to see
                     how much the dwarfs words stung him.
                  The dwarf looked towards his adversary's friend, and, lowering his pistol,
                     pointed with the other hand to Coftangry. The gesture was full of such contempt
                        that Coftangry turned pale. The
                     words of the Guardsman appearing as his second in the duel did not soothe him
                     much.
                  "If you wish any further aid of mine, Mr. Coftangry," said his friend, "you
                     must conform to the rules of combat, and meet Sir Geoffrey Hudson with the
                     weapons of a gentleman."
                  "I have no pistol with me!" growled Coftangry, in reply.
                  The dwarf threw back his cloak, and drew a second pistol from his belt. He took
                     both by the handles,—they were small, but exquisitely chased and mounted,—and,
                     holding them out, said,—
                  "Here are pistols! Take one; I will take the other."
                  The words ended all further parley. It was not possible to make longer any
                     opposition. A moment afterwards, Coftangry and the dwarf were sitting their
                     horses at the distance of fifteen paces from each other, pistol in hand, and
                     awaiting the word.
                  It was given, and a simultaneous report was heard,—the crack of a popgun it
                     seemed,—accompanied by a puff of smoke.
                  The dwarf remained erect, curbing his startled horse with a firm hand.
                     Coftangry reeled, dropped his rein, and fell from his horse.
                  All ran to him, and raised him up. The bullet had pierced his heart. Five
                     minutes afterwards, whilst attempts were being made to stanch his wound, his
                     head fell back, a gurgling sound escaped from his lips, and he expired.
                  Such was one of the most singular events I have ever witnessed; and I have
                     related all the details to afford some idea of the strange complexion of
                     affairs at that epoch. The queen had taken into her household, as a plaything,
                     this pigmy of only two feet in height: a full-grown man had mimicked him; he
                     had demanded satisfaction for the wrong; pistols fired from horseback had
                     equalized giant and pigmy; and it was the bullet from the dwarf's pistol which
                     penetrated the full-grown man's heart. Such, I repeat, was this strange
                     event,—not the result of my fancy, but an actual occurrence during the reign of
                     his majesty Charles I. The moral, I think, is, Do not laugh at misfortune, and
                     beware of the smallest insects, if their sting is mortal!
                  The death of Coftangry created a great excitement in the palace for two or
                     three days. But there was no one to punish. The dwarf had set spurs to his
                     horse,—if he wore spurs,—and disappeared. His unfortunate victim was buried,
                     and the event passed from all minds. Memory of the dead is short in this
                     world:—at courts, I think, it is shortest of all!
               
               
                  
                  XX. GOOD-BY, SWEET-HEART!
                  THE queen's arrangements then in rapid progress for her journey to Holland
                     contributed largely to banish the fate of Coftangry from all minds.
                  This proposed journey plunged me into veritable despair. It was understood
                     speedily that her Guards would not accompany the queen,—that this body of
                        élite, under Lord Bernard Stuart, would
                     remain with the king. I was a member of the Guards, and must continue with
                     them, and thus for weeks, months, years, it might be, would not see—Frances
                     Villiers!
                  I fancy I see one of my grandchildren—some little maiden of seventeen, let us
                     say—smiling archly as she reads the above words in her grandpapa's memoirs. She
                     will have seen, perchance, the old gentleman who pens them, and will wonder if
                     ever the flowers of love bloomed under the snow of his hair. Yes, little one!
                     that snow had not yet fallen at the time I write of: my life was in its
                     springtime; the first violets bloomed. I would have plucked all the world
                     contained, could I have done so, to make a bouquet du
                        corsage for Frances Villiers!
                  So I was really in despair when I thought I should see her no more for a long
                     time: her tranquil smile which greeted me every day had become a sort of
                     necessity of my life. Harry, too, seemed full of gloom. "Hang it, Ned," he
                     said, "how will I be able to sustain life, my boy, without a glance now and
                     then from the eyes of the fair Frances?" And it was only long afterwards, as
                     the reader will see, that I came to understand what was hidden under that
                     jest.
                  Thus I moped, seeing my sunshine about to leave; me; but 'tis certain that
                     parting must take place in life, and I summoned all my philosophy. I think Miss
                     Frances saw the gloom on the faces of the two Cecils; but she said nothing,
                     remained quite calm, and one morning entered the coach which followed that
                     bearing her majesty towards Dover, with entire composure, and naught more than
                     her habitual composed sweetness.
                  The queen was thus en route for Holland, and
                     King Charles, surrounded by a party of noblemen and followed by the queen's
                     Guards, escorted the coach on horseback.
                  The journey was to be marked by one or two incidents,—affecting both his
                     majesty and my humble self.
                  As the cortége came in sight of Dover, where a vessel awaited the queen, a
                     party of horsemen was seen rapidly approaching from the direction of London. As
                     the queen descended from her chariot on the jetty, the horsemen reached the
                     spot, and a tall cavalier of dignified appearance, the leader apparently,
                     dismounted, gave his bridle to a man, and approached the king, doffing his
                     plain round hat as he did so.
                  His majesty looked at the new-comer over his shoulder, and with an expression
                     which indicated little satisfaction. The dialogue which followed was brief and
                     to the point.
                  
                  "Sir William Strickland, I believe? Your good pleasure, sir?"
                  The tone of the king was imperious, haughty, and not a little disdainful.
                  "Your majesty will first permit me," returned the gentleman, "to assure your
                     majesty of my very profound respect."
                  The king made a curt movement of the head.
                  "You come on the part of my parliament, doubtless, sir?"
                  "Yes, your majesty."
                  "Your errand, sir?"
                  "A very painful one, your majesty. I am commissioned by the parliament to beg
                     that before the departure of her majesty the queen for Holland, the law
                     excluding the bishops from sitting as peers in the House of Lords may receive
                     your majesty's approval."
                  The king's brow darkened more and more.
                  "In other words, unless I permit this iniquitous scheme to become a law of the
                     realm, the parliament will not permit her majesty to depart for Holland?"
                  Sir William Strickland was silent.
                  "Is it not so, sir?" exclaimed the king, with rising anger.
                  "I am unfortunate in being the bearer of a message displeasing to your
                     majesty," was the diplomatic reply.
                  A flush of anger and disdain rose to the face of the king. Around him, all
                     faces wore a similar expression.
                  The king hesitated. At that moment her majesty touched his arm, drew him aside,
                     and for some minutes spoke with him in animated tones. The result was that the
                     king, with an expression of suppressed displeasure, turned to Sir William
                     Strickland, and said,—
                  "Be it as you and the parliament will, sir. You have doubtless the required
                     form for the passage of the act by commission?"
                  Sir William bowed low, and, drawing a paper from his breast, presented it with
                     profound respect to the king. As he did so, a clerkish-looking individual of
                     his party approached with pen and ink, which the emissary presented to the king
                     with the same air of deference.
                  The king rapidly, and with a sort of flirt of the pen, affixed his signature to
                     the paper, and Sir William received it from his hands with a low bow. The king
                     scarcely acknowledged it,—turned his back,—and a few minutes afterwards the
                     party of parliamentarians were riding away.
                  "So much for that," murmured the king. "Events seem hastening."
                  With these words, he seemed to dismiss the whole scene from his mind. In half
                     an hour her majesty, with the princess and her suite, was on board the vessel
                     which was to bear her away, and the king and queen parted from each other on
                     the deck with a long embrace. The eyes of the queen were filled with tears, and
                     the king's face flushed with emotion. A last embrace was exchanged; the king
                     went ashore again; the vessel spread her sails.
                  The king, however, seemed unable to tear himself from the sight of the queen.
                     He sat his horse, gazing at the vessel upon whose deck the queen stood erect,
                     waving her handkerchief; and this salute he returned by raising and holding aloft his gray
                     beaver, with its floating plume. The handkerchief continued to wave from the
                     deck, and, as the course of the ship was along the shore, the king, surrounded
                     by his noblemen and guards, rode along, keeping it in sight. In this manner his
                     majesty passed over a distance of four leagues, ever keeping the ship in sight,
                     and straining his eyes to see the white speck moving to and fro upon the
                     deck.
                  At last a fresh breeze sprung up, and the bark flew like a sea gull towards the
                     open channel. From a lofty cliff, and motionless in the keen winter's wind, the
                     king looked his last. Slowly the vessel faded,—then it resembled a dark
                     speck,—then it vanished. As it disappeared, the king drew a long and labored
                     breath, let his head fall, and slowly turned his horse to retrace his
                     steps.
                  I shall always remember that scene; and think today, as I thought then, that
                     there is nothing more respectable than the faithful love of husband and wife.
                     What are rank and power and wealth beside this? And all wandering loves,—how
                     mean and poor they seem in presence of this beautiful and noble sentiment, on
                     which I think the All-seeing smiles!
                  Doubtless King Charles I. committed terrible errors as a ruler; but for all
                     that he was a good husband. A court full of frail beauties could never induce
                     him to turn his eyes from the wife God had given him.
               
               
                  XXI. HOW I WAS COMPELLED FOR A TIME TO TAKE NO FURTHER PART IN PUBLIC
                     AFFAIRS.
                  AN irritating incident followed close upon this painful scene, and, as the
                     reader will soon perceive, this incident seriously affected my own person.
                  The king had just turned his horse's head to ride back to London, when Sir
                     William Strickland again came on at the head of his party of horsemen, and,
                     reaching the spot, dismounted a second time, and approached the king with the
                     same air of deep respect.
                  The eyes of the king filled with sudden fire.
                  "What now, sir?" he exclaimed, in accents so abrupt and haughty that they
                     resembled a blow struck.
                  "I am deeply pained to offend your majesty," began Sir William Strickland.
                  "A truce to words and ceremony!" rejoined the king. "You are not here, sir, as
                     my friend or loyal subject. Your business, sir! And I beg that you will
                     dispatch it briefly, as we are not in the mood to be annoyed to-day."
                  The emissary bowed low again, and said,—
                  "I would fain spare your majesty annoyance. Briefly, a courier reached me on my
                     way back to London, bearing the paper I hold in my hand, which is addressed to
                     your majesty."
                  The king caught the paper with a movement of rage almost. His eye ran over it: suddenly he
                     crumpled it up and threw it upon the ground.
                  "Tell these people——" he began. Then he stopped, and seemed to realize how
                     unbecoming his anger must appear. His eyes were fixed with a cold and haughty
                     expression upon Sir William Strickland.
                  "Do you know the contents of that paper, sir?" he said.
                  "I do not, your majesty."
                  "It is a 'petition,'—everything is a 'petition' now,—in which the gentlemen of
                     my parliament considerately ask that I will not deprive them of the charms of
                     my company; they will be in despair if I absent myself from London, and will be
                     plunged into melancholy if I even remove the Prince Charles from them. Will I
                     therefore, they say, 'be pleased to reside nearer the metropolis, and not take
                     the prince away from them'? It would afflict them, these tender-hearted
                     gentlemen! 'Tis this that yonder paper contains, sir."
                  The emissary inclined his head before the royal displeasure, but was
                     silent.
                  "The meaning is simple!" added the king, with disdain in eye and lip. "My good
                     subjects of the parliament design making me and my son prisoners. They have
                     assailed my prerogative, they would lay hands on my person. I am intractable,
                     they would render me docile. 'Tis an ingenious device, sir,—is it not?—this
                     humble 'petition' of my humble subjects?"
                  Sir William Strickland bowed profoundly; but I could see from the obstinate
                     expression of his countenance that he was unmoved.
                  "You do not reply, sir," said the king, in the same tone. "You do not think the
                     device ingenious, then?"
                  "Your majesty will pardon me for declaring that I regard it as natural."
                  "That is the opinion of Sir William Strickland, Baronet?"
                  A slight color tinged the face of Sir William at these words. With sudden
                     embarrassment he bowed low, but made no reply. The king gazed at him for a
                     moment in silence, and then said, coolly,
                  "I will reply to this petition within three days, sir. Does that suffice, or am
                     I compelled to respond here and now?"
                  "That will assuredly answer every purpose; and I now beg to take my leave of
                     your majesty."
                  With these words, Sir William Strickland, who had begun to betray some signs of
                     discomposure at the threatening faces around him, made the king a profound
                     inclination, and, mounting his horse, rode away.
                  The king gazed after him for a moment, and said to a nobleman of his
                     suite,—
                  "So pass away one's old friends to the enemy's standard! 'Tis scarce two years
                     since I made this gentleman a baronet: I would not upbraid him with it, but he
                     had the grace to blush as he remembered it. Well, a truce to all this. Things
                     hasten more than ever! Before three days have passed——"
                  He suddenly stopped, and the sentence remained unfinished. Some scruple, if not
                     some secret resolve, seemed to check him,—the latter, it appeared.
                  "That message to the parliament may involve the appearance of trick," he muttered. "In
                        three days, I said. The message must be modified."
                  He turned quickly to an officer of the Guard.
                  "Captain Hyde, take two or three gentlemen of the Guard, and ride after Sir
                     William Strickland. Say on my part that I will make a speedy
                     reply—use those words—to the petition of the parliament, if it be not
                     made in three days."
                  Captain Hyde bowed low, and turned to select two or three of the Guard. I
                     caught his eye, and he nodded; then he indicated one other. A moment afterwards
                     we were all riding at full speed after Sir William Strickland, whose party was
                     visible on the crest of a hill in our front.
                  The guardsmen of the queen possessed fine horses and were hard riders. We went
                     on at a pace which would soon have borne us over the distance separating us
                     from Sir William Strickland, but this very rapidity defeated our object: the
                     emissary seemed to suspect something, and also pressed forward at a rapid
                     gallop.
                  Thus it was that the affair became a chase. The king had followed us with the
                     rest of his suite, and Sir William now plainly regarded the aspect of things as
                     hostile. The war had begun!—the royal forces were pressing the retreating
                     representatives of parliament!
                  The speed of the Guardsmen's horses at last enabled them to come up with the
                     parliamentarians,—but I was not present at the scene: I was in fact unaware of
                     my existence. My horse, a fine bay, had enabled me for some time to keep the
                     lead of the pursuing party: an old fox-hunter, he went on at a thundering rush,
                     when unfortunately a stone in the road caused him to stumble and fall. I rolled
                     beneath him, his full weight fell upon me, and I dislocated my shoulder.
                  I only remember thereafter that the king stopped beside me, and raised my head:
                     there was a group around; then I fainted. Half an hour afterwards I revived,
                     and was dimly conscious that a surgeon was setting my shoulder. Then I fainted
                     again—was aware that I was placed in a vehicle—the vehicle moved: when I opened
                     my eyes next, I was lying on a couch in a lofty antechamber at Whitehall, and
                     Harry was sitting beside me, holding my hand and gazing at me tenderly.
                  "So, Ned," he said, "here you are yourself at last again. How do you feel?"
                  "Badly, Harry; but not so very badly. This is Whitehall?"
                  "Yes; we brought you here, the king's affairs summoning him to London: arrived
                     an hour since, just at sunset, and you were so weak that you were laid upon
                     this couch. Better remain here, wrapped in your cloak, until morning: I will
                     watch beside you. Meanwhile, Dick is riding post to Cecil Court to bring the
                     coach. 'Twill doubtless come speedily, and you must go thither till your
                     recovery."
                  As Harry spoke, his name was pronounced at the door: he was absent from my side
                     a moment, and then, returning, said, with some annoyance,—
                  "I must go on post for two hours, Ned. Then I will return to you. Compose
                     yourself to sleep: no one will disturb you in this part of the palace; and the
                     moon through the oriel yonder will be sufficient light."
                  
                  "Content, Harry; I will sleep," I said.
                  And, drawing my cloak around me with my well arm, I closed my eyes.
               
               
                  XXII. THE PORTRAIT OF STRAFFORD.
                  NEARLY two hours had passed, I think, after Harry's disappearance, when I was
                     aroused from my dreamy half-slumber by footsteps on a side corridor leading to
                     the anteroom in which I lay. A moment afterwards the door opened, a figure
                     slowly entered, and this figure paused in front of a portrait upon which the
                     moonlight fell in a flood of light. A second glance told me that the new-comer
                     was King Charles. He was clad in a dressing-gown of velvet; his head, with its
                     long curling hair, was bare; and the pale, melancholy face, with an unhappy
                     light in the dark eyes, was turned towards the portrait, upon which the king
                     fixed a long and absorbed look. So intense indeed was that gaze that my eyes
                     followed it and fell upon the portrait.
                  It represented a man past middle age, and the face was an extraordinary one.
                     Dark, harsh features; eyes full of dauntless courage, mingled with a sort of
                     stern severity, and mournful foreboding, as it were, of some approaching
                     calamity; lips upon which were written an unshrinking resolve, a will all iron;
                     and in the poise of the grand head something majestic, calm, and imposing;—such
                     was the portrait which the moonlight fell upon, and at which the king now
                     gazed, standing motionless as a statue in front of it.
                  At least ten minutes passed, and not a muscle of the king's figure stirred.
                     Then I saw his bosom heave, a low groan issued from his lips, and he raised one
                     hand to his eyes, as though to brush away tears.
                  Whose was this portrait which had aroused such terrible emotion? for the tears
                     of kings are terrible, and burn as they fall. I knew not, but was soon to know.
                     The king was still looking with the same absorbing gaze upon the picture, when
                     another figure appeared at the door, remained there for a moment motionless,
                     then entered the apartment, treading noiselessly, and stood beside the king.
                     The shadow of the new-comer—a man—was thrown upon the wall. The king started,
                     and turned with a wild look towards the man; then, drawing a long, deep breath,
                     Charles exclaimed, in a broken voice,—
                  "Oh, Digby! methought that——I am unnerved to-night, and this face——"
                  He turned again towards the portrait.
                  "The eyes haunt me," he murmured, "the mournful eyes of the man I sent to his
                     death! Strafford! Strafford! Would to God I had died before I grew a coward and
                     allowed cozening voices to persuade me to your death!"
                  The king pressed his thin white hand to his forehead as he spoke, and,
                     interrupting Lord Digby, who essayed to speak, added, in the same broken
                     voice,—
                  "There are deeds that brand men as cowards in history. I thought myself brave
                     once, but I signed that terrible warrant! It was forced from me, they tell
                        me to console me. I resisted,
                     protested, refused, they say, but I signed at last! Well, that day, Digby, was
                     the blackest of my life. I was a forsworn gentleman! I was a king, and I acted
                     as a coward! I had the power to say no, and I said yes. Strafford was my
                     friend,—faithful unto the death; and my return for all was to send him to that
                     death with my own hand!"
                  The speaker's emotion was overpowering as he uttered these words. He covered
                     his face with his hands, and sobbed like a child. His frame shook. A shudder
                     passed through my own frame as I looked and listened.
                  Lord Digby seemed to experience the same emotion, and could scarce speak.
                  "I beseech your majesty," he said at last, "to cease this fearful talk, and
                     retire from this apartment. What evil spirit counseled your majesty to come
                     hither?"
                  "No evil spirit, Digby, but the conscience in my breast," murmured the
                     king.
                  "Your majesty exaggerates the part borne by yourself in the death of Strafford.
                     That signature to the death-warrant was forced by enemies; the very bishops
                     counseled it: the good of the realm was paramount."
                  "No good comes out of evil: 'twas cruel cowardice, Digby, and has borne its
                     fruits."
                  "Cowardice! that word again? Who will dare call your majesty a coward?"
                  "History!"
                  The word was uttered with a solemnity that thrilled through me.
                  "Let us banish all glosses and party passion from this question," said the
                     king, gloomily. "For the opinions of this generation I care little, esteeming
                     them but lightly. My reign is stormy and divides all minds; royal prerogative
                     and democratic power are at issue: wonder not, then, that my bitter enemies
                     charge me with untold crimes. I am a tyrant, a violator of my word, the author
                     of the fearful Irish massacre; I am a despot, reigning by fraud and falsehood
                     and duplicity; of all the monsters of history, Charles I. of England is the
                     most monstrous. And these charges, Digby, are so bitterly insisted upon that
                     all men's minds will soon be poisoned against me. Well, I care not. I never
                     violated my word of gentleman yet. I claimed, as to tonnage and the rest, what
                     I thought my just and immemorial prerogative only. When I heard of the Irish
                     murders, I shuddered like the most protestant of my subjects. In my own heart I
                     am guiltless of all this; but history will bring against me another charge, and
                     of this I am guilty!"
                  He spoke in a low tone, motioning to Lord Digby to be silent.
                  "I am guilty of that man's death," he said, raising his hand slowly, and
                     pointing to the picture. "He worked for me, fought for me, served me
                     faithfully. And I, who should have defended him, abandoned him to his enemies.
                     Of fraud, falsehood, tyranny, I am guiltless: the charges pass me by as the
                     idle wind. Of Strafford's blood I am guilty! When that head, that
                     should have worn the crown, fell on Tower Hill, Charles, the first of the name,
                     of England, was forsworn!"
                  I could see in the moonlight that the king's forehead was covered with drops of
                     cold sweat. He had mastered himself
                     by an immense effort, but the tears and agony of the outer man a moment before
                     seemed, so to speak, to have struck inward. The wound bled internally and was
                     past cure.
                  The king continued to gaze for a long time upon the portrait. At last his lips
                     opened, and he muttered, in tones almost inaudible,—
                  "Farewell, Strafford! 'Twere better to have lost my crown than to have
                     consented to your death! But the deed is done. I carry in my breast an
                     ineradicable remorse! Smiles and happiness are not for me any longer on this
                     earth! Yet I go to my work. I am king, and dare not shrink. You are no longer
                     beside me, with your great brain and fearless soul, to be my strong tower of
                     defense! I go on my path alone. Farewell! Something tells me that I will ere
                     long rejoin you."
                  As he uttered these words, the king went towards the door, but, as though the
                     great rugged head of the portrait, with its dark eyes, still fascinated him,
                     looked over his shoulder at it as he moved away.
                  I shall never forget the face of the king as I saw it then in the moonlight. It
                     was deadly pale, and in the eyes was that settled gloom which is seen in all
                     his portraits.
                  A moment afterwards he was gone with Lord Digby, and the steps died away on the
                     corridor.
               
               
                  XXIII. I RETURN TO CECIL COURT.
                  ON the morning succeeding this strange scene, I was removed to a bedchamber in
                     the palace, and three days afterwards my father arrived in the family chariot,
                     and I was borne from my couch to it.
                  My father followed; Harry bade me an affectionate farewell; and then the old
                     coach, with its four horses, moved slowly away towards Cecil Court.
                  As I left the palace, I observed something which forcibly arrested my
                     attention. In the great courtyard were drawn up the entire company of the
                     queen's Guard, with the servants in rear; and near the great entrance stood
                     grooms holding three horses, completely equipped,—one of which I knew to be the
                     favorite riding-horse of the king. About the horses, the Guardsmen, their
                     retainers, everything and everybody, there was something which indicated a long
                     journey rather than a brief ride.
                  I was still gazing back through the window of the chariot at the line of
                     Guardsmen, armed and ready, when a great shout arose in front, and I turned in
                     the direction of the sound. The spectacle was striking. As far as the eye could
                     see, the street was crammed with a great multitude, and in the centre of the
                     thoroughfare moved a procession, first of men and then of women,—a procession
                     strange, wild, fierce, with inflamed
                     flamed faces, violent gestures—moving furies. As I after wards, discovered,
                     they were the guild of porters, the watermen of the Thames, beggars,—then
                     forming a distinct guild; and the women were from the markets, brawny,
                     masculine persons, with bare arms and furious visages, clad in little better
                     costume than their nondescript associates. All were marching to the Parliament
                     House to offer their "petitions."
                  For a moment, it seemed that the chariot and the head of the great column would
                     come in conflict. The coachman, directed by my father, drew to one side,
                     however,—we were about to avoid the anticipated collision,—when one of the
                     multitude, uttering a curse, caught the leaders by the bridle, and ordered the
                     coachman to turn about and retrace his steps.
                  "Why, the movement is impossible, friend," said my father, in his calm voice.
                     "Should my horses attempt to turn, they would trample upon some one."
                  "Hear him!" shouted the man, one of the "beggars," and clad in rags: "he says
                     he will trample upon the people! Down with them!"
                  The words aroused a sort of fury in the crowd. The horses were violently seized
                     by the bridles; a rush was made upon the ponderous coach, beneath which it
                     shook, and half turned over; in a moment it would have been broken to pieces,
                     in all probability, and its inmates trampled under foot, when a commanding
                     voice cried, "Hold!" and a plain-looking personage forced his way through the
                     crowd.
                  His very appearance seemed to produce a magical effect.
                  "Pym!"
                  That name escaped from a hundred lips; and an instant afterwards, Mr. Pym by a
                     simple gesture, it seemed, had cleared a space around the vehicle.
                  "Permit this gentleman to proceed on his way," said Mr. Pym. "No time is to be
                     lost. Parliament awaits the worthy porters and the rest with their
                     petitions."
                  A shout rose, and the crowd obeyed. The chariot was no longer molested, and Mr.
                     Pym, whom I saw that day for the first and last time, disappeared. He died soon
                     afterwards, and, 'tis said, regretted his part in the excesses of the
                     parliament. I know not; but 'tis certain that he was disinterested in his
                     course: he ruined his private fortune, and died poor.
                  The coach proceeded then without further molestation upon its way, and we had
                     just reached the suburbs of London when the chatter of hoofs came behind and
                     rapidly approached. I glanced through the window: it was the Guardsmen, moving
                     at a quick trot. At their head rode the king, and beside him the Princes
                     Charles and James, afterwards Charles II. and James II. All were richly
                     clad,—the boys like their father,—but they wore their swords, and moved
                     steadily forward.
                  A moment, and the cavalcade had passed, Harry waving his hand to me. We were
                     now beyond the city, and, instead of towards Hampton Court, the king's party
                     turned northward.
                  "Look! see the road his majesty takes, my son!" said my father.
                  "It is the road to——"
                  "York! From this moment civil war begins!"
                  
                  My father's surmise was correct. Finding himself a virtual prisoner at
                     Whitehall or Hampton Court, the king had resolved to free himself, had mounted
                     his horse in front of Whitehall, and, riding past the great procession, which
                     saluted him with threatening murmurs, had left London, to take refuge at
                     York.
                  I could take no part in the coming conflict. I was in bed at Cecil Court, pale,
                     feeble, wholly powerless indeed, with a compound fracture of the
                     shoulder-blade.
               
            
            
               BOOK II.
               
                  I. DREAMS AT CECIL COURT.
                  MAY of this troubled year 1642 came into the world, and found me still weak and
                     feeble,—scarce able, indeed, to rise from my bed. As June approached, however,
                     I grew somewhat stronger, began to move about the grounds, and slowly my hurt
                     healed,—with which came a sense of exquisite enjoyment.
                  I look back upon those summer days at Cecil Court as among the happiest of my
                     life. Everything was charmingly fresh and buoyant; and my brief experience of
                     the bustle of courts had only intensified a sentiment always powerful in me, my
                     love for the scenes and occupations of our English country life.
                  It is certain that one is born with this sentiment and never loses it. I have
                     seen all phases of life in my time,—the splendid court at Versailles, the rush
                     and whirl of battle; have talked with dukes and countesses, flirted the fans of
                     court beauties, and taken part in royal processions:—all the fine pageant of
                     the life of cities has passed before me, with waving banners, triumphant music,
                     gorgeous silks and velvets, and jewels, and floating plumes; but the whole has
                     been for me a mere phantasmagoria or
                     idle picture. What I liked better, and returned to with ever-increasing
                     fondness, was the calm, untroubled life of the fields and forests,—the fields
                     and forests of dear, ever-blessed England.
                  It was these fresh scenes that I looked on now from the doorway of the old
                     mansion of my fathers on the banks of the Avon. My illness seemed to have
                     sharpened every faculty of enjoyment. Through my very pores I seemed to absorb
                     the delightful influences of the vernal season. The songs of the birds in the
                     elms, the daisies starring the turf, the skylark circling in the clouds,—all
                     were sources of the sweetest happiness; and I thrilled with an enjoyment which
                     no words can express.
                  The banks of the great river of Virginia, wherefrom I write, are beautiful, and
                     Virginia is surely a charming country; but, go where you will, friend, there is
                     no place like home. A kind heaven made my home in Old England,—with green turf,
                     and blooming hedges, and great trees, and cawing rooks swarming in and out of
                     their nests on the summits of the lofty oaks, beside the little sheet of water
                     on which some swans sailed serenely to and fro. Every spot around the old house
                     had some family incident or memory of my own youth connected with it. There
                     were the apple-trees where I had gathered the ripe red fruit in autumn; there
                     was the spot in the hedge where I had hung with delight over the dove's nest,
                     with its two milk-white eggs; there was the crotch in the great apple-tree,
                     where I had robbed the blackbird's nest of its speckled treasure; yonder the
                     old pony had rolled me on the grass, when an idle urchin; at the quiet nook in
                     the little stream where the grass hung over the shadowy pool, I had fished with
                     a pin-hook and brought home in triumph my willow twig full of trout. Thus every
                     locality was full of memories of my childhood. And boyhood had its souvenirs,
                     no less vivid and delightful. The child had become a youth, and his heart had
                     expanded amid these same scenes. The dreams of the great poets, the first vague
                     thrills of romance, visions of beauties with great soft eyes and flowing
                     hair,—these too were framed as it were by the green fields and woods around
                     Cecil Court. Stealing off in those days to the banks of the little stream, I
                     would throw my line in the water where the shadow of a great elm darkened the
                     limpid surface, stretch myself on the turf, with the leaves whispering over me,
                     and hour after hour of the long summer days would flit by like dreams,—or call
                     them birds, sailing away on silent, wings into the past. Then the blue sky was
                     a wonder, with its fleecy cloud-ships; the far coo of the dove came to my ears
                     like dreamy music; the water rippled; the rooks cawed in the tops of the great
                     elms:—I was an English boy in my English home, filled in all my being with the
                     exquisite happiness which comes, to me at least, only amid the dear scenes of
                     Old England.
                  As I pass away from this tranquil and charming period of my life,—I mean the
                     days of my convalescence, when the old scenes came back so vividly to me, and I
                     was a boy again,—I lean my head upon my hand, muse idly as I remember, and
                     again see the youth lying on the turf beneath the oak, reading Shakspeare's
                     dramas, and thinking of his own life's drama,—brief as yet, and just begun.
                     See, I have written that great name,
                     Shakspeare,—and that, too, arouses many memories. The fame of my father's
                     neighbor and friend has grown quite gigantic now, but at that time he was much
                     less renowned,—indeed, I might say, was little read. 'Tis so dangerous to one's
                     fame to be its cotemporary and move about in flesh and blood! No man is great
                     to those who talk with him and see him laugh and eat his dinner!
                        "That a heaven-born genius?" you say: "absurd! 'tis only a man
                     like myself!" So those who lived near Mr. Shakspeare were not so very
                     enthusiastic about him. He was delightful company, my father said, and of
                     excellent wit and humor; made you laugh very often, and was altogether gay, and
                     healthy, and natural; but he was surprisingly simple, seemed never to have
                     imagined himself of much importance, thought little, it would appear, of his
                     dramas, and preferred Stratford, where life was quite humdrum, to London, where
                     they fêted him and placed crowns upon his forehead. He came often to see my
                     father at Cecil Court; laughed at everything and everybody, with a pleasant wit
                     which did not wound; took an interest in horses, and calves, and the very
                     spring flowers; smoked his tobacco-pipe, and never alluded to
                        Macbeth or Hamlet in his life.
                  Such was Will Shakspeare, as old neighbors still called him; and I think my
                     father was one of the few persons who divined the supreme genius of his
                     writings. I was early impressed with their charm, and read him constantly:
                     Titania and Miranda and Ophelia filled my early dreams. Thus the soul of
                     Shakspeare grew as 'twere into my young life; and to-day, reading his great
                     dramas on the banks of the York, 'tis not so much Elsinore and Duncan's castle
                     and Bosworth field I see, as Cecil Court in England, where, stretched on the
                     turf, I looked upon all these visions!
                  Need I add that in that spring I saw other heroines in my dreams than
                     Shakspeare's? Frances Villiers!—I write that name, and leave the picture of the
                     disconsolate lover to be painted by the imagination. I will not dwell upon
                     that. I grow old, alas! and romantic writing from an old gentleman would make
                     his grandchildren laugh. 'Tis the grand privilege of youth to be absurd
                     gracefully,—to go into raptures over Dulcinea, and talk nonsense as fresh and
                     charming as the passion it describes. Romance-writers share that privilege,
                     'tis true; and were I composing a romance, I might enlarge upon Frances
                     Villiers and my hero's feelings. If I were only writing the adventures of an
                     imaginary Mr. Edmund Cecil! Then the reader should be told everything: my
                     hero's heart should be laid bare,—his romantic passion should gush forth in
                     burning words,—and behold, beloved reader, you would have a love-romance to
                     amuse you. But this is my own life, you see. I grow ashamed when I speak of my
                     own feelings: would you like a third person to be listening, whilst you poured
                     out in some shady nook the passion of your heart into the ears of the chosen
                     one? 'Tis thus a sort of shame which seals my lips: enough that, asleep or
                     awake, Frances was in my thoughts.
                  The Cecils are light-hearted, and take trouble easily. What unhappiness lives
                     forever? what year is all clouds? The sun will shine at length;
                     and 'tis the happy constitution of
                     my blood to divine it behind the clouds, and think, "'Tis coming out soon!"
                  So fled the spring and early summer. I have told you of my occupations and
                     dreams at Cecil Court, and have not said one word of the troubles of the time.
                     They did not find me indifferent; and twice I mounted my horse to rejoin the
                     king in the north, only to faint as often, be borne home, and find my illness
                     renewed. I was thus forced to wait, but with impatience, throughout that fiery
                     summer which burnt into all hearts. My quiet sports had become a weariness
                     then, and more than one event occurred even in our country nook which indicated
                     the tumult surging beyond.
                  To that I pass now. I have pleased myself by speaking of those spring days at
                     Cecil Court. It was but an eddy in the torrent: the stream soon swept me on
                     again.
               
               
                  II. A FRIEND OF THE KING.
                  ALL at once, late in summer, came the intelligence that his majesty had erected
                     his standard at Nottingham, and that his faithful subjects were flocking to him
                     by tens of thousands, to defend him against the "conspirators of the
                     Parliament."
                  That version of affairs was somewhat glowing, as events of speedy occurrence
                     sufficiently proved; but everybody placed credence then in the hopeful
                     prospects pects of the king, and one of our neighbors, Sir Jervas Ireton by
                     name, galloped over to congratulate my father. Sir Jervas was a large florid
                     man, of portly and imposing appearance. He was not very popular, but was
                     prominent in the county.
                  "Let us rejoice, Mr. Cecil," he cried, shaking my father's hand violently, with
                     an up-and-down pump-handle movement, "that his sacred majesty is about to
                     punish these pestilent knaves of the parliament!"
                  My father remained unimpressed, and did not seem to share his visitor's
                     enthusiasm.
                  "Is it so certain?" he said. "And after all, I think, Sir Jervas, there are men
                     in the parliament who are not knaves."
                  Sir Jervas stared. "You astound me! Then you are one of the 'Godly'!"
                  My father smiled. "I am for the king," he said, "but without believing him
                     altogether in the right."
                  Thereat, Sir Jervas exploded, and made an oration of the most violent
                     character. His majesty was a persecuted saint! the parliament was a gang of
                     miscreants! every gentleman and honest man should adhere to his majesty, who
                     would soon show the rascals that he had might as well as
                        right on his side!
                  Then Sir Jervas puffed and rolled about, so to say, in the excess of his ardor.
                     He remained an hour longer, blazing with loyalty and enthusiasm. Then he
                     mounted his horse and galloped off to congratulate some other friend of the
                     king.
                  As time wore on,—miserably spent by the reader's humble servant in longing for
                     strength to mount his horse,—the royal prospects appeared day by day less promising. The number of the king's
                     troops was ascertained to be but small, his resources very limited, and the
                     enthusiasm in his cause far from general.
                  Followed thereupon a second visit from the worthy Sir Jervas, who was much more
                     moderate in his expressions, and less convinced of the justice of the royal
                     cause. He had been mistaken, he said, in regarding the merits of this unhappy
                     misunderstanding as so wholly on the side of his majesty. The collision between
                     king and parliament was truly unfortunate; the royal authority should be
                     vindicated in its just extent, but he did not hesitate to say that
                     a body of men so virtuous, intelligent, and law-abiding as the great English
                     parliament could not be guilty of wrong or injustice. The public
                     troubles were distressing—most distressing—to all good citizens, and it was to
                     be hoped that his majesty would not persist in armed opposition to the
                        peaceful execution of the laws of the realm. Thereupon Sir Jervas
                     Ireton bowed to my father, who had listened without a word, and rode away. As
                     he disappeared, my father raised his finger, pointed after him, and said to
                     me,—
                  "There is a worthy personage who is going to turn his coat."
                  The reported forces of his majesty continued to dwindle. It began to appear
                     that the parliament was the stronger; and one morning we heard that Sir Jervas
                     Ireton had gone to London on private business.
                  "He is going to ascertain which side to take," my father said.
                  But I had no time to think now of Sir Jervas, who, as was shown afterwards, had
                     been to London and returned turned. At last I was strong enough to mount my
                     horse, and prepared with ardor for my journey to join the Guardsmen again.
                  I was soon ready. My valise was packed, my sword burnished, my pistols
                     loaded,—for it was said that the country swarmed with friends of the parliament
                     now, prepared to arrest all who attempted to join the royal forces,—and the
                     evening preceding the day fixed on for my departure came.
                  On this evening Sir Jervas Ireton reappeared at Cecil Court.
               
               
                  III. A FRIEND OF THE PARLIAMENT.
                  THE worthy Sir Jervas had evidently imbibed an undue amount of claret. His
                     countenance was rubicund, and his eyes twinkled. Twice he called my father
                     "Cecil," to that gentleman's extreme disgust, and finally spoke of public
                     affairs, up to that moment passed over sub
                        silentio, alluding to the king's friends as "malignants," bent on
                     the destruction of "the godly," that is to say, the friends of the
                     parliament.
                  My father bowed, but only said, with provoking coolness,—
                  "Well, sir?"
                  "But the godly are more than a match for you malignants!" cried the inebriated
                     knight.
                  "You appear to take pleasure in bestowing nicknames names on his majesty's friends, sir," said my
                     father coldly.
                  "Fight the devil with fire I" cried Sir Jervas, starting up. "When a public
                     ruler disregards all dictates of morality and honor,—when pledge after pledge
                     is violated, and the liberty of the subject is in danger,—when papists and
                     heretics and murderous emissaries are let loose upon an unoffending
                     people,—what, I ask, sir, can be the course of the friends of law and
                     order?"
                  My father had remained calm until this moment. Now his face flushed; but he
                     controlled himself.
                  "'Tis distasteful to me to hear his majesty denounced thus, Sir Jervas Ireton,"
                     he said; "and you will pardon me for adding that I esteem his supporters to be
                     as little 'malignant' as your friends to be 'godly.'"
                  "A month, or two at most, will decide which is strongest!"
                  "Ah!" my father said, with some disdain; "then 'tis a question of strength, not
                     right! The strongest side is the right,—that to which all moral and
                        prudent gentlemen should adhere!"
                  Flushed with wine as he was, Sir Jervas understood, and was stung by, the
                     taunt.
                  "Your meaning, Mr. Cecil!" he said, red and irate.
                  "I mean," returned my father, "that I had supposed Sir Jervas Ireton to be a
                     friend of his majesty. 'Tis scarce a month since you lauded him as the model of
                     a prince, and no insults were too gross for the parliament people in your
                     estimation, sir. Mr. Hampden was a knave;—I was compelled to defend that
                     high-minded gentleman against your denunciations; Mr. Pym was a wretch; Mr.
                     Cromwell a hypocritical fanatic! Now these are the saints, and we of his
                     majesty's cause are the knaves! Well, beware, Sir Jervas: there are friends of
                     yours who will call you turncoat. I will not, sir, for you are beneath my
                     roof!"
                  The knight started up at this, and exclaimed,—
                  "I leave your roof, but give you some counsel first. The eyes of the godly are
                     upon you——"
                  My father was on his feet too. "In your person, doubtless, sir!" he said, in
                     great wrath. "By heaven, I am not too old, 'malignant' though I be, to defend
                     my honor!"
                  With three strides he reached an old sword hanging against the wall, and caught
                     it down.
                  "This for you, sir, and the rest of the 'godly,'—at all hours, day or
                     night!"
                  I had risen, half indignant, half laughing at the drunken knight.
                  "Don't threaten him, sir," I said to my father: "he won't fight."
                  And the truth of my words was speedily shown. Five minutes had not passed
                     before Sir Jervas was out of the room and on horseback.
                  "The vulgar turncoat!" growled my father, replacing his old sword on the wall.
                     "A few moments more, and I had spitted his carcase!"
                  "''Tis better as it is,' as Will Shakspeare says, sir," I returned, laughing;
                     "and even now this worthy may annoy you in many ways, from his connection with
                     the 'godly' in the neighborhood. I shall not be present to aid you. I leave you
                     at daylight. Now I will go with Cicely to take leave of every thing."
                  
                  I called my little sister, who had been my companion in all my rambles, and she
                     came, with her pretty bright face smiling behind its curls. In her eyes,
                     however, I could discern the traces of tears, and, as we walked under the great
                     trees towards the stream, she said, in a low voice,—
                  "Oh, brother, why do you leave us? Must you go so soon?"
                  "Yes, Cicely," I said: "this is no time for the Cecils to prove laggards. I see
                     you have been upstairs crying; but come, smile again. There is your ardent
                     admirer, Jervas Ireton the younger, coming to meet you through the trees."
                  Cicely pouted immensely, and said, "He is the most disagreeable little
                     wretch——"
                  And, as she spoke, the disagreeable little wretch approached, smiling. It was,
                     however, somewhat of an injustice to characterize the young gentleman thus: he
                     was only weak. About twenty, with flaxen hair, washed-out blue eyes, a feeble
                     smile, Mr. Jervas Ireton the younger was simply insignificant. He and Cicely
                     were old playmates, as the Ireton estate joined Cecil Court, and the youth had
                     long fancied himself consumed with an ardent passion for the maiden.
                  "Oh, Cicely, and Mr. Ned," he said, "I am very glad to see you,—that is——"
                  He stammered, hesitated, and added,—
                  "That is, I would like to see you alone, Cicely."
                  The damsel pouted hugely at these words, and said,—
                  "What do you mean, Mr. Ireton?"
                  "There it is!" cried the young gentleman, plunged, it seemed, into despair.
                        "Mr. Ireton! The next thing it will be Captain
                        Ireton!"
                  Cicely stared. "You a captain!"
                  "Yes," moaned the youthful warrior, in lugubrious tones, "a real captain. Sir
                     Jervas managed it. A real captain, with a new uniform, and just going away. So
                     I came,—it was the only opportunity I will have,—you will not see me alone. Oh,
                     Miss Cicely! don't let me go without—without—without—one word,—that is——"
                  Here "Captain" Ireton quite broke down, losing all his self-possession.
                     Cicely's head rose erect, and her eyes were full of fire.
                  "Which side are you on, sir?" came suddenly from the maiden.
                  "The—the—that, is—I have no opinions myself of any consequence,—of no
                     consequence, I assure you——"
                  "You are on the parliament's side!"
                  "Ye—e—s," returned Captain Ireton, hanging his head.
                  Cicely shot an exterminating glance at her admirer.
                  "Then you will please never presume to address me again, sir!" she burst forth.
                     "The Cecils are for the king!" And the little maiden's eyes flamed.
                  "I—wish—I—was," came from her heart-broken admirer, "but,—well—'tis all over, I
                     see, Cicely. I will not say any more.—I wish—but my father will have his way;
                     he's a terrible old screw and tyrant!—I have no opinions of any
                     consequence;—but, well——"
                  A gleam of intelligence appeared in the youth's eyes.
                  
                  "Sir Jervas has the opinions of the family!"
                  A few minutes afterwards he took a sorrowful farewell, and went disconsolately
                     away; and I walked with Cicely until nightfall, when, arm in arm, my little
                     sister and myself returned in the grand moonlight which fell upon the old hall
                     in a flood of glory I shall never forget.
               
               
                  IV. A YOUNG GENTLEMAN WITHOUT OPINIONS OF ANY CONSEQUENCE.
                  I HAD supposed the adieus of Jervas Ireton the younger to have been final; but
                     on the very next morning, just as I was about to get into the saddle, he
                     reappeared.
                  The youth was clad in a superb purple uniform, the colors of Lord Brook, and
                     wore on his shoulder an orange scarf, the badge of Lord Essex, commanding all
                     the parliament forces. He was thus an imposing figure, in his purple and orange
                     adornment, with the huge feather in his hat, and sabre at his side; but more
                     imposing still was his retinue, which consisted of about twenty mounted men,
                     marching martially two abreast. The affair really looked like war! Here was the
                     disconsolate lover of Cicely coming, it would seem, to have an official
                     interview with Cicely's brother and mildly dissuade him from going to join the
                     king.
                  My surmise was just.
                  The martial youth halted his command in a voice of thunder,—an order which they
                     proceeded to obey by huddling together and running against each other in the
                     wildest confusion,—and then, approaching me, he said, in a mournful tone,—
                  "I hope Cicely's not risen, Mr. Ned; oh, I think there she is, busy with your
                     valise! How I wish I was going with you!"
                  I could not refrain from laughter.
                  "Whereas it is I who am going with you,—or at least you think so," I said. "In
                     other words, my good Captain Jervas Ireton, you have brought that fine company
                     of serving-men and cobblers yonder, to arrest me as an adherent of his
                     majesty?"
                  The warrior hung his head.
                  "The old man is such a screw!—the greatest tyrant, Mr. Ned, you ever saw! Of
                     course he made me come. Somebody told him you were going away to the king this
                     morning,—so he would not rest till he had me in the saddle, with this tag-rag,
                     on the way to seize you."
                  I looked at the youth, measuring his stature, then at his company. I could have
                     broken him in two, despite my weakness, with one arm; and the complexion of his
                     followers was far from martial.
                  "Well," I said, bringing around my rapier and pistol, "what do you propose to
                     do, my good sir?"
                  "Oh, Mr. Ned! don't speak to me in that way!" remonstrated the young
                     gentleman.
                  "In what way?"
                  "So rough! Of course I am going to pretend to arrest you——There is Cicely! Oh!
                     the old man is such a tyrant!"
                  
                  Cicely came out and stared in amazement. Then her face flushed hot.
                  "What are you and these people here for, sir?" she exclaimed.
                  "Nothing—nothing—that is—hem!—it's a mere form, Cicely."
                  "Please call me Miss Cecil, sir," said the little maiden, turning pale, but
                     speaking with great hauteur.
                  "There again!—'Sir!'" exclaimed the prostrated youth. "Oh, dont
                     call me 'Sir,' Cicely,—that is, Miss Cecil!"
                  Cicely looked from the speaker to myself in amazement.
                  "Our young friend is only come to bid me good-by, little sister," I said.
                  "Yes, yes,—that's it!—and to wish you a happy journey, Mr. Ned!" was the eager
                     response; "in fact, my own opinion is—if I had any—but I have none of any
                     consequence, I do assure you——"
                  I burst into a laugh, in which my father—who, coming down the steps, had heard
                     the last words, and understood all—nearly joined.
                  "Come!" I said to the young warrior, "why not choose to have some opinions? Go
                     and fight for his majesty: your bold followers will join you. There's Hob, an
                     old friend of mine, and Tom Diggs and Gregory from Keynton. They don't know in
                     the least what they are going to fight for!"
                  The youth hung his head, and looked truly disconsolate.
                  "I don't think we can, Mr. Ned,—the old man is such a screw, I have no opinions
                     myself—but— confidentially—my sentiments are—'God save the king!'"
                  He sank his voice as he uttered the words, and added, in the same tone,—
                  "Could you make it convenient to ride out by the back way, Mr. Ned?"
                  "No," I said. "I propose riding through Keynton."
                  The young man started.
                  "In company with Captain Ireton, at the head of his bold troopers!"
                  The youth looked quite aghast; but the comedy of the affair had taken
                     possession of me,—I was in the gayest spirits,—and the result was that ten
                     minutes afterwards I had bidden my father and Cicely farewell, and was riding,
                     followed by Dick Hostler, beside Captain Ireton at the head of his company.
                  The spectacle must have been odd. I wore my rich uniform of queen's guardsman,
                     and my companion the purple coat and orange scarf of the parliament. As we
                     entered Keynton, all eyes were fixed upon us; and I gazed at it as attentively,
                     for the village once so tranquil was almost unrecognizable. The parliament
                     ruled there. The shopkeepers sat on their counters, haranguing crowds; the
                     blacksmith had shut up his forge, and was laying down the law to the
                     wheelwright, who seemed to hold opposing views; the public room at the inn was
                     thronged with idlers, agog for news; and in one end of the long porch, an
                     emissary of the parliament, in full regimentals, was ladling out drink and
                     calling for recruits.
                  "Oh, Mr. Ned!" exclaimed my companion, "what are you going to do?"
                  
                  "I? I am going to do nothing," I said, laughing, "since there's nothing to be
                     done!"
                  "But they see you!—there they come!—and oh, good heavens!—there—there—is——"
                  
                     Vox faucibus hæsit! The youth, dumb with
                     terror, pointed to the figure of Sir Jervas Ireton, coming rapidly out of the
                     inn, and approaching.
                  "I see you have him!" exclaimed Sir Jervas; "a pestilent enemy of the good
                     cause! The young bantling now,—the old cock soon to join him!"
                  The ruddy features of the knight shone, as he drew near. His unfortunate son
                     shrank from him.
                  "Your servant, my good Mr. Cecil," said the knight, scornfully; "I am very glad
                     to see you."
                  "'Tis friendly, at least; but the sight of your worship affects me
                     differently," I said, continuing my way.
                  "Stop!—halt, I say!—seize him!"
                  And the knight rushed upon me, catching my rein violently.
                  I did not fancy the movement, and was in a bad humor from the scene at dinner
                     with my father. As Sir Jervas Ireton, therefore, seized my bridle-rein to
                     arrest me, I dealt him a blow with my fist on the side of the head, which
                     caused him to stagger. The act was visible to all, and twenty men darted at my
                     horse.
                  Had they caught the bridle, I must have been down under their feet the next
                     moment. I guarded against that by striking the spur into my horse's side and
                     whirling my rapier in front.
                  "Fire! fire on him!" I heard the furious Sir Jervas cry to his son. And the
                     reply of that warrior came as clearly,—
                  "Oh!—the pistols—they are not loaded!"
                  The words were followed by an explosion from the porch of the inn; a bullet
                     passed through my hat, and I turned my head in that direction. Through the
                     smoke I caught a glimpse of the parliamentary emissary, who wore a sergeant's
                     badges, and in the close-cropped hair, huge ears, and wide mouth, I recognized
                     my foe the man Hulet, from London.
                  A longer interview was impossible. I sent a bullet from my pistol at the
                     worthy, which did him no injury.
                  "Come, Dick, ride!" I then said; "the whole crew are after us!"
                  And, turning in my saddle, I caught off my hat, waved it around my head, and
                     cried,—
                  "God save the king!"
                  That was some satisfaction, at least. Prudence counseled speed now; and Dick
                     and I went on rapidly through the village, pursued by shots and the worshipful
                     Captain Ireton's dragoons. The shots did not strike us, and we were better
                     mounted than the village warriors. A friendly wood presented itself; the shouts
                     behind us died gradually away; and, drawing rein, I went on through the vale of
                     the Red Horse, scarce glancing at the heights of Edgehill, where I was soon to
                     take part in the first battle of the Great Civil War.
               
               
                  
                  V. I AM CONDUCTED BEFORE PRINCE RUPERT.
                  THE Almighty, who is also the All-merciful and Inscrutable, sends tears, agony,
                     and utter wretchedness to private individuals; on nations he inflicts at stated
                     periods his great curse of civil war. The human being visited by his
                     displeasure is easily known by the pallor, woe-begone look, and dejected
                     'havior of the visage; the nation cursed by civil war is marked as clearly by
                     the hand of the Almighty.
                  In that summer of 1642, England was scarce recognizable. The tranquil and
                     smiling land of the past was dead and gone. You seemed to move on the crust of
                     a volcano, and men's minds had caught the fierce heat and were burnt up by
                     fever. As I rode towards Nottingham, I saw on all sides the traces of the evil
                     spirit of civil contention. In many a field the ripe grain had fallen uncut and
                     neglected. Over others prowled tramps and beggars, firing on the game. The
                     highways were wellnigh deserted; and when you met a chance wayfarer he eyed you
                     sidewise with suspicious glances, and the hand under the cloak, you felt,
                     grasped a concealed weapon. All the face of the land was torn down. The fences
                     were gone in many places, for the war of cavalry-parties had already begun, and
                     the cattle wandered uncared for, trampling down the corn and meadow-lands. The
                     villages were either deserted, or hot-beds of agitation and gossip. In some,
                     the shutters were closed, and women glanced through the cracks fearfully. In
                     others, sullen glances or ardent questions greeted you, as you adhered to one
                     or the other party.
                  England was thus transformed, in a day, as 'twere, into a war-worn realm. Her
                     people seemed to look forward fearfully to some coming fate. Discussions in
                     parliament had ended; the sword had replaced debate; the harsh thunder of
                     cannon was about to drown the roar of hostile multitudes.
                  The war, as I have said, had already begun. At Northampton, Lord Essex, general
                     of the parliament forces, lay, I heard, with an army of about six thousand men.
                     And his horse were already scouring the country between that place and
                     Nottingham, where the king had assembled a force scarce half as numerous as his
                     opponent's. Thus the petite guerre of cavalry
                     had begun, preluding the greater conflict of foot, and twice I was chased by
                     the enemy's foraging-parties, who very nearly made me a prisoner. I succeeded
                     in evading them, nevertheless, and at near sunset reached the pickets of the
                     royal cavalry towards Nottingham.
                  My Guardsman's uniform would, I supposed, be sufficient voucher for my loyalty,
                     but the officer of the picket regretted his inability to pass me within the
                     royal lines. He was ordered, he said, to arrest all persons coming northward,
                     and send them to headquarters. This was reasonable, if not agreeable, and I
                     went on with the escort of two men, to whom I was intrusted. We rode half a
                     league, passed a large camp of
                     dragoons on the edge of a forest, in which fires had been kindled; then a tent
                     on a grassy hill came in view, and before this tent we halted.
                  Out of the tent, on the summit of which floated the colors of the king, came a
                     huge personage with a corporal's badges on his arms, a long black beard, and an
                     air of authority.
                  "Your pisness?" said the new-comer, with a strong German accent.
                  The guard informed him that I and my servant had been arrested at the outer
                     picket.
                  "Vait!"
                  And the giant retired into the tent, from which he soon reappeared, with the
                     guttural announcement,—
                  "Gome in!"
                  I entered, and found myself in presence of a young man in a general's uniform,
                     who was lying on a scarlet cloak spread on the grass, and playing with a white
                     spaniel. The appearance of this officer was martial. His boots were covered
                     with dust, his face ruddy from exposure, his eye keen and piercing, his bearing
                     direct, almost abrupt: from head to foot, in every trait of his person, he was
                     a soldier. On a camp couch in one corner of the tent lay a rich belt,
                     containing a fine rapier, and from the holsters of a superb saddle near,
                     protruded the handles of two highly-decorated pistols. The officer was plainly
                     either of high rank, or with a marked fondness for bright colors, or both. I
                     have found eminent soldiers careless of dress often, and prone, indeed, to
                     despise decoration as puerile. The young general before me seemed to delight in
                     such things; to enjoy the bright colors, the pomp and splendor of war. You
                     could see that he was all impulse, promptness, and impetuosity. His glance was
                     that of the eagle, and the eyes seemed ready to flame. It was plain that the
                     first blast of the bugle would pour fire into this man,—that the hand would
                     dart to the rapier, the spur clash on the stirrup, the simple soldier would
                     replace the general, and he would lead the charge, sword in hand.
                  All this was plain at a glance. The young officer responded with a look which
                     took in every trait of my person.
                  "Well," he said, with a slight foreign accent, "who are these?"
                  "Brisoners, your highness," returned the heavily-bearded giant.
                  "I am not highness; I am general," said the officer, briefly.
                  "Yes, sheneral."
                  "Prisoners! This gentleman, from his uniform, is one of the queen's
                     guards."
                  "Yes, highness,—dat is, sheneral."
                  The officer had risen abruptly, repulsing his playful white spaniel, who
                     continued to fawn on him.
                  "You were arrested at my outer picket, sir?" he said, looking straight at
                     me.
                  "Yes, general. May I ask to whom I have the honor to speak?"
                  "To General Rupert, commanding the horse of the king's army."
                  I bowed low to his royal highness Prince Rupert, nephew of his majesty.
                  "Your arrest, sir," said the prince, "was in obedience dience to my general order. Your name, if it
                     please you, and whence come you?"
                  "Edmund Cecil; and I am from near Keynton, where I have lain ill recently,
                     highness."
                  "Say sheneral!" here came from behind the hand of the huge
                     corporal, who had edged towards me, and gave me this intimation in tones of
                     subdued thunder.
                  "Spare your counsel, Hans," said the prince, briefly, "and go find what
                     horsemen are approaching."
                  The giant disappeared, and the prince turned again to me.
                  "What intelligence, Mr. Cecil? You have no doubt looked and listened."
                  "To little purpose, I fear, your highness. My lord of Essex is at Northampton,
                     with six thousand men, 'tis said."
                  "Near seven thousand. But the state of the country, sir?"
                  "'Tis in a fever,—the parliament recruiting everywhere."
                  "And plundering."
                  "'Tis so said, my lord."
                  "I will essay to stop that."
                  As he spoke, the sound of horses' feet was heard in front of the tent, and an
                     instant afterwards the gigantic corporal ushered in a dignified young
                     gentleman, thin of figure, clad in civil dress, and with something sweet and
                     melancholy in his face.
                  "My lord Falkland! You are very welcome, my lord," said the prince, cordially
                     pressing his hand. Lord Falkland bowed, and said,—
                  "A message from his majesty, your highness."
                  They went to the opposite side of the tent, and conversed for a few moments.
                     The prince nodded.
                  "Say to his majesty that his order will be promptly obeyed, my lord."
                  The prince had scarce uttered these words, when a prolonged bellowing was heard
                     without, and this discordant sound was followed by the neigh of horses. The
                     prince glanced at the huge corporal, made a gesture, and the worthy went out. A
                     few moments afterwards he returned.
                  "Gaptured gattle and horses, highness,—dat is, sheneral!"
                  "Oh, highness!" said Lord Falkland, in a low, sad voice, "this is very
                     painful!"
                  Before the prince could reply, a young officer entered the tent, saluted, and
                     said,—
                  "Your orders have been obeyed, general."
                  "The house is fired?"
                  "Yes, general; and you may see it burning."
                  The prince went to the front of the tent: I followed. A ruddy glare above the
                     southern woods indicated a conflagration.
                  "It is well," said Rupert: "that will teach them a lesson."
                  A deep sigh came like an echo to the words. It had issued from Lord Falkland,
                     who was standing behind the prince.
                  "Terrible! terrible!" murmured Falkland.
                  Prince Rupert wheeled round, with an angry flush upon his brow.
                  "I make war!" he said, abruptly; "and war is not rose-water!"
                  
                  "Pardon me," was Falkland's low, sad response. "I meant not to offend your
                     highness."
                  "And I am a hot-headed fool," exclaimed Rupert, grasping his visitor's hand;
                     "else I had never taken umbrage at words from the soul of honor—Falkland!"
                  He paused, and looked towards the conflagration.
                  "This seems harsh to you, my lord," he said. "Well, 'tis just. The man whose
                     house I have burned over his head has been merciless to the families of my
                     soldiers, pointing them out to the vengeance of the parliamentary troops. That
                     was proved to me. Well, I have punished him, have driven off his cattle and
                     burned his house. History will hate and curse me for these things, if 'tis
                     written by friends of the parliament. So be it; but let me repeat, my lord,—war
                     is not rose-water."
                  With these words, Prince Rupert re-entered the tent.
                  An hour afterwards I was in Nottingham, talking of home and home-folks with my
                     dear Harry. When we fell asleep, side by side, we were still murmuring our
                     boyish talk, and Harry's sweet smile went with me like sunshine into the dim
                     and pleasant realm of dreams.
               
               
                  VI. SWORDS AND PLUMES AT CECIL COURT.
                  IT was about sunset on a superb evening, late in October, that, looking from an
                     upper window of Cecil Court, beside my father and Cicely, I saw the royal
                     forces move in a long glittering line to the summit of the eminence called
                     Edgehill, near Keynton.
                  The foes were about to clash together. All attempts to negotiate and compose
                     the differences between king and parliament had failed. Soon after my arrival
                     at Nottingham, the Earl of Southampton and his associate commissioners, sent by
                     King Charles to London, had returned and reported that they had met with scant
                     courtesy, had received a written reply, and had been ordered to depart from
                     London without delay. When the king read the parliament's missive, his face
                     darkened, and his ire was aroused. His antagonists demanded his
                     submission,—that they should control all appointments, occupy all fortresses,
                     and dictate all public measures.
                  "Should I grant these demands," the king exclaimed, in great indignation, "I
                     should remain but the outside, the picture—but the sign—of a king!"
                  And I think he was right in that surmise. The parliament distrusted him so,
                     that they demanded extreme concessions. To have yielded then were to have
                        surrendered rendered all. Instead
                     of doing so, King Charles issued a solemn proclamation to his army, in which he
                     protested the sincerity of his intent to observe the laws, and called on his
                     followers to march with him and put the question to issue on the battle-field.
                     The proclamation was received by the army—then numbering about ten thousand
                     men—with enthusiasm; and then the king moved from Nottingham southward to meet
                     Lord Essex, who promptly marched from Worcester to accept battle.
                  Thus the royal forces came near, and were seen from the windows of Cecil Court.
                     It was a superb and warlike spectacle. The ruddy light of sunset fell, in a
                     sort of glory, upon silken banners and bright scarfs, burnished arms and glossy
                     horses. Foot, horse, and artillery moved slowly to the hill,—a splendid
                     phantom, without noise, save a stifled hum, and now and then a bugle-note from
                     the cavaliers of Rupert.
                  All at once a noise of hoofs on the avenue came up to the window. I looked
                     down, and saw the king, Lord Falkland, and a few others spurring towards the
                     house.
                  "'Tis his majesty! He is coming to visit us," I said.
                  "The king will be most welcome," was the response of my father.
                  And, descending, he met the king at the great door, and inclined
                     profoundly.
                  "We have come to take possession of your house, Mr. Cecil," said the king.
                  "Your majesty does my poor house a very great honor," was my father's response,
                     with a second inclination nation; and he ushered the king into the main
                     reception-room of the establishment, whither the Viscount Falkland and some
                     other noblemen followed him.
                  An excellent dinner was speedily served, and the noble guests—kings and
                     noblemen are but men, and grow hungry, reader—evidently derived great
                     satisfaction therefrom. And let me pause here an instant, to notice a
                     peculiarity of my father's ménage. He would always live as well, every day, as
                     his fortunes permitted, not starving his household for a month to give a grand
                     entertainment to invited company.
                  "'Tis but a mean manner of living at the best," he would say, "to keep your
                     fine rooms and best food and full dress for state occasions; to live in a
                     cuddy, stint your table, and go slovenly before your family, in order to dress
                     splendidly and make a show when strangers enter your door, My family are as
                     worthy of rich food and the best apartments as any one, and I make my toilette
                     as scrupulously for my daughter Cicely as for my Lady Duchess."
                  He certainly carried out his philosophy. His dress was ever the same in public
                     and in private; the very best apartments at Cecil Court were used every day,
                     and the table was spread daily with the best food. Then the door was opened;
                     every one was welcome, whether rich or poor, high or low, titled personage or
                     plain countryman, all found a cordial welcome, and were greeted equally by the
                     master of the mansion. I don't think my father was politer to one than to
                     another. He was a very proud and simple gentleman of the old régime. On this evening he said to the king,
                     "Enter, your majesty: you are welcome," as he would have uttered the same welcome to any
                     other visitor.
                  The king retired after dining to the reception-room, which was thronged with
                     noblemen and officers. Cecil Court, without and within, had suddenly become a
                     general's headquarters. Couriers went and came, with clashing heels and
                     rattling spurs. Officers clad in superb uniforms stood around the table, beside
                     which the king sat, writing orders or reading reports. In the grounds without,
                     horses were tethered, champing their bits and stamping. In the grass-plat in
                     front of the hall had been set up the king's banner.
                  His chief officers had come at his summons. These were Lord Lindesey,
                     commanding-in-chief; Prince Rupert, commanding the horse; Sir Jacob Astley, the
                     foot; Sir Arthur Aston, the dragoons; and Sir John Heydon, the artillery. I
                     forget the troop of Guards, whose servants formed a second troop, always
                     marching with their masters. The first were under Lord Bernard Stuart, the
                     second under Sir William Killigrew. The wealthiest young noblemen of the
                     kingdom had flocked to the Guards now: 'twas said, and with truth, I think,
                     that the estates and revenues of these young private soldiers exceeded the
                     estates and revenues of all the members of parliament and the House of Lords,
                     when the seats of the two houses were full.
                  Among these gay young volunteers was one whose name, when I heard it first at
                     Nottingham, had made me start. Walking arm in arm with Harry, I had seen him
                     beckon to a youth of about twenty, with bright blue eyes, chestnut curls,
                     laughing face, and superbly clad.
                  "Here's my brother Ned, Frank," Harry said. "Come and shake hands with
                     him."
                  And as the youth came forward, with an expression of youthful buoyancy and
                     sunshine in his face, Harry added, to me,—
                  "This is Frank Villiers, brother of our fair friend the maid of honor. We are
                     sworn friends; and you must be his friend too."
                  The youth squeezed my hand cordially, looking at me with his frank eyes and
                     smile; and in ten minutes we were familiar friends. Three days afterwards, I
                     seemed to have known him from his very childhood; and now he had ridden with me
                     to Cecil Court, and was laughing with Cicely on the portico in the
                     moonlight.
                  The king was busy until midnight, and then, rising, exchanged a few words with
                     Viscount Falkland, his secretary of state.
                  "All is ready, you see, my lord," he said, "and 'tis probable we shall fight on
                     the morrow. Come, summon back your smiles: you seem woe-begone to-night."
                  Lord Falkland sighed. "I know not what oppresses me so, your majesty," he
                     said.
                  The king looked at him with a glance full of melancholy. "'Tis that woman's
                     heart you possess, my lord. You shrink from battle and blood! See, I utter
                     ungracious words. I seem to impute weakness to Falkland, the bravest of all the
                     brave gentlemen of my kingdom!"
                  "Your majesty knows——"
                  "That 'tis kindness, not weakness? Yes! Your heart is bleeding, Falkland, at
                     the blood and agony which to-morrow
                     will bring. Well, my heart too bleeds; but I am not the author of
                     this conflict. I shrink from the future; but I go on in my course. The English
                     monarchy shall not fall, in my person, without a struggle, Falkland. And now
                     good-night."
                  My father, who waited, ushered the king to his apartment, bearing a silver
                     sconce before him. A few moments after their disappearance, my father called
                     me. I went up rapidly, and the king, who sat beside a table, upon which lay an
                     open portfolio, said to me,—
                  "I have a service to ask of you, Mr. Cecil. Are you well mounted?"
                  "Very well, your majesty."
                  "I wish you to go to Holland."
                  I bowed low, with a beating heart. The king had turned to my father.
                  "Two gray-haired gentlemen like ourselves, Mr. Cecil," he said, "can understand
                     each other. I would write to my wife. To-night my thoughts have never left her.
                     I shall go into action to-morrow, and, like a good husband, think of one who is
                     thinking of me."
                  Taking a pen as he spoke, the king began to write. The letter, which filled two
                     sheets, was at last finished and securely sealed, the king stamping the wax
                     with a signet-ring which he wore. He then extended the package towards me, but
                     suddenly drew it back.
                  "No, I will wait until the event is decided tomorrow, and add some lines," he
                     said. "'Twould be cruel to write thus on the eve of battle, and leave her
                     majesty in doubt of everything,—perhaps to torture herself with fears. Your
                     pardon, Mr. Cecil," he added to my father: "I think aloud, but I take no shame
                     to myself for my thoughts. To-night I am only a poor husband thinking of his
                     absent wife."
                  He turned towards me, and added, "'Twould disappoint you too, sir, if I'm not
                     mistaken. Go into action with your friends to-morrow. I shall see and share
                     all. And if you survive, come to me immediately after the battle."
                  I saluted and retired. Half an hour afterwards I was in camp, and said to
                     Harry, beside whom I lay;—
                  "I am going to Holland to-morrow, Harry. I shall see her again,—Frances
                     Villiers!"
               
               
                  VII. BROTHERS.
                  AS I uttered the words, "I shall see her again,—Frances Villiers!" I felt Harry
                     start.
                  "You say that in an ardent tone, Ned," he replied. "Is the prospect so
                     delightful?"
                  I was silent, and felt a burning blush rush to my face in the darkness.
                  "True!" I stammered. "I have never spoken of this even to you, my dearest
                     Harry. But 'tis out now! Yes, I look forward to the moment when I shall see
                     Frances Villiers again with the wildest beating of the heart. When the king
                     said, 'I wish you to go to Holland,' the words were like music. How could I
                     feel aught but joy, or listen calmly, as his majesty spoke thus, Harry? The person I'll see there has long
                     been dearer to me than all else in this world!"
                  Followed a gushing oration, full of passionate love and general froth and
                     absurdity. What makes young gentlemen when they are in love insist upon
                     bestowing their raptures, with a sort of drunken ardor, on the nearest person?
                     They grow maudlin when the fit is on them, and talk on through the
                     night-watches forever. So I opened my heart to Harry, and told him all, as we
                     lay there on Edgehill,—how I had loved Frances Villiers from our first meeting
                     nearly, had dreamed of her day and night when at Hampton Court, and had sighed
                     bitterly when she went away,—my sun, moon, and starlight all combined! This,
                     and all the rest! I spare the reader, as I did not spare poor Harry. He
                     listened in silence for a long time, and scarce interrupted me to the end.
                     There was something strange in his voice, I thought,—I did not note it then,
                     but remembered it afterwards.
                  "Well, Ned," he said, at length, forcing a laugh, "I see you are regularly a
                     victim; but I don't wonder, since the enchantress is the fair Miss Villiers,
                     the empress of all hearts!"
                  He laughed again; but the laugh was discordant.
                  "What ails you, Harry? Your laugh is strange!" I said.
                  "Ails me? Nothing, Ned. What could ail me? I'm not anxious about
                     the fight to-morrow on Mr. Harry Cecil's score, I swear to you. If I felt
                     solicitude, 'twould be on Ned Cecil's account, brother."
                  His voice had softened to the sweetest music: there was no longer the tone of
                     frolic laughter in it, but an earnest kindness and goodness that touched me to
                     the heart, as he ended with that word "brother," never employed save in moments
                     of loving regard.
                  "Then we think of each other," I said; "for I have prayed for you, Harry! You
                     are my only brother, and the very best brother that man ever had!"
                  Harry's old kind laugh rang out.
                  "Good! Here we are making protestations," he said. "What's the advantage? Don't
                     I know that you love me, Ned, as I love you? Since we were children we never
                     have quarreled but once, when I beat you and then went and sat on the steps and
                     cried about it! I'll back Ned Cecil for a brother against any man in England!
                     And now let's go to sleep; 'tis near day, and the fight may open at dawn. So
                     you go to Holland?—Well, present my regards to the fair Miss Frances. She's
                     worth loving, Ned,—forward!—I mean to be present at your wedding!"
                  The words were uttered in a low tone, and Harry turned away, as though going to
                     sleep. Suddenly he, wheeled round, and placed his arm around my neck.
                  "God bless my brother!" he said, in the same strange tone: "that comes straight
                     from my heart, Ned!—and now good-night."
                  A moment afterwards, a long heavy breathing seemed to indicate that Harry
                     slept. I knew afterwards that, like myself, he lay awake until dawn. Then the
                     bugle sounded, and the camps were astir.
                  The day of battle had come,—the first battle of the English Civil War.
               
               
                  
                  VIII. I VISIT THE HAGUE.
                  THESE memoirs, may it please the reader, are not a history of the reign of his
                     majesty King Charles I., nor even a narrative of the military occurrences of
                     the "Great Rebellion." Guns will roar on the page, bugles sound, and swords
                     clash, sometimes; but 'tis the adventures of Edmund Cecil which will chiefly
                     compose the story.
                  Therefore of Edgehill I present but a passing sketch; and I think all battles
                     had best be treated in that manner. What are they but a hurly-burly of shouts,
                     explosions, and cheers or groans! The movements of columns or wings are
                     described in a few words; then nothing is left but that confused struggle of
                     the opposing masses. I have been in many battles; and all resemble each other
                     in the one great feature of men in clothes of different colors essaying to tear
                     each other to pieces.
                  The king's army, of about ten thousand men, was drawn up on the slope of
                     Edgehill. In the vale of the Red Horse, beneath, the ten or fifteen thousand
                     men of Lord Essex confronted them in order of battle. All day the opponents
                     faced each other thus. Towards sunset the battle began. With fluttering
                     banners, blasts of the bugle, and the roar of artillery, the royal forces
                     advanced to charge those of the parliament.
                  Prince Rupert, on our right, commanding the horse, began the struggle, as was
                     thereafter his wont. He charged the left wing of Lord Essex, consisting of a
                     strong body of cavalry; and, riding with the Guards in front, I witnessed a
                     singular incident. The troop of horse we were charging suddenly fired their
                     pistols into the ground; their commanding officer spurred to meet us, and made
                     a parade-salute with his sabre to Prince Rupert, with whom he exchanged a few
                     words; an instant afterwards the troop had wheeled and ranged themselves on the
                     side of the king. Sir Faithful Fortescue—forced, 'twas said, to march with the
                     parliament's forces against his will—had changed his flag on the day of battle,
                     for which I, a royalist, could never forgive him.
                  Struck thus by the whole weight of Rupert's horsemen, the enemy's left wing
                     gave way. A wild chaos followed, the pursuers cutting down the fugitives as
                     they fled. They were followed nearly a league thus; and Heaven knows how far
                     the pursuit would have extended, had not a thunder of shouts in the distance
                     recalled the prince to a sense of his indiscretion.
                  Sir Arthur Aston had broken the right of Lord Essex, as Rupert had broken the
                     left; but the infantry of the king was thus stripped of its supports of horse.
                     Sir William Balfour, commanding the parliament's reserve force, advanced; the
                     lines clashed together furiously. Lord Lindsey, our commander, was mortally
                     wounded and taken prisoner; and Sir Edmund Verney, bearing the king's standard,
                     fell dead,—the standard, falling into the enemy's hands.
                  Such was the state of things when Prince Rupert led back his horse from the ill-timed pursuit. He
                     came too late to be of much service. The king's standard was recaptured; but
                     the enemy continued to present an unbroken front. Then night descended:—the two
                     armies retained their positions; the watch-fires blazed in long lines within
                     sight of each other in the vale of the Red Horse:—the fight of Edgehill, which
                     left five thousand dead men on the field, had resulted in success to neither
                     side.
                  The sole ground for claiming a victory over the parliament was the fact that
                     Essex retired, and the king advanced towards London afterwards. But this I did
                     not witness. I was on my way to Holland.
                  At midnight his majesty had delivered to me his letter to the queen,
                     containing, doubtless, additional matter relating to the battle.
                  "This with speed to her majesty at the Hague, Mr. Cecil," the king said. "At
                     Yarmouth a vessel awaits you: here is my order to the captain. Travel rapidly;
                     and, if you are in peril, destroy the letter. A good journey, sir! I would fain
                     go in your place."
                  I took the letter, bowing low, and ten minutes afterwards was in the
                     saddle.
                  A hand in the darkness was placed on my knee.
                  "You forget to bid me good-by, Ned!"
                  The voice was gentle,—almost tender. In my foolish joy at the thought of seeing
                     Frances Villiers, I had quite forgotten my dearest Harry; but he had not
                     forgotten me.
                  His arm was placed around me: a few words, and we had parted.
                  Of all persons after my father, I loved this one the best. 'Tis my pride and
                     joy now to remember that he too loved me.
                  But I did not think of Harry then; nor did I know the full wealth of that noble
                     heart and the extent of my brother's self-sacrifice.
                  I passed across the country at full speed, avoiding the enemy's
                     scouting-parties, reached Yarmouth, found the king's vessel—a small
                     sloop—waiting, and gave the captain the order. We put to sea at once, and,
                     after a stormy passage, saw the low shores of Holland appear like a long green
                     line on the water.
                  In due time I disembarked at the Hague and delivered the king's letter to her
                     majesty.
               
               
                  IX. A GOOD WIFE.
                  I WENT to Holland, expecting to return to England at once. I remained there
                     from October until the month of February, 1643.
                  The queen had said to me, "I wish your assistance here, Mr. Cecil. Remain,
                     therefore; but do not fear: you shall soon see England again."
                  As her majesty thus spoke, sitting in an apartment of the palace of the Princes
                     of Orange, at the Hague, her face glowed with animation, and her eyes were full
                     of courage.
                  
                  "You are a friend of the royal cause, sir, and a gentleman of discretion, too,"
                     her majesty was pleased to add, smiling. "I shall therefore take you into our
                     confidence and inform you of our good fortune. See this paper: we have the
                     promise of these round sums from the worthy burghers here."
                  She held out a paper to me, and I perused its contents. Rotterdam engaged to
                     lend forty thousand guilders, and the bank at the same city the sum of
                     twenty-five thousand more. The bank at Amsterdam promised eight hundred and
                     forty-five thousand more. Merchants at the Hague, one hundred and sixty-six
                     thousand more. Another merchant's house offered two hundred and thirteen
                     thousand two hundred, on the security of the queen's pearls. Six rubies were
                     accepted in pawn for forty thousand more. From the paper, in a word, I learned
                     how successful her majesty had been. She had the promise of, and afterwards did
                     actually receive, from these various sources, more than two millions of pounds
                     sterling.
                  I raised my eyes from the paper, and fixed them upon the animated face of the
                     queen.
                  "The worthy burgomasters of this good country have not surrendered without a
                     desperate resistance," her majesty added, laughing. "They exhibited at first
                     little favor towards me, and, indeed, scant respect for my person. They entered
                     my presence with their heads covered; threw themselves unbidden into chairs
                     before me; stared at me in the manner of persons viewing some strange wild
                     animal; and, when I spoke of money, more than once turned their backs and
                     marched from the room."
                  "'Tis not possible!" I said. "And could your majesty endure such
                     treatment?"
                  "Without a word, Mr. Cecil. The worthy burghers could not repulse me. I
                     responded to all their discourtesy with the sweetest smiles. I would not see
                     the beavers remaining on their heads; I had chairs brought them, and begged
                     they would be seated. Never was bankrupt merchant more polite to those who
                     could assist him. And I have triumphed despite everything; despite Sir Walter
                     Strickland, the parliament's agent here, a brother of Sir William, of the
                     enemy's side in England. I have triumphed, and shall soon set out for England
                     with an armament. His majesty's need is sore there, and my assistance will not
                     arrive too soon. The gentlemen of the parliament seem inspired with a veritable
                     fury against us. I say us, since 'tis my pride to have secured at
                     least one-half their enmity! They exhaust every effort, I am told. Plate,
                     jewels, even the thimbles and bodkins of the worthy burghers' wives, pour into
                     the treasury at Guildhall, to support the 'good cause.' Why then should not I,
                     in my turn, give my jewels? The good dames of London rush to the
                     assistance of Mr. Pym and Mr. Cromwell and the leaders of the 'godly.' A poor
                     'malignant' wife, then, may be pardoned for essaying to aid her husband!"
                  So spoke the queen. Whatever her faults, she was assuredly a brave and devoted
                     wife. Throughout all those stormy times this fealty to her husband shines
                     clearly. At Newark, once, when the ladies petitioned that she would not march
                     till Nottingham was taken, she replied,—
                  
                  "Ladies, affairs of this nature are not in our sphere. I am commanded by the
                     king to make all the haste to him that I can. You will receive this advantage,
                     at least, by my answer, though I cannot grant your petition: you may learn, by
                     my example, to obey your husbands!"
                  I see a charming French wit in that reply, and good sense too, I think. I
                     finish the sentence with trepidation, knowing some fair dames who repudiate
                     such humility. 'Tis taught in the holy volume, but is going out of fashion.
                  So I remained at the Hague until February, 1643, before which time her majesty
                     had not perfected her arrangements for returning to England.
                  I shall say little of that time: the days followed and resembled each, other
                     too. A flat country, and a flat life there; or 'twould have been flat, the life
                     I led, but for the presence of a person who was very dear to me. With one
                     scene, in which this person bore part, I will pass from Holland. I would omit
                     even this, willingly; but 'tis impossible.
               
               
                  X. MY FATE.
                  I PAUSE, and lean my forehead on my hand, and laugh. I did not laugh then: the
                     scene I speak of did not arouse my merriment.
                  It took place at Helvoetsluys, a country palace of the Prince of Orange,
                     whither the queen went on a visit, towards the spring, taking her suite with
                     her.
                  An old park, beyond which the sluggish waters of a canal were seen,—the country
                     around flat and prosaic; the park bare and dreary with its leafless trees,—amid
                     such a scene I was walking at twilight with Frances Villiers, and had just made
                     a passionate speech, to which the young lady had listened with a burning
                     blush.
                  Through the mists that have gathered in all the years since that moment, I can
                     see her plainly. She wore a dress of red brocade, and had thrown some furs
                     around her shoulders. From beneath a silken hood her great eyes shone, half
                     covered, as her head sank, by curls; her cheeks were crimson with that sudden
                     blush; and the hand I held in my own was bent upward, with the palm downward,
                     so that the round white wrist was bent.
                  The hand tried to release itself, and some words came in a sort of murmur from
                     the lips, turned away from me.
                  "Have pity on me! You know now that I love you more than my life! You must have
                     seen it all these days. Now I speak, and await my fate!"
                  
                  Something like this escaped from the young man holding the hand of the girl;
                     and a long deep breath which she drew, as though to relieve her bosom from a
                     weight upon it, filled the lover with delicious hope.
                  Alas!——
                  It came!—that reply which so many a gay gallant has received in this world:
                  "I cannot!—oh, no! Why force me to this, Mr. Cecil?"
                  She stopped, and all at once her confusion seemed to disappear. Her head turned
                     towards me; the great eyes were full of calm goodness and sweetness; the
                     blushes had disappeared, and the hand was gently withdrawn.
                  "There is something terrible in this," she murmured. "Our interview is doubly
                     unfortunate, Mr. Cecil."
                  "Terrible?—unfortunate?"
                  "Is it not unfortunate when——"
                  She paused.
                  "Speak!—you torture me," I said.
                  "I would fain speak, Mr. Cecil," she said, with earnest feeling, "but I know
                     not how to tell you all. 'Tis hard for a maiden to say what I desire to utter.
                     And yet—'tis better, is it not, ever to be frank and open?"
                  "A thousand times better! Speak thus, I pray you!"
                  She raised her eyes, which had been cast down for an instant, and they beamed
                     with candor and goodness.
                  "We are friends; I value your friendship: will you then permit me to speak as
                     your friend, with the unreserve even of a sister? Do not woo me, sir: 'twould
                     bring unhappiness: I have read in books that 'tis terrible when two brothers
                     are rival suitors!"
                  Her face flushed again, and, as she thus spoke, she turned towards the
                     palace.
                  I followed in a sort of stupor. 'Tis terrible when two brothers are rival
                        suitors! Those words rang in my brain, and confused me like a blow.
                     Harry was a suitor of Frances Villiers, then! I had never dreamed of that,
                     regarding them as friends only; now the announcement came suddenly that I was
                     my dear brother's rival.
                  "God help me!" I groaned, at length; "why was this concealed from me? What evil
                     fate has placed me in opposition to my dearest brother?"
                  "Evil indeed, sir!" murmured the young girl: "were that brothers' love to be
                     broken by me, I should die of grief and shame."
                  I walked on in silence beside her, and we drew near the entrance to the palace.
                     Suddenly she turned her head and fixed her eyes upon me. The earnest glance
                     seemed to read all that was passing in my mind.
                  "There is something I should add," she said, in a low tone; "and I will not
                     shrink now. Yes, your brother is my suitor; but I have no heart for any one,
                     sir. My life—like my character, perhaps—is a strange one, Mr. Cecil. I am an
                     orphan, nearly alone in the world: my life is dedicated to but one great
                     sentiment,—my love for the queen. I shall never marry. Forget me! those are the
                     last words I said to your brother, Mr. Cecil."
                  She went up the great staircase slowly, leaving me standing at the foot.
                  
                  Then Harry loved her,—and he had bid me good-speed in my wooing!
                  My face must have flushed; a sudden warmth made itself felt in my heart, as I
                     remembered my brother's last greeting when I left him.
                  "Well, 'tis fortunate," I muttered, "that I have received my quietus too! 'Twill make my course easier, my
                     resolution from this moment not to stand in the path of my dear Harry. He
                     abandons the field to me,—I abandon it to him. My heart may break; at least I
                     shall not be dishonored."
                  Do you smile, reader, and say that all this was romantic and high-flown? Would
                     that to-day my heart were as fresh and true and unselfish as 'twas then, when I
                     gave up the love of a woman for the love I bore my brother!
               
            
            
               BOOK III.
               
                  I. THE ADVENTURES OF A QUEEN.
                  THESE memoirs, fortunately, deal much more in incident than in sentiment. All
                     the love-making they contain was made by my humble self, you see, friend; and,
                     looking back now, those scenes impress me as exquisitely absurd.
                  Have your laugh, therefore, reader, at that interview in the park at
                     Helvoetsluys; then come with me to some scenes which will possess more
                     interest.
                  We are going to return to England. The queen had received her two million
                     pounds sterling. With the larger portion she had bought artillery and other
                     munitions; and on a clear day of February, 1643, she sailed from Scheveling, in
                     a first-class ship, the Princess Royal, with eleven transports,—the whole
                     convoyed by a war-fleet under command of Admiral Van Tromp.
                  The weather had promised to be fine; but the heavens speedily clouded over.
                     Then a violent northeasterly gale began to roar, and the seas to dash. With
                     every moment the wind seemed to become more violent; and I shall never forget
                     the ludicrous scenes which took
                     place on the Princess Royal. There, every one, save the queen, had fallen a
                     prey to sea-sickness. The ladies of her suite were tied in their small beds, I
                     was told, to secure them from the tossing of the ship. All was wailing and
                     moaning, prayers for deliverance, and vows against again tempting the horrors
                     of the great deep. In the general confusion, scarce an attempt was made to
                     preserve etiquette. Those who essayed to serve the queen rolled and fell as
                     they approached her,—thereby causing her to laugh heartily, with her pleasant
                     sense of humor.
                  The storm grew ever more violent; and now the ship seemed about to founder.
                     Then the ludicrous character of the spectacle presented reached its highest
                     point. The ladies of the suite gave up hope, and began to shout aloud their
                     confessions to the attendant priests. The priests were in wretched plight, as
                     they shared the terrible nausea; and as the strange confessions were cried out
                     at the top of the fair ladies' voices, they vainly strove to pay
                     attention,—pale, woe-begone, and as wretched as their penitents.
                  In the midst of all sat the queen, looking on and listening. At last the scene
                     overpowered her, and she burst into a hearty laugh.
                  "For shame, ladies!" she said. "See! there are gentlemen at the door who hear
                     you!"
                  And indeed several of the queen's gentlemen were looking on, and listening to
                     the strange revelations.
                  The queen shrugged her fair shoulders after the French fashion, and added,—
                  "Well, I suppose the extremity of your fears takes away the shame of confessing
                     such misdeeds in public!"
                  And, rising, she took a step forward to leave the cabin. As she did so, the
                     ship rolled suddenly, and the queen would have fallen had I not hastened to
                     her. I received her in my arms, and she clung to me,—the royal head upon my
                     shoulder! The sea is terribly democratic. The arms of a subject were around his
                     queen!—for a moment only, however: her majesty regained her footing at once,
                     and ascended to the deck.
                  Here, leaning on the rail, and gazing with perfect calmness upon the wild
                     waters lashed to fury by the storm, the queen uttered these words to the few
                     persons who had followed her:
                  "Comfort yourselves, mes chères!—queens of
                     England are never drowned!"
                  They were brave words; and 'twas a heart braver than many a man's from which
                     they came.
                  The tempest continued day and night for many days; and finally the Princess
                     Royal and the whole fleet were beaten back to the coast of Holland,—all but two
                     of the vessels, which foundered in the tempest.
                  The queen was not discouraged. Her eyes were fixed on England, and again the
                     fleet set sail. This time favoring winds blew, and the vessels ran rapidly
                     before them. At dawn one morning I heard a cry on deck. I hastened up, and saw
                     that the fleet had entered Burlington Bay, on the coast of Yorkshire; and on
                     the hills, now in plain view, a considerable body of the royal cavalry was
                     drawn up in long line, ready to welcome us.
                  The queen was not to land her stores and regain his majesty, however, without
                     further adventures; and I beg the
                     reader not to suppose from that word "adventures" that I feign these incidents.
                     They are the simple truth.
                  Her majesty had landed a portion of her stores, and gone on shore with her
                     suite, when an enemy suddenly appeared and roughly saluted her. This enemy was
                     Admiral Batten, in command of a fleet of parliament vessels; and the first
                     intimation we had of his approach was the thunder of guns.
                  The cannonade began at dawn one morning, before the queen, who slept in a small
                     house on the shore, had risen. She was startled from slumber by the cries of
                     her ladies, and before she was well awake the houses around were battered down,
                     and two cannon-balls struck the roof above her, crashing down through the
                     ceilings. There was thus no time for delay. Van Tromp had engaged the enemy;
                     but a part of their attentions was bestowed upon the house the queen occupied,
                     in ignorance, I hope, of her presence, though Admiral Batten was charged with
                     firing on her majesty.
                  Scarce stopping to make any portion of her toilette, the queen hastened from
                     the threatened mansion. She had thrown around her shoulders a flowered robe-de-chambre, her brown hair fell in masses of
                     curls around her neck, and she had thrust her small white feet into a pair of
                     thin silken slippers, which scarce defended them from the sharp flints of the
                     way. Such was the unceremonious guise in which the queen fled through the
                     street of Burlington. All at once she stopped. I was near her majesty, and
                     cried to her to hasten on.
                  "No, I cannot leave Mitte behind!" she said.
                  "Mitte!" I exclaimed.
                  "My poor lap-dog, Mr. Cecil."
                  "I beseech your majesty!—I will return and——"
                  The queen had scarce listened. She was back again at the house ere I could turn
                     round. I ran after her. The street was raked by cannon-shot, and the hoarse
                     thunder resounded from the sea: with that thunder suddenly mingled the yelp of
                     a dog.
                  I had reached the door of the house just as the queen, who had run up to her
                     chamber and caught the lap-dog from his place of repose on her own bed, made
                     her reappearance, clasping Mitte in her arms.
                  "I could not leave him to the mercy of the parliament, Mr. Cecil! They have
                     voted me guilty of high treason, and might condemn him! What a tragedy, to
                     think of his perishing on Tower Hill!"
                  "Good heavens!" I exclaimed, "for your majesty to jest at such a moment!"
                  As I spoke, a cannot-shot passed within a few feet of the queen and entered a
                     house near us.
                  "Hasten, your majesty!—I beseech you!"
                  "I am not afraid; but you see I am running, Mr. Cecil!"
                  The beautiful face, with its flush of excitement, was turned over the shoulder.
                     The rosy lips were parted over the white teeth by a smile; the dark eyes beamed
                     from behind the mass of brown hair——Pardon my romantic enthusiasm, reader:
                     Queen Mary was very beautiful then, as she ran with her little bare feet and
                     laughed at the bullets.
                  They pursued her as she fled from the town into the country. Reaching the
                     fields, she crouched down with her attendants in a ditch for protection. As she
                        did so, a piteous cry resounded a
                     few yards from her. A servant of her suite had uttered the cry: he had been
                     torn in two by a cannon-ball.
                  All day the roar continued, and all day the queen crouched down. As evening
                     came, the parliament ships sailed away, pursued by Van Tromp.
                  "And now the rest of my stores may land," said the queen; "and I'll go dress
                     myself."
               
               
                  II. A FEMALE GENERAL.
                  THE queen remained near Burlington for about ten days, superintending the
                     disembarkation of her arms and stores.
                  I say near Burlington; not in the town. Her majesty had removed
                     thence to an old manor-house, crowning a lofty hill, not far distant; and 'twas
                     surely a singular freak of fate that this house should be Boynton Hall, the
                     property of Sir William Strickland, the emissary of parliament who intruded so
                     inopportunely upon the last meeting of the king and queen at Dover. Sir William
                     was in London, or with the parliamentary forces; and her majesty established
                     her headquarters at Boynton Hall on the military principle, no doubt, that it
                     is permissible in time of war to live upon the enemy.
                  It was a veritable general headquarters,—the old hall in that spring of '43.
                     Messengers went and came; the queen sent off and received dispatches to and
                     from the king, who faced the enemy near Oxford; a great company of gentlemen of
                     the region flocked to the hall; and the result of the queen's courageous energy
                     was a general movement in favor of the king. The queen greeted every one with
                     warm cordiality and the sweetest smiles. Arms were distributed on all sides
                     from her stores rapidly landing, and from what were called "the queen's
                     pledges" a very considerable addition to her treasury resulted. These
                     "pledges," which are, no doubt, still retained in many families, were rings,
                     lockets, and bracelet clasps, with the letters H. M. R.,—standing for Henrietta
                     Maria Regina,—in delicate gold filigree-work, entwined in a monogram, against a
                     background of crimson velvet, covered with thick crystal. These pledges were
                     offered on all sides, in return for loans. When the king had his own again, the
                     loans would be repaid on presentation of the pledges. In this manner
                     considerable sums were added to the queen's military chest, and the work of
                     arming the adherents of the king's cause, and of laying them under contribution
                     too, went on rapidly.
                  The enthusiasm of the Yorkshire gentry in the queen's behalf soon showed
                     itself. One morning came the intelligence that Sir Hugh Cholmondeley had
                     delivered Scarborough Castle to the king, and the Hothams, who had shut, the
                     gates of Hull on the king, declared for him.
                  The popularity of the queen reached its highest point a few days afterwards,
                     from the performance of an action on her part equally generous and
                     judicious.
                  One of the captains of the parliamentary fleet which had bombarded the queen in
                     Burlington had ventured on shore
                     near that place, and been seized by friends of the king. Men's minds were too
                     much inflamed then to pay much regard to law and justice. This officer had
                     simply performed his duty to his flag in firing on the queen; but this
                     construction of his conduct had very few supporters. He was tried hastily, by a
                     military tribunal. The act of intending to fire on the queen was or was not
                     proved against him: the point in controversy was quickly decided by ordering
                     him to be taken out and shot.
                  The queen, ever on horseback now, going to and fro, met the procession. At the
                     head walked the parliamentary officer, with his hands bound, and an armed
                     escort beside him.
                  "The meaning of this? Stop!" said the queen. "I command here!"
                  An officer of the royal force approached, and, doffing his beaver, bowed
                     low.
                  "'Tis the man who trained the cannon on your majesty whilst in Burlington, " he
                     said. "The act is proved upon him; he has been tried and condemned—"
                  "And you would execute him? No! A thousand times no, sir! He but followed his
                     orders. I was an enemy, and the king's flag was up."
                  "But consider that this man very nearly put your majesty to death."
                  "Ah!" the queen said, "but I have forgiven him all that; and, as he did not
                     kill me, he shall not be put to death on my account."
                  The officer bowed his head.
                  "Release him," said the queen.
                  The prisoner's arms were unbound, and he shook them to restore the circulation
                     of the blood, interrupted by the cords. Then he turned, and fixed his eyes
                     silently upon the glowing face of the queen.
                  "Thank her majesty for her royal goodness," said the person who had unbound
                     him.
                  The officer of parliament turned scornfully towards the speaker, and
                     replied,—
                  "A truce to your advice, my good sir! 'Tis not you who would have spared me.
                     And I thank no one for not committing murder on my person."
                  A murmur of indignation was heard; but the adherent of parliament laughed
                     derisively.
                  The queen approached him, still mounted, and, gazing at him earnestly, said, in
                     her low, soft voice,—
                  "You are at liberty to go whither you will, sir; and what you say is just. You
                     owe me no thanks. You might justly have died cursing me had I permitted this
                     cruel deed. You are an enemy, and a brave one. Pity you cannot be my friend and
                     the king's. But I will not solicit you, save to entreat you not to persecute
                     one who would not harm you when she could."
                  As the queen spoke, in her voice full of earnest feeling, a flush came to the
                     face of the officer. He fixed a long, searching look upon the face of the
                     queen, opened his lips to speak, but uttered only some unintelligible words;
                     then he bowed low, doffing his round hat, as the queen, saluting him in turn,
                     rode on.
                  A week afterwards, this officer, with a number of his men, had deserted to the
                     king's standard. I say deserted: it is always desertion to change your flag in
                     face of the enemy, whatever the merit of the cause profiting by your
                     change.
                  
                  This act of judicious clemency won all hearts, and made the queen warm friends,
                     even thawing the somewhat frigid faces of the ladies at Boynton Hall, who
                     naturally embraced the parliament cause.
                  These ladies were now subjected to a somewhat rough test of their equanimity.
                     As the queen rose from dinner, on the last day of her sojourn at Boynton Hall,
                     she paused a moment before leaving the room, looked at the table covered with
                     massive silver plate, and said,—
                  "I fear, ladies, 'twill be thought I am about to make an ungracious return for
                     the courtesies I have received; but unhappily the king's affairs have come to
                     that pass that he requires pecuniary aid. And this," here her majesty glanced
                     at a portrait of Sir William Strickland on the wall, "through the disaffection
                     and want of duty on the part of some of those who ought to have been among his
                     most loyal supporters."
                  The preface was ominous: the ladies listened in silence.
                  "The parliament has refused," continued the queen, "to grant the supplies
                     requisite for maintaining the honor of the crown, and therefore money must be
                     obtained by other means. I am sorry thus to be under the necessity of taking
                     possession of Sir William Strickland's plate. But do not regard this as a
                     confiscation of an enemy's goods, ladies, I pray you. I shall consider it as a
                     loan; and, as I trust the king will very soon compose the disorders in these
                     parts, I will restore the plate, or at any rate its value in money, to Sir
                     William Strickland. Meanwhile, ladies, I will leave at Boynton Hall, as a
                     pledge of my royal intention and a memorial of my visit, my own portrait."
                  At a sign from the queen, the door opened, and two men brought in a
                     superbly-framed life-size portrait of herself. It represented her majesty clad
                     in white, the open sleeves caught up with broad green ribbon, the bodice laced
                     across with gold chains and ornamented with pendent pearls. The hair was short
                     and in frizzled curls, after the French fashion called tête de mouton. The back of the head was decorated with flowers,
                     and the dark eyes looked out from the delicate face with an expression of
                     exquisite candor and sweetness.
                  "I offer this pledge of my intent to restore what I, take, ladies," said the
                     queen. "'Tis hard necessity which impels me: I pray you have charity. I am a
                     poor wife only, striving to aid my husband, and that, you know, ladies, is a
                     duty inculcated by Holy Writ."
                  The lurking spirit of humor in the queen shone from her eyes as she thus spoke.
                     She saluted with a gracious bend of the head, and left the apartment.
                  At dawn on the next day she was in the saddle, and, followed by her suite,
                     rode, down the hill. Boynton Hall was quiet again: her majesty had taken the
                     field.
                  On a down a league distant, suddenly appeared, drawn up in battle-array, a body
                     of the king's horse. Their arms flashed, and plumes and banners waved. Then a
                     ringing blast from the bugles saluted the queen, and a fiery cavalier, young,
                     superbly clad, and riding a magnificent charger, came on at full gallop. Fifty
                     paces from the queen he checked his horse, throwing him upon his haunches.
                     Then, doffing his plumed beaver, he saluted profoundly, and said,—
                  "Welcome to your majesty."
                  "Thanks, my lord of Montrose," was the queen's reply, as she saluted the famous Scot. "You are
                     from York?"
                  "With two thousand horse, your majesty, ready to escort you thither."
                  "Who commands there?"
                  "The Earl of Newcastle, your majesty."
                  "I go to supersede him!" exclaimed the queen, with joyous smiles. "See my
                     reinforcements!"
                  And she pointed to her train following. It consisted of six cannon, two large
                     mortars, and two hundred and fifty wagons loaded with money, plate, fire-arms,
                     rapiers, and munitions of all descriptions, just disembarked from the
                     fleet.
                  "With your escort of two thousand gallant cavaliers, my lord, I doubt not I
                     shall safely deliver my stores to his majesty."
                  "Your majesty will move towards York speedily?"
                  "I will move to-day,—this moment."
                  "In that case I beg your majesty will enter the coach I have brought for your
                     use."
                  "A coach?"
                  "A very convenient one, your majesty."
                  The queen shook her head, laughing. "I shall not need your coach, my lord: I
                     have taken the field! I am a soldier of the king's, and soldiers do not ride in
                     coaches. See this spirited little palfrey: I am at ease upon him, and fear no
                     fatigue. Shall I boast too that I am as little afraid of an enemy? Should the
                     forces of the parliament attack you, my lord, I will take command of the
                     baggage. You see I am ready. We go by Malton, do we not? Give the word to
                     advance; and God save the king!"
                  The queen was now in front of the long-drawn column of horse. They heard her
                     words, and as she rode at full speed to the head of the column, Montrose
                     galloping beside her, a thundering shout and the clash of arms was heard. Two
                     thousand men shouted,—
                  "God save Queen Mary!"
               
               
                  III. HARRY AND I.
                  QUEEN MARY rode across the wolds to Malton, and thence towards York, persisting
                     still in her brave resolution to share the hardships of her soldiers.
                  She would enter no chariot; paid attention neither to wind nor sun nor storm;
                     ate the rude fare of the men, in bivouac among them,—and they came to adore her
                     almost. This delicate woman, lapped in down from her childhood, and accustomed
                     to all luxuries, cheerfully—even gayly—endured every hardship, and marched, and
                     slept, and ate, and was ready to fight too, like the humblest trooper of her
                     forces.
                  The queen sat one evening in the doorway of her small tent, which had been
                     pitched beneath a large oak, beside the road, in sight of the great camp.
                     Around her majesty were grouped the ladies and gentlemen of her suite, and a
                     number of officers, including the gallant Montrose.
                  
                  All at once the queen stopped eating her hard bread, and fixed her eyes on some
                     object in the distance. It was a horseman coming at full speed; and in five
                     minutes he had approached within a hundred yards of the tent, when he threw
                     himself from the saddle, affixed his bridle to a bough, and, drawing near,
                     doffed his plumed hat, making a profound inclination.
                  I recognized Harry. He had evidently ridden hard; and, as he came, he drew from
                     his breast a packet.
                  "For your majesty," he said, bending his knee, and presenting the packet.
                  The queen caught it eagerly, and said,—
                  "You come from his majesty, Mr. Cecil?"
                  Harry blushed with pleasure at this recognition, and bowed low.
                  "He is well?"
                  "Quite well, your majesty."
                  "God be thanked!"
                  She had torn open the letter, and now read it by the last rays of sunset. As
                     she read, her face flushed. Finishing, she raised her head, and her eyes were
                     full of indignation and martial fire. "Do you know the ultimatum of the parliament, my lord?" she said to Montrose.
                  "Submission, doubtless, your majesty," replied the soldier, coolly.
                  "You have guessed correctly, my lord. Yes, submission. The Earl of
                     Northumberland, the kinsman of Lady Carlisle, who betrayed me, has had the
                     courage and the want of shame to visit his majesty as the commissioner of
                     parliament; and here is the narrative of his errand!"
                  She struck the paper with her finger.
                  "They demand but little!—they are moderate, these good gentlemen! They simply
                     request that his majesty shall abolish episcopacy and the Church of England,
                     and give up to their tender mercies all who have aided him in his rebellion
                     against them."
                  A growl from the circle saluted these words. All faces darkened. The queen
                     looked around her.
                  "You see, gentlemen, there is no retreat now for me or for you. We are to die
                     on Tower Hill, or on the field of battle, fighting bravely. Which do you
                     choose, messieurs?"
                  The words raised a tumult. The queen listened with glowing eyes to the hoarse
                     noise around her. Suddenly she caught, from the ground near, a small
                     dress-sword, and drew it. She wrapped a scarf around the hilt of the bright
                     steel weapon, and attached it to her slender waist. Then, rising, she threw the
                     scabbard from her violently, and exclaimed,—
                  "Here is my answer!"
                  Two hours afterwards, I was riding towards Oxford beside Harry, who bore back
                     the queen's reply. I had solicited and obtained this favor: to live beside
                     Frances Villiers had become an agony to me. We had scarce interchanged more
                     than a few words of common politeness since the evening at Helvoetsluys: to be
                     near her, even, was wretchedness to me, and I embraced the first opportunity to
                     leave her.
                  And this voluntary absence from her side now made it necessary to explain all
                     to Harry. To his laughing demand how it was possible that I had courage to
                     separate from the young lady, I replied,—
                  
                  "Little courage is requisite, Harry. I live in a dream, yonder, near her,—in
                     alternate torpor and fever."
                  "You have——"
                  "Yes, and she has rejected me; but that is the least of it."
                  "Rejected you? Oh, Ned!—my poor Ned!"
                  "Don't pity me, Harry, I am a man, and hearts don't break in our family on such
                     occasions. Something more than a love-disappointment fevered me yonder."
                  "More?"
                  "The thought that you looked upon me, perchance, as a poor weak creature that
                     loved a woman more than I loved my brother or my honor!"
                  "Your meaning, Ned! Who dares to say that you love not your honor?"
                  "None, thank Heaven! You least of all must think that, Harry. But listen! you
                     shall know all. 'Tis but recently that I learned the truth. You sacrificed your
                     love to me,—well, I sacrifice mine to you. She told me all. Shame burned in me
                     like fire, brother, when I thought of your last words after Edgehill. Do you
                     think I'll let my brother break his heart for me? I swear I will not! Go and
                     love Frances Villiers more than ever, and tell your love. Women are
                     weathercocks. For myself, Harry, I'll go no more. My game is played,—I have
                     lost her; but I have your love, Harry, and that's enough!"
                  I think a groan came as I finished. Harry leaned over and put his arm on my
                     shoulder. His eyes shone through a sort of mist.
                  "Didn't I say that night that I'd back Ned Cecil for a brother against any man
                     in England? Well, brother, we are left to each other. For myself, I've done
                     with the fair Frances, who'll no more look at me than at you, Ned. What bad
                     taste! Well, court her or not, as you fancy,—but remember one thing, brother,
                     she's not going to have an opportunity again of becoming Mrs. Harry Cecil."
                  I knew what the words meant,—that my brother would not stand in my way; and I
                     swore to myself that I would not stand in his. I raised my head, after this
                     resolution, and looked at Harry, smiling.
                  "Miss Villiers won't be annoyed, it seems, by the importunate Cecil family
                     hereafter," I said; and then, by common consent, we spoke of other things,
                     riding on through the night.
                  Running the gauntlet of my lord Essex's cavalry parties between York and
                     Oxford, we finally reached the latter place, and in one of the grand palaces of
                     the grand city saw his majesty again. He was pleased to give me his hand to
                     kiss, and to ask after the health of my father. My detention in Holland had
                     been explained in the queen's dispatches; and now, losing sight of me and all
                     else, his majesty read the queen's response to his letter.
                  As he read, the pale and melancholy face flushed red, and the eyes grew soft. I
                     see the king's face now,—long, covered with the pallor of trouble, the lips
                     surmounted by the delicate mustache, the royale long and pointed beneath the
                     chin, and the eyes sometimes cold and austere, but oftener full of brooding
                     sadness. "Doomed" was written on that countenance; 'twas only when he thought of the queen that fire came
                     to the eyes, and they flashed.
                  "My brave wife!" he murmured, as he refolded the letter: "here at least is one
                     heart that does not despair."
                  He turned to Harry and myself.
                  "Thanks, gentlemen," he said; "'tis my happiness to have near me friends so
                     faithful as the Cecils. Faithful hearts are pure gold in my eyes, and I lean
                     upon them. The times are dark, gentlemen, the issue of this struggle doubtful;
                     but, if we fall, let us fall with honor,—as gentlemen should fall. That is my
                     resolve. My enemies are bitter. They hate my brave queen even more than they
                     hate me, and were she to fall into their power their mad passion might lead
                     them to take her life, as they may take my own. Well, so let it be: the more
                     need that we should act like brave men. For myself, I mean not to falter. As
                     king, I defend my crown; as gentleman, I defend my wife."
                  As the king spoke, the door opened, and Viscount Falkland entered, sad, with
                     his air of gracious dignity mixed with melancholy.
                  "A last proposition, your majesty," he said. "I have just received this note
                     from Mr. Hampden, and beg to lay it before your majesty."
               
               
                  IV. I GO WITH LORD FALKLAND TO HIS HOUSE OF GREAT TEW.
                  AS Lord Falkland spoke, he approached the king and, inclining his head with
                     profound respect, presented a letter.
                  "From Mr. Hampden?"
                  "Yes, your majesty."
                  The king perused the letter, and then, looking up, said,—
                  "'Tis a forlorn hope, Falkland: nevertheless, you must accept Mr. Hampden's
                     proposal. Meet him, therefore, with one attendant, as he requests. 'Twere well
                     to be private; and as these gentlemen present are in the secret, take one of
                     them."
                  Lord Falkland, who had already saluted, with his air of sweet courtesy, my
                     brother and myself, turned now, and said to me,—
                  "You have heard his majesty, Mr. Cecil. If it please you, I should be glad to
                     have you go with me."
                  I bowed low, no little gratified to have my Lord Falkland recall my face and
                     name so long after our chance meeting in Prince Rupert's tent near
                     Nottingham.
                  "Your lordship does me very great honor," I said, "and may dispose of me now
                     and always."
                  "The speech of a gallant young cavalier!" was the reply of the nobleman, with
                     his air of smiling courtesy. "Be
                     good enough to await me in an hour, sir: we will then report."
                  A moment afterwards, Harry and myself were in the antechamber; and an hour
                     afterwards, I was riding beside Lord Falkland, who was attended only by an
                     ordinary groom, towards his palace of Great Tew, not far from Oxford.
                  I shall always recall that ride with one whose great figure illustrated the
                     epoch. His converse riveted me, and was inexpressibly charming. They say now,
                     in this new age, that all men are equal. Is that true? Were there many human
                     beings the equals of this one? Friend, that doctrine of equality is a chimera.
                     Some men are born to command, as to draw all hearts. This was one such, and the
                     mere rank had naught to do with it at all. Edmund Cecil was not the equal of
                     Lucius Gary; and a thousand demagogues cannot persuade him to the contrary!
                  "It is needless to make a mystery of our errand, Mr. Cecil," he said. "The
                     worthy Mr. Hampden, of the parliament cause, requests a private interview with
                     me. He is pleased to say that my well-known moderation, and his own sincere
                     desire for peace, may unite to effect something; and there is this satisfaction
                     in dealing with Mr. Hampden, that one may be confident throughout all of his
                     irreproachable honor."
                  "I think of him as you do, my lord; and I once met and conversed with him upon
                     public affairs," I said.
                  I narrated then my encounter with Mr. Hampden on the high-road in
                     Buckinghamshire; and when I had finished, Lord Falkland said,—
                  "I recognize the worthy gentleman there, sir; and would to Heaven we could
                     agree upon some terms, and so end this terrible war. 'Peace! peace!' is all my
                     lips seem able to utter in these dark days. Our poor, bleeding country!"
                  He uttered the words slowly, his head drooping, and a deep sigh issuing from
                     his lips; and we rode on in silence.
                  At last the magnificent grounds of Lord Falkland's mansion of Great Tew opened
                     before us; and, riding through a great park full of deer, and dotted with
                     century oaks, towering above us in the sunset, we drew near the stately
                     edifice. I have seen in my time the admired palaces of the noblemen of France,
                     Holland, and other lands; but sure the houses of the lords of England surpass
                     those of all other countries. In this new land I pine sometimes for another
                     sight of those great old houses,—centuries old, built of massive material,
                     adorned with lavish splendor,—the abodes of a race who have struck their roots
                     deep into the soil of Old England throughout ages,—who raise their heads like
                     great oaks in the sunshine and the storm, and who will stand or fall, I think,
                     with the strength and glory of England.
                  The broad front of Great Tew, with its mullions, armorial devices in stone, and
                     battlements, rose fair in the sunset; and Lord Falkland ushered me in, with his
                     smile of gracious courtesy, between a double line of domestic servants, who
                     seemed to crave some mark of recognition from their master. It was not
                     withheld. For each he seemed to have a word; and I think he addressed almost
                     every one by name. 'Twas plain to me that the master of the mansion was beloved
                     by all who served him; and I can
                     scarce convey an idea of the atmosphere, so to speak, of kindness and
                     affection, throughout the stately old house.
                  An hour afterwards, dinner was served, and I had the pleasure of being
                     presented to Lady Alice Cary, his lordship's niece,—a charming maiden of
                     twenty,—whose sparkling eyes seemed to be seeking on all sides food for mirth
                     or satire. It was the Beatrice of Will Shakspeare. After an hour with her, I
                     thought he must have known her!
                  The interview with Mr. Hampden was to take place at sunrise on the next
                     morning, at a point designated, a league or two distant; and Lord Falkland had
                     just summoned his head-groom to give him an order, when a message from the king
                     was announced, and Harry entered the great reception-room.
                  "Welcome, Mr. Cecil," said Lord Falkland,—one of whose winning traits was to
                     know the name of every one. He extended his hand as he spoke,—the model of a
                     gracious host,—and then, turning towards Lady Alice, presented Harry, who bowed
                     low.
                  "A note from his majesty, my lord," Harry said, presenting a package, which
                     Lord Falkland opened and read. Finishing its perusal, he allowed the hand
                     holding the royal letter to fall over the red velvet arm of his chair, and,
                     looking down, murmured,—
                  "'Twas unnecessary."
                  I afterwards ascertained that the king had written to say that in the interview
                     with Mr. Hampden there must be no manner of discussion on the subject of
                     surrendering any of his friends to parliament. They had heretofore demanded
                     that he should give up his aiders and advisers. He wrote now to say, once for
                     all, that he would die, sword in hand, before adding another name to that of
                     Strafford.
                  "I will reply at once to his majesty, Mr. Cecil," said the nobleman. And, going
                     to his library, he was absent for half an hour, during which time Lady Alice
                     Cary did the honors with excellent grace and ease. What trait is more rare?
                     With two young gentlemen, strangers but now, she was not stiff, but gracious
                     and even mirthful; and when Lord Falkland returned, he interrupted something
                     resembling a wit-combat between Harry and our fair hostess.
                  But I linger upon this charming evening, the first and last I ever spent with
                     the great Lord Falkland. 'Tis one of the sweetest and saddest memories I have
                     treasured up. You remember the august orb of the sun, slowly sinking in pensive
                     splendor, when you are never to see him rise more on earth.
                  Harry returned with Lord Falkland's reply; and by midnight I was asleep in one
                     of the great old chambers, full of antique furniture, rich, massive, and used,
                     perchance, by kings in their day. At sunrise I was in the saddle, and riding
                     beside Lord Falkland. The dewy morning smiled upon us; the air was fresh and
                     bracing; the March winds were chill, but the fields were growing green; the
                     first flowers seemed about to peep out from the budding grass.
                  "See," Lord Falkland said, "the face of nature wears a peaceful smile! What a
                     pity, Mr. Cecil, that men should frown and cut each other's throats!"
                  "The most piteous of all piteous things, my dear lord," I replied.
                  
                  "And yet that is what we are doing in Old England now. Men who but yesterday
                     clasped hands, and sat as brothers around the hearthstone, can find no better
                     means of composing their differences than to blow each other to pieces with
                     musketry and cannon!"
                  "Yonder is one who deprecates that as much as you do, my lord," I said; and I
                     pointed to a mounted gentleman who sat his horse motionless at a spot where the
                     road we traveled was crossed by another at right angles. Behind this figure was
                     another,—apparently an attendant.
                  "'Tis Mr. Hampden," said his lordship: "he awaits us."
               
               
                  V. THE LAST GREETING.
                  THE two noblemen—they were such, were they not, reader?—advanced, and exchanged
                     a warm grasp of the hand.
                  "I am honored by your prompt compliance with the request conveyed to you, my
                     lord," said Mr. Hampden.
                  "I esteem it an honor in my turn to meet Mr. Hampden," said Lord Falkland, with
                     his gracious courtesy. "I have come with only a single gentleman,—an
                     acquaintance of yours, I think, sir."
                  "I know Mr. Cecil very well, and would fain call him my friend," said Mr.
                     Hampden.
                  And he held out his hand to me, a friendly smile upon his noble face. That
                     smile was extraordinarily similar to Lord Falkland's. What was it that made
                     these two men resemble each other like brothers? I think 'twas the great soul
                     in the bosom of Hampden, as in the bosom of Falkland.
                  They rode aside, walking their horses slowly over the deserted road, and,
                     reaching a great tree, dismounted and engaged in earnest converse. The distance
                     was not so great that I could not discern every detail of their appearance.
                     They faced each other, holding their bridles, and Mr. Hampden leaning one hand
                     on the pommel of his saddle. With his disengaged hand, Lord Falkland made grave
                     gestures. The conversation seemed earnest, but slow and almost solemn. I did
                     not remove my eyes from them. The personage attending Mr. Hampden was a
                     taciturn civilian of middle age, whose name I had not heard distinctly when Mr.
                     Hampden presented him to me. Thus we remained silent, gazing at our
                     principals.
                  In about two hours the interview terminated, and the two gentlemen came back on
                     foot, and leading the horses, who hung their heads as though saddened like
                     their masters.
                  "Well, well, Mr. Hampden," Lord Falkland said, as he drew near, "God knoweth if
                     good will come of this free converse we have held; but may he give us peace. I
                     am a bad ambassador, I fear, sir. I would fain, were I asked to draw up
                     articles, take a sheet of paper and write solely the word 'Peace' upon it. That
                     would sum up all, in my eyes. 'Do not let us wrangle about terms,' I would say.
                     Hearts opposed to each other are bitter, and see things in other lights. But all may see how blessed peace—only
                     peace!—would prove to England. These terrible opposing flags,—only to furl
                     them, and extend the hands of brethren towards each other! The roar of cannon
                     drowns all. Silence that fearful sound, and let us meet with mutual
                     forbearance. For myself, sir, I would give not only my right hand, but my very
                     heart's blood, to see the sun of peace—blessed peace—rise over England
                     again!"
                  As these noble and earnest words were uttered by Lord Falkland, I saw the face
                     of Mr. Hampden flush, and he bowed low with profound respect.
                  "I recognize in these words the great soul of your lordship," he murmured.
                     "Would to God we had more such men as yourself in England to-day!"
                  He was silent for an instant. Then he added,—
                  "What your lordship has done me the honor to communicate, respecting his
                     majesty's views and wishes, will be repeated to the parliament as you desire,
                     my lord. Would to Heaven I could convey to the gentlemen of that body the
                     manner in which your lordship has spoken! I think hatred and rivalry would
                     shrink away before the very tones! Now I will return."
                  He paused again, and added, quickly,—
                  "Do you know, my lord, I have a presentiment?"
                  "A presentiment, Mr. Hampden?"
                  "That my days are numbered,—that I shall soon leave this arena of contention.
                     Have you never had similar presentiments, my lord?"
                  "Last night," was Lord Falkland's calm response, and his eyes were fixed
                     gravely upon the face of his companion. "I know not if 'twere a dream or a
                     waking ing vision," he said, "but I saw myself lying dead upon the battle-field
                     last night."
                  "Strange!" Hampden murmured: "my presentiment came last night too.
                     And I too saw myself fall. Is not that singular, my lord?"
                  Lord Falkland shook his head with a sad smile.
                  "Naught is singular or strange to me in this world," he replied. "I believe in
                     presentiments. I believe I shall die soon; and I am not sorry, Mr.
                     Hampden."
                  He leaned towards the other, and added, in a low, almost inaudible tone, the
                     words, "We shall meet, I trust."
                  With a close pressure of the hand, the two men mounted their horses, saluted
                     each other, and rode off in opposite directions.
                  It was their last greeting on earth; but I think they have clasped hands yonder
                     in heaven, the realm of peace.
               
               
                  VI. CHALGROVE.
                  MY memory is a gallery of pictures, dark or brilliant, gay or sombre. Here is
                     one of them, which I look at through the mists of many years.
                  It was a night of June, flooded with moonlight; and under the boughs of a great
                     oak, not far from the village of Chinnor, Prince Rupert stood leaning one
                     gauntleted hand upon the pommel of his saddle, and bending his head as though he were listening.
                     Within five paces of him stood Lord Falkland,—a calm, sad figure in the bright
                     moonlight. From the wood came the stamping of cavalry horses, beside which
                     stood or lay their riders, bridle in hand, and ready to mount.
                  Prince Rupert had sallied out of Oxford, attacked an outpost of the
                     parliamentary army, and driven the enemy; had then pushed on to Chinnor, where
                     he attacked and routed a second force; and now he was waiting for a brief space
                     that his men and horses might rest before resuming their march back to
                     Oxford.
                  Lord Falkland had ridden with the prince, more, it would appear, from a desire
                     to divert his mind from its eternal brooding, than from any wish to take part
                     in the fighting of the expedition. Indeed, every one had recently noted in my
                     lord viscount a weary unrest. He was sad unto death, and seemed unable to
                     remain in one place. His dress was almost slovenly; his fine person was utterly
                     neglected. The roar of guns alone seemed to arouse in him a temporary sort of
                     excitement; and now in every encounter the men saw his tall form in the midst
                     of the smoke, an idle spectator as 'twere, giving no orders, unarmed wholly,
                     and inspired, 'twould seem, by nothing more than a languid curiosity.
                  Those who knew this great man best, and talked with him at that time, explained
                     this indifference to me afterwards, and I no longer wondered. Falkland was
                     constitutionally fearless, and despaired of his country. If he did not seek
                     death, he cared naught for it.
                  As the prince bent his head, listening, the far sound of hoofs came from his
                     right. He turned in that direction tion, and a flood of moonlight, passing
                     through the dense June foliage overhead, lit up his proud face and figure. He
                     wore his full-dress uniform, and the golden decorations were dazzling. Around
                     his waist was knotted a red silk sash, rich, heavy, and with superb tassels.
                     His sword-hilt sparkled in the moonbeams. On the heels of his fine cavalry
                     boots glittered golden spurs. Such was this young and headlong soldier. From
                     spurred heel to plumed beaver, in eye and lip and attitude, he was all
                     cavalier.
                  "They are moving, yonder," he said to Lord Falkland, "and I think your lordship
                     will see some more fighting."
                  "I am sorry, highness," was Falkland's sad reply.
                  "Well, we think differently, my lord. I am glad!" was Rupert's impulsive
                     reply.
                  His eyes sparkled as he spoke, and he turned to summon an attendant. The
                     gigantic Hans, his huge black beard grasped by his huge hand, stood like a
                     Scandinavian statue near.
                  "Hans!"
                  "Yes, highness."
                  "I am general——!"
                  "Yes, sheneral."
                  "Order the men to mount; and send me a staff-officer."
                  Hans disappeared in the darkness, and in five minutes the wood resounded with
                     the noise of spurs, stirrups, and broadswords, clashing together as the
                     troopers got into the saddle. At the same moment a staff-officer hastened up,
                     and the prince gave him an order. I had come to report the result of a
                        reconnoissance noissance I had
                     made beyond Chinnor, and was about to go now, when the prince stopped me with a
                     gesture.
                  "Remain. My staff-officers are absent, and I need some one," he said,
                     briefly.
                  The prince then set out at a rapid gallop in the direction of the sound we had
                     heard, Lord Falkland galloping in silence beside him, I following.
                  As we went on rapidly through the moonlight, the sound in front grew more
                     distinct. The distant bark of dogs and crowing of cocks mingled with it.
                  "A man of brains commands the enemy's front," Rupert said, halting suddenly and
                     listening. "A force of horse is moving to cut me off at Chiselhampton bridge;
                     and unless I can pass Chalgrove before they reach that point, I must cut my way
                     through."
                  "Your column is moving, highness."
                  Falkland pointed over his shoulder, as he spoke, to the long lines of the royal
                     cavalry advancing steadily, with their full forage-wagons—the object of the
                     expedition—in rear.
                  The prince nodded.
                  "The race is close, my lord, for all that, and not decided yet."
                  "For the bridge?"
                  "Yes. If I knew the enemy's force, I would not care. My own is small, and
                     theirs may be great. I may be cut off from Chiselhampton bridge."
                  "What will you do then, highness? I ask from idle curiosity, merely: we
                     civilians listen to soldiers with respect."
                  Prince Rupert turned quickly.
                  "You are no civilian! You are a soldier born, from crown to foot; soldier,
                        soldier, my lord,—if soldier means the clear brain, the
                     fearless nerve, and the hero heart! Well, I speak as soldier to soldier,—there
                     is no path to Oxford save over the bridge yonder."
                  "Then.——"
                  "Yes, my lord,—you will pardon my interruption,—yes, I do not mean to
                     surrender, and one thing is always left to a soldier."
                  "That is——?"
                  "To die, sword in hand," said Rupert, laughing.
                  As he spoke, he turned to me.
                  "Order my column to take this road, inclining more to the right, towards
                     Chalgrove," he said; "the men to advance at a steady trot and prepare for
                     action."
                  He pointed to a country road coming into the main highway. I saluted, went at
                     full gallop to the head of the column, and delivered the order; then I returned
                     to the prince, who was riding rapidly with Lord Falkland over the road to the
                     right.
                  The quick smiting of hoofs came more and more clearly on the night breeze. The
                     hostile columns were rapidly converging towards Chiselhampton bridge.
                  "Here is Chalgrove," said the prince, suddenly, as he emerged upon a large
                     field, bathed in moonlight. "If we can pass ahead of them, then we need give
                     ourselves no further trouble. The bridge is gained."
                  He was not to pass. As the prince, riding a short distance in advance of his
                     column, entered upon the great field, a dark mass was seen advancing from the
                     left to cut him off. There was no longer any possibility of reaching the bridge
                     without a combat. Shouts from both forces were heard,—line of battle was
                        quickly formed,—and, sword in
                     hand, at a thundering gallop, the opponents rushed together.
                  It is hard to describe a fight under the daylight,—a night combat is wholly
                     indescribable. Shouts, cheers, the clash of weapons, the crack of pistol and
                     musquetoon, horses rolling over, with wild shrieks, men dying with curses on
                     their lips, in the darkness,—that is the aspect of a night encounter.
                  The fight at Chalgrove was such. A painter might delineate the rushing,
                     trampling, gleaming conflict; I cannot. For the rest, a few moments after the
                     collision, I kept my eyes fixed upon one figure.
                  In front of the enemy, and superbly mounted, I saw Mr.—now Colonel—Hampden. I
                     knew afterwards that the move to cut Prince Rupert off was due to his military
                     energy and brain: Chiselhampton bridge he saw was the point to guard: a mounted
                     force was speedily moving; leaving his own infantry regiment, he took command
                     of the horse, and moved so rapidly as to cut off his able opponent Rupert.
                  The prince, fighting in front of his men like a common soldier, saw the great
                     figure of Hampden.
                  "Who is that officer?" he said hurriedly to Lord Falkland, who was calmly
                     riding beside him.
                  "'Tis Colonel Hampden,—God preserve him!"
                  As Falkland spoke, I saw the figure of Hampden reel in the saddle. He was.
                     within ten paces of us, and the moonlight made everything plain.
                  As he reeled back, his eyes met those of Falkland.
                  "See! I am wounded—to the death, I fear, my lord," he cried, in a broken voice.
                     "Remember—we shall meet again!"
                  As Hampden uttered these words, a sudden rush of his own men carried him away.
                     The parliament horse had broken and were flying in wild disorder. When we saw
                     Hampden last, his head was drooping, and he leaned for support on the neck of
                     his horse, two men assisting him from the field. He had received two bullets,
                     we afterwards heard, in the shoulder, the bone of which was broken; and from
                     these wounds he soon afterwards died.
                  As his figure disappeared in the moonlight, followed by his men in disordered
                     retreat, I heard Lord Falkland murmur,—
                  "Farewell, Hampden! Yes, we shall soon meet again, I think."
                  A bugle-note came like an echo. It was the recall being sounded. Rupert moved
                     on to the bridge, crossed, and proceeded on his way to Oxford, after the
                     successful skirmish of Chalgrove field.
                  A skirmish;—but in that mean little encounter fell one of the greatest men of
                     England.
               
               
                  
                  VII. NEWBURY.
                  SUCH is one of the pictures in that long gallery of memory I spoke of. Shall I
                     try to describe another? The name of the first picture is "Chalgrove;" the name
                     of the second is "Newbury."
                  It was the dewy dawn of a September morning, and the forests were burning away,
                     flushed with the fiery hues of autumn. A dreamy and memorial sadness seemed to
                     fill the air, and not a breath of wind agitated the foliage, as the light in
                     the east deepened. It was an enchanting landscape of field and forest and
                     hamlet; peace reigned over all, as I think it always seems to reign on the eve
                     of battle. And this day the semblance was as deceptive as usual, for the royal
                     and parliamentary armies were in face of each other, and about to close in in
                     combat.
                  The king had prospered of late; but the tide seemed turning. Rupert had stormed
                     the battlements of Bristol and reduced that city; but the king had been
                     compelled to raise the siege of Gloucester. My lord Essex entered it, but saw
                     best to retreat soon on London. His majesty thereupon followed quickly.
                     Suddenly the opponents found themselves in face of each other near Newbury.
                     'Twas the morning of the great battle there that I have tried to describe,—a
                     dreamy morn of September, when the coo of the ring-dove seemed an appropriate
                     sound, not the bellowing of cannon.
                  I emerged at full speed from a copse towards the royal line of battle, having
                     ridden as close as possible to the enemy's front to ascertain their
                     position.
                  "Good-morrow, Mr. Cecil," said a calm voice near; and, turning my head, I
                     recognized Lord Falkland sitting his horse motionless on a grassy knoll, from
                     which he looked with sad eyes towards the enemy.
                  I checked my horse and saluted profoundly.
                  "Do you know that your lordship flatters me very greatly by recalling my face
                     and name?" I said. "'Tis a way to win hearts, were they not already your
                     lordship's."
                  The nobleman bowed.
                  "You do me an honor and a pleasure, Mr. Cecil. But why should I not recall your
                     name, and your face too?"
                  "I am obscure, my lord; the king's secretary of state might well lose sight of
                     me."
                  He shook his head.
                  "In this world, Mr. Cecil," he said, "there is neither high nor low. Is the
                     worm on a leaf so much higher than one on the ground? All are poor and
                     insignificant alike. 'Tis the heart that makes the gentleman, not the star on
                     the breast. And is there anything nobler than to be a true gentleman? I know of
                     nothing. To be a peer of the realm is but little."
                  He turned his eyes towards the enemy, and was silent for a moment.
                  "I moralize for your amusement, sir," he said, "but I am somewhat sad to-day. I have been thinking
                     of poor Hampden and of our appointment."
                  He uttered the last words in a low tone and with a singular expression.
                  "You were present at our interview yonder;—did you hear our last greeting, Mr.
                     Cecil?"
                  "I heard it, my lord," I replied, in a low voice.
                  "And again on Chalgrove field, last June, when that great man was wounded to
                     the death;—did you hear the words he uttered?—'Remember, we shall meet
                        again!' he said; and do you know I think that meeting will be
                     soon?"
                  He smiled, as he spoke, with the sweet and noble composure habitual to him.
                  "See, this is not a fancy of the moment, my friend," he said.
                  And, holding up his arm, he called my attention to the extraordinary richness
                     of the silk and velvet composing his dress.
                  "I donned this fine suit," he added, with the same sad smile, "that the enemy,
                     when I fall, shall not find me look slovenly or indecent."
                  "When you fall, my lord! I pray you choose your phrases in
                     presence of one who ventures to say that his love for you is great. Say
                        if you fall, not when, I beseech your
                     lordship."
                  Falkland shook his head.
                  "Do you know the saying of the Orientals, my friend,—'The word uttered is
                        the master'? I have said 'when I fall;' I add 'when I
                     fall to-day.'"
                  My head drooped. In presence of this profound composure and hopelessness I was
                     powerless to struggle.
                  "Your lordship smiles," I murmured, at length. "I know, as all England knows,
                     that you are the bravest of the brave; I did not know that so great an
                     intelligence yielded to fancies and presentiments."
                  As I spoke thus, Lord Falkland turned his head and looked at me with his
                     extraordinary sweet smile. 'Twas a face exquisitely noble that I looked upon at
                     that moment.
                  "God is good to his creatures in many ways, my friend," he said. "Shall I speak
                     my whole heart, and explain his goodness to me in forewarning me of my death?
                     The moment will be a happy one to me. I am weary of these times, and foresee
                     much misery to my country; but I shall be spared that. My eyes will not see it.
                     I shall be out of it ere night."
                  I think I must have sighed grievously, for Lord Falkland added, quickly,—
                  "Do not lament thus, my friend. What is death? 'Tis a bugbear that frightens
                     children or cowards, not men. I fear it not. And yet 'twould be pardonable were
                     I to regret leaving the world. My station in it is honorable; my taste for the
                     pursuit of learning and mental pleasures—the only true ones—is great; my
                     household I believe love me; and his majesty does me the honor to confide in my
                     faith, though I once strove in parliament to deprive him of some powers deemed
                     by him his just prerogatives. I have loved liberty and struggled to secure it.
                     When its friends went farther and attempted the overthrow of monarchy, I left
                     them. In that decision I have never wavered, and think that falling under the
                     royal flag I fall under the flag of England. But I weary you, Mr. Cecil; and,
                     what is worse, perhaps I detain you.
                     You are a soldier on duty; I only a poor civilian wandering to and fro and
                     musing. Farewell, sir! You are young, and God grant you may see happier days. I
                     am not old, but am rather weary of my life. I shall disappear while the sky is
                     dark still, and not see the sun shine again."
                  I pointed to the sun, which soared at that moment above the forest.
                  "See, my lord," I muttered, through tears that seemed choking me, "there he is
                     shining."
                  "'Tis to set soon; and, short as that time will be, I shall not see it."
                  He turned his horse as he spoke, made me a salute full of gracious kindness,
                     and disappeared in the wood. As I lost sight of him, a single cannon roared
                     across the fields. Echoing shouts rose from the woods far and near as the grim
                     sound was heard; and suddenly Rupert at the head of his horsemen burst like a
                     thunderbolt upon the enemy.
                  I have no heart to enter minutely into the details of the battle of Newbury.
                     One picture only stays in my memory, and will stay always. Prince Rupert's
                     charge broke the enemy's horse, but they rallied, and again he made a headlong
                     charge. Before this second charge they fled, hotly pursued by Rupert; but
                     suddenly we came upon the enemy's infantry armed with their long and deadly
                     pikes, which pierced the bodies of the horses or hurled their riders from the
                     saddle.
                  From this hedge of steel the cavaliers of Rupert recoiled. He was forced to
                     fall back, and, riding beside him, I saw his face flaming hot, his eyes
                     flashing. With hoarse and strident voice he endeavored to rally his men. In
                     this he at length succeeded; and as he formed a new line I heard loud
                     exclamations near.
                  I turned my head quickly. At the same moment an officer rode up to Prince
                     Rupert.
                  "Well!" the prince exclaimed.
                  "Lord Falkland is shot, my lord!"
                  Without a word the prince went at full speed towards the group pointed out.
                     Scarce aware of the breach of discipline, I spurred from the ranks of the
                     Guards and followed. At the spectacle which met my eyes a groan forced its way
                     from my bosom. The nobleman lay on the sward, his head supported upon the
                     shoulder of an officer. His face was as pale as death, and his breast was
                     bloody. His eyes were closed, but his lips smiled.
                  "My lord! my lord! Speak, I pray you!" exclaimed Prince Rupert, in a broken
                     voice.
                  Falkland opened his eyes, and, from the position of his head, saw me first.
                  "Ah! 'tis you who spoke, my friend," he murmured. "Well, see——my
                     presentiment——!"
                  He ceased, breathing heavily; but in a moment he resumed:"
                  "I said—my heart bled—for my country, but I would be out of it ere night."
                  His eyes were fixed upon the blue sky above him.
                  "Here I am, friend," he murmured; "I thought 'twould not be long."
                  I alone knew to whom he addressed those words. As they left Lord Falkland's
                     lips, his head fell back, and he expired. Even in death the noble face retained
                     its expression of exquisite sweetness, and the lips wore the same sad
                     smile.
                  
                  The battle of Newbury, like the combat of Chalgrove, decided little, for Essex
                     fell back in the night.
                  But Falkland was gone—like Hampden! Who could take their places? For me, who
                     knew them and loved them as founts of honor, there were no others like them.
                     When they disappeared, I felt as though England were accursed.
               
               
                  VIII. I MEET WITH AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE IN DISGUISE.
                  WITH a single incident in the autumn of 1643 I Pass on.
                  I was one of a mounted party on a reconnoitring expedition south of Oxford,
                     when we saw approaching our woodland bivouac a party, of three persons,
                     consisting of a tall sad-looking man and a very beautiful young girl, with the
                     trooper who had arrested them. It soon appeared upon the highway.
                  As they drew nearer, I rose quickly from the grass upon which I was lying, and
                     looked at them attentively, certain that the man and girl were old
                     acquaintances. The last rays of sunset illumined their figures as they
                     came,—they had now drawn near,—and I rose to my feet, recognizing Gregory
                     Brandon and his daughter Janet.
                  The terrible headsman, with whom I had conversed on that night of my adventure
                     in Rosemary Lane, seemed older, more melancholy, and more timid. Janet was even
                     more beautiful; and there was something saintly in the thin face with the white
                     cheeks and great soft eyes. She was perfectly calm; but her father was
                     trembling,—not so much from fear, I think as from a chronic disorder of the
                     nerves.
                  The young girl, who was plainly but neatly clad, looked around calmly. Her eyes
                     fell upon me, and were riveted for an instant to my face; then I saw a slight
                     color rise to her white cheeks.
                  "I see you recognize us, sir," she said, in her low sweet voice. "Please say
                     that we are not enemies of the king, but do not say aught more."
                  The latter words were uttered in a whisper almost. Her father evidently heard
                     them, for he clasped his hands and looked at me in a most beseeching
                     manner.
                  "Who are these people?" said the young officer in command of the reconnoitring
                     party.
                  "Arrested on the high-road, lieutenant," said the man escorting them, touching
                     his hat; "orders to stop everybody and get information; found this old one and
                     young one out tramping, and brought 'em along."
                  "Right!" said the young officer; and, turning to the headsman,—
                  "Your name, and where were you going with this damsel?" he asked.
                  "My name is Gregory, good sir, and I live with my daughter yonder in the small
                     house in the valley; we were returning from a neighbor's when we were stopped
                     and brought here."
                  "That account is straightforward, friend; but the times are dangerous. You may
                     belong to the other faction; and I will keep you prisoner."
                  
                  "Not my daughter too, sir!" exclaimed the headsman.
                  "Needs must, friend."
                  The headsman looked at me with a beseeching expression, and I interposed.
                  "This old man is known to me, lieutenant," I said; "I vouch for him, and
                     propose that you apply the cavalier test."
                  "Good!—in case, you vouch for him, Mr. Cecil; and your proposal is fair."
                  A flagon was quickly produced by one of the men and filled with wine. This was
                     handed to the headsman, and the young lieutenant said,—
                  "What is the health that all good Englishmen drink first?"
                  The headsman's face flushed quickly, and, raising the flagon, he
                     exclaimed,—
                  "God save King Charles!"
                  He emptied the flagon to the last drop, and the young officer clapped him gayly
                     on the back.
                  "That satisfies me, old man!" he said. "No one can bring out a round 'God save
                     King Charles!' of that sort, and be disloyal under all. You are free, and your
                     pretty daughter. Return home; and as you know this worthy man, Mr. Cecil, I
                     counsel you to go with him and make him give you a good supper in return for
                     your championship."
                  I was about to refuse, but the maiden Janet looked at me significantly and made
                     me a slight gesture. I therefore saluted the lieutenant, detached the bridle of
                     my horse from the bough over which it hung, and, walking beside the headsman
                     and his daughter, went towards the small house which they had pointed out as
                     their dwelling.
                  "I humbly thank you, sir," said the headsman, in his earnest tremulous voice,
                     when we were beyond hearing: "you have been kind in procuring our release."
                  "I try to repay the debt I owe you and your daughter, sir," I said. "But for
                     her, I had perished one night in London. You no longer live there?"
                  "I fled thence," was the low reply. "My fearful office of headsman became
                     horrible in my eyes. Things are growing frightful, and no one knows whose head
                     may fall."
                  He groaned as he spoke.
                  "I know that that others know not," he muttered, in a terrified whisper. "The
                     new leaders are merciless. They are hungry for blood. Already they have
                     resolved to execute Archbishop Laud; and think! 'twas I who must
                     perforce, as headsman of London, sever the gray head of that poor old man from
                     the emaciated body! You start, sir, and refuse to credit that, I see!—but even
                     worse may come."
                  The speaker's voice was wellnigh inaudible as he uttered the last words.
                  "You are a friend of the king," he whispered: "when you return, say to him, 'Do
                     not fall into the hands of your enemies, or trust them.' The blood of nobles
                     and bishops is not enough to satisfy them."
                  He turned fearfully pale.
                  "They thirst for his!"
                  It was rather an awe-struck murmur than aught else. The thought seemed to
                     overwhelm the speaker.
                  "So I fled from them," he added, at length; "pike or dagger at my throat would force me to my
                     terrible office. For I am a coward, sir,—a wretched coward! I should not resist
                     them: so I fled from London. Here, in the small house you see yonder, once my
                     father's, I have hid myself with my Janet. God grant that we may lie here
                     unnoted, and that I may not break my oath!"
                  I looked at the speaker, whose brow was bathed in icy sweat.
                  "Your oath! What oath?" I asked, struck by his expression of terror.
                  "The oath of the headsman to perform his office whenever an order is brought
                     him," he whispered. "The oath is a fearful one, and binds soul and body. From
                     the moment the order comes, the condemned no longer belongs to the law. The
                     headsman enters his cell, touches his shoulder, and says, 'You now belong to
                     me!'"
                  I could not forbear recoiling from the personage beside me. He had
                     thus spoken often.
                  "You are right, sir," he groaned. "I am accursed, and dare not offer my bloody
                     hand to an honest man."
                  The girl turned her eyes swimming in tears upon him.
                  "But you will shed no more blood, father," she murmured, in a broken voice.
                     "The past is fearful; but it is past, and will never return; and you have
                        me, father,—Iwill take your hand."
                  With a burst of tears she caught one of his hands, and, throwing her other arm
                     around him, leaned sobbing upon his bosom.
                  The headsman raised his eyes to heaven.
                  "Thank God, this is left me!" he said; "the love of the one I love best."
                  We had come in front of the small house,—a cottage under a large elm near the
                     roadside.
                  "I will not ask you to come in and sup with the headsman of London," said the
                     old man, in a low voice; "but one is here now, very sick, and desirous of
                     seeing some one from the king's army."
                  "A sick man?"
                  "Or child, sir; I know not which."
                  "His name?"
                  "He calls himself Geoffrey Hudson."
               
               
                  IX. ANGEL AND PIGMY.
                  IN a few moments I stood beside a bed, in which lay the dwarf, who had
                     disappeared suddenly after his fatal duel with Coftangry in Hampton Court
                     Park.
                  He was terribly emaciated, and resembled a puny infant. His cheek-bones
                     protruded, his sunken eyes rolled in their cavernous hollows, and the white
                     lips drawn tightly across the teeth distorted the mouth into a species of
                     grin.
                  "Mr. Cecil!" he exclaimed, in Ms piping voice, as soon as he saw me. "Is it
                     possible an old friend has discovered and visits me?"
                  "Yes," I said, "by a singular chance. But how do I find you here?"
                  
                  His explanation was very simple. After the death of his adversary at Hampton
                     Court, he had fled, fearing punishment and wandered about England awaiting the
                     moment when the fatal duel would be forgotten. He had finally repaired, when
                     the war broke out, to the army of Prince Charles in the west; had enlisted as a
                     trooper, acquired the friendship of his commander, and was sent, spite of a
                     wound he had received, to carry a message to the king, then near Reading. On
                     the way his wound had broken out afresh; and he had fallen from his horse at
                     the door of the excellent Mr. Gregory: that good man and his daughter had
                     nursed him with tender care; but his wound had not closed, his life seemed
                     ebbing away; good fortune had sent him at last, however, the sight of a
                     friendly face, and the means of forwarding his message, out of date though it
                     must be.
                  All this the dwarf communicated in a rapid and feverish voice; he then gave me
                     the message, which was no longer of any importance: thereafter we conversed on
                     all the events which had taken place since our last meeting.
                  During the conversation the maiden Janet passed in and out, caring tenderly for
                     the invalid; and it was after her disappearance on one of these occasions that
                     the dwarf, who had been silent for some moments, said, in a low voice,—
                  "I wish to lives."
                  I looked at him. His face had flushed.
                  "You say that in a singular tone," I said.
                  He hesitated, and seemed anxious, but afraid, to speak.
                  "This maiden has made me cling to life," he said, at length, in a low
                     voice.
                  "This maiden?"
                  "Yes; I love her with my whole being! I have only lived since we met. You are a
                     friend, even an old friend; I am here dumb and alone, on this bed: I must speak
                     to some one of this. Yes, the wretched, distorted pigmy loves this rose-bud,
                     who is an angel!"
                  The feverish eyes glowed brilliantly.
                  "She has watched over me like a sister," he went on; "she has supplied all my
                     wants; her white hand has smoothed my pillow, and I have felt her pitying tears
                     fall upon my face!"
                  "Well," I said, with deep emotion at this love of a deformed being for the
                     daughter of one who was a social outcast,—"well, your love is not strange. This
                     maiden is heavenly goodness in person."
                  "And beautiful! very beautiful!"
                  "Yes," I said.
                  "While I——"
                  The poor being stopped suddenly. An acute pang seemed to distort his
                     features.
                  "While I," he added, in a low voice, "am a deformity, a monster wellnigh,—a
                     poor, wretched pigmy!"
                  He groaned piteously, and went on in a feverish voice:
                  "And yet how can I avoid this? I am a man, however small I be in stature, am I
                     not? Has not a dwarf eyes, and a heart, and blood, and loves and hatreds? Does
                     the height make the man?"
                  His face grew savage.
                  "I have killed many six-footers in my life!" he growled. "They despised me, but they fell before
                     me; and yet not one of them, not the meanest full-grown man, but would have
                     been preferred to me."
                  I could find nothing to say, save,—
                  "Do not yield to these sad thoughts: 'twill retard your recovery."
                  "I care not whether I live or die," said the poor creature, groaning. "Can she
                     ever love me? No, no, no, no! Oh, thank God that you were not born a deformed
                     pigmy!—thank God for your limbs and stature and human appearance!
                     You are a man, not a dwarf,—one a woman may love, not a cur she may tread
                     beneath her heel and despise! To love and be laughed at! it is frightful, and
                     drives me mad! She does not laugh at me, but pities me, with the
                     pity of a woman for a pet lap-dog!"
                  His tones were so passionate and pathetic that I could scarce find words to
                     reply.
                  "At least," I said, at length, "you have no rival; you are spared that. And
                     your love may melt her."
                  "No rival? How know I that?" he exclaimed. "Even now some one may be
                     approaching who will snatch her from me!—some man who will laugh
                     to scorn my deformed anatomy, and take from me all I live for!"
                  He had scarce spoken when the young girl hastily entered the apartment. "Save
                     yourself, sir!" she exclaimed, addressing me. "I see a party coming who from
                     their uniform must belong to the parliament!"
                  I rose and put on my hat.
                  "Farewell!" I said to the poor dwarf, extending my hand. "And do not
                     despair."
                  His small hand gripped mine, and he drew me down, whispering,—
                  "You will say naught of this madness. If I recover, I will return to court. If
                     I die, at least 'twill be here."
                  "I will say nothing; but you will not die."
                  "Oh, hasten! hasten!" cried the young girl, looking through the window. "They
                     are almost at the house! And there is that terrible man at their head,—that
                     Hulet, who has persecuted me daily, wellnigh, since he chanced one day to come
                     hither!"
                  I had not time to question the maiden. The party of mounted parliamentarians
                     were nearly at the door. I had just time to seize the bridle of my horse and
                     throw myself into the saddle, when they charged me, firing, and ordering me to
                     surrender.
                  My response was to discharge my pistol at Hulet and retreat at full gallop.
                     They pursued me to the edge of the woods, where they drew rein at last,
                     returning towards the house; and, going on at a gallop, I met my friends, who
                     had been alarmed by the shots, coming to meet me. No time was lost in pursuing
                     in our turn. Our force outnumbered that of the enemy, and we chased them for
                     more than a mile. Then, however, encountering at least a regiment coming to
                     their assistance, we were compelled to retreat, hotly pursued; and, finding
                     himself powerless to contend with such a force, the officer commanding our
                     party retired to Oxford.
                  I had caught a glimpse, and only a glimpse, of a singular drama. Other scenes
                     were to be hidden; but a strange chance was to show me the dénouement.
                  
               
            
            
               
               BOOK IV.
               
                  I. BEDFORD HOUSE IN EXETER.
                  THE winter of 1643-44 dragged its slow steps along,—a dreary time to us in
                     camp, for the Guards were now part of the regular army; and the coming of
                     spring was hailed by all with rapture. Regard it in what light you may, war is
                     disgusting when it means "winter-quarters." You mope in your tent, with the
                     rain dripping, dripping; no movement, sunshine, or adventure cheers you; and
                     the jests and old stories become so wearisome at last! Even Harry's charming
                     good humor failed to cheer me.
                  For a long time now we had not uttered the name of Frances Villiers, nor had we
                     even seen her. Harry never went near her, and I remained as faithful to my
                     resolution. Such was the singular result of the love of two men for a woman.
                     Neither would speak to her,—poor damsel!
                  So the winter passed away. The king and queen held their court at Oxford,
                     undisturbed by hostilities. Protracted negotiations filled up the time; but
                     these came to nothing: arms, and arms alone, it was seen, could decide the
                     great issue. And with the coming of spring both sides prepared to renew the
                     struggle.
                  The queen's condition forbade her to remain near her husband in the exciting
                     time which approached. She was near that period when the holy claims of
                     maternity render serenity, absence of anxiety, and physical quiescence
                     necessary. It was a long time, I heard afterwards, before the king could
                     persuade the queen that a journey to the west was essential. She consented to
                     this with sobs and tears, and it was the saddest of, faces that was seen
                     through the window of the royal coach as it set forward, escorted by his
                     majesty, one April day, towards Abingdon.
                  I was one of the small troop of Guardsmen detailed to accompany the king and
                     queen. Half of the troop preceded and half followed the three carriages which
                     held their majesties and the ladies of the queen's suite. And among these
                     ladies was Frances Villiers,—calm, earnest, beautiful, devoted, as I had always
                     seen her.
                  More than once on the journey my eyes encountered her own, but, after the first
                     quiet and gracious salute which the young lady bestowed upon me in response to
                     my own, no evidence of recognition was given on either side. The fair one cared
                     naught for me, or that passionate love of hers for the queen dwarfed every
                     other sentiment.
                  At Abingdon their majesties parted,—the queen's face streaming with tears, and
                     the king's voice trembling. For the last time I witnessed that profound and
                     almost passionate devotion of these two human beings. They clung to each other
                     for a moment; the wet faces touched:
                     a heart-broken sob came from the lips of the queen, and she leaned her head,
                     like a suffering child, on the bosom of Frances Villiers, watching through
                     tears the retreating figure of her husband.
                  I did not return with the king, but remained with her majesty, in obedience to
                     her commands to that effect. The queen was pleased to say to his majesty, in my
                     presence, that I had proved myself one of the most faithful and devoted of her
                     servants; and I was commissioned by the king to bear a letter from him
                     immediately to Sir Theodore Mayherne, formerly court physician, returning with
                     the great doctor to the queen at Exeter.
                  On the next morning, accordingly, I set out for the residence of the physician,
                     a country-house in the neighborhood of Salisbury, and, having the good fortune
                     to evade the enemy's horse, found him, and delivered the king's note.
                  Sir Theodore Mayherne was more like a thunder-gust than before; scowled
                     terribly at me as I stretched my weary limbs in an arm-chair; and his long gray
                     hair was tossed about his leonine head in a more eccentric manner than
                     ever.
                  "Here's a pretty kettle of fish!" he roared. "A pretty pother her majesty is
                     raising! This is no time to be bearing children! Children! To be plagued with
                     them, when cutting throats is the fashion!"
                  I knew my host by this time, and only laughed.
                  "So the note I bring you, Sir Theodore, is a summons to attend the queen?"
                  "A summons? Yes, it amounts to that. Read!"
                  I took the paper, and read these words:—
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "MAYHERNE:—
                              
                              "For the love of me, go to my wife.
                              
                                 "C.R."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "There it is!" thundered the leonine personage, as I gave him back the king's
                     letter. "'C. R.,'—Carolus Rex! The time comes
                     when men are stripped of their trappings: here is a plain man who
                     wants a doctor for his wife!"
                  "So the worthy Sir Theodore Mayherne is one of the godly?" I said, laughing. "I
                     did not know that."
                  "One of the devilish—if I belonged to the party of such rogues!" growled the
                     physician. "Curse every one! If there's anything I despise more than a
                     stuck-up, ruffling, dice-rattling court popinjay, it is a psalm-singing,
                     puritanical, hypocritical rascal. Now I'll go."
                  This eloquent speech seemed to relieve Sir Theodore amazingly. He ordered his
                     carriage, put a change of linen in a portmanteau, swallowed a hasty meal,
                     and—his groom riding my horse—we set out for Exeter. I will not stop to repeat
                     the eccentric physician's talk on the way; and yet it was admirably
                     entertaining. Never have I seen so queer a mixture of traits. In the midst of a
                     tirade of withering scorn and denunciation of something or somebody, he would
                     burst out with a roar of laughter, go on in a strain of the richest and
                     broadest humor, snatch a bottle of wine from the pocket of the coach, thrust
                     the neck into my very mouth, and, slapping me on the back, salute me with, "Ho,
                     my learned Theban! drink! drink!" then take a sip himself, thrust the bottle
                     back, and begin denouncing, storming, growling, laughing again. Never was
                        such a strange mixture; never had
                     profound science and great faculties of head and heart been hidden beneath so
                     strange an outside.
                  Thus the journey passed, and we reached Exeter, where the queen was to await
                     Sir Theodore. We found that she had just arrived, and had taken up her
                     residence in Bedford House, a large and commodious edifice, where there was
                     ample room for herself and her suite.
                  What was my astonishment, as the coach of Sir Theodore Mayherne drove into the
                     court-yard, to see Sir Geoffrey Hudson, the dwarf, whom I had last encountered
                     near Oxford, come walking forth gravely from the royal apartments! I afterwards
                     learned that he had been ill throughout the winter, had finally recovered and
                     left the house of the headsman, and on the very day of the queen's departure
                     from Abingdon had presented himself before her, and been received as if naught
                     had happened; and here the pigmy was ushering the great physician and myself
                     into the queen's presence.
                  Her majesty was seated in a large apartment, attended by only one or two
                     ladies. Her appearance was feverish and excited.
                  "Ah, here you are, Mayherne!" she exclaimed. "Welcome! you come promptly."
                  "It is the duty of a physician, madam. What's the matter now?"
                  The growl had lost none of its force. The physician scowled at her majesty
                     Queen Mary as he would have done at the wife of his groom.
                  For response the queen blushed, and said,—
                  "I have a fever. Parting with his majesty was a terrible trial at such a time
                     as this."
                  "Well, why did you part?"
                  "He required me to do so; and you know, Mayherne, a wife must obey her
                     husband."
                  She smiled sweetly as she spoke: the feverish face, with the sparkling eyes and
                     the red cheeks and lips, was very beautiful.
                  "Required her!" growled the physician. "As if with that face a
                     woman doesn't rule!"
                  "What do you say, Mayherne?" asked the queen, feverishly.
                  "I say your majesty is sick."
                  "That is great intelligence, truly! Oh, I am very sick indeed,—sick in mind and
                     body. I am afraid I shall go mad some day."
                  "Your majesty need not fear that," growled the cynical personage. "You have
                     been so for some time."
                  "Out on your abuse of me!" exclaimed the queen. "You are as fierce as a wolf,
                     Mayherne. Feel my pulse."
                  She extended her hand to the physician, who gazed at her with a singular
                     mixture of satire and tenderness.
                  "I'll go through no such farce as feeling your pulse," he said. "To what
                     advantage? You are a woman, and your ailment is one that most women have at one
                     time or another,—fever, fits of depression, nervousness, hysterics, fear of
                     mice and spiders. Send away these handsome young maidens around you, madam!
                     Lady Morton can stay, if she chooses: if she doesn't object,
                        I don't. This is a simple ailment, in which your majesty is going to be worse before you are
                     better. Send off the maidens!"
                  The maidens had already scattered in dismay from the apartment. They had an
                     awful dread of the sardonic Sir Theodore, who always managed to say what
                     shocked them. I had witnessed this interview from the doorway, through which
                     the young ladies now vanished. I closed the door, and know nothing further of
                     the interview.
                  Early in June was born, at Bedford House, the Princess Henrietta Anne.
                  A fortnight afterwards, her majesty, in her weak and prostrate condition, was
                     informed that the Earl of Essex, in command of the parliament forces, was
                     rapidly approaching Exeter with a view to capture mother and babe,—the queen to
                     be escorted to London to be tried for treason.
                  Strange and tragic drama! One would think that Fate might have spared the pale
                     young mother clasping the few-days-old babe to her bosom and fondling it. The
                     poorest rests there, and is surrounded by care and tenderness. This mother—so
                     much poorer in another sense of the word—was to hear the tramp of soldiery
                     growling curses and threats against her; was to narrowly evade death; and, more
                     than all, was to be parted in those first sacred moments from her babe!
                  Make me a tragedy, O poet! I make none: I record simply the memory of what I've
                     seen.
               
               
                  II. I AM SENT WITH A FLAG TO LORD ESSEX.
                  THE rumor of Lord Essex's approach was speedily followed by the appearance of
                     his cavalry vanguard on the high hills northeast of Exeter.
                  I was looking from an upper window of Bedford House, when I saw clear cut
                     against the sky the figures of armed men, on spirited horses; and these
                     descended, followed by others. In a few minutes a column of light dragoons was
                     defiling into the plain.
                  I went at once to give information of the enemy's approach to her majesty, and
                     she commanded that I should be introduced into her sitting-room, where she lay
                     upon a couch, holding her babe resting upon her right arm, passed beneath the
                     little one's neck. The attitude of the queen was exquisite, and her pale face
                     was quite illuminated by the charming smile of the mother who looks at her
                     babe.
                  "You have something to communicate, Mr. Cecil?" she said.
                  "Yes, your majesty; 'tis my duty; and yet I shrink from performing that
                     duty."
                  The queen smiled.
                  "I am brave, I think, sir; not happy in my fortunes, it may be, but not
                     unnerved yet. Speak, Mr. Cecil."
                  "The enemy are in sight, your majesty, approaching Exeter."
                  
                  She closed her eyes, and her lips moved. I think it was in prayer.
                  "God's will be done!" she said, a moment afterwards; "and I expected this
                     intelligence. Oh that I had some of the brave friends of the king to go and
                     meet them!"
                  Her face flushed, and from the beautiful eyes darted a sort of fire. It quickly
                     died away.
                  "I must banish these feelings," she murmured; "I am no longer anything but a
                     poor mother trying to escape with my child."
                  Some moments passed in silence. The queen was evidently reflecting.
                  "I must send and parley with Lord Essex," she said, at length; "the woeful days
                     have come upon me, and I must act as I best may."
                  I advanced a step and bowed low.
                  "If your majesty will permit me to be so bold as to offer myself——"
                  "Yes, yes! This is not the time for ceremony."
                  And, rising to a sitting position, the queen clasped her babe to her bosom, and
                     said,—
                  "Yes,—go to my lord Essex; I will give you a line as your credentials. Inform
                     him of my condition; say that I am very ill, and that I crave his
                     permission—hateful, odious term!—Oh, it is too much!"
                  Her eyes flashed, and her voice shook.
                  "This is folly," she murmured: "yes, yes,—ask his august permission that I may
                     retire with my child from Exeter before the place is invested. I will go to
                     Bristol or Bath. I cannot bear, in my present condition, the alarms of a
                     siege."
                  With a feverish hand she wrote a line on a portfolio which Frances Villiers, at
                     a sign from her, brought and held before her. This she gave me hastily. Half an
                     hour afterwards I was spurring at full speed out of the city, waving a white
                     scarf upon my sword's point, to indicate my errand.
               
               
                  III. LORD ESSEX.
                  A MILE from the city I nearly ran into the column of dragoons, whose commander,
                     seeing me approach, ordered a halt. He was an officer in the uniform of a
                     colonel, and said, coolly,—
                  "You bring a flag of truce, sir. Is it for the surrender of the city?"
                  I shook my head. "A missive for Lord Essex."
                  "From whom?"
                  "From her majesty the queen."
                  The officer reflected a moment. "Give me the missive."
                  "I am ordered to deliver it into the hands of Lord Essex."
                  "Lord Essex is not here present."
                  "Doubtless, sir, he can be found nevertheless."
                  "You refuse to deliver your credentials to myself?"
                  "I obey my orders."
                  "Right, sir. You are a soldier. Two troopers to escort this officer to his lordship," he added,
                     to a staff-officer.
                  Five minutes afterwards, I was again on my way,—passing a long column of
                     cavalry. Behind these appeared foot-soldiers. The force was heavy.
                  At last the men drew rein at the foot of an eminence, upon which I saw a group
                     of mounted officers, and the tall figure of Lord Essex, whom I knew by sight,
                     was seen in the centre of the group. I rode up to him and saluted. He gazed at
                     me with attention, evidently recognized my Guardsman's uniform, and said,—
                  "You are from her majesty, sir?"
                  "Yes, my lord."
                  "I am sorry to hear it," he said, gravely.
                  "I have a missive from her majesty for the hands of your lordship."
                  "Give it to me."
                  He extended his hand, and I presented the queen's letter, at sight of which I
                     saw a cloud pass over his brow.
                  "This is a wretched business!" he muttered. "I know the contents of that paper,
                     and I do not wish to read it."
                  His chin sunk upon his breast, and his brows were knit together.
                  "Her majesty has given birth to a daughter, has she not, sir?" he said, in a
                     low tone.
                  "Yes, my lord."
                  "A handsome child?"
                  "Yes, my lord."
                  "What name does she propose to give the princess, sir?"
                  "Henrietta Anne, if I do not mistake, my lord."
                  Lord Essex uttered a deep sigh, and slowly opened the letter, which he perused
                     thoughtfully, folded up, and placed in his breast.
                  "I was mistaken: this paper is merely your credentials, sir, and her majesty
                     asks simply a verbal response."
                  I bowed, and waited.
                  "I am loath to give it."
                  He spoke in tones of deep depression, and I gazed at him attentively. The
                     nobleman and the soldier were contending in him, fiercely.
                  "It is not possible," I said, "that your lordship can refuse the request I come
                     to make,—namely, that her majesty may be permitted to retire with her child
                     from Exeter before the place is invested? She is extremely feeble, since the
                     princess is but a few days old, and the privation and excitement of a siege
                     might be fatal to both mother and babe."
                  As I spoke, an expression of great pain came to the face of the general.
                  "Cursed war!" he muttered; "why did I ever embark in it?"
                  "Your lordship said——"
                  "That I am powerless,—utterly powerless! I can do nothing! But now came my
                     orders from the people in London! The crop-eared—bah! whose fault is it that
                     I'm here but my own?"
                  His teeth were set together as he spoke.
                  "Return to her majesty, and say," he added, "that Lord Essex, if
                     he were untrammeled, would send her a guard of honor and his own coach to
                     convey her whither she would
                     go,—that General Essex, of the parliamentary forces, cannot grant
                     her request to leave Exeter."
                  "Your lordship cannot possibly——"
                  "Act like a ruffian? Yes, sir! I am not Lord Essex; I am a servant of these
                     people, and these are the orders from my masters!"
                  He flirted at me, rather than presented me with, an official-looking document
                     which he drew from his pocket. I glanced at it, and saw that it was an order to
                     seize the queen and escort her to London, where she was to be tried by
                     parliament for treason in levying war upon England.
                  The sight of the paper filled me with indignation.
                  "And your lordship will not disregard this outrageous order?"
                  "I cannot."
                  "And yet your lordship commands here: the civilians yonder are a poor set!"
                  "Sir, I am a soldier: I obey orders!" he growled.
                  "And her majesty will be tried for treason?"
                  "You see," he said, coldly, pointing to the paper.
                  "And his majesty, if he be captured, will he too be tried for the same
                     offense,—the penalty of which is the axe of the headsman?"
                  Lord Essex turned pale. "Let us terminate this interview, sir!" he said, almost
                     hoarsely.
                  "As your lordship will!" I said, unable to control my indignation. "For my
                     part, I know the side that, as an English gentleman, I'll adhere to!"
                  A fiery glance replied to this covert insult; but Lord Essex immediately made
                     me a ceremonious salute.
                  "Each gentleman decides for himself, right or wrong, sir," he said, austerely.
                     "Say to her majesty the queen that I am pained to refuse her request, in
                     consequence of orders which I am not at liberty to disobey. I am ordered to
                     convey her to London to be tried for treason, to which is attached the
                     death-penalty; and I shall probably invest Exeter before midnight."
                  I looked keenly at Lord Essex. Was this a notice to the queen to escape? I
                     could not determine, and, bowing, turned my horse's head to ride back.
                  "A moment, sir," said Lord Essex, approaching me. "Is her majesty in bed?"
                  "On her couch, my lord."
                  He hesitated.
                  "In a condition to be moved?"
                  "Scarcely," I said, guardedly.
                  "Because——"
                  And Lord Essex looked at me, leaving the sentence unfinished. Then he saluted,
                     turned away, and with my escort I rode back, soon entering Exeter again.
               
               
                  
                  IV. THE FATE OF A QUEEN.
                  THE result of my mission showed that her majesty could expect no favor from
                     Lord Essex; and preparations were begun with a view to her escape.
                  There was no choice but to leave the babe behind; and it was long before her
                     majesty could be brought to this cruel resolution.
                  "My poor child!" she sobbed, with tears streaming from her eyes, "how can I
                     leave you,—perhaps for months,—perhaps for years? Oh, I cannot, cannot!"
                  She hugged the baby to her bosom, with passionate sobs, and covered its small
                     face with kisses.
                  "It breaks my heart to leave you!" she sobbed; and then she began to prattle
                     baby-talk to it, holding it tightly to her bosom, and looking at the little
                     round face through her tears.
                  There was no alternative, however. The child could not possibly accompany her
                     on the arduous journey she must make. And that attempt to escape was a dire
                     necessity. Once captured and taken to London, her fate would decide the fate of
                     the whole conflict. With his queen in the hands of her relentless enemies, the
                     king would yield his crown rather than see her blood flow. She must
                     escape,—leaving her child, against whom no order of seizure had been issued.
                     Perhaps a kind Providence would soon enable her to secure possession session
                     again of the infant; and meanwhile the ladies of her suite left with the
                     princess would tenderly care for her.
                  Night came, and the queen had formed her resolution. She would take one
                     cavalier, one lady of her suite, and her confessor, and steal forth on foot.
                     All her preparations were rapidly made. Her money and jewels were placed in a
                     casket; the whole party were disguised in plain clothes; and, remembering Lord
                     Essex's intimation that the place would be invested before midnight, I hurried
                     the arrangements for the escape. In spite of everything, however, it was nearly
                     daylight before the party left Bedford House. I was witness of the parting
                     between her majesty and her child. I cannot dwell upon it!—'twas agonizing.
                     With a burst of tears, she at length tore herself away, leaving the baby in
                     charge of Lady Morton and Frances Villiers, and, leaning upon my arm, for I had
                     been selected to accompany her majesty, went forth, a lonely fugitive,—worse
                     still, a poor mother without her babe.
                  We passed the city gates, which were guarded by a sentinel. He permitted us to
                     pass, regarding us, in our plain clothes, as country-people. Already in the
                     east a faint streak of dawn was seen; and at every moment, as we hurried on, I
                     expected to encounter some part of the hostile force. As yet none appeared. Had
                     Lord Essex delayed his advance for many hours after the time announced by
                     him,—"before midnight"? I like to think so.
                  We pressed on. The light in the east grew brighter. All at once a dull sound
                     issued from beyond a clump of woods which we were traversing, and I said,
                     quickly,—
                  
                  "That is the enemy, your majesty! We must seek some place of concealment."
                  "Oh, very gladly!" the queen murmured; "my strength is wellnigh exhausted."
                  I saw a hut in the wood, not far from the road. The windows had been torn from
                     their hinges, and the desolate appearance of the place indicated that it was
                     uninhabited.
                  "Here is a hiding-place, your majesty," I said; "lean your full weight upon my
                     arm, and endeavor to hasten."
                  The queen panted, and I could feel her leaning heavily upon my arm. She clung
                     to me, almost exhausted, and her head half fell upon my shoulder.
                  "Oh, I cannot go farther!" she murmured; "my strength is quite exhausted. Save
                     yourself!—go, leave me! I will die here."
                  I drew her on rapidly.
                  "Come, your majesty!" I said; "here is the hut."
                  "I can go no farther."
                  "Then I at least will die with you."
                  "No, no! I will try——"
                  And she tottered on. The gleam of arms was already visible through the woods,
                     and I heard the close tramp of the soldiery.
                  "A few more steps, and we are saved!" I said.
                  The queen went on with faltering steps, leaning heavily upon me, and we all
                     reached the hut. As we entered it, the head of the enemy's column emerged from
                     a bend in the woods. Had they discovered us? I knew not; but there was the
                     chance of having eluded their observation. The hut was empty, save that a pile
                     of straw lay in one corner. In this I speedily made an opening, begged her
                     majesty to lie down, and covered her with the straw. The maid of honor and
                     father confessor rapidly concealed themselves in the same manner; and, lastly,
                     I made myself a burrow beside her majesty, and hastily covered my person,
                     leaving only a loophole to look through: then we lay still.
                  I had scarce concealed myself, when the enemy's column began to pass within a
                     few yards of the hut. They were burly, begrimed, close-cropped pikemen, who
                     uttered rough jests to each other as they tramped on by the hut; and many of
                     them turned their heads and looked in, as they passed.
                  Suddenly the talk of some of the men attracted my attention; and I listened
                     with a sinking heart.
                  "We are going to catch the Canaanitess at last!" said one, with a laugh.
                  "The Jezebel!" said another. "It was she who brought arms and money from over
                     seas to help the malignants!"
                  "We will have her before night," said a third. "Parliament has offered fifty
                     thousand crowns for her head. She'll be in London soon, to be tried for
                     treason; and then hey for the fine sight on Tower Hill! The axe is sharpened
                     already, and Gregory Brandon will make short work of her, the painted
                     French——!"
                  Oaths, imprecations, and ribald jests finished the sentence, which was only a
                     specimen of their talk. The queen lay perfectly still. The column tramped on.
                     The day broadened; the hours passed on. Still the army continued to defile by,
                     no doubt slowly investing vesting
                     the city, in order to shut in the hoped-for prey.
                  It was not until night that the troops ceased to pass. I then cautiously
                     emerged from my place of concealment, and, in a low voice, inquired of her
                     majesty how she felt.
                  "Oh, so weary!" she murmured; "but, thank God, we have not been
                     discovered."
                  "The enemy have passed on, your majesty."
                  "Doubtless Exeter is invested."
                  "Yes, madam."
                  I could hear the queen weeping quietly; then there came in a murmur,
                     interrupted by a sob, "My poor babe!"
                  "Do not grieve for the princess, your majesty," I said: "she is quite safe, and
                     will not be molested. And now I will go reconnoitre."
                  The result was discouraging. The vicinity was filled with rabble followers of
                     the army, whose bivouac-fires sparkled in wood and field. More than once dusky
                     figures passed near the hut; and finally I was compelled to hastily re-enter my
                     place of concealment. There, in the pile of straw, the queen and all of us lay
                     until the next evening,—without food, surrounded by the enemy,—not daring to
                     move, I have often thought since of that terrible time, vainly asking myself
                     how this poor mother, just risen from her sick-bed, sustained that ordeal of
                     fasting. It remains incomprehensible. Was it the fever of excitement which bore
                     her up?
                  At length the welcome shades of night came, and the vicinity of the hut seemed
                     free at last of enemies. I assisted the queen from her place of concealment,
                     and summoned the rest of the party. Their appearance was almost comic. The
                     worthy priest was covered with straw, and the fair maid of honor looked utterly
                     woe-begone.
                  There was no time now to lose. The queen's destination was Plymouth, where she
                     hoped to find a harbor of refuge; and, tottering on, she managed to proceed,
                     with the support of my arm, over the road trampled to a quagmire by the horses
                     of the army-wagons. At an humble house I managed: to secure some food for the
                     party; we then hastened on as rapidly as the queen's exhausted condition would
                     permit; and thus passed the long hours of the night. Towards morning we found
                     ourselves in Dartmoor Forest; here another deserted hut gave us shelter, and,
                     to our great satisfaction, several ladies and gentlemen of the queen's suite,
                     who had escaped in disguise by different gates of Exeter, joined her, and
                     cheered her by intelligence of her babe's well-doing.
                  Towards evening we ventured forth again, determining to run the risk of
                     encountering scouting-parties. We had scarce started, however, when the tramp
                     of hoofs was heard behind us, and through the twilight a horseman was seen
                     coming on at full gallop.
                  I drew my rapier, and turned to meet the newcomer, resolved to supply her
                     majesty with a horse.
                  "Halt!" I ordered, as he drew near; but the rider came on at full speed. I
                     presented my weapon at the animal's throat and prepared to seize the bridle,
                     when suddenly I recognized the dwarf Geoffrey Hudson.
                  "Ho! ho!" I said; "'tis you, then!"
                  "With a horse for her majesty," said the pigmy, leaping to the ground. "I dismounted a
                     six-footer with a bullet to procure it."
                  And, walking gravely with the bridle of the tall animal thrown over his arm,
                     the pigmy approached the queen, made her a formal salute, and said,—
                  "I beg your majesty to accept my horse: my cloak will serve your majesty for a
                     cushion."
                  He threw the right-hand stirrup over the saddle, spread his velvet cloak—a mere
                     baby garment—over all, and, holding the bridle for the queen to mount, made
                     another low salute.
                  "You are a faithful friend, Geoffrey," said the queen, smiling sadly; "and
                     indeed I am exhausted."
                  I hastened to assist her majesty to mount, and she uttered a sigh of relief.
                     The poor weary foot in its half-worn slipper was thrust into the stirrup, I
                     took my place beside her majesty's rein, and then the whole party advanced
                     rapidly through the gloomy Dartmoor Forest towards Plymouth.
                  It was a strange and silent march, and a strange party. A queen and a bevy of
                     noble young ladies, in rough clothing, worn and dusty; gentlemen, once
                     ornaments of the court, in the garb of plowmen; and in front of all, striding
                     on with grave dignity, a pigmy being,—the dwarf,—whose appearance was that of a
                     babe, save that at his side he wore a good sharp sword.
                  We reached the vicinity of Plymouth, but there discovered that the place was
                     dangerously favorable to parliament. It was necessary to proceed still farther,
                     in the direction of Falmouth; and, emerging from a wood, we perceived a large
                     castle crowning a promontory tory. A countryman passed at the moment, gazing
                     curiously at our party.
                  "What castle is that?" I said.
                  "Pendennis," was the brief response. A second question drew forth the
                     information that a gentleman of the royal party commanded at the castle. We
                     hastened on joyfully, were received with enthusiasm upon announcing ourselves,
                     and at last her majesty was in a place of refuge.
                  "The news from Exeter, sir?" she said hastily to the officer commanding.
                  "It is regularly invested by Lord Essex, your majesty; but his majesty the king
                     is said to be advancing by forced marches to relieve the place."
                  As he spoke, the officer looked curiously forth.
                  "What is the matter?" the queen inquired, with sudden agitation.
                  "A courier, your majesty, from the way he rides."
                  And, soliciting permission to leave the apartment, the officer went to meet the
                     man. In fifteen minutes he returned, bearing a dispatch.
                  "For your majesty," he said, presenting it with a bow.
                  "Is it possible? How was my presence here discovered?"
                  "The courier entered Exeter just as the enemy approached the place, and,
                     discovering from some one of your majesty's suite that you had left the city to
                     go westward, followed you, heard of you by the way, and has reached you with
                     his majesty's missive."
                  "His majesty!" cried the queen; and she hastened to open the letter.
                  
                  As she read it, her pale face flushed with happiness; then she turned pale, and
                     let the letter fall in her lap.
                  "Oh, I cannot! I cannot!" she exclaimed.
                  As she uttered these words, her eyes encountered my own.
                  "He commands me to sail for France!—to leave England!—him!—my babe! Oh, no! no!
                     I cannot! I will not!"
                  And the queen began to tremble, her eyes filling with tears. Brushing them away
                     with one of her thin hands, she rose and went to the chamber prepared for her.
                     An hour afterwards she summoned me to her presence, and said, in a broken
                     voice,—
                  "I sail for France to-morrow,—there is a ship in Falmouth harbor, sent by my
                     son, the Prince of Orange.—His majesty orders me to go,—mark me,
                        orders me to go! I dare not disobey him!—My heart is
                     breaking!—Oh, my child! my child! my poor, poor little deserted babe! I will
                     not! Oh, no! no! I cannot! Who would ever think me aught but a wretched,
                     heartless mother! But my husband—he commands me, saying in that letter there
                     that my capture loses him his crown."
                  The poor queen rose, wildly clasping her hands.
                  "But to leave my child! my little one but a few days old!—my little babe that
                     looks at me already laughing from her eyes, as though she loved me even now!
                     Oh, what can I do?—My heart is broken!—I can never leave her;—but the king,—his
                     crown—I will—obey my husband!"
                  The queen tottered, and I caught her in my arms as she was falling.
               
               
                  V. THE COURAGE OF A WOMAN.
                  TWENTY-four hours after this scene, the queen, accompanied by her suite, had
                     embarked for France.
                  A leaden torpor seemed to weigh her down. She no longer sobbed, cried, or
                     exhibited indeed any emotion whatever. Seated upon the deck of the vessel, she
                     looked back towards the English coast, in the direction of Exeter; and we who
                     stood around her dared not intrude upon that august despair.
                  Others less ceremonious, however, were speedily to appear upon the scene.
                  The vessel containing her majesty was making straight for the port of Dieppe,
                     on the French coast, and had long left the English headlands behind, when
                     through a slight mist there appeared indistinctly the outlines of several
                     sail,—cruisers, it was feared, under the flag of the parliament.
                  The commander of the queen's vessel carefully reconnoitred through his glass,
                     and then, closing it, announced that this fear was correct. His only hope now
                     was to pass them unseen, or uncared for, and he crowded on all sail for that
                     purpose.
                  Suddenly an ominous "boom" echoed from the fog, and a cannon-shot passed in
                     front of the vessel, dipping and disappearing.
                  
                  It was the signal to stop. The commander looked at the queen.
                  "That is an order to heave to, your majesty," he said.
                  "Well, sir?" said the queen, in a low, monotonous, apathetic voice.
                  "I await your majesty's orders."
                  "My orders?"
                  "Shall I proceed, or obey the signal, your majesty?"
                  "Proceed."
                  The vessel continued its way, dancing upon the waves, now rising before a fresh
                     gale, and dashing the foam from her cutwater.
                  Suddenly a second shot came, and this time it passed over the deck of the
                     vessel.
                  "This is becoming somewhat dangerous for your majesty," said the captain. "What
                     shall I do?"
                  "I am ordered by my husband," said the queen, in the same low, monotonous
                     voice, "to leave England to avoid capture, and sail for France."
                  The officer bowed low.
                  "Your majesty's order agrees with my own wish. I will then continue my
                     way."
                  "Do so, sir."
                  A third cannon-ball passed like a sea-gull at the instant, and one of the
                     sailors who was leaning over the gunwale was hurled, a mangled corpse, into the
                     sea. The captain looked at the queen.
                  "Go on, sir," she said, coldly.
                  The pursuers now commenced a rapid and continuous cannonade. The balls passed
                     to the right, left, and through the rigging of the ship. At every instant those
                     on board expected her hull or masts to be struck; and the chasing vessels
                     seemed to gain on her moment by moment. Ever nearer and nearer came the now
                     frightful roar of the big guns; the cannon-balls of the enemy skimmed the deck,
                     or tore their way into the hull.
                  The captain hastened to the spot where the queen sat beside the helmsman. His
                     face was flushed now, and he had evidently had aroused in him the ire of the
                     sailor who sees his craft in danger of destruction.
                  "Shall I return the fire, your majesty?" he asked. "I hate to see my ship cut
                     in two by these people, and I have a gun that will send back a good ball and
                     make them keep a little farther off, perchance."
                  The queen raised her dull eyes.
                  "You wish to fire?"
                  "Yes, your majesty."
                  "I forbid it. Time would be lost. I wish to escape."
                  The captain saluted.
                  "Your majesty's order will be obeyed, and any others she may give."
                  He waited.
                  "You desire my orders, sir?" the queen said, still in the same apathetic
                     voice.
                  "Yes, your majesty."
                  "Set every sail."
                  "It will be dangerous, your majesty. Look! yonder comes a storm."
                  He pointed to an inky cloud, heralded by gusts which struck the vessel, almost
                     drowning the roar of the cannon.
                  "Set every sail, in spite of the storm," the queen replied. "I am ordered to
                     escape."
                  
                  "And if the enemy come up with us, or disable my vessel,—what orders then, your
                     majesty?"
                  "Fire the powder-magazine and blow up the ship," said the queen. "I do not mean
                     to be taken."
                  And she sank again into apathy; but the expression of her countenance indicated
                     clearly that she was profoundly in earnest in giving the order.
                  The captain saluted and turned from the queen. At the same instant a
                     cannon-ball cut the mainmast in two, and it fell over the side, with sails and
                     rigging. The ship shuddered through every timber, and the huge mast, held by
                     the rigging, became an enormous battering-ram, hurled at every instant against
                     the vessel's side by the waves now lashed to storm.
                  "I think the time has come, your majesty," said the captain. "We shall be
                     captured in thirty minutes, if we do not sink."
                  "My order remains unchanged," the queen replied, coldly.
                  "Your order——?"
                  "To blow up the ship."
                  Suddenly a cheer from the crew was heard. The captain turned quickly. A mile to
                     windward, three or four vessels were rapidly bearing down, and the French flag
                     was plainly made out. They quickly approached, and the crew uttered a second
                     cheer. The parliamentary ships had drawn off, and a gun only at long intervals
                     now indicated that they had given up the pursuit.
                  The queen had not moved or spoken. As the storm drove the disabled ship towards
                     the French coast, now in sight, she continued to gaze out upon the waters
                     towards England with the same despairing apathy. It was only by the happiest
                     chance at last that the vessel reached a cove in the rocky coast. There the
                     queen entered one of the boats, and was tossed on the summit of the great waves
                     towards the shore. All at once the boat grounded, and I leaped into the sea.
                     The queen rose at my signal, I took her in my arms, after the sailor fashion,
                     bore her to shore, and deposited her upon the rocks wet with spray and
                     sea-weed. The rest landed, and, with the members of her suite, the queen
                     wandered along the shore, seeking shelter from the storm. This we found in an
                     assemblage of fishermen's huts; and a messenger was sent thence to the château
                     of a gentleman in the vicinity to announce the presence of the daughter of
                     Henry IV. on French soil.
                  The intelligence spread like magic, and the rude fishermen's village was soon
                     crowded with the coaches of the neighboring nobility, eager to succor the
                     English queen thus thrown upon French hospitality. She left the village in one
                     of these chariots, and was graciously pleased to signify her wish that I should
                     occupy a seat in the same vehicle.
                  "Well, Mr. Cecil," she said, as the coach rolled on, "God has mercifully
                     preserved us."
                  She spoke in the same sombre voice; but I could see tears in her eyes now.
                  "From the storm, your majesty, and the enemy: that is doubtless your
                     meaning?"
                  "Yes, and from my wicked self too. I have been thinking of my child, and of my
                     sinful order to blow you all up in the ship. I had no right to give such an
                     order; and yet I gave it calmly and meaning it. I can now accuse myself of want
                     of moral courage to master my pride;
                     and I give thanks to God for having preserved me at the same time from my
                     enemies and from myself."*
                  
                  
                     *Her majesty afterwards used nearly these
                        same expressions in speaking to her friend Madame de Motteville, as may be
                        seen in that lady's Memoirs. "I did not feel any extraordinary effort," she
                        said, "when I gave the order to blow up the vessel."
                  
                  Her head sank as she spoke, and gradually tears gathered in her eyes and rolled
                     slowly down her cheeks.
                  "My poor husband!—my poor, poor little babe!" she sobbed. "Oh, when, when shall
                     I ever see them again?"
               
               
                  VI. MY PROMISE.
                  THESE events took place in the month of July, 1644.
                  In the autumn of the same year I was back in England, bearer of a private
                     dispatch from her majesty, then at the baths of Bourbon, to his majesty the
                     king, then in the neighborhood of Oxford.
                  I need not speak in these memoirs of my brief stay in France at that time, any
                     more than I did of my sojourn in the Low Countries. This volume strives to
                     depict incidents occurring on English ground; and accordingly I pass to the
                     moment when I again trod the beloved soil of my home-land.
                  The times I found more than ever "out of joint." The struggle between king and
                     parliament had steadily become more bitter and envenomed. It was now a conflict
                     of life and death; and during my absence at Exeter with her majesty, disastrous
                     events had taken place for the royal cause. Early in July was fought the great
                     battle of Marston-Moor, where, against the protest of my lord Newcastle, his
                     highness Prince Rupert attacked the enemy and was badly beaten. Later in the
                     same month, York surrendered to the parliament. In October the king sustained a
                     second defeat on the old ground of Newbury, and, save that Lord Essex was
                     defeated in turn with the force he commanded in Cornwall, no gleam of light
                     came from any quarter to cheer the adherents of his majesty. Shut up in the
                     city of Oxford, deprived of the consolation of the queen's presence, seeing all
                     around him evidences of failing fortunes, the king had little to cheer him,
                     and, when I saw him first after my return, seemed plunged in melancholy.
                  He received me in private audience, and questioned me minutely as to the
                     health, spirits, and surroundings of the queen. I informed him upon all points,
                     and gave his majesty a detailed account of her strange adventures at Exeter and
                     on the sea. As I spoke, his pale cheeks filled with blood, his eyes flashed,
                     and he exclaimed,—
                  "'Twas like her! Brave and true! brave and true!"
                  His majesty was pleased then to express his satisfaction with the humble part I
                     had borne in the escape of the queen, to declare his confidence in me, and to
                     dismiss me with expressions of his royal regard.
                  As I issued from the royal presence, Harry met me, arm in arm with the gay
                     young Frank Villiers, whose blue eyes gave me friendly welcome. We all went
                        to the quarters of the Guards,
                     now on duty at Oxford. My old friends received me with an ovation, and during
                     the winter I remained at Oxford, dreaming of Frances Villiers and wondering
                     where she then was. The victim still of my old passion, I could not banish her
                     from my mind. But I never spoke of her to Harry, fearing to arouse old
                     memories. He was equally reticent: her name was never uttered by either of us.
                     I knew not whether he still pined for her, and could only resolve to adhere to
                     my resolution not further to prosecute my suit.
                  Spring came, and both sides assembled all their forces. Fairfax was appointed
                     general-in-chief of the parliamentary troops. Under General Fairfax nominally,
                     but in reality over him, was the cold, resolute, ardent, explosive General
                     Cromwell. He it was who now came to put the coup de
                        grâce to his majesty's fortunes. Intellect governs the world; and
                     'twas the brain of that single man that shaped the history of England. Of the
                     loose and disjointed armies of parliament he made one great engine: the troops
                     became inspired with his own indomitable will to conquer: his pikemen marched
                     to battle chanting uncouth psalms, despising death and wounds, raised by that
                     afflatus above care for life. In the person of the plain countryman whom I had
                     met at Mr. Hampden's in Buckinghamshire, now become the supreme ruler of the
                     minds and hearts of his men, the troops had found their master and the name
                     that led them to victory.
                  'Twas a strange fanaticism, that of the puritan soldiery then,—those
                     "Independents" advancing remorselessly morselessly over church and king. I will
                     not laugh at it: 'twas grotesque, but terrible too. I pass on to events.
                  June of the dark year 1645 arrived, and the flags of king and parliament
                     fronted each other on the soon-to-be-famous ground of Naseby.
                  Harry and I were lying in our tent on the night before the battle, and, as the
                     long hours went on, we remained awake, talking of a thousand things. At last
                     our talk came to concern one subject alone,—Frances Villiers and the love we
                     bore her. Harry laughed rather than replied to me, and I loved him more than
                     ever for that. Convinced that his passion was unchanged, and penetrated to the
                     heart by that great wealth of brotherly love which thus surrendered the dear
                     object to his rival, I saw in his laughter but a new evidence of his noble
                     delicacy, but proof of the fact that he wished to make light of his great
                     sacrifice. The thought brought tears to my eyes.
                  "You shall not find me less magnanimous than yourself, brother," I said.
                  "Pooh, Ned!" was his gay reply, "go on and court the fair one. Why not?"
                  I rose on my elbow from the camp-couch, and, with flushed cheeks, said, in a
                     low tone,—
                  "I will not! Never will I utter word of love whilst I am my brother's
                     rival!"
                  Harry laughed aloud thereat, and said,—
                  "Suppose I go under to-morrow, old fellow?"
                  "No matter!" I cried: "I have promised! Whether you pass unharmed or fall, my
                     word is given: until I obtain my Harry's permission I swear I will never utter
                     love-word to Frances Villiers!"
                  
                  As I spoke, the sudden sound of a trumpet was heard without, and footsteps
                     hastening to and fro, mingled with the neighing of horses. A sergeant put in
                     his head.
                  "To horse, gentlemen!" he cried; for it was the fashion in the aristocratic
                     corps of the Guards to observe this courtly and very unmilitary mode of
                     address.
                  Harry sprang up. "What's the matter?" he cried.
                  "The enemy's horse threaten the train," was the reply.
                  The trumpet sounded more shrilly the call "Boots and saddles!"
                  In ten minutes we were mounted, and, commanded by Prince Rupert in person, were
                     moving rapidly to the point of danger.
                  The parliament horse had indeed advanced to attack the king's trains, but at
                     but at our appearance they gave up the design, and retreated, skirmishing, to
                     their main body again.
                  The day dawned as we fell back; and soon the sound of martial music indicated
                     that the camps were astir.
                  The king was forming his line of battle. As the sun rose he was ready.
                  The disastrous day of Naseby had come.
               
               
                  VII. THE LAST HOPE OF THE KING AND OF THE CECILS.
                  I SHALL speak but briefly of the tragic combat of Naseby. For long a curse
                     seemed to weigh on the very name, to me; even now, I wellnigh shudder when 'tis
                     pronounced.
                  The king commanded his army in person,—Prince Rupert leading the right, Sir
                     Marmaduke Langdale the left. On the enemy's side, Fairfax was the
                     general-in-chief; and his right was led by General Cromwell, his left by
                     Ireton.
                  Rupert opened the battle, as was habitual with him, by a cavalry charge. He
                     rushed upon Ireton, and to that resolute officer I found myself personally
                     opposed. A brief sword-encounter followed, and I was near disarming him.
                  "Surrender!" I cried.
                  "Never!" was his gallant reply.
                  With a sweep of his broadsword he cut the feather clean from my hat, and it is
                     probable that I would have fared badly in the encounter, when a trooper ran his
                     weapon through his thigh, and he was taken prisoner, still fighting and
                     refusing to surrender, like the brave man he was.
                  Rupert had meanwhile pushed on, driving the enemy's left before him. It was the
                     strange fate of this head-long cavalier to defeat the enemy always at the
                        outset, but ever by some blunder
                     to lose all the fruits of his victory. Such was the event now at Naseby. The
                     enemy's left was routed and driven. The prince could fight, but could not
                     command: he stopped to summon the enemy's artillery to surrender before
                     charging it; thus precious time was lost, and the golden moment passed. A
                     deafening shout from our left and rear attracted all eyes to that quarter.
                  The spectacle was terrible.
                  As Rupert charged, the king had advanced his whole line, leading it in person.
                     Mounted upon a superb charger, his head bare, and waving his hat, his majesty
                     rode in front of his line, exposing himself to the heaviest fire, and calling
                     upon his troops to follow him. They responded with cheers, and in a moment the
                     opposing lines clashed together. Before the royal charge the parliament forces
                     gave back, as before Rupert; but suddenly there appeared upon the scene that
                     terrible new element, the "Independent" pikemen of Cromwell. These now
                     advanced, slow and stern as an incarnate Fate. Nothing stood before the surging
                     hedge of steel; the triumphant royalists were first checked, then forced back,
                     then broken wellnigh to pieces: the whole left wing of the king was crushed by
                     this irresistible weight of pikes.
                  We saw this, we of the Guards, from a distance, and heard the fierce shouts.
                     Prince Rupert understood all, and his eyes blazed as they witnessed the
                     spectacle. I was near him, and our eyes met.
                  "Go to the king! go to the king!" he cried, "and say I will be with him
                     instantly!"
                  I saluted, and wheeled my horse.
                  "Stay! Take Hans with you. You may be shot. Say I will come instantly."
                  And, turning to the gigantic corporal who always rode near him, the prince
                     exclaimed,—
                  "Go with him."
                  At the word, the huge black-bearded Hans thundered to my side.
                  "I gome mit you," he said, drawing his sword, and putting spur to his horse.
                     Without a word, I went back at full speed, and we were near the king, when I
                     saw my companion reel.
                  "You are shot!" I cried.
                  "Hilf Himmel!" escaped from the giant's lips.
                     Then he raised his huge hand to his breast, threw back his head, and, falling
                     from his horse, was trampled under the iron hoofs.
                  I had no time to aid him, even had not a glance told me that he was dead. I
                     spurred straight to the king, who was fighting in the midst of his men. He saw
                     me coming, and exclaimed,—
                  "Where is the prince?"
                  "He bids me say he will be with your majesty instantly."
                  "I fear 'tis too late; the left wing is broken."
                  The tumult drowned his voice, and the king continued to fight personally, like
                     a private soldier, careless of all peril. I was near him, and now witnessed a
                     still more tragic event. The hedge of steel slowly moved, as on a pivot, and
                     enveloped the king's left. Stern and menacing swept round the immense wall of
                     pikes, and through the smoke I saw their commander, the thenceforward terrible
                     General Cromwell. He sat his horse
                     perfectly motionless, in front of his left. No statue could be stiller, and he
                     resembled rather a bronze or stone figure than a man. From time to time his
                     lips moved, and a brief command seemed to issue from them. Otherwise the man
                     was even fearfully cold and immovable,—a Fate incarnate.
                  Suddenly Rupert appeared, and I wheeled my horse and joined my comrades.
                     Without a word, and seeing all at a glance, the prince charged straight on the
                     hedge of steel. It did not move: the horses impaled their chests on the sharp
                     steel points, but made no opening. Then I knew that all was over: the terrible
                     wall was closing around us; nothing was left for the followers of the king but
                     to die, sword in hand.
                  I had faced that conviction, and set my teeth close for the event, when Harry,
                     covered with dust and blood, rushed past me on his superb courser.
                  "Come on, Ned!" he shouted, waving his sword, and laughing; "there's time yet
                     ere sunset to drive these carles back!"
                  I spurred to his side.
                  "The day is lost, brother, but we can die here," I said; and we charged side by
                     side.
                  A moment, and all was over. A pike pierced the chest of Harry's horse, and the
                     animal reared and fell backward. At the same instant my own horse was wounded
                     and recoiled. Harry's sword cut the air; I heard him utter a defiant shout;
                     then he was hurled to the ground, and a pike was driven into his breast.
                  The awful sight unmanned me, almost. A second cry—of agony this time—burst from
                     my lips. I seemed to see for an instant, through the cloud of smoke, the dying
                     face of my brother; his eyes turned upon me for the last time. Then a hot iron
                     seemed to pass through my breast,—a bullet had struck me,—and I reeled in the
                     saddle. My bridle was violently grasped by the pike-man in front of me; I could
                     make no resistance; but suddenly my horse tore away from his assailant, turned,
                     and lashed out with his heels; the man was hurled back by the iron feet, and I
                     found myself—faint, reeling, senseless almost-—borne, at a swift gallop, back
                     to the king's line.
                  I ran almost against his majesty. He was bareheaded; his eyes flamed. With
                     clothes covered with dust and grimed with smoke, and cheeks which seemed on
                     fire, he drove into the midst of the combatants, waved his sword above his
                     head, and shouted, in hoarse tones, which echo still in my memory,—
                  "One charge more, and we recover the day!"
                  A roar drowned his voice, and there was scarce more than a feeble cheer in
                     response to his shout. The day was decided: all felt that Cromwell's terrible
                     pikemen, advancing resistless as fate, would bear down all before them. No
                     further stand was made; and the royal forces were seen on all sides retreating
                     in disorder from the field.
                  I was tottering in the saddle, and through the mist before my eyes I could see
                     but little. I made out, however, in that cloud, one face, over which was spread
                     the pallor of despair. It was the face of the king, who had checked his horse
                     and sat looking with a sort of stupor upon the scene before him. He sat thus
                     for a moment only. Two noblemen seized his bridle and bore him from the field
                     at a gallop.
                  
                  Unconsciously I followed; leaning upon my horse's neck, faint and dying almost,
                     I went on at full speed. After that I remember only confused cries, the clash
                     of arms, the roar of guns in pursuit. Then green woods were around me, the
                     noises died away, darkness seemed to descend upon me, and I lost
                     consciousness.
               
               
                  VIII. BACK TO CECIL COURT.
                  WHEN I fully regained my senses, and realized my actual whereabouts, I found
                     myself lying in my bed at Cecil Court, with the eyes of my father and Cicely
                     fixed upon me.
                  "Thank God!" exclaimed my father, drawing a long breath, "the fever has taken a
                     turn at last."
                  Tears came to his eyes, and Cicely threw herself, sobbing for joy, upon her
                     knees, and pressed my thin hand to her lips.
                  From that moment I began to convalesce, and was soon informed of my own
                     adventures after the battle. Frank Villiers had come up just as I was falling
                     from my horse, and had managed to secure a hospital-wagon flying wildly from
                     the field. In this I was placed. A considerable sum in gold had bribed the
                     driver to convey me to Cecil Court. I had arrived raging with fever. For months
                     my life had been despaired of, for a bullet had passed through my chest; but
                     finally youth and health had conquered, and I rallied from the very brink of
                     the grave.
                  It was to find the arms of my father and sister around me, but to realize that
                     the royal cause was lost, and that our brave, our dear Harry was forever taken
                     from us. His last charge and his fall had become known at Cecil Court, and the
                     woeful duty devolved upon me now to relate the particulars. I did so, in the
                     midst of sobs, and with a great gush of tears from my own eyes. Father and
                     sister wept in silence. Cicely drew close to me, kissed me, and murmured,—
                  "You alone are left us."
                  Months passed on, and I grew stronger. Finally I left my sick-bed and began to
                     totter about the house. A hopeless sadness had taken possession of me. I scarce
                     gave a thought to the fate of the cause I had fought for, thinking only of my
                     brother and his dying face.
                  A languid interest in public affairs came finally to dispute this possessing
                     thought. Naseby had ended the struggle. Soon thereafter Prince Rupert
                     surrendered Bristol, for which, 'twas said, the king had disgraced and banished
                     him. Then his majesty took refuge with a remnant of force at Oxford. Then he
                     fled to Newark, delivering himself up to the Scottish army.
                  It was not until late summer that I was able to leave the house and move slowly
                     about the grounds at Cecil Court. No one molested me. Sir Jervas Ireton's
                     flaming loyalty to the parliament had secured him an official appointment in
                     London; and no one in the vicinity seemed disposed to harass the poor
                        wounded officer. Still, there was
                     no certainty that, at any moment, I would not be arrested. I was therefore
                     anxious to leave Cecil Court and not compromise my father. Whither I should go
                     was a difficult question. But I could find a refuge somewhere. And it was just
                     at the moment when I heard that Sir Jervas Ireton was coming down from London
                     that an unforeseen incident occurred which was to send me forth again upon the
                     stormy waters of that troubled epoch.
               
               
                  IX. I GO TO CHARLECOTE AND MEET WITH AN ADVENTURE.
                  THE incident which I shall now relate leads me to speak of a spot connected
                     with a very great writer. I mean Charlecote, the residence of the Lucy family,
                     near Cecil Court,—Charlecote, where Will Shakspeare was seized by Sir Thomas
                     Lucy for trespassing on his park and shooting deer.
                  As this adventure has been discredited of late days by some persons, I will
                     stop here in my narrative to briefly record the actual truth. 'Twas vouched for
                     to my father by no less a personage than Will Shakspeare himself. And this is
                     the story told by the great play-writer, laughing over his wine at Cecil Court.
                     The knight's gamekeeper, a huge, black-bearded individual, had really seized
                     him, he said, whilst trespassing one moonlight night on Charlecote Park to
                     shoot the deer. 'Twas in company with some roystering young blades of
                     Stratford, and the affair was a mad frolic; but it speedily became serious.
                     Shakspeare shot and killed a stag with his old matchlock, and alarmed the
                     gamekeeper. At his approach the party fled; but Shakspeare's foot caught in a
                     root, and he fell. Thereupon the gamekeeper darted upon him, pinioned his arms
                     without difficulty, as he was a mere boy and powerless in his opponent's hands;
                     and, after a night's imprisonment in the gamekeeper's lodge, he was conducted
                     before Sir Thomas Lucy, who had been notified of the fearful outrage upon his
                     rights of landed proprietor. My father described the account given him by
                     Shakspeare as excellently entertaining. The irate knight, Sir Thomas Lucy, he
                     said, sat in awful state in his great hall at Charlecote, and listened in stern
                     silence to the animated harangue of his gamekeeper. There was no doubt of the
                     youth's guilt: he had been caught in the act, and the dead deer lay on the
                     floor. The knight gazed on the beardless culprit, burst forth at length into an
                     address full of rage, and swore that but for the respectability of his father,
                     John Shakspeare, he would put him in the stocks. He was finally discharged, the
                     knight declaring his intention of proceeding regularly against him for
                     trespass. And, not liking the aspect of affairs, Shakspeare determined to go
                     with one of his wild companions to London. He did so, began writing for the
                     stage, acquired great fame, and when afterwards he met Sir Thomas, now a
                     gray-haired man, said, laughing,—
                  "See, Sir Thomas! 'tis your fault that an excellent poacher has become but a
                     poor writer of plays!"
                  
                  Such had been the incident which attached an historic interest to a plain old
                     manor-house. 'Tis the fate of places and personages connected with great men to
                     become famous. Doubtless, outside of Warwickshire no one had ever heard of
                     Charlecote had not a scapegrace shot deer there and afterwards written
                        King Lear and Hamlet.
                  
                  Well, to come back now to myself and my own adventure at Charlecote.
                  Lady Lucy, the wife of Sir Thomas, son of the old knight, was my firm friend;
                     and one of the first houses I visited, as soon as I rode out for exercise, was
                     Charlecote. It was a beautiful day of summer when I entered the great park and
                     walked my horse slowly up the long avenue of century elms and oaks. The old
                     park was exquisite, and quite charmed the eye. The Avon makes a bend there, and
                     runs through the grounds, sweeping around the base of a grassy hill. Some
                     stately swans were sailing majestically upon the surface of the stream, deer
                     were seen stealing away through, the vistas in the trees, and the rooks were
                     cawing dreamily in the summits of some great elms, where they had built their
                     nests, year after year, for more than a century, 'twas said.
                  I approached the old mansion,—which was of the Elizabethan style, with stone
                     groins and shafts, lofty casements, and armorial bearings cut over the
                     gate,—entered the little court-yard, where beds of brilliant flowers delighted
                     the eye, and, giving my horse to a groom, entered the great hall, with its rows
                     of family portraits in stiff ruffs and powder, and thence to Lady Lucy's
                     drawing-room, where I was received most graciously.
                  Sure, naught on earth is more charming than the sympathy of woman. Lady Lucy
                     smiled with an exquisite sweetness as she greeted the poor pale soldier,
                     pressed my hand with affectionate warmth, and an hour passed, full of sunshine
                     and sympathy.
                  At last I rose to go, and had taken my hat and gloves, when the door, which
                     stood ajar, was thrust open by some one, and I saw a child standing on the
                     threshold and looking in furtively. It was a little beauty,—a girl with rosy
                     cheeks, bright eyes, and profuse brown curls, about two years of age, and full
                     of health and joy.
                  I was about to ask the name of this child, for Lady Lucy had none, when her
                     ladyship rose hastily, exclaiming,—
                  "Run away, my child! You must not——"
                  The caution came too late. The little girl ran to the lady, caught a fold of
                     her dress, looked furtively at me for a moment, then gradually approached me,
                     grasped with her tiny hand the feather trailing from my hat, and, raising her
                     brilliant brown eyes to my face, said, in baby patois,—
                  "What dat is?"
                  "It is a feather, my child," I said, smiling. "And now, can you tell me your
                     name?"
                  Instead of doing so, the little one continued to regard with the deepest
                     interest the plume depending from my beaver.
                  "Your ladyship has a charming little relative there," I said, smiling; "but do
                     you know I have not yet had the honor of an introduction? A sweeter face I
                     never saw, I think, with its bright eyes and curls."
                  Before Lady Lucy could reply, the little maiden wheeled, and ran to and fro, singing. The song
                     seemed suggested by the word "curls," which I had used: it was a baby lyric,
                     delivered with baby pronunciation, and was word for word what follows: 
                        
                           "There was a little durl [girl],
                           And she had a little turl [curl]
                           Wight in de middle of her for'wid;
                           
                           When she was good,
                           She was vewy, vewy good,
                           And when she was bad she was ho'wid!"
                        
                     
                  
                  "There, there, my child! the servants have taught you these foolish songs,"
                     said Lady Lucy; "that is enough! Run away now!"
                  "Not before I know the name of my little friend," I said, puzzled by Lady
                     Lucy's persistent avoidance of that point; and, smoothing the child's curls, I
                     asked, smiling,—
                  "What is your name, little one?"
                  "Henwietta Anne."
                  The name struck me suddenly. It was that of the queen's child born at Exeter. I
                     looked quickly at Lady Lucy.
                  "Do not ask me anything!" she exclaimed. "You are a friend of the good cause—I
                     rely upon you; but this is not my secret: not even to you may I——"
                  "You may venture to tell Mr. Cecil our secret, Lady Lucy," came in low tones
                     from without the door: "he has seen the princess before,—soon after her birth,
                     at Exeter."
                  And Frances Villiers, mild, calm, queenly, with her air of unmoved sweetness,
                     glided into the room and saluted me.
               
               
                  X. THE FLIGHT FROM CHARLECOTE.
                  THIS unexpected encounter with Frances Villiers astonished me beyond words; but
                     the young lady soon explained all, and I shall sum up her explanation in a few
                     sentences.
                  The king, when informed of Lord Essex's advance upon Exeter to seize the queen,
                     had hastened by forced marches to relieve the place. This he had effected.
                     Essex retired before him, and the king, entering the city, embraced at Bedford
                     House the poor child, to whom he gave the name Henrietta Anne, as the queen
                     desired. Compelled then to take the field again, he left the babe at Exeter, in
                     charge of Lady Morton and Frances Villiers; and there the child remained until
                     the decisive battle of Naseby. Thereafter she was not safe; and, as Lady Morton
                     was very ill, Frances Villiers took entire charge of the child, flying first to
                     the house of one friend of the royal cause, then to another. Thus, in course of
                     time, she took refuge at Charlecote,—the Lucy family being relatives of the
                     Villiers and warm friends of the king. Here the young lady and child had now
                     been for many months; but the time had come when they would be compelled to
                     seek a more secure hiding-place. All this Frances Villiers related in her calm,
                     composed voice, which made the strange romance of the whole affair seem the most commonplace series of
                     events in the world.
                  "And what, if I may ask, is your intention now, Miss Villiers?" I said.
                  "To leave Charlecote, and, if possible, England, sir. This neighborhood is not
                     safe. There is a Sir Jervas Ireton in the vicinity, who has gained information,
                     'tis said, of the presence of the princess. He will aim therefore, as he is a
                     flaming zealot, to seize the child and deliver her up to parliament; and to
                     avoid this we must resume our wanderings."
                  She spoke in her sweet, calm accents, looking tenderly at the child. Something
                     exquisite appeared in her eyes:—was it the sacred maternal instinct? I think
                     that is in all women.
                  "But whither will you go?" I said.
                  "I have nearly resolved—I may say quite resolved—to try to take the princess
                     from the country," she replied.
                  "But you will be arrested on the way."
                  "Not if a good disguise be assumed, sir. I think I might elude the king's
                     enemies."
                  "A disguise! what?"
                  "That of a beggar-woman and child."
                  The plan seemed wild and impracticable. How could this delicate young lady
                     trudge through half England on foot, with a child nearly two years old toddling
                     on beside her or borne on her back? But as Miss Villiers spoke further, and
                     developed her scheme,—as, with cheeks glowing now with love and devotion, she
                     unfolded her resolve,—it began to assume a new shape; I gradually passed to her
                     side; and, despite the opposition of Lady Lucy, it was decided, before our
                     interview terminated, that the romantic attempt should be made, and that
                        I should accompany Miss Villiers.
                  
                  Against that, I must do her the justice to say, the young lady fought hard.
                     Wholly destitute of primness and prudery, she was yet a person who never forgot
                     the strictest rules of propriety; and it was long before I could prevail upon
                     her to consent to my companionship. At last, however, she yielded,—Lady Lucy
                     insisting that if the attempt was made I must accompany them; and
                     it was determined that we should set out, as soon as night had fallen, on the
                     next evening.
                  I returned to Cecil Court to arrange my disguise and prepare for my journey. I
                     was all excitement and agitation. Thus fate had once more thrown me with the
                     woman whom I loved more than I loved my own life. I was to accompany her as
                     companion, friend, and defender, if necessary, on a long and perilous journey,
                     which would throw me into hourly contact with her. I was to look into her eyes,
                     hear the accents of her voice, feel the pressure of her hand, and throughout
                     all I was to conduct myself as a friend, and only as a friend. For I recalled
                     my promise to poor Harry, that I would never without his permission utter a
                     word of love to Frances Villiers. He was dead: that permission could never be
                     accorded: my best course, therefore, was to remain away from temptation;—and
                     here I was to be thrown, every hour, day and night, for days, weeks, it might
                     be months, with the woman whom I loved with my whole soul, between whom and
                     myself rose nevertheless that impassable barrier, my solemn promise given to
                     the dead!
                  
                  Returning to Cecil Court, in a mood of greater agitation than I had believed
                     possible, I set about procuring my disguise for the journey. This was easily
                     effected: the cast-off livery of a serving-man supplied me with just what I
                     required; and then, shutting myself up with my father in the library, I
                     revealed my intent.
                  He warmly commended the design,—instead of opposing it, as I had feared. Miss
                     Villiers, he said, was a true heroine, and the project was not so wild as it
                     seemed. He would provide me with gold for the journey, and pray for my welfare.
                     But we must hurry: that man Ireton was coming, and would nose out
                     something.
                  All things having thus been arranged, I retired, not to sleep, however, but to
                     lie awake and think of Frances Villiers. The morning came, and the day dragged
                     on. The sun slowly declined, and, retiring to my chamber, I assumed my
                     disguise. I descended then, embraced Cicely, who started back in affright as I
                     entered, pressed my father's hand, and was just issuing forth, when Sir Jervas
                     Ireton was seen galloping rapidly up the avenue.
                  No time was to be lost; and I ignominiously fled out of the back door. My horse
                     had just been saddled, and was about to be brought. I leaped upon him, put spur
                     to his side, and went at full speed across the fields, leaping fences and
                     ditches, towards Charlecote.
                  Had I been seen? I could not answer that question. I either saw or fancied that
                     I saw some troopers who rode in the suite of Sir Jervas Ireton hastily
                     separate, gesticulating and pointing me out. This might have been fancy,
                     however. Under any circumstances, no time was to be lost. I went on at full
                     speed, stopped for nothing in the way, and, reaching the, grounds around
                     Charlecote, galloped up the long avenue to the house.
                  Lady Lucy met me at the door, and I hastily informed her of the danger. I had
                     probably been perceived. If Ireton had knowledge of the presence of the
                     princess at Charlecote, he would have intelligence enough to suspect that I had
                     gone to give warning of the danger. He would thus press forward at once. No
                     time was to be lost. Where was Miss Villiers?
                  The young lady replied to the question in person. I could scarce realize that
                     it was the elegant and highborn maid of honor who now stood before me in the
                     dingy and tattered garb of a beggar-woman. The disguise was perfect. The
                     slender figure of the young girl was a shapeless bundle of rags; her beautiful
                     hair had been remorselessly shorn; a huge hood covered her head and scarce
                     allowed her face to be seen; and the fair skin had been pitilessly stained with
                     some dye which brought it to resemble the weather-beaten complexion of a
                     beggar-woman.
                  The princess had been metamorphosed in a manner equally perfect. The little
                     figure was bundled up in an old gown and tattered cloak. On the delicate feet
                     were coarse shoes. It was not an aristocratic young dame and the daughter of a
                     king I saw before me, but a mendicant and child in the last stage of
                     poverty.
                  "Your disguise is excellent, Miss Villiers," I said, hurriedly; "but we have no
                     time now for compliments. Sir Jervas Ireton is coming!"
                  
                  And I related, in brief words, my escape from Cecil Court. I was still
                     speaking, when Lady Lucy uttered an exclamation. I looked through the window,
                     and saw the burly personage thundering straight up the avenue, followed by his
                     men.
                  "We must separate," I said, "and endeavor to leave the house instantly."
                  Miss Villiers inclined her head. Save a slight color in her proud cheeks, there
                     was no indication of emotion.
                  "Endeavor to leave by the side court," I said, hastily. "I will go out by the
                     rear gate and join you on the road to Stafford, where the three elms crown the
                     hill."
                  The rendezvous was a well-known spot, and I knew Miss Villiers could not
                     mistake it. She disappeared, with the princess, towards a side door; and,
                     running to the rear of the house, I reached my horse, which stood there, just
                     as a trooper galloped around and approached.
                  The incident was far from unacceptable. It was gall and wormwood to me to skulk
                     away thus before the enemy of my family. I went up to the trooper, who was an
                     open-mouthed clodhopper, seized his bridle, and, before he could realize my
                     design, caught him by the throat and dragged him from the saddle.
                  As I did so, he woke as it were from his astonishment, and uttered a loud
                     shout. I picked up his musquetoon, which had fallen near him, dealt him a blow
                     on the head, which silenced him, and, leaping on my horse, gained the dense
                     foliage of the wood.
                  Sir Jervas Ireton appeared suddenly, spurring furiously ously towards the
                     fallen trooper. As he passed around the house, another spectacle made my heart
                     beat fast. I saw Frances Villiers, in her disguise of a beggar-woman, with the
                     princess bundled up in a ragged cloak on her back, quietly pass out of the
                     house by the side door, take a path which led to the wood, and gain its shelter
                     entirely unmolested.
                  Her enemies had either not seen her, or did not suspect for an instant that
                     their prey was thus escaping them. Whatever the explanation may have been, the
                     young girl with her precious burden had passed safely through the very midst of
                     her enemies. Without further apprehension, I leaped a low place in the park
                     wall, turned my horse loose, knowing that the intelligent animal would find his
                     way back to Cecil Court, and rapidly ran in the direction taken by Miss
                     Villiers.
                  In ten minutes I had joined her. I assisted her over the wall; we hastened on
                     by a path which I knew perfectly well. Darkness quickly descended, and, taking
                     the young lady's hand, I led her on until we gained a country road.
                  "Yonder is the north star, Miss Villiers," I said, "and this is the road to
                     Campden. Give me the princess."
                  I took the child in my arms and walked on steadily.
                  "Every step we take now brings us nearer to France!"
               
               
                  
                  XI. ON THE HIGHWAY.
                  I LOOK back on that journey with Frances Villiers and the little princess to
                     the sea-coast as the most remarkable passage in a life filled with singular
                     adventures.
                  Trudging along on foot, or securing places in some chance conveyance,—the cart
                     of a countryman going to market, or other humble vehicle,—we went upon our way,
                     the young lady, the princess, and myself, and thus passed safely through the
                     torn and distracted realm until we were in the southern shires and neared the
                     Channel. The land was all laid waste, and an inexpressible disquiet and unrest
                     filled the face of every one. War had come to overthrow the old peace and
                     happiness of merry England. On all sides dismantled houses, torn-down fences,
                     and deserted villages marked the presence of that cruelest of all demons, the
                     demon of Civil War.
                  The war was virtually over; but the land had not settled to rest again, for the
                     triumphant side had divided into two factions, the Presbyterians and the stern
                     Independents, the latter led by Cromwell now; and 'twas a question whether a
                     new struggle, more violent than the first, would not ensue. From this general
                     sketch, however, which might lead me into political and historical
                     disquisitions, for which I have no fancy, I pass to my personal adventures.
                  I have said 'twas a strange passage in my life, that journey; and my relations
                     with Frances Villiers made it stranger still. A lover who had sworn to utter no
                     word of love, but whose passion was no secret from its object, was journeying
                     with the one dearest to him; and the singular character of that journey threw
                     him incessantly with his companion. Over long miles of heath, through great
                     woods, across desolate moors, by day and by night, we traveled in company; and
                     all this time it was only as friend to friend that we addressed each other. The
                     child walked sometimes, but was generally carried upon my back or in my arms.
                     This I insisted upon; though more than once Frances Villiers compelled me to
                     yield her charge to her, and the delicate and aristocratic girl would, for
                     hours, against my protest, bear the child in a bundle upon her own
                     shoulders.
                  More than once we were suspiciously gazed at by chance wayfarers wearing the
                     colors of the parliament; and twice roving parties peered into wagons wherein
                     we rode, but without finding good reason to stop us. 'Twas in this latter
                     manner that much of the way was traversed. The poor and humble proved
                     themselves our best friends; and often, as we went on slowly, we heard, from
                     some yeoman in a smock-frock, earnest wishes expressed for the happiness of the
                     king, now routed and a fugitive. The only danger was from the princess, who had
                     been dressed as a boy and in rags,—to, her huge disgust,—and called Pierre.
                     When asked her name by these poor people, she babbled the word
                        princess, however, and we were often in great trepidation.
                  
                  "That is the manner in which he pronounces his name,—Pierre," the young lady
                     would say; and an opportune diversion of the conversation would do away with
                     further danger.
                  At last we reached the sea-coast, and, leaving the young lady and child in a
                     fisherman's hut, I went to reconnoitre, and discover, if possible, the means of
                     crossing the Channel. The result was extremely discouraging. The coast was
                     thoroughly guarded, and no vessel of any description could pass to France
                     without being stopped. I returned with this discouraging information to Miss
                     Villiers: we took counsel together, and finally came to the resolution of
                     boldly proceeding to Dover and taking the packet which ran at stated periods
                     across the Channel.
                  We proceeded, therefore, along the coast, reached Dover, and luckily found the
                     packet just about to set sail.
                  "Come," I said, in a low tone, as we mingled in the crowd, "we will go boldly
                     on board, and I will undertake to answer all questions."
                  We had just reached the deck, when the commander gave the order to take in the
                     plank leading to the jetty.
                  "Have all the passports been examined?"
                  I shrank back with the young lady and child into a corner.
                  "Ay, ay, sir," was the reply of the person addressed, a rough-looking personage
                     in a broad hat.
                  The next moment the plank was drawn on board, the cable was unslung from the
                     wharf, and the packet moved under full sail out into the Channel, heading
                     towards France.
                  I was still shrinking low, with my companion, in my corner, when the man in the
                     broad hat passed near me, and said, without turning his head,—
                  "I was groom in the Guards once, sir. I know you, but am not the man to betray
                     you. Many a friend of the good cause is leaving the country. Go down in the aft
                     cabin, and mix with the crowd."
                  I hastened to follow this friendly advice, and we were soon lost in the mass.
                     On the same evening we were on French soil, and set forward, without stopping,
                     for Paris.
                  Three days afterwards, Queen Henrietta Maria, in an apartment of the Louvre,
                     was holding in her arms the poor child whom she had last seen at Exeter,
                     sob-tying, and covering her with kisses.
                  Such was that singular adventure. I look back to it now, when my hair grows
                     gray, with more pleasure and satisfaction than to all else I had part in during
                     the great English civil war.
               
               
                  XII. MY PARTING WITH FRANCES VILLIERS.
                  I REMAINED in France until the ensuing spring, performing the duties of private
                     secretary to her majesty.
                  Then there came to me a great longing to return to England. I was ill at ease
                     in the Louvre. The splendid French court jarred a discord upon my feelings. I longed to go back to my home-land,
                     and to leave Frances Villiers.
                  Does that last statement appear strange? 'Tis true, nevertheless. To be near
                     her was torture; alternate torpor and fever possessed me. Loving a woman with
                     my whole soul, and yet bound to the dead by a solemn promise never to speak, I
                     found my heart agitated and torn, my very health giving way.
                  The queen came to my relief. She summoned me to her private apartments one
                     morning, and, extending towards me a packet, said, with deep sadness,—
                  "I wish you to convey this to his majesty, Mr. Cecil."
                  I bowed low and took the letter.
                  "He is at Holmby House, in Northamptonshire," said the queen. "Escaping from
                     Oxford, to take refuge with those people at Newcastle, he has been sold by
                     them,—sold, for the sum of four hundred thousand pounds! And—oh!—it is
                     infamous!—it is infamous!"
                  And the queen burst into a passion of tears.
                  "Bear with me," she faltered, at length, through tears and sobs. "I am only a
                     poor woman! I will try to be calm."
                  And, passing a handkerchief across her eyes, she added, more composedly,—
                  "The parliament people hold him a prisoner, not knowing what to do with him.
                     The Presbyterians and odious Independents differ. I would have him decide the
                     matter by leaving the country and taking refuge in France. Bear him this
                     letter, Mr. Cecil: it contains my prayer that he will make the attempt. Do not
                     let it fall into the enemy's hands; and may Heaven prosper you in your
                     journey!"
                  She covered her face with her hand, and attempted to speak again, but no words
                     came; and I retired respectfully from the apartment, leaving her majesty
                     bending over the little princess Henrietta and weeping.
                  On the same night I had assumed my disguise and was on the road to England. A
                     last interview with Frances Villiers had gone near to unman me. At the moment
                     of parting, when 'twas doubtful if we should ever meet again, she permitted her
                     feelings to show themselves; and 'twas this which made my heart sink. Let me
                     pass briefly over this, and say simply that something had at last touched her.
                     Was it that long journey we had made together, sharing a common danger, and
                     ever beside each other? Was it the womanly heart yearning at last, now when the
                     queen was in safety, for some refuge for itself? I know not: I can only say
                     that, as I held her hand at parting, the beautiful eyes dwelt upon my face for
                     an instant with an expression which I could not misunderstand, and her voice
                     died away in a sob.
                  "Good-by," she murmured, smiling through her tears, and gazing at me with
                     blushes in her cheeks. "We may never meet again; but I pray God to bless you
                     and watch over you!"
                  A strange, delicious thrill passed through my heart; my face flushed. I bent
                     down and pressed my burning lips to her hand. Before I could speak,—Heaven be
                     thanked!—she had left the apartment; and as she disappeared I heard a low
                     sob.
               
            
            
               
               BOOK V.
               
                  I. ON THE BRIDGE NEAR HOLMBY HOUSE.
                  I MADE my way in safety across the Channel, and reached the vicinity of Holmby
                     House in Northamptonshire, where the king was kept close prisoner by the
                     parliament.
                  I could see him only by stratagem; and to effect my errand I saw no means but
                     to watch for the king when he was out on one of his riding-excursions. An
                     honest woodman, a friend of the royal cause, who had given me refuge in his hut
                     not far from Holmby House, informed me of the king's habit; and for some days I
                     watched for the opportunity of delivering the queen's missive.
                  At last it came. My friend the woodman went to Holmby House one morning,—the
                     great edifice was visible through the forest,—and returned with the
                     information, derived from the retainers of the palace, that his majesty would
                     ride out that morning and pass over the road near the hut.
                  "Take your stand at the little bridge yonder, master ter," said the woodman,
                     "and when his majesty passes, go up to him as if you wished to be touched for
                     the king's evil."
                  "Excellent!" I exclaimed. And in truth the advice was admirable. The belief
                     that the royal touch cured scrofula was then widely prevalent: numbers flocked
                     to be cured wherever his majesty passed; and I could thus approach the king,
                     'twas to be hoped, without exciting suspicion.
                  I hastened to take my stand on the rustic bridge over which the high-road
                     passed; and I had not waited ten minutes when the king appeared on horseback,
                     escorted by half a dozen troopers. His face was pale, and he had changed
                     greatly. All the harsh and corroding emotions which try the human soul seemed
                     to have shaken his strength: the plowshare had furrowed his brow deeply.
                  As he reached the bridge, his eye fell upon my face, and I saw that he
                     recognized me under my disguise. He checked his horse.
                  "You wish to speak to me, I think, my good man," he said.
                  "Yes, your majesty,—to pray that you will touch me for the king's evil."
                  I approached, and, concealing the queen's letter in my sleeve, extended my
                     hand, as though to invite the royal touch. The king did likewise; but suddenly
                     a loud voice cried,—
                  "Hold! What is that?"
                  I turned and saw the fierce eyes of the leader of the troop fixed upon the
                     letter. He was already spurring forward; but in another moment it was torn into
                        a hundred pieces, and the
                     fragments floating on the stream beneath.
                  I was seized, and violently hustled by the troopers.
                  "What letter was that?" cried the commander of the squad.
                  "A trifle," I replied, calmly. "Beyond that I shall say nothing."
                  "We shall see!" was the threatening response; and, ordering one of the troopers
                     to take me behind him, the officer forced the king to turn back. Half an hour
                     afterwards the whole party were back at Holmby House.
                  I was a prisoner, and under circumstances which rendered my fate rather
                     menacing; but a new incident speedily diverted attention from my humble self.
                     The king had scarcely entered Holmby House, and had not taken off his gloves,
                     when the clatter of hoofs was heard in the park; a heavy detachment of dragoons
                     approached at a gallop, and in the commander of the new-comers, who wore the
                     distinctive uniform of the Cromwellian Independents, I recognized no less a
                     personage than the tailor Joyce, who had measured me for my Guardsman's coat in
                     Rosemary Lane when I first went up from Cecil Court to London.
               
               
                  II. TAILOR TURNED SOLDIER.
                  THERE was no mistaking the face or figure of this singular person who thus came
                     at a critical moment to decide the fate of the king. I recognized at a glance
                     the important look, the nose in the air, the short figure, and the
                     free-and-easy air of the ex-tailor of London, who had dropped his civil garb
                     for the uniform of a cornet in the Cromwellian Independents.
                  Joyce rode straight up to the great portal, dismounted, and, walking on the
                     points of his feet to increase his stature, head raised and nose elevated as
                     before, gave a thundering knock.
                  "Your pleasure?" said the leader of the troop which had escorted the king,
                     appearing at the door and confronting Joyce.
                  "To see Charles Stuart, formerly King of England," was the reply in a
                     consequential voice.
                  "From whom do you come?"
                  "Where is Charles Stuart?"
                  "He is not at leisure to see you."
                  Joyce turned to his men.
                  "Attention!" he said. "Get ready to fire through this door!"
                  "Are you mad?" cried the officer.
                  Joyce quietly gave an order to his men, and they leveled their musquetoons at
                     the door.
                  
                  "Hold!" said the officer. "His majesty shall himself decide whether he will
                     grant you an interview."
                  The officer closed the door as he spoke, and ascended to the apartment occupied
                     by the king. Joyce had quietly walked up behind him, and entered the room at
                     the same moment. In his hand was a cocked pistol.
                  "It is hard to obtain audience, it seems, in this house," he said,
                     consequentially.
                  The king was half indignant, half amused, at sight of this unceremonious
                     personage.
                  "Who are you?" he said.
                  "It is enough, sir, that you must come with me," was the reply.
                  "Whither?"
                  "To the army."
                  "The army! By what warrant?"
                  Joyce pointed through the window to his men, drawn up, armed, and ready.
                  "There is my warrant," he said.
                  The king smiled, and seemed to yield to the comedy of the occasion.
                  "Your warrant is writ in fair characters, and legible without spelling," he
                     said. "But here are the worshipful commissioners of parliament, sir. Be
                     pleased, gentlemen, to decide this affair, as I am not in a condition to make
                     my authority respected."
                  The grave commissioners entered as the king spoke, and the foremost said to
                     Joyce, coldly,—
                  "Have you orders from parliament to carry away the king?"
                  "No," said Joyce.
                  "From the general?"
                  "No."
                  "By what authority, then, do you come?"
                  "By my own authority."
                  The commissioners frowned.
                  "We will write to the parliament to know their pleasure," said the leading
                     commissioner.
                  Joyce turned to the king.
                  "You will prepare to go with me immediately, sir," he said.
                  "We protest against this outrage!" came from the commissioner.
                  "So be it; and you can write to parliament. Meanwhile, the king must go with
                     me."
                  And, turning to the officer, he said,—
                  "If the king has a coach, order it. I will set out in half an hour."
                  Turning his back, the important functionary thereupon went out of the room and
                     down-stairs, where he mounted again and drew up his men in order of battle.
                  A stormy discussion followed; but there was no means of resisting. The guard
                     stationed at Holmby House to watch the king were seen laughing and talking with
                     Joyce's men, their army comrades. The commissioners yielded, the king entered
                     his coach, and the vehicle, followed by the troop led by Joyce, rapidly rolled
                     away. I had been made prisoner anew by the redoubtable ex-tailor. Mounted on
                     horseback, I trotted along scarcely observed in the party. Two days' journey
                     brought us to Cambridge, and thence—the people crowding along the route to be
                     touched by his majesty for the king's evil—the captive was conducted to Hampton
                     Court.
                  
                  Strange fate of the fallen monarch, to return thus to the scene of his
                     happiness and power! At Hampton Court he had spent the serenest hours of his
                     life. Here he had basked in the smiles of his beautiful queen and shared the
                     gambols of his innocent children; here he had reigned a king, only to return to
                     the place a poor prisoner, disarmed and doomed to destruction!
               
               
                  III. THE ESCAPE FROM HAMPTON COURT.
                  IN narrating the adventures of his majesty from this time to the end of his
                     career,—adventures with which I was more or less connected, and in which I may
                     be said to have borne a not unimportant part,—I shall occupy as little space as
                     possible, indulge in few notices of public events, and mention only the salient
                     incidents leading by a sort of fatality as 'twere to the window at Whitehall. I
                     would fain pass over all. But that is impossible. At least I shall narrate
                     rapidly.
                  Joyce, the ex-tailor, was thus far friendly to the king, that, without asking
                     any one's authority, he permitted me to remain at Hampton Court and share his
                     majesty's imprisonment, under the guise of private attendant or secretary.
                  From that moment I resolved to effect the king's escape, if possible. I
                     ventured upon every opportunity to urge his majesty to attempt it, declaring to
                     him my conviction that otherwise his life was in danger. His choice lay between
                     flying to France, where he would regain his beloved queen and find a place of
                     safety, or remaining to undergo all that the malice of his bitter enemies might
                     devise.
                  For months he resisted my appeals, which I scrupled not to make in season and
                     out of season. Finally, one day, after a stormy and exciting interview with a
                     commission from parliament, he said to me,—
                  "Your advice is good, Mr. Cecil. This day's scene has decided me to leave
                     Hampton Court, if possible. Now let us try and devise some means."
                  These words filled me with joy. I believed—with what truth let events which
                     followed determine—that the king's life was in danger. I said, therefore, with
                     animation,—
                  "Your majesty shall have it in your power to leave Hampton Court
                     secretly,—to-morrow night, if you desire. Leave the arrangement of all to
                     me."
                  "You have a plan?"
                  "I have had it for months, your majesty."
                  "And afterwards?"
                  "France," I said.
                  The king knit his brows.
                  "The King of England a wretched fugitive!" he muttered.
                  "Or his queen a widow and his children fatherless," I said, briefly.
                  He looked at me with deep sadness, and said,—
                  "Would that be so great a calamity to them, friend? All connected with me is
                     unfortunate. But go: do what you will."
                  
                  This was all I wanted. I saluted profoundly, left the apartment, sauntered past
                     the guard out into the park, where the gentlemen of the king's suite were
                     permitted to walk, and, finding myself out of sight of the sentry, hastened
                     down to the bank of the river. Here I stopped and waved my hat. Ten minutes
                     afterwards a boat detached itself from the opposite bank, and lazily crossed,
                     propelled by the paddle of a waterman. The boat reached me. I entered, and was
                     paddled across. Five minutes after reaching the opposite bank I was mounted
                     upon a superb horse, which had stood bridled and saddled in a shed attached to
                     the waterman's hut, and was going at full speed towards the south.
                  Half an hour's ride brought me to the manor-house of Colonel Edward Cooke,—the
                     gentleman with the fine stud of horses, to whom the queen had written when her
                     children were threatened at Oatlands.
                  Colonel Cooke was a warm loyalist, and his swift horses were needed then to
                     bear the royal children, in the event of danger, from the country. They were
                     now to be put in requisition to effect the escape of the king.
                  I had long before arranged everything with Colonel Cooke. It was his horse I
                     bestrode. And I now saw him advance quickly as I galloped up the avenue leading
                     to his mansion.
                  "What intelligence, Mr. Cecil?" exclaimed Colonel Cooke, who was a tall and
                     stately old cavalier, with a heavy mustache and royale, shaggy eyebrows half
                     concealing a pair of dark piercing eyes, and the erect bearing of the thorough
                        militaire. "What intelligence ligence, I
                     pray you? Has his majesty consented to go with us?"
                  "He has consented," I replied, with ardent feeling. And, leaping from my horse,
                     I entered, and informed Colonel Cooke of my interview with the king.
                  "Faith! his majesty decides in time, and just in time," was the colonel's
                     comment. In his glowing cheeks I read a satisfaction which, cool and reserved
                     as he was, the old soldier could not conceal. He went and poured out two
                     flagons of wine.
                  "To our success!" he said. "And now for our arrangements, Mr. Cecil. I and my
                     friends are ready. His majesty shall bestride an animal fit for a king. The
                     jades they ride yonder at Hampton Court will have no showing! Come! Now for
                     every arrangement!"
                  The plan was speedily agreed upon. Colonel Cooke, with a party of friends, was
                     to be at the waterman's hut the next evening at sunset, with horses saddled and
                     ready, and two led horses for the king and myself. His majesty would then steal
                     forth to enjoy the evening air. The guard over him had been relaxed recently,
                     and this would not be hazardous. The river's bank would be reached, the stream
                     crossed in the boat, then to horse, and, encircled by friends, he would fly to
                     France.
                  I left Colonel Cooke with a close grasp of the hand, reached the river, was
                     paddled over, and regained Hampton Court without having excited the least
                     suspicion. Ten minutes afterwards I was alone with his majesty, and told him of
                     the plan for his escape.
                  "So be it," he said, calmly. "Whither I will bend my course afterwards may be left to the future
                     to decide."
                  I saw that the king could not yet bring himself to the resolution to take
                     refuge in France; but to this I thought he must surely be driven, I therefore
                     lost no time in combating his indecision, proceeded to prepare for the flight,
                     and finally lay down with a beating heart, impatient for the morrow.
                  That morrow dawned, dragged on,—never was day so sluggish!—but finally evening
                     came, and the king descended to the hall, of the palace, I following him.
                  As he attempted to issue forth, the man on guard held his musquetoon across the
                     doorway.
                  "You cannot pass," he said, roughly,—for he was one of the Independents.
                  "You will surely suffer me to walk in the park for the benefit of my
                     health?"
                  "No!"
                  The sound of feet tramping towards us was heard, and the guard saluted. It was
                     a sergeant, with a new sentinel.
                  "Sergeant," I said, "this man on guard here bars the way against his majesty,
                     who wishes to walk for exercise in the park."
                  "He obeys his orders," was the consequential reply of the sergeant, who was
                     about five feet in height.
                  "He was right, then, sergeant," I said, saluting; "but you, a superior officer,
                     are fortunately here now. Has his majesty your permission to walk for half an
                     hour beneath the trees?"
                  I had conquered my man. "Superior officer" and "permission" effected the
                     victory.
                  "Hum! Well," said the highly-flattered small personage, "if only for half an
                     hour. Orders are strict; but I will send an escort to keep you in sight.
                     Pass!"
                  A moment afterwards the king and myself were on the lawn, the man just relieved
                     from guard following us at a distance and lowering at us.
                  Al1 depended now upon giving the signal without being discovered. I succeeded
                     in doing so by gliding behind a clump of bushes oh the bank of the stream. I
                     saw the boat put off at the signal and slowly paddle across, and the king
                     sauntered, at a sign from me, towards a spot agreed upon. Behind came the
                     guard: it was impossible to escape him.
                  "Enter the boat, your majesty," I said, hurriedly, "and leave me to deal with
                     this man."
                  The king shook his head. "I will not desert you, friend. Come! He can fire but
                     once upon us, and I fear not bullets."
                  Naught I could say moved the king. Thus no course remained but to risk
                     everything. We were now at the bank; the boat touched it. The king leaped on
                     board, dragging me after him, and the boat darted into the stream again.
                  The sentinel uttered a tremendous imprecation, and, taking deliberate aim,
                     fired at the king. The ball only clipped a feather from his hat, and there was
                     no more danger now,—from the sentinel at least. The shot would give the alarm,
                     however,—the troops would soon hasten towards the bank.
                  We were not mistaken. The boat had not reached the opposite shore when the
                     grassy banks in Hampton Court suddenly swarmed with soldiers. Loud cries to halt rose from the crowd, and a
                     volley from their musquetoons whistled around us as the boat ran aground. The
                     king's friends, headed by Colonel Cooke, hurried down the bank and bore the
                     king to shore.
                  "There is no time to lose now, your majesty," said the colonel. "Your horse is
                     ready. I beseech you hasten!"
                  The horse, a superb hunter, was led up quickly, and the colonel held the king's
                     stirrup. His majesty mounted, and all did likewise. As we did so, half a dozen
                     boats put off from the opposite shore.
                  Colonel Cooke caught the king's bridle, exclaiming,—
                  "Come, your majesty!"
                  "In an instant, sir," was the calm reply. "I would take a last farewell of my
                     palace."
                  And, reining in his horse, he sat quietly for some moments, gazing at Hampton
                     Court.
                  "'Tis very beautiful; and I was once very happy there!" I heard him murmur.
                  He remained for some moments gazing towards the stately edifice with the same
                     sad expression; then he turned his horse slowly, just as the boats full of
                     soldiery touched the bank.
                  "Come, gentlemen!" he said.
                  And, striking the spurs into his horse, he set out for the southern coast.
                     Behind him thundered the rest. The spirited horses swiftly bore their riders
                     beyond danger. King Charles I. had effected his escape from Hampton Court.
               
               
                  IV. CARISBROOKE CASTLE.
                  THE pages of my memoirs I am now about to trace will contain a brief narrative
                     of some of the saddest and most terrible events in English history. Looking
                     back now in my calm old age upon those days, I seem to see a huge black cloud
                     drooping low and full of mutterings; and truly the storm was about to burst on
                     the head of the unfortunate king.
                  Of the events which followed the escape of his majesty from Hampton Court, I
                     shall present only a rapid narrative. I have not the heart to dwell upon all
                     the details. Again my pulse throbs, and the long shadows of memory fall like a
                     pall.
                  The king and his party of cavaliers traveled at full speed all night, and at
                     daybreak were received into the house of a lady passionately attached to the
                     royal cause. It was necessary, however, to put more distance between him and
                     his enemies: the king and his attendants set out again at dawn. At last the
                     frowning battlements of Carisbrooke Castle, on the Isle of Wight, rose before
                     us, and the murmur of the sea indicated that the Channel was not far
                     distant.
                  Now arose the question what the king's next course should be. Should he leave
                     England and escape to France? He was obdurately opposed to that. The armies
                     under General Cromwell and the parliament were wellnigh at loggerheads at last; each was
                     manœuvring, it seemed, to compose matters first with his majesty; and the
                     English people had of late exhibited unmistakable indications of a desire to
                     throw overboard both army and parliament, and restore the king, taught now, it
                     was supposed, discretion by his sufferings and misfortunes.
                  "I will not go to France," the king said, reining in his horse, which seemed
                     intent on bearing him towards the coast. "That is Carisbrooke Castle, is it
                     not?"
                  "It is, your majesty," returned Colonel Cooke.
                  "The name of the commandant?"
                  "Hammond, sire."
                  "Hammond? Ah, yes! a relative of my chaplain. Go to him, colonel, take Mr.
                     Cecil with you, and demand whether he is ready to receive me as a guest, not a
                     prisoner."
                  "But, your majesty——"
                  "Go, colonel."
                  "It will endanger your majesty's safety."
                  "You need not tell him where I am. I will await your return in this wood."
                  There was nothing to do but to obey; and I went with Colonel Cooke. A short
                     ride brought us to the gateway of the great fortress, as I may call it, rather
                     than castle, and Colonel Hammond speedily made his appearance. He was a tall
                     and very stern man, with one of those secretive faces which express
                     nothing.
                  "Your pleasure, gentlemen?" he said.
                  Colonel Cooke gave him the king's message. I saw him start imperceptibly
                     almost, but in an instant this emotion disappeared.
                  "Where is his majesty?" he said, coolly.
                  "That is beside the question, sir. Will you receive and protect him?"
                  A brief pause ensued.
                  "I will go with you,—alone. I must see his majesty before I reply."
                  "Content, sir," said Colonel Cooke, after a moment's reflection. "You have only
                     to come with us, and you will be conducted to the king."
                  Ten minutes afterwards. Colonel Hammond was riding with us towards the wood in
                     which the king was concealed. I went before my two companions. As I approached
                     the king, he said,—
                  "That is Colonel Hammond, is it not?"
                  "Yes, your majesty."
                  "Has he given his written promise to receive me as his guest?"
                  My head sank. These simple words indicated the extent of the imprudence of
                     which we had been guilty.
                  "I think your majesty may depend upon him as a man of honor," I said.
                  The king shook his head. "I have lost my faith in men," he said, sadly. "I am
                     Colonel Hammond's prisoner."
                  The words drove my hand to my sword-hilt.
                  "It is my fault,—in part at least! I will kill him!" I exclaimed.
                  The king raised his hand with a gesture of royal dignity. "No: I am weary of
                     seeing blood shed in my behalf. Let there be surcease of this. Rather than
                     leave my kingdom, or be hunted like a wild beast all along the coast here, I
                     will put myself under charge of this officer, trusting that he will prove a
                     friend."
                  
                  Colonel Hammond had now reached the spot, and made the king a low salute.
                  "You are Colonel Hammond?" said the king.
                  "I am, your majesty."
                  "You command at Carisbrooke Castle?"
                  "Yes, your majesty."
                  "I will go thither with you, sir."
                  And the king advanced on horseback towards the castle, whose ponderous gates
                     soon closed behind the whole party. They were not guests, but prisoners.
                  On the same evening, Colonel Hammond dispatched a fast-riding courier to
                     London, to announce to parliament that King Charles I. was a prisoner at
                     Carisbrooke Castle.
               
               
                  V. EIKON BASILIKE.
                  SO woefully had ended the hopeful design of bearing his majesty beyond the
                     reach of danger. Once beyond the walls of Hampton Court, he had been free. He
                     might have taken refuge in the western shires, still faithful to him, and
                     perchance have once more found an army flock to his standard; or he might have
                     embarked for France, escaped the hostile cruisers, and rejoined his beloved
                     queen. All this was possible on the day of his departure from Hampton Court.
                     Now it was a dream: the prey was in the clutch of the furious huntsmen.
                  The outward signs of respect from Colonel Hammond and the garrison only added
                     to the bitterness of the king's imprisonment. A cautious game was evidently
                     going on. This human being might some day be the master again. He never
                     appeared, accordingly, upon the battlements but the sentinel saluted; Colonel
                     Hammond ever doffed his hat and inclined profoundly upon entering his majesty's
                     presence. I, in common with the other members of the king's party, was treated
                     as a guest rather than a prisoner. The future was too doubtful to render
                     harshness prudent.
                  Nevertheless, the king's health and spirits rapidly failed him. Day by day-life
                     seemed dying out from the worn frame, as hope disappeared. He grew thin and
                     gray. His face was covered with an unsightly beard. He neglected his dress,
                     grew older and sadder hour by hour, and would wander to and fro with his eyes
                     fixed upon the ground, or, sighing, would gaze towards France.
                  One day I saw him standing on the battlements, looking in the direction of the
                     French coast, and holding in his hand a half-folded paper. He turned his head,
                     and, Seeing me, motioned to me to approach.
                  "Would I had followed your advice, my friend," he said, "and sought refuge in
                     France. I could have done so, perchance. 'Tis impossible now."
                  His head sank, and he remained silent for a moment.
                  "This letter is from——"
                  His voice died away, and his lips trembled.
                  "She has begged the people in London, she writes me, to accord her permission
                     to come to me. She went only at my bidding; she would return now, like a good
                     wife, when the dark hour has come upon her husband."
                  
                  "And they have refused, your majesty?"
                  "They have refused!"
                  A deep groan issued from the king's lips. He turned his face towards France
                     again; his thin hands were clasped for a moment; and then, turning away, he
                     slowly went to his chamber.
                  When I attended him there, an hour afterwards,—for I shared with his grace the
                     Duke of Richmond the duties of groom of the chamber,—I found him writing.
                  "See," he said, raising the sheet, "I am writing my last will and testament,
                     friend. I strive herein to show, my subjects my inmost heart. In this 'Eikon
                     Basilike,' as I call it, naught is concealed."
                  He sighed, and added,—
                  "Shall I read you the words I have just written? 'I am content to be tossed,
                     weather-beaten; and shipwrecked, so that she be safe in harbor. I enjoy this
                     comfort in her safety, in the midst of my personal dangers. I can perish but
                     half if she be preserved. In her memory, and in her children, I
                     may yet survive the malice of my enemies, although they should at last be
                     satiate with my blood.'"
                  The king replaced the paper upon the table, clasped his hands and leaned them
                     upon it; and upon the hands thus clasped his forehead drooped slowly, his long
                     gray hair falling around the emaciated cheeks and concealing them.
                  In presence of this immense sorrow I could say nothing and offer no condolence.
                     There was something terrible as well as heart-rending in this royal despair;
                     and, without speaking, I turned to leave the apartment.
                  As I approached the door, I saw a man standing without and gazing at the king.
                     This was one Osborne, appointed by Colonel Hammond to attend the king.
                  As I came out, he made me a sign that I should follow him; and I did so.
               
               
                  VI. THE PLAN OF ESCAPE.
                  OSBORNE went on until he reached a retired nook, and then, stopping suddenly,
                     said, in a low tone,—
                  "You are the king's friend, I think, Mr. Cecil?"
                  "His faithful friend, I hope, sir, as I trust you are."
                  "I am," was his reply. "I was not, a month ago; but his majesty's looks haunt
                     my sleep. They are going to try and murder him. He must escape."
                  I looked at the speaker keenly.
                  "I know what you mean," he said. "You distrust me—well. But I am the king's
                     friend. I slipped a note into his glove two days since, offering to risk my
                     life to secure his escape; but he has not spoken to me. I know not if he
                     received it."
                  "Your plan?" I said.
                  "Listen, sir. There is a certain Major Rolfe in the garrison here,—a wretch
                     bent on earning blood-money. He proposed to me to entice the king to attempt an
                     escape from this place. Files and a rope-ladder were to be supplied. The king
                     was to descend from his window and escape from the castle. Then Rolfe, with
                     others, lying in wait, was to assassinate him."
                  
                  I listened with attention.
                  "And your plan, Mr. Osborne?"
                  "To conspire against the conspirators, to get the king out of the castle, and
                     cut the throats, if necessary, of Rolfe and his gang."
                  I reflected for a moment with all the power of my brain. Had Osborne the design
                     which he attributed to Rolfe, or was this man a true friend of the king?
                  "You would be ready to receive his majesty when he descended by the ladder?" I
                     said.
                  "Yes."
                  "I will be at liberty to take part?"
                  "Assuredly."
                  "To stand beside you?"
                  He looked at me with firm eyes.
                  "I understand. Yes. Stay! you are unarmed. Here is a dagger which you may
                     plunge into my heart, if you have reason to believe in my treachery."
                  I took the weapon and placed it in my breast, looking fixedly at the
                     speaker.
                  "I accept your offer," I said, "and will go immediately and apprise his
                     majesty."
                  I left Osborne, went to the king's chamber, and informed him of the plot. He
                     shook his head.
                  "It will fail," he said, "or I will end my life in a midnight brawl in this
                     corner of my kingdom. I do not wish to die thus. I would perish in public,
                     before the eyes of the whole world."
                  I combated this resolution with all my powers, and the king, enfeebled by
                     sickness and sorrow, began to waver.
                  "The one your majesty loves best in all the world awaits you yonder," I added,
                     extending my hand towards France.
                  His face flushed. "Enough! you have conquered me," he murmured. "Go. I will do
                     as you wish."
                  I hastened from the apartment, and obtained a second private interview with
                     Osborne.
                  "The king consents," I said. "And now to arrange, all!"
                  The arrangements were speedily made. Files were to be supplied me, with which I
                     would file through the iron bars of the king's window; a rope-ladder was ready,
                     procured by Osborne for the purpose. Once the obstructions were removed, his
                     majesty could descend by it, the key of a postern in the outer wall had been
                     obtained, and Charles I. would be free.
                  "Rolfe will know of but a part of the plan," Osborne said; "and we are playing
                     a dangerous game. But it must be risked. Now I will go and gain over some men
                     whom I think we may count upon. If all is ready, the attempt will be made at
                     midnight, two nights from this time."
                  With these words we parted.
                  On the second night thereafter, all was ready for the hazardous undertaking. I
                     had passed the preceding night in hard work on the iron bars, which I attacked
                     with a file dipped from time to time in grease to dull the grating sound. This
                     occupation lasted for eight hours: At the end of that time the bars hung by a
                     thread. I announced the fact to his majesty, who had fallen into a feverish
                     sleep on his couch; and, as I had managed to convey the rope-ladder of fine
                     twisted hemp to his chamber unperceived, all was ready.
                  
                  Midnight came at last. The night was dark; and this favored the dangerous
                     scheme. A chill wind whistled drearily around the battlements of the great
                     castle, and from beneath came the long dash of the waves against the base of
                     the cliffs.
                  "The moment has come, sire," I said, in a low voice. "Be firm and
                     fearless."
                  The king smiled sadly. "Feel my pulse, friend," he said, extending his hand.
                     "The Stuarts are unfortunate, but they are at least brave. This will fail; but
                     I fear nothing. Is all ready?"
                  "Yes, your majesty."
                  "Osborne and his friends are beneath?"
                  "As well as Rolfe and his party; but ours outnumber them greatly."
                  "Then all, I see, is ready. You will descend after me——"
                  "A moment, your majesty. I will remove the bars and attach the ladder; then I
                     will simply go out of that door yonder and join the party below."
                  "Join the party?"
                  "Yes, your majesty."
                  "You cannot: the sentinel."
                  "I am allowed to pass about: it is only your majesty that is guarded."
                  "But why not descend by the ladder?"
                  "I have an arrangement with Osborne, and will see that Rolfe is a party to
                     it."
                  "What arrangement?"
                  "To bury this dagger in his heart,—in the hearts of both,—if they have betrayed
                     you!"
                  The king extended his hand, as a man does to grasp that of a friend. I took the
                     hand and kissed it. Then I rapidly drew out the bars, saw that a confused group
                     awaited below, affixed the ladder, and turned for the last time to the
                     king.
                  "Your majesty is not fearful of growing dizzy?"
                  "No: my nerves are perfectly firm."
                  "The descent is considerable."
                  "It is nothing,—since France and my wife are at the foot of the ladder."
                  "Then may God guard your majesty!"
                  As I spoke, I opened the door; but suddenly I recoiled. The corridor was full
                     of armed men, at the head of whom advanced Colonel Hammond.
                  "I have come to save your majesty a dangerous essay," he said, coldly. "Your
                     plan of escape has been discovered, and Osborne is already under arrest.
                     To-morrow he will be hanged and quartered."
                  The speaker inclined stiffly.
                  "Place two men beneath the window there," he added, to a sergeant, "and a
                     regular guard, to be relieved every two hours, in this corridor. The parliament
                     will decide the rest."
               
               
                  VII. THE HOUR AT LAST.
                  THREE days afterwards,—days passed by myself as a captive in the same room with
                     the king,—Colonel Hammond made his reappearance.
                  "Your majesty will be released from further imprisonment prisonment in this apartment," he said, stiffly.
                     "I am directed to announce so much by the parliament, who will send further
                     orders. If agreeable to your majesty, you may now descend to dinner, which is
                     prepared in the great hall."
                  The king inclined coldly, and was about to decline.
                  "I pray your majesty to descend," I said. "Your health fails from
                     confinement."
                  The sad smile, now habitual with him, came to his lips.
                  "Content," he said; "but you use but feeble reasoning, friend."
                  I assisted him to make his toilet, and he descended to the great
                     banqueting-hall of the castle, where a crowd of persons had assembled, as was
                     customary then, to see the king dine.
                  The king had no sooner taken his seat than the company were startled by a
                     sudden apparition. This was a solemn, funereal, and cadaverous personage, clad
                     in black, but wearing a military belt and scarf, who stalked into the hall,
                     posted himself opposite the king, and fixed his eyes upon him in sombre
                     silence. The king gazed at this strange person with undisguised surprise, but,
                     finding that he was apparently dumb and might be deaf, did not address him: the
                     whole meal passing in silence.
                  As the king rose, I approached the funereal personage.
                  "Your name, if I may ask, sir?" I said.
                  "Isaac Ewer, an unworthy follower of the godly cause."
                  "Colonel Ewer, I think."
                  "I am so called."
                  "Your object?"
                  "I am come to fetch away Hammond to-night."
                  These words dissipated all doubt. This singular personage, representing the
                     "Independents" of the army, had come to order away Hammond, who represented the
                     parliament. From this moment it was obvious that Charles I. had ceased to be
                     the prisoner of the civil power, and had become the prize of the military. The
                     full significance of the change may be stated in a few words; the name of Isaac
                     Ewer appears among the regicides.
                  This man had just uttered the words I have recorded, and Colonel Hammond had
                     started up, as though determined to resist this summary order from the military
                     authorities, when I heard a familiar voice near me, and, turning my head, saw
                     Colonel Cooke. How this faithful friend of the king gained access to the castle
                     I never discovered. He had been released months before, and had passed from my
                     mind; but I afterwards knew that he had kept watch over the king and laid many
                     plans to effect his escape.
                  Colonel Cooke now-approached the king hurriedly, and said to him, in the midst
                     of the confusion,—
                  "Your majesty must attempt to escape."
                  "To escape?"
                  "At once," he replied, quickly. "The army has a plan for seizing you
                     immediately. This must be prevented. All the preparations are made. We have
                     horses all ready here, concealed in a pent-house. A vessel is at the Cowes
                     waiting for us. We are prepared to attend you."
                  
                  The king turned pale.
                  "No," he said. "I have given my word to Hammond and the House that I would make
                     no further such attempts. They have promised me, and I have promised them; and
                     I will not be the first to break promise."
                  "Your majesty means by they and them the
                     parliament?"
                  "Yes."
                  "They have no power to protect you! You are a dead man if——For God's sake, your
                     majesty, consent!"
                  The face of the speaker flushed.
                  "For the queen and your children's sake!"
                  The king shook.
                  "No, I cannot: do not tempt me!" he murmured. "My honor of gentleman alone is
                     left to me!"
                  A thundering knock was heard at the door as the king uttered these words, and a
                     file of soldiers entered, in front of whom advanced, with heavy tramp, two or
                     three sombre-visaged officers.
                  They went straight to the king.
                  "You must come with us," said one of them.
                  "Who may you be?" the king asked.
                  "Officers from the army. Come!"
                  "Whither?"
                  "To the castle."
                  "'The Castle' is no castle! I am prepared for any castle, but tell me the
                     name."
                  "Hurst Castle."
                  "Indeed!" the king said, calmly. "You could not have named a worse."
                  In truth, the selection of that gloomy fortress, a species of dungeon, fitted
                     for murder, seemed an ominous indication of the designs of the king's captors.
                     It stood on a desolate promontory, approached from the Isle of Wight by a
                     narrow causeway; and an hour afterwards the king was conducted thither.
                  In this sombre keep he was immured now, and I confess my heart sank. I had
                     remained with his majesty, along with others, and experienced very great
                     solicitude for his safety. Everything now seemed to depend upon the result of
                     the struggle between the army and parliament. The latter was known to embrace a
                     number of prominent persons who favored the king's release: if the army were
                     overthrown, the king, thus, would be saved.
                  One morning came intelligence that the army under General Cromwell had crushed
                     the parliament. Soon afterwards the rattling chains of the drawbridge were
                     heard as the ponderous mass fell. The emissary of the army had come to conduct
                     Charles I. to Windsor Castle.
                  He was conducted thither. A month passed: I had begun to dream of happier times
                     for this poor husband and father, so long the sport of his enemies, when, on
                     the 15th of January, 1648, a squadron of horse appeared and escorted the king
                     to London.
                  The hour had come.
               
               
                  
                  VIII. THE SCENE AT WESTMINSTER HALL.
                  I HAVE shrunk from dwelling at length upon the days passed by the king at
                     Carisbrooke and Hurst Castles; for a stronger reason still, I shall pass
                     hastily over the last scenes of the tragedy, the memory of which still affects
                     me profoundly.
                  This human being, now approaching death, had his weaknesses, his
                     prejudices,—committed crimes more than once,—claimed prerogatives inconsistent
                     with the liberties of England; but he had suffered, had grown gray in prison,
                     and all the glory of royalty had been stripped from him, and now his enemies,
                     in an evil hour for them, were going to commit the blunder of making a martyr
                     of him by putting him to death.
                  The forms were speedily gone through with. From Windsor Castle, where he had
                     enjoyed a brief season of tranquillity, not divested of hope, he was taken in
                     his coach, under an escort of troopers with drawn pistols, to St. James's
                     Palace in London, where his treatment at once indicated that his fate was
                     sealed.
                  I had remained with him, as had his grace the Duke of Richmond, his faithful
                     Herbert, and other friends. We were mercifully permitted to share his last
                     hours; and the terrible details of these hours are here recorded briefly.
                  It soon became known to us that the military power was completely in the
                     ascendency. General Cromwell, its head, proceeded to turn out of parliament all
                     opposed to the fatal resolution at last reached. The king was transferred to a
                     wing of Edward the Conqueror's Palace; and speedily came the order that he
                     should be brought to Westminster Hall for trial.
                  It was a dark and chill morning in January when the order came. The king
                     rose-calmly, put on his hat, took his cane and gloves, and bowed to the officer
                     bearing the order.
                  "I am ready, sir," he said.
                  The officer did not return the salute. The days of royalty, and the respect due
                     it, had passed away now. The officer simply pointed to the door.
                  The king went out, and found himself in face of a body of armed men, who gazed
                     at him, some with lowering faces, others with undisguised pity and
                     compassion.
                  "Forward, to Westminster Hall!" the officer commanded; and the troop moved,
                     escorting the king, who walked in the midst. I was near him, and went on in a
                     dream, as 'twere. The fatal pageant affected me as men are affected by things
                     seen in sleep.
                  All at once, as the procession moved along, I heard, from a window above, the
                     hoarse words,—
                  "Here he is! here he is!"
                  I looked up. The king was passing the "Painted Chamber;" and the hoarse speaker
                     was General Cromwell. For the third time in my life I saw this terrible
                     man:—first in Buckinghamshire, at Mr. Hampden's, a shuffling, absent-looking
                     countryman; again at Naseby, a cold and immovable statue on horseback; now a judge, pale and purple by
                     turns, looking upon his victim.
                  I heard afterwards that he and others had met here to see the king pass, and
                     that General Cromwell, after uttering the words above recorded, added to
                     Marten, one of his associates,—
                  "The hour of the great affair approaches. Decide speedily what answer you will
                     give him; for he will immediately ask by what authority you pretend to judge
                     him."
                  "In the name of the Commons assembled in parliament," Marten replied,
                     ironically, "and of all the good people of England."
                  The purlieus of Westminster Hall were nearly choked with troops. These, too,
                     seemed divided between bitter enmity and compassion. Many of the citizens had
                     mingled with the soldiery, and cried aloud, as the king came,—
                  "God save your majesty!"
                  The soldiers did not suppress this cry; and the fact seemed to enrage their
                     commander, Colonel Axtel. Suddenly the tall form of that officer advanced, the
                     dark face full of anger. This sentiment became fury when some of the soldiers,
                     whose backs were turned to him, shouted, compassionately,—
                  "Justice! justice!"
                  With a cane which he held in his hand, Colonel Axtel struck them vigorously
                     over the shoulders; and the men who had just clamored for justice to the
                     captive now shouted as loudly,—
                  "Execution! execution!"
                  The king entered Westminster Hall in the midst of his guard. Behind came the
                     procession of his judges, with the sword and mace borne before them.
                  The king sat down, keeping his hat upon his head, and looked around him with
                     calm and even curious eyes. His bearing was composed, and his eyes seemed to
                     express a grave wonder at the scene. He was yet thin and
                     pale, and the curls beneath his beaver were silvered with gray.
                  The judges took their seats above him, and the ceremony began. An advocate
                     rose, and began to read from a paper which he held in his hand that the king
                     was "indicted in the name of the Commons assembled, and the people of
                     England."
                  The king interrupted him here with some words which I did not hear. The
                     advocate scowled at him, but continued to read; whereupon the king extended his
                     slight cane, and touched him with the gold head upon the shoulder. The head
                     detached itself from the cane, rolled on the floor, distinctly heard in the
                     profound silence; and the whole assembly, wound to the highest pitch of nervous
                     excitement, rose in mass.
                  "God save your majesty! God save the king!" rose from the crowd of people in
                     the hall.
                  Scuffling succeeded: the troops, under direction of their officers, were
                     buffeting and hustling the malcontents. The advocate's voice, loud and
                     monotonous, resumed the indictment. It was finished; and Mr. Bradshaw, who
                     presided, demanded of the king what his plea was,—guilty or not guilty of the
                     crimes laid to his charge.
                  "I make no plea. I deny the authority of this court, though not the power," the king replied.
                     "There are many illegal powers, as those of highwaymen and bandits. The Commons
                     agreed to a treaty of peace with me when at Carisbrooke, and since that time I
                     have been hurried from place to place. Where are the just privileges of the
                     House of Commons? Where are the Lords? I see none present. And where is the
                     king? Call you this bringing a king to his parliament?"
                  Bradshaw scowled, retorting in some violent words, and a discussion ensued. The
                     court promised to break up in the midst of a brawl,—perhaps a conflict between
                     army and citizens. It was hastily adjourned, therefore; and the king was
                     reconducted to his prison, the people shouting, as he passed,—
                  "God bless your majesty! God save you from your enemies!"
                  The first scene of the first act had thus been played. The rest followed
                     rapidly, and the catastrophe was at hand.
                  The king was again and again brought before his judges. He resolutely refused,
                     however, to acknowledge the competency of the tribunal; and it was plain that
                     violent measures would be called for. These were adopted. The king's enemies
                     had gone too far to recede: their own safety absolutely required that his blood
                     should be shed.
                  All was resolved upon at last; and for the fourth time his majesty was
                     conducted to Westminster Hall.
                  Bradshaw had already taken his seat, and wore a red dress. The fact was
                     ominous, and the proceedings were brief.
                  "Read the list of members of the court," growled the president, Bradshaw.
                  The clerk began to read. At the name of "Fairfax," a voice from the gallery
                     cried,—
                  "Fairfax has too much wit to be here to-day!"
                  All eyes were raised. The voice was seen to have issued from a group of ladies
                     who attended as spectators.
                  Colonel Axtel, commanding the soldiery, shouted, with fury,—
                  "Present pieces!—fire!—fire into the box where she sits!"
                  As he spoke, one of the ladies rose, in the centre of the group. For a moment
                     she remained motionless, looking down with great scorn upon the rough faces of
                     the troops, who were confusedly raising their musquetoons. She then slowly went
                     out of the gallery; and I heard from the crowd around me,—
                  "'Tis Lady Fairfax! They dare not harm her!"
                  The reading of the list proceeded. At the name of Cromwell a new tumult
                     rose.
                  "Oliver Cromwell is a rogue and a traitor!" cried a second voice from the
                     gallery.
                  Axtel raged; but the president made a gesture, and the reading proceeded. The
                     clerk concluded by declaring that the king was "called to answer by the people
                     before the Commons of England assembled in parliament."
                  "'Tis false!" shouted the voice in the gallery; "not one half-quarter of
                     them!"
                  At this renewed interruption and open defiance, Colonel Axtel seemed ready to
                     lose his head. He foamed with rage,
                     and shook his clenched hand towards the spot from which the voice had issued,
                     shouting, "Fire! fire on them!"
                  Bradshaw again interposed. Silence was obtained; but a more important
                     interruption was to come.
                  The president began to pass sentence.
                  "I demand," said the king, "that the whole of the members of the House of
                     Commons, and such lords as are in England, shall assemble to hear the sentence
                     about to be pronounced upon me."
                  Bradshaw frowned angrily, and was about to proceed without noticing this
                     protest, when one of the court started to his feet in great agitation and with
                     tears on his cheeks.
                  "Have we hearts of stone?" he exclaimed. "Are we men?"
                  "You will ruin us, and yourself too!" came in a hoarse undertone from those
                     near the speaker, whom they violently attempted to hold in his seat.
                  "If I were to die for it!" was the renewed protest.
                  Cromwell, who sat just beneath, turned and looked at the speaker with lowering
                     eyes.
                  "Colonel Downes," he said, sternly, in his deep voice, "are you mad?"
                  "No!"
                  "Can't you sit still?"
                  "No! I cannot and I will not sit still!"
                  He broke from those attempting to hold him down.
                  "I move," he exclaimed, "that we adjourn to deliberate!"
                  Cromwell rose in a rage, and his eyes seemed to dart lightning as he looked at
                     Downes.
                  "You wish to save your old master!" he said, in a storm of wrath; "but make an
                     end of this, and return to your duty!"
                  Cries and confused voices were heard, however, throughout the great hall; and,
                     doubtless reflecting that nothing would be lost thereby, the court determined
                     to retire to deliberate. They went out at a side door, and remained absent for
                     about half an hour; then they reappeared, defiling in, stern, silent, and
                     ominous.
                  Bradshaw took his seat in the midst of cries of wrath, pity, and horror from
                     the crowd, where Axtel exerted himself to obtain silence.
                  In the midst of this silence, sentence was passed upon the king.
                  He listened without a word, and, at the termination of the sentence, rose and
                     put on his gloves. Axtel advanced and motioned to him. He obeyed the order of
                     the man who now stood in the place of the headsman, passed through the crowd of
                     furious soldiery, who puffed the smoke of their pipes in his face, spat upon
                     him, and yelled, "Justice! execution!" in his ears, and, entering his
                     sedan-chair,—a luxury still permitted him,—was borne back to his place of
                     imprisonment, a man condemned to die.
                  As he disappeared, a great cry rose above the crowd, struck with awe and
                     horror.
                  This cry was,—
                  "God help and save your majesty! God keep you from your enemies!"
                  One of the soldiers, even, joined in this cry, and was seen to do so by an
                     officer, who felled him with one
                     blow. This took place as the king passed. He looked at the unfortunate man with
                     a smile of sad pity.
                  "Poor fellow!" he murmured, sighing: "'tis a heavy blow for so small an
                     offense!"
               
               
                  IX. THE HAMMERING.
                  THE terrible comedy of the king's trial had been played at Westminster: the
                     tragedy in front of White-1 hall was to follow it speedily.
                  Of those days which passed between the king's sentence and execution I have no
                     strength to speak. I was near him, with other friends, and was witness to a
                     calmness and dignity worthy of a brave man and a monarch. The king's nerves
                     were unshaken: he prepared for his end with august composure; and when he was
                     informed that the people in power had consented to permit him to see his two
                     children before his death, a smile of joy lit up the pale and emaciated
                     face.
                  This intelligence was brought to him on the night before his execution. He was
                     writing at the instant, and laid down his pen to clasp his hands in deep
                     gratitude, raising his eyes, as he did so, to heaven.
                  As the messenger disappeared, he turned to the friends around him, and said,
                     with a smile,—
                  "'Tis not forbidden a poor king in captivity to make verses, my friends: I have
                     thus employed myself after writing my last adieus to one from whom I am
                     severed,—one very dear to me."
                  He took up the sheet upon which he had been writing. As he did so, a sudden
                     hammering began in front of Whitehall. I shuddered; for I knew that 'twas the
                     workmen erecting the scaffold.
                  "What is that?" the king asked, turning his head, and listening.
                  No one replied. The sound of hammers continued. Suddenly the king's cheeks
                     filled with blood.
                  "I understand now. God's will be done!" he murmured. "But this shall not fright
                     me!"
                  The smile came back to his face, and he said,—
                  "Will you hear one or, two of my poor verses?"
                  In the midst of sobs, he then read these verses:— 
                        
                           "The fiercest furies which do daily tread
                           Upon my grief—my gray discrowned head—
                           Are those who to my bounty owe their bread.
                        
                        
                           "Yet, sacred Saviour, with thy words I woo
                           Thee to forgive, and not be bitter to
                           Such (as thou knowest) know not what they do.
                        
                        
                           "Augment my patience, nullify my hate,
                           Preserve my children, and inspire my mate,
                           Yet, though we perish, bless this Church and State!"
                        
                     
                  
                  As he finished reading these words, the door opened, and Bishop Juxon appeared,
                     his face pale, his bosom heaving. As he approached, the old prelate's
                     equanimity gave way, and he began to sob violently.
                  The king raised his hand calmly, with a gesture of kindness.
                  "Compose yourself, my lord," he said to the bishop. "We have no time to waste on grief: let us
                     rather think of the great matter. I must prepare to appear before God, to whom
                     in a few hours I have to render my account. I hope to meet death with calmness,
                     and that you will have the goodness to render me your assistance. Do not let us
                     speak of the men into whose hands I have fallen. They thirst for my blood: they
                     shall have it. God's will be done! I give him thanks. I forgive them all
                     sincerely; but let us say no more about them."
                  A harsh growl at the door was heard. The sentinels, guarding the king night and
                     day now, had opened the door, and expressed by the growl their disgust at the
                     supposed hypocrisy of the king.
                  The weeping bishop motioned them away,
                  "Suffer us, my friends," he said.
                  And, as though these mild and faltering words had affected even the rough
                     natures of the sentinels, they closed the door with a crash.
                  The king then knelt and prayed long and devoutly. As he rose from his knees, he
                     turned his head quickly. His face beamed with joy.
                  "What has your majesty heard?" the bishop said.
                  "I know not if I have heard them, but 'tis the feet of my children!"
                  Footsteps approached along the, corridor, and reached the door: it was opened,
                     and the little Princess Elizabeth, a girl of about twelve, and the Duke of
                     Gloucester, still younger, ran forward into their father's arms.
                  The children had burst into passionate tears; but there were no tears in the
                     eyes of the king. A delight beyond words shone in his pale face.
                  "My little ones!" he murmured, covering their faces with kisses. "Thank God,
                     they have permitted you to come to me! Oh, yes, yes! now I forgive them from my
                     heart!"
                  Some moments passed in those half-inarticulate exclamations, mingled with
                     caresses, which are so touching,—above all in a father embracing his children
                     for the last time on earth. The children sobbed and held him closely. He never
                     seemed weary of caressing and kissing them.
                  At last he grew more composed, and his countenance assumed an expression of
                     solemn gravity.
                  "Sweet-heart," he said, to the little princess, "do not forget what I tell
                     thee. I wish you not to grieve and torment yourself for me; for it is a
                     glorious death I shall die, for the laws and religion of the land. I have
                     forgiven all my enemies, and I hope God will forgive them; and you and your
                     brothers and sisters must forgive them also."
                  He paused, and I saw an expression of deep tenderness come to his eyes.
                  "You will see your mother, sweet-heart," he said. "Tell her that my thoughts
                     have never strayed from her,—that my love for her remains the same to the last.
                     Love her, be obedient to her, and do not grieve for me: I die a martyr."
                  Nothing was heard in the deep silence which followed these words but the sobs
                     and broken words of the little princess promising to obey these last commands
                     of her father.
                  The king raised his hand and passed it across his eyes. He then turned to the
                     little Duke of Gloucester, and, placing his arm around him, drew him upon his
                     knee.
                  
                  "My child," he said, "I wish you to heed what your father now says to you. They
                     will cut off my head, and perhaps make thee a king; but you must not be a king
                     so long as your brothers Charles and James live. I therefore charge you, do not
                     be made a king by them."
                  The child's face flushed suddenly, and he looked at the king with a flash of
                     the eyes shining through his tears.
                  "I will be torn in pieces first!" he exclaimed.
                  The king's face glowed.
                  "That is spoken like my son!" he said. "You rejoice me exceedingly!"
                  He bestowed a warm embrace upon the child, then, drawing the princess towards
                     him, clasped both to his bosom.
                  As he did so, the ominous sound of the hammers in front of Whitehall broke in.
                     The king sobbed, nearly unmanned, and covered the children's faces with kisses.
                     As he did so, the guard advanced to remove them, and Bishop Juxon groaned.
                  The king raised his head. "Oh, 'tis pitiful! Do not take them from me!" he
                     exclaimed.
                  The guard drew nearer, stern and unmoved. The hammering was heard through the
                     open door.
                  The king saw that the hour had come. With heaving bosom, he placed his hands on
                     the heads of the children and blessed them. They sobbed passionately as the
                     guard took them away; and the king rose to his feet and turned aside to hide
                     his tears. A window looked upon the court. He went to it, to see the last of
                     them, if possible, and, leaning his face against the frame-work, sobbed
                     aloud.
                  The children were passing through the door now, in charge of the guard, when
                     all at once the king turned and hastened to them in an agony of weeping.
                     Clasping them for the last time in his arms, he covered them with kisses and
                     caresses, called upon God to bless them, and, releasing them, staggered rather
                     than walked back to his seat, into which he fell, concealing his face in his
                     hands.
                  The hammering from the front of Whitehall had never ceased.
               
               
                  X. THE WALK TO WHITEHALL.
                  AT midnight the king, after performing his devotions, lay down, and was soon
                     asleep. All had retired but his attendant Herbert and myself, who had been
                     commanded to remain.
                  The king had given me both a letter and messages for the queen. I was to convey
                     these to her majesty after witnessing the king's last hours, of which I was to
                     give her a detailed account.
                  I lay down on a pallet,—Herbert occupying another,—but could not sleep. The
                     terrible events occurring around me excited my nerves and drove away my
                     slumbers. Providence had decreed that I should thus witness the last moments of
                     a condemned king, should be beside him and lose no detail of the tragedy.
                        All had passed before me; I was
                     to be present to the end; and the thought of what would take place on the
                     morrow banished sleep.
                  The night thus passed, the chamber lit only by a large taper which burned in
                     the centre of a silver basin. Long shadows, funereal and ominous, fell upon the
                     walls: nothing was heard but the quiet breathing of the king, who had for the
                     time lost all consciousness of his misfortunes.
                  About daybreak I was startled, however, by a deep groan from the pallet
                     occupied by Herbert, the king's attendant. I looked in the direction of the
                     sound, and saw that the sleeper was tossing to and fro, the victim, it seemed,
                     of some painful dream. Suddenly I saw the king rise on his elbow.
                  "Herbert!" he called; and the faithful attendant at once awoke.
                  "What is the matter?" said the king. "You groan fearfully in your sleep!"
                  Herbert passed his hand across his brow, as though he were confused.
                  "I have been dreaming, your majesty," he stammered.
                  "Tell me your dream," came from the king.
                  Herbert sighed, and said,—
                  "I dreamed, your majesty, that Archbishop Laud, in his pontifical robes,
                     entered this apartment and knelt before your majesty, who looked at him with a
                     pensive expression of countenance. Conversation then took place between the
                     archbishop and your majesty; he sighed deeply, seemed in pain; then the talk
                     ended; he inclined before your majesty, and was going towards the door again,
                     when suddenly he fell prostrate on the floor."
                  The king had listened without interrupting the speaker. He now remained an
                     instant buried in reflection.
                  "Your dream is remarkable, Herbert," he said, at length, in a pensive tone.
                     "But the archbishop is dead."
                  He paused again for a moment.
                  "Had I conferred with the archbishop," he added, "it is possible, albeit I
                     loved him well, that I might have said somewhat which would have caused his
                     sigh."
                  As he spoke, the king threw aside the coverlet.
                  "I will now rise," he said. "I have a great work to do this day."
                  He seated himself, and motioned to Herbert to dress his hair. The attendant
                     obeyed, but his hand trembled, as though from cold,—the fire in the apartment
                     having died out.
                  "Nay," the king said, calmly, "though my head be not to stand long on my
                     shoulders, take the same pains with it that you were wont to do. This is my
                     second marriage-day, Herbert."
                  Herbert obeyed with trembling hands, and I observed the king shiver.
                  "'Tis very cold," he said. "Give me an additional shirt. The weather may make
                     me shake; and I would have no imputation of fear. Death is not terrible to me.
                     I bless my God I am prepared."
                  As he spoke, Bishop Juxon entered, his face pale and woe-begone.
                  "Welcome, my lord," the king said. "Will you pray with me?"
                  
                  The bishop knelt down, and in a faltering voice uttered a fervent prayer, which
                     the king listened to, kneeling also devoutly. He then resumed his seat; and the
                     bishop read from the Gospel of St. Matthew.
                  "Did you choose this chapter, my lord, as applicable to my situation?" asked
                     the king, when he had ended.
                  "It is the gospel of the day, as the calendar indicates, your majesty," replied
                     the bishop.
                  The king's face exhibited great emotion. The chapter read by the bishop was
                     that which gives an account of the trial, condemnation, and execution of our
                     Saviour. A strange chance—if there be any chance—had made it the regular gospel
                     of the day, in accordance with the calendar. The king resumed a moment
                     afterwards his kneeling position. I could see his lips moving. A deep
                     silence—the silence of prayer and pity—reigned in the apartment.
                  The king had just risen, when the door opened, and the guard appeared.
                  "I am ready," he said, calmly.
                  And, placing his hat upon his head, he descended the staircase into St. James's
                     Park. The path to Whitehall was lined with ten companies of infantry. In front
                     of the king moved a detachment of halberdiers, with drums beating and colors
                     flying.
                  The king walked on slowly, exhibiting no emotion of any description,—on his
                     right the good bishop, on his left Colonel Tomlinson, of the army, and myself.
                     The king was absolutely composed, the soldier full of compassion for him. This
                     sentiment was so plain that his majesty observed it, and, taking a gold
                        etui which he wore, said,—
                  "I beg you will accept this, sir, as a token of remembrance, and that you will
                     not leave me until all is over."
                  The soldier bowed his head, and took the gift with deep emotion.
                  "I will observe your majesty's command," he said. "Dare I ask your majesty if
                     there be any truth in what I conceive to be a terrible slander concerning
                     you?"
                  "Ask your question, my friend."
                  "Did your majesty concur with the Duke of Buckingham in causing your late
                     father's death?"
                  The king's face assumed a smile of pity.
                  "My friend," he said, "if I had no other sin than that, God knows I should have
                     little need to beg his forgiveness at this hour."
                  "Then——"
                  The reply was not finished. A sudden roar from the drums interrupted it. They
                     were near Whitehall, and the king said to the guard,—
                  "Come on, my good fellows: step apace."
                  And, pointing to a tree, he added, to Bishop Juxon,—
                  "That tree was planted by my brother Henry."
                  These trifles all engraved themselves indelibly upon my memory. If they are
                     otherwise unimportant, they still indicate the king's calmness.
                  He had now reached the flight of stairs which leads from the park into
                     Whitehall. As he entered the palace, Colonel Tomlinson said,—
                  "Here are two Independent ministers, your majesty, who offer their spiritual
                     aid and prayers."
                  The king paused, but replied, almost immediately,—
                  "Say to them frankly that they have so often prayed against me that they shall
                     not pray with me in my agony; but if
                     they will pray for me now, tell them that I shall be
                     thankful."
                  As he spoke, the king turned to me, and held out his hand.
                  "I must leave you now, friend," he said. "You must not go with me to the
                     scaffold. You have my last request. Convey the letter you wot of; tell her to
                     whom 'tis addressed that she was in my heart to the last; and may God bless and
                     keep you, as my faithful friend, always!"
                  I could make no reply, but, falling upon my knees, pressed the king's hand to
                     my lips, with sobs.
                  A moment afterwards he had disappeared within the palace.
               
               
                  XI. THE EXECUTION.
                  I HASTENED to the front of the palace, where rose, grim and threatening, the
                     scaffold with its block, upon which the execution was to take place.
                  A frightful dream, rather than a series of real events, seemed playing before
                     me, and I could scarce collect my thoughts or reason upon the situation. A
                     great crowd blocked up the street, of mingled soldiery and civilians. Round
                     hats and gleaming arms were mixed together in enormous confusion; and through
                     the mighty multitude awaiting the terrible scene ran a low, vague murmur, like
                     the sound of waves before they are lashed to fury in a tempest.
                  I staggered on, rather than walked, and almost by main force made a path
                     through the mass towards the scaffold. More than once I came near becoming
                     engaged in a personal collision from my urgency. A soldier whom I had thrust
                     aside aimed a savage blow at me with his halberd, and a burly ruffian into
                     whose ribs I struck my elbow overwhelmed me with blasphemous curses. I
                     disregarded all, however, and, thanks to my persistence, reached a position
                     near the scaffold.
                  The crowd was agitated, and many faces were pale.
                  "Poor king!" said a woman,—for there were many in the mass;—"see! they have
                     driven iron staples in the scaffold, to chain him down if he resists!"
                  "Poor heart!" came in response; but with these pitying exclamations mingled
                     hoarse shouts of "Execution! execution!"
                  I was now in the immediate vicinity of the scaffold. My head was turning,
                     wellnigh, at thought of the coming spectacle; but in the midst of this confused
                     dream, as 'twere, rose clear and vivid the thought, "Who will act as
                     executioner?" Gregory Brandon, the official headsman, had fled from London, and
                     would not strike off the king's head if they found him. Who would? To volunteer
                     was too infamous for the, most infamous. It might be that no Englishman could
                     be: found who would act as headsman!
                  A fearful commentary upon this desperate hope was speedily presented. The crowd
                     surged to and fro; a path was made through the compact mass; and through this
                     opening advanced two figures, from whom the most brutal shrank back.
                  The figures were clad in a close woolen garb, then peculiar to butchers. One wore a long gray
                     peruke, beard, and black mask; the other a black peruke and mask, and a black
                     hat whose heavy flap was caught up in front. Something peculiar in the walk of
                     this latter proved that it was Gregory Brandon. But who was the personage in
                     the gray beard?
                  The men mounted the scaffold in the midst of loud cries. Then all became
                     silent. Through a window in front of the palace, the king walked straight to
                     the scaffold, accompanied only by Bishop Juxon and Herbert. As he reached it, I
                     saw the figure taken for that of Gregory Brandon kneel to him. I pushed nearer,
                     and came within hearing just as the king turned quickly, seeing some one touch
                     the headman's axe, exclaiming,—
                  "Have a care of the axe! If the edge is spoiled, 'twill be the worse for
                     me!"
                  Meanwhile the headsman had remained upon his knees. He now said, in a muffled
                     voice,—the voice of Gregory Brandon,—
                  "I entreat your majesty's forgiveness for performing this terrible duty."
                  The king shook his head.
                  "No," he said; "I forgive no subject of mine who comes deliberately to shed my
                     blood!"
                  The headsman groaned, and I saw a shudder pass through his frame.* He rose, and,
                     with head bowed upon his breast, awaited.
                  
                     *Sir Henry Ellis records that Gregory
                        Brandon, dragged unwillingly to execute the king, pined away for want of the
                        forgiveness refused him, and died less than two years afterwards, declaring
                        that "he always saw the king as he appeared on the scaffold, and that,
                        withal, devils did tear him on his death-bed."—EDITOR.
                  
                  The king had turned away, and uttered a few words to Bishop Juxon. He then
                     raised the long locks of gray hair flowing upon his neck, and said to the
                     headsman,—
                  "Is any of my hair in the way?"
                  "I beg your majesty to push it more under your cap," came in muffled tones from
                     the black mask, whose wearer bowed low.
                  In observing this ceremony, Bishop Juxon assisted his majesty.
                  "There is but one stage more, your majesty," faltered the good bishop, "which,
                     though turbulent and troublesome, is yet a short one. Consider: it will carry
                     you a great way,—even from earth to heaven."
                  The king inclined his head.
                  "I go from a corruptible to an incorruptible crown," he said, "where no
                     disturbance can take place."
                  As he uttered these calm words, the king threw off his cloak, and gave his
                     George to the bishop, with the single word, "Remember!" He then removed his
                     coat, resumed the cloak, and, pointing to the block, said to the headsman,—
                  "Place it so that it will not shake."
                  "It is firm," came from the headsman, who shuddered so that he could scarce
                     hold the axe.
                  "I shall say a short prayer," the king said, as calmly as before. "When I hold
                     out my hand, thus,—strike."
                  The king stood for a moment with closed eyes, his lips moving in prayer. Then
                     he raised his eyes to heaven, knelt, and placed his head upon the block; and
                     the headsman, with a single blow, severed his head from his body.
                  
                  As the head rolled upon the scaffold, and the body recoiled from the block, a
                     cry burst from the vast crowd,—shouts and weeping mingled.
                  Above the mass, thus agitated and moving to and fro, rose the scaffold, where
                     the gray headsman, the associate of the wretched Brandon, held up the dripping
                     head of the king, crying,—
                  "This is the head of a traitor!"
               
               
                  XII. SO WENT THE KING WHITE TO HIS GRAVE.
                  I LEFT the scene of the king's execution, staggering in my gait like a drunken
                     man, and for hours thereafter wandered about London, the prey to a species of
                     nightmare which chilled and fevered me by turns. All objects which my dull eyes
                     rested upon seemed unreal, like the shapes seen in dreams. I scarce knew where
                     I was; could see nothing but that one fearful group on the terrible platform in
                     front of Whitehall.
                  Night fell, and still I went to and fro like one who has lost his way. Then, I
                     know not how, I found myself again in the neighborhood of Whitehall. The
                     streets were deserted; the great crowd had vanished: save the light in a window
                     on the ground-floor of the palace, I saw no evidence that London was not a city
                     of the dead.
                  Towards the light a strange attraction drew me. Without any definite design, I
                     went to the great door of the palace: it was open. The hall was deserted. I
                     entered, approached the door of the apartment from which the light shone, and,
                     reaching the threshold, saw before me a singular spectacle.
                  In a coffin, covered with black velvet, lay the body of Charles I., the head
                     replaced in its natural position, the lips wearing a sweet smile.
                  Beside it stood three persons, and in shadow at one corner of the room were a
                     number of stern-faced halberd-bearers, erect and motionless as statues.
                  The three persons were Colonel Axtel, dark, sombre, and sullen; Sir Purbeck
                     Temple, a friend of the king, whom I knew well and at once recognized; the
                     third personage was the now terrible General Cromwell.
                  General Cromwell was standing beside the coffin, with his back turned to me;
                     and I could not see his face. His left hand was placed beneath his, right
                     elbow; the other hand supported his chin. As I reached the threshold, Sir
                     Purbeck Temple had drawn near to the coffin, and was looking at the king's face
                     with half-suppressed sobs.
                  "My poor master!" he exclaimed; "and this is all that is left of thee!"
                  "Did you expect to find him alive," growled Axtel, "after the blow of the
                     axe?"
                  Sir Purbeck was silent for an instant. Then he faltered,—
                  "I know not what I expected, sir. But I have read that a species of divinity
                     and holiness hedges a king!——"
                  He could say no more. Axtel growled: the word best describes the sound he
                     uttered. He extended his hand
                     towards the body; a smile of contempt curled his sullen lips, and he said, with
                     a heavy frown,—
                  "If thou thinkest there is any holiness in kingship, look there!"
                  Sir Purbeck Temple made no reply. I could see the tears on his cheeks.
                  General Cromwell had meanwhile remained silent and motionless, gazing at the
                     body, as he afterwards gazed at the king's portrait,—hiding his secret
                     thoughts.
                  Suddenly he moved and drew near the coffin. For an instant he paused again.
                     Then, reaching out his hand, he; raised the head of the corpse, looked at it,
                     and at the body, and said, in his deep voice,—
                  "This was a well-constituted frame, and promised long life!"
                  As he uttered these words he replaced the head in the coffin, turned away,
                     passed by me slowly, without appearing to be aware of my presence, and went out
                     of the door of the palace.
                  In my turn I approached the coffin, and gazed long at the king. His lips were
                     smiling: he had died, plainly, forgiving all his enemies. I bent down and
                     pressed a last kiss on the thin hand. A growl from Axtel, and a harsh order to
                     leave the apartment, followed. I left the room and the palace, and was again in
                     the streets,—seeing nothing, as I went on, but the cold face and the smile of
                     the king.
                  Let me finish the gloomy record.
                  The body of Charles I. was conveyed to St. James's Palace, where it was
                     embalmed. It was then taken to Windsor Castle, Cromwell having refused
                     sepulture for the king in Westminster Abbey; and at Windsor it was committed to
                     the earth. The pall-bearers were the Duke of Richmond, the Earl of Hertford,
                     and the Lords Lindsay and Southampton. As the coffin covered with black velvet
                     was borne from the hall,—the only inscription upon it, "Carolus Rex, 1648," cut
                     with a penknife,—the snow began to fall slowly and tranquilly, as though it
                     mourned the dead man.
                  By the time it reached the chapel, the pall of black velvet was entirely
                     white.
                  "So went our king white to his grave!" said his weeping pall-bearers.
                  Not even the burial-service of the Church had been permitted to be read over
                     the king's grave.
               
               
                  XIII. AN OLD CAVALIER OF THE KING.
                  I MIGHT here terminate my memoirs: the great epic is finished, and the curtain
                     has fallen on the tragedy. But some incidents remain to be narrated, which
                     refer to my personal fortunes; and my children, if no others, will like to hear
                     of these incidents and of what marked my last days in England.
                  On the night of the scene at Whitehall, I wandered about London, laboring under
                     a sort of stupor of grief and despair. A new blow was, however, coming. Fate
                     had not exhausted her malice.
                  I had entered a low tavern, worn out and seeking a spot to rest. On the rude table, covered with
                     beer-stains, lay a newspaper, which I took up mechanically. As my eye fell upon
                     it, I saw my father's name; and as I read, my heart sank within me. The paper
                     gave a list of estates belonging to royalists, which had been confiscated.
                     Cecil Court was among them, and the name of Sir Jervas Ireton opposite
                     indicated that the estate had been conveyed to him.
                  
                  This intelligence came near to unman me. Then my dear and honored father would
                     be turned adrift, homeless, in his old age! The sworn foe of our family had
                     wreaked his utmost vengeance upon us! The coarse Sir Jervas Ireton would rule
                     in the ancient home of the Cecils!
                  I rose, my head turning, nearly. Whither should I go? To France, leaving this
                     blow to fall upon my father? I could not: I must first see him. But how to get
                     to Warwickshire? I had no horse: was penniless. I went out of the tavern with a
                     fire burning in my brain, and tottered rather than walked, along the deserted
                     streets.
                  I was going along thus, the prey of a despair which I could not resist, when,
                     just as I passed beneath a swinging lamp, I heard the clatter of hoofs. They
                     drew nearer. I raised my head, the light shone upon my face, and I heard my
                     name uttered.
                  A moment afterwards, a cavalier, whose horse's hoofs had made the clatter,
                     stopped near me, threw himself from the saddle, and passed his arm around
                     me.
                  "Cecil, you are ill!" he exclaimed.
                  The light fell upon the speaker, and I recognized Colonel Edward Cooke.
                  "What mean you by wandering through the streets at this hour, friend?" he
                     continued. "You are pale and woe-begone: you have seen all to-day, I doubt not.
                     But come! you are ill, Cecil! Tell me whither you go."
                  In a few words I told him of the confiscation of Cecil Court, and of my
                     resolution to see my father again before I left England forever.
                  "Well," the old cavalier said, "nothing is easier, friend. You know I live near
                     London, and my stud is not yet seized. My horses are famous ones, as you know;
                     and you shall take your choice. Come! my servant will give you his cob, and
                     make the journey home on foot. Come, friend!—we poor forlorn cavaliers should
                     help each other."
                  I responded by a warm pressure of the hand, and was soon in the saddle. Half an
                     hour afterwards we had left London by a by way where there was no sentinel, and
                     two hours later reined in our horses in front of the old manor-house, of
                     Colonel Cooke. I had visited the house twice before, the reader will
                     remember,—first to bear to the old cavalier the queen's note requesting him to
                     be ready with his horses when she thought to fly with her children to France,
                     and again to make arrangements for the king's escape from Hampton Court. The
                     old house shone now in a bright moonlight, which lit up, too, the leafless and
                     spectral trees; but within, in the great fireplace of an apartment hung round
                     with portraits, roared a fire of logs, which revived our chilled limbs.
                  My host proceeded at once to produce flagons and cold meats. The food and rich
                     wine warmed me and brought back my
                     energies. Then, lighting a pipe, and puffing clouds of smoke from beneath his
                     gray mustache, Colonel Cooke began to speak of the terrible event of the day
                     just passed.
                  I have no space to repeat our conversation. It extended far into the night. All
                     over England, I think, that night, poor cavaliers like ourselves were
                     conferring on the future and shedding tears over the past.
                  At last Colonel Cooke rose, and the light fell full upon his tall figure and
                     his brave face, with its gray mustache, and its sparkling eyes yet undimmed by
                     age.
                  "You must be weary, friend," he said; "and your bed is ready. At dawn my best
                     horse will be saddled: take him; I make you a present of him. God bless and
                     prosper you! And now a last cup!"
                  He filled my cup and his own, raised his above his head, and, with flashing
                     eyes, exclaimed,—
                  "Confusion to Cromwell and his gang, and God save his majesty King Charles
                     II.!"
                  With a close pressure of the hand, we parted, and I retired to rest.
                  On the next morning by sunrise I was riding at a gallop in the direction of
                     Warwickshire.
               
               
                  XIV. THE HOUSE BESIDE THE HIGHWAY.
                  THE animal which my host had presented me with was a superb hunter, in the
                     finest condition. He plainly asked nothing better than to be permitted to go at
                     top speed; and thus league after league fled from under his feet, every moment
                     bore me nearer and nearer to Cecil Court.
                  I will not interrupt my narrative to speak of my thoughts and feelings, or to
                     paint the gloomy picture of rural England in that winter of 1648. 'Twas
                     terrible, what I saw as I went on my rapid journey. War had stamped its
                     destroying heel on the lovely land of the past, and a curse seemed hovering
                     over the once-smiling fields. I shall not speak further of my journey, save to
                     relate one singular incident which befell me.
                  I was proceeding at a rapid gait in the direction of Oxford, when, raising my
                     eyes, which had been bent upon the ground, I saw, beside the road I was
                     following, a small house which seemed familiar to me. A second glance, and I
                     had fully recognized it. 'Twas that to which I had been conducted by Gregory
                     Brandon and his daughter, and where I had held tile interview with the sick
                     dwarf Geoffrey Hudson.
                  As I drew near, I saw that the house was uninhabited; but in front of the door
                     stood a horse covered with foam,
                     apparently from a rapid journey. Who could have thus stopped, I asked myself,
                     to enter this deserted house? To whom could this animal, covered with
                     foam-flakes, belong? I determined to solve the question speedily, dismounted,
                     and entered the house. Before me, seated on a broken chair, and leaning his
                     head upon an old table, I saw no less a personage than the dwarf Hudson.
                  As my footsteps resounded on the creaking floor, he quickly raised his
                     head.
                  "Ah, 'tis you?" he said, drearily. "At first I thought 'twas a ghost. Whence
                     come you, sir?"
                  "From London. And you, friend?"
                  "From London also."
                  "You have ridden rapidly."
                  "I set out at midnight."
                  "Then you saw all?"
                  "All."
                  I looked at the strange being, who had answered my questions in his thin voice
                     with an accent of sombre indifference. The dwarf seemed to be laboring under
                     the crushing weight of a sentiment which resembled despair.
                  "You were in the crowd yonder?" I said, at a loss how to continue the
                     conversation.
                  "Yes," he replied, in the same dull and dreamy tone.
                  "You recognized——him; I mean the headsman?"
                  "Yes: 'twas Gregory Brandon."
                  "And his assistant?"
                  "Hulet: they paid him a hundred pounds to assist at the execution."
                  "Hulet! is it possible? The man in the gray beard Hulet?"
                  "Yes, Hulet,—the man who had Brandon dragged from this place of
                     concealment,—who persecuted to the death the woman I loved,—who has paid at
                     last for all, and will plot no more."
                  "Paid for all?"
                  "He is dead."
                  "Dead?"
                  "Killed in a drunken brawl in a low tavern, at nightfall after the
                     execution."
                  I remained silent at this strange intelligence. Then I looked again at the
                     dwarf.
                  "You say that Hulet persecuted to the death——whom?"
                  "Janet Brandon, of whom I knew as Janet Gregory here! He was crazy about
                     her,—harassed her with his importunities. She fell ill, and that wretch stood
                     beside her death-bed and taunted her."
                  The dwarf turned pale as he spoke, and uttered a low groan.
                  "All is ended for me in life," he added, in the same low dull tone. "I have
                     left courts forever, and go to my obscure home to hide my misery. You were my
                     friend, and here farewell! We shall never meet on earth again,—but some day—I
                     shall see her—yonder!"
                  He pointed to heaven, went out of the deserted house, mounted his horse, and
                     disappeared.
                  Such was my last meeting with this singular being, of whom I never afterwards
                     heard.
               
               
                  
                  XV. HOME AGAIN.
                  I RODE on towards Cecil Court, lost in gloomy thought. The interview with the
                     dwarf, who had thus informed me of the death of Janet Brandon and the man
                     Hulet, had deepened the sombre mood which oppressed me.
                  But something still more tragic awaited me. I should probably arrive at Cecil
                     Court to find it in possession of the foe of my family,—my father homeless, the
                     name of Cecil replaced by that of Ireton! The memory of my poor brother Harry
                     came to add poignancy to these gloomy reflections. Had he been spared, we might
                     have borne up: leaning on his strong arm, my dear father might have gone forth
                     again into the world. I was left; but I was nothing. Oh, if my brave strong
                     Harry had not fallen!
                  Haunted by these sombre thoughts, I continued my way, and drew near Keynton.
                     Near the village I met an acquaintance, a poor man of the place.
                  "Go not thither, Master Cecil," he said: "there be soldiers of the godly
                     faction there."
                  "They would arrest me, then, friend?"
                  "Yes, master. See, the man yonder is moving this way."
                  It was necessary to avoid arrest above all things; and I turned into a
                     side-road.
                  "A last word, friend," I said. "My father?"
                  "The squire be well, master; but look you!"
                  The trooper was riding towards me; and, setting spur to my horse, I followed a
                     bridle-path which led straight through the woods towards Cecil Court.
                  In half an hour I emerged from the wood, and the old home of my family was
                     before me. Oh, how my heart yearned towards it! How my pulse leaped at sight of
                     the dearly-loved roof! I put spur to my horse, went at full speed across the
                     fields, drew near, passed through the great gate, then, galloping up the
                     familiar old avenue, I threw myself from the saddle, and approached the broad
                     door.
                  As I did so, a brilliant gleam from between two clouds fell upon the old
                     portico. My heel clashed on the flags; I heard a cry; the door opened, and I
                     found myself caught in the arms of my father,—and of Harry!
               
               
                  XVI. A FRIEND IN NEED, AND INDEED.
                  THERE are some scenes, reader, which the most eloquent chronicler shrinks from
                     describing, feeling that words have not yet been invented adequate to convey
                     his emotion.
                  My brother whom I thought dead was thus alive, and I clasped him in my arms!
                     The dear laughing face was there again before me,—the warm hand pressed my own: it was Harry,—Harry! and,
                     holding him close to me, I laughed and cried like a child.
                  The history of this marvel was given me in few words. Harry had been fearfully
                     but not mortally wounded on the day of Naseby. With the wounded of both sides,
                     he had been conveyed to an obscure hospital in London, and only after long
                     confinement to his bed had he been able to rise again. He was then conducted to
                     prison: his obscure existence was unrecorded. At last his prison-door had
                     opened; and here he was again at home.
                  "That's the whole, Ned," he laughed,—"except something else. Shall I tell that
                     too?"
                  "Speak, Harry."
                  "No; I'll think I'll let madam tell you in person."
                  "Madam!"
                  "Certainly. Do you remember our visit to my lord Falkland's house 'Great
                     Tew'?"
                  "Yes! yes!"
                  "And his handsome and most agreeable niece Alice?"
                  I started, gazing at him with wide eyes.
                  "She has come to see us, now!"
                  And, opening an inner door, Harry called out, laughing,—
                  "Alice!"
                  The beautiful girl hastened in, bright-eyed, laughing, and holding up her red
                     cheek.
                  "Welcome, brother Edmund!" she said.
                  I pressed my lips to the red cheek, lost in a maze of wonder. As I did so, I
                     felt two arms around my neck, and Cicely's lips close pressed to my own.
                  "Oh, brother! God be thanked——!"
                  The child began to cry then, and only held me closer.
                  "My little Cicely!" I exclaimed, returning her embrace. Then I added,
                     laughing,—
                  "You at least are not married?"
                  Harry burst into laughter.
                  "Ask Frank Villiers there if she's not!" he cried.
                  I turned, feeling as though I were in a dream. Before me stood young Frank
                     Villiers, with his chestnut curls, blue eyes, and joyous smile, enjoying
                     plainly my astonishment, my dumb stupor.
                  "Let me explain all, my son, in a very few words," said my father, in his mild
                     sweet voice. "Harry and Cicely have just been married, and are about to leave
                     me. They go beyond seas until the troubles of England have blown over. God has
                     mercifully returned my dear Harry to me back from the grave, and now sends you
                     too to add to the joy of my old heart!"
                  My father had scarce uttered these words, when hoof-strokes clattered up the
                     avenue.
                  "Who comes so fast?" he said, going to the door, and opening it.
                  A moment afterwards I saw rush in the figure of young Jervas Ireton. He was
                     covered with dust, and held a paper in his hand.
                  "Make haste, Mr. Harry, and Mr. Ned, and all!" he exclaimed. "They are coming
                     to arrest you!—from Keynton!—the troopers!"
                  "To arrest us?" I said, coldly. "Doubtless 'tis your good father, sir."
                  "Father? Why, he's dead!" exclaimed the young hopeful, without any exhibition of feeling.
                     "Died of the quinsy,—furious because I'd married the gamekeeper's daughter! Her
                     name was Cicely,—she's a beauty! But hurry, Mr. Ned and Harry! I'm your friend;
                     not one of the godly. I have no opinions of any consequence! Order your coach,
                     quick, and horses too, and get to Charlecote with the ladies! Stay! the
                     troopers are coming. See, yonder on the hill!"
                  A glance indicated that the warning was judicious. On the summit of a hill
                     about half a mile from the house was seen a party of troopers approaching at a
                     round trot.
                  "I'll see to the coach without a moment's delay!" Harry exclaimed; "and you,
                     young ladies, gather up your jewels and laces and be ready! Ned, you and I will
                     go on horseback. Your horse will await you in the shrubbery near the
                     coach."
                  Cicely and the fair Alice were hastening out, when young Ireton caught the hand
                     of the former.
                  "Do you remember old times, Cicely?"
                  "Yes,—oh, thank you, Jervas; but don't keep me."
                  "You are going away now, and I won't see you again, Cicely."
                  "Good-by, Jervas."
                  "One moment, Cicely. I am not of much consequence; but I'm not a bad fellow,
                     and I will try to show you that."
                  He unfolded the paper in his hand.
                  "I loved you, Cicely," he went on, "and married the gamekeeper's daughter
                     because she's named Cicely too! I love you still, and Mr. Ned, and Harry, and
                     Mr. Cecil, and all of you. My father's dead, and I'm the master, and this deed
                     is mine. It is the deed to my father for Cecil Court, which they confiscated.
                     Here, Cicely! that is my wedding-present. Now give me a kiss!"
                  He tore the deed in pieces, and presented it to her.
                  "Good, good Jervas! You are a true friend! Oh, thank you! you shall have a good
                     kiss, indeed!"
                  And Cicely held up her lips quickly; the youth bestowed a resounding salute
                     thereon: a moment afterwards, Cicely had disappeared, and the troopers were
                     seen rapidly approaching.
                  "Go, my son," said my father. "I have seen you, and you must not run the risk
                     of prison! God be thanked, my old eyes have looked again upon my children!
                     Embrace me! God bless you!"
                  I threw myself into my father's arms, shook hands with Jervas, and ran to my
                     horse, which stood in the shrubbery.
                  As the troopers thundered up to the door, the coach containing Cicely, Alice,
                     and Frank Villiers disappeared in the wood behind the house.
                  Harry and I followed on horseback; and we gained Charlecote in safety.
                  On the next morning the coach with its gentlemen outriders set out for the
                     coast. Fortune served us. We obtained passage on a vessel bound for
                     Holland.
                  Three days afterwards our feet pressed the soil of the continent. We were
                     beyond the reach of all our enemies.
               
               
                  
                  XVII. VIRGINIA.
                  A FEW pages more will terminate my memoirs.
                  I found her majesty the queen at the château of the Duchess de Montmorenci, in
                     a hall hung with black ever since the execution of the great duke by Richelieu.
                     And here in this funereal mansion the illustrious widows mingled their
                     tears.
                  The queen scarce shed any when I gave her the king's letter and last message. A
                     dumb despair seemed to have dried up the fount of her tears; and when I had
                     finished my tragic narrative she simply dropped her head, fixing her eyes
                     steadily upon the floor, and, seeing that she had forgotten my presence, I
                     silently went out of the apartment, leaving the august mourner to herself.
                  Frances Villiers had remained with her, and now received me and soothed me.
                     Need I relate what followed? The sole obstacle to our union had been the
                     promise made to Harry. He was not dead now, but alive, and certainly would
                     never more prove my rival. Thus I came to Frances, and took her hand and
                     pressed it to my lips. An hour afterwards she had promised me; and in a month
                     she was my wife,—the dearest and best wife man ever had.
                  Thus, friendly reader, whether of my own blood or other, I have come to the end
                     of my story. Would you have a few words more, and know how my life passed
                     afterwards? The record will fill but a page, and I lay it before you. I
                     remained on the continent, attached to the French court, until the summer of
                     1650, when I went with his majesty Charles II. on that ill-fated expedition
                     that terminated at Worcester. I shared his perils and adventures thereafter,
                     and may some day relate them. Now I will record only the fact that I escaped in
                     safety and rejoined my wife in Paris.
                  The year afterwards I was in Virginia, and was building my house here on York
                     River. Some old cavalier friends had preceded me, and told marvels of the
                     country,—of the cheap and fertile lands, the stately rivers, and the charming
                     climate. I therefore collected my resources, set sail from France, established
                     myself on the great York, and have never revisited England.
                  The Cecils flourish there still,—Harry being the head of the house. My dear
                     father is long since dead,—God rest him, and bless his memory! And Harry, the
                     owner of Cecil Court, writes me at length by every sailing-vessel, filling his
                     sheet with laughing comments on affairs around him, and memories of old
                     times.
                  Just across the York resides Frank Villiers with his wife Cicely,—a well-to-do
                     planter, surrounded by rosy-faced children. He and my dear friend Mr. Page of
                     "Rosewell" are here constantly. And my old age thus passes serenely in the
                     midst of my family and friends, beneath the sunshine of one of the most
                     beautiful of all lands.
                  
                  For all I am grateful,—chiefest of all "for my dear wife and my happy children.
                     God made the first portion of my existence stormy; he has mercifully sent the
                     sunshine to bathe with its mild splendor my old age. I thank him humbly, and
                     strive to love my fellow-creatures as I should. Old enmities have long since
                     disappeared from my heart. The smiles of my dear Frances and my little ones
                     shine brightly. And that cheerful sunshine lights up my life, blotting out all
                     the sad memories of the past.
               
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            POPULAR WORKS PUBLISHED BY J. B. LlPPINCOTT & CO.,
            PHILADELPHIA.
            
               Will be sent by mail, postpaid, on receipt of the price.
            
            
               Gideon's Rock. A Novel. By Katherine Saunders, author of "The High Mills," etc.
                  With a Frontispiece. 16mo. Extra cloth. $1. 
                     "A simple, touching story, that goes straight to the heart of the
                           reader."—Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
                     
                     "It is a masterpiece."—London Times.
                     
                  
               
               The High Mills. A Novel. By Katherine Saunders, author of "Gideon's Rock."
                  Illustrated. 8vo. Paper. 75 cents. Extra cloth. $1.25. 
                     "In all the portraiture, description, dialogue and incident of the book
                        there is a fresh originality, a vivid dramatic power, a knowledge of the
                        mystery of life, that few possess. Here is a writer who will be, perhaps, as
                        great as George Eliot."—New York Evening Mail.
                     
                     "In many respects one of the best and most powerful works of fiction that
                        have been lately issued."—Boston Journal.
                     
                  
               
               Hester Kirton. A Novel. By Katherine S. Mac Quoid, author of "Rookstone," "A
                  Bad Beginning," "Chesterford," etc. A new edition. 16mo. Ornamented cloth. $1 25. 
                     "It is altogether one of the best publications of the
                           day."—Philadelphia Age.
                     
                     "By far one of the best novels that have been sent to us this
                           season."—New Orleans Times.
                     
                  
               
               Rookstone. A Novel. By Katherine S. Mac Quoid, author of "Forgotten by the
                  World," "Hester Kirton," "Patty," etc. Illustrated. 8vo. Paper cover, 75 cents.
                  Extra cloth. $1.25. 
                     "Well constructed and clearly told. We recommend it to novel
                           readers."—Philadelphia Press.
                     
                     "It is admirably written and excellent in tone."—New York Evening
                           Mail.
                     
                  
               
               
               Thrown Together. A Story. By Florence Montgomery, author of "Misunderstood," "A
                  Very Simple Story," etc. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.50. 
                     "The author of 'Misunderstood' has given us another charming story of
                        child-life. This, however, is not a book for children. Adult readers of Miss
                        Montgomery's book will find much that will lead them to profitable
                        reflection of childish character and many graphically touched terms of
                        childish thought and expression which will come home to their own
                           experience."—London Athenæum.
                     
                     "A delightful story, founded upon the lives of children. There is a
                        thread of gold in it upon which are strung many lovely sentiments. There is
                        a deep and strong current of religious feeling throughout the story, not a
                        prosy, unattractive lecturing upon religious subjects. A good, true and
                        earnest life is depicted, full of hope and longing, and of happy fruition.
                        One cannot read this book without being better for it, or without a more
                        tender charity being stirred up in his heart"—Washington Daily
                           Chronicle.
                     
                     "The characters are drawn with a delicacy that lends a charm to the
                           book."—Boston Saturday Evening Gazette.
                     
                  
               
               Why Did He Not Die? or, The Child from the Ebräergang. From the German of AD.
                  VON VOLCKHAUSEN. By Mrs. A. L. WISTER, translator of "Old Mam'selle's Secret,"
                  "Gold Elsie," etc. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.75. 
                     "Mrs. Wister's admirable translations are among the books that everybody
                        reads. She certainly may be said to possess unusual ability in retaining the
                        peculiar weird flavor of a German story, while rendering it with perfect
                        case and grace into our own language. Few recently published novels have
                        received more general perusal and approval than 'Only a Girl;' and 'Why Did
                        He Not Die" possesses in at least an equal degree all the elements of
                        popularity. From the beginning to the end the interest never flags, and the
                        characters and scenes are drawn with great warmth and power."—New
                           York Herald.
                     
                  
               
               Aytoun. A Romance. By Emily T. Read. 8vo. Paper cover. 40 cents. 
                     "The fabric is thoroughly wrought and truly
                           dramatic."—Philadelphia North American.
                     
                     "There are elements of power in the novel, and some exciting
                           scenes."—New York Evening Mail.
                     
                  
               
               Old Song and New. A Volume of Poems. By MARGARET J. PRESTON, author of
                  "Beechenbrook," 12mo. Tinted paper. Extra cloth. $2. 
                     "In point of variety and general grace of diction, 'Old Song and New' is
                        the best volume of poems that has yet been written by an American woman,
                        whether North or South—the best, because on the whole the best sustained and
                        the most thoughtful."—Baltimore Gazette.
                     
                     "In this volume there is workmanship of which none need be ashamed, while
                        much vies with our best living writers. Strength and beauty, scholarship and
                        fine intuition are manifested throughout so as to charm the reader and
                        assure honorable distinction to the writer. Such poetry is in no danger of
                        becoming too abundant."—Philadelphia North American.
                     
                  
               
               Margaree. A Poem. By Hampden Masson. 16mo. Extra cloth, 75 cents.
               By His Own Might. A Romance. Translated from the German of WILHELMINE VON
                  HILLERN, author of "Only a Girl," etc. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.75. 
                     "Some of the scenes are powerfully wrought out, and are highly dramatic
                        in their construction."—Boston Saturday Evening Gazette.
                     
                     "The story is well constructed. It is vivacious, intricate and well
                        sustained. It is one of the best of the many excellent novels from the
                        German issued by this house."—Phila. Evening Bulletin.
                     
                  
               
               The Daughter of an Egyptian King. An Historical Romance. Translated from the
                  German of GEORGE EBERS by HENRY REED. 12mo. Extra cloth $1.75. 
                     "It is a wonderful production. There have been ancient novels before now,
                        but none, according to our recollections, so antique as this."—New
                           York World.
                     
                     "The plot is a most interesting one, and in its development we are given
                        an accurate insight into the social and political life of the Egyptians of
                        that time."—Boston Evening Traveller.
                     
                     "It is a valuable contribution to science as well as a highly-wrought
                           novel."—Cincinnati Gazette.
                     
                  
               
               Sergeant Atkins. A Tale of Adventure. Founded on Fact. By an Officer of the
                  United States Army. With illustrations. 12mo. Extra cloth. $1.75. 
                     "It is the best Indian story, because the truest to life, that we have
                        lately seen."—Boston Post.
                     
                     "Apart from its mere literary merits as a graphic, well-told and spirited
                        narrative of border experience and Indian warfare, 'Sergeant Atkins' really
                        gives us all the facts of the Florida war which are necessary to a clear
                        understanding of its origin, progress and character."—Army and Navy
                           Journal.
                     
                  
               
               The Warden. A Novel. By Anthony Trollope, author of "The Vicar of Bullhampton,"
                  "Orley Farm," etc. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.
               Barchester Towers. A Novel. By Anthony Trollope, author of "Phineas Finn," "He
                  Knew he was Right," etc. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.25. 
                     "These two novels belong to the admirable Barchester series, in which
                        certain phases of clerical life are developed with much realism
                           humor."—N. Y. Tribune.
                     
                  
               
               The Scapegoat. A Novel. By Leo. 12mo. Pa per cover. $1 Cloth. $1.50. 
                     "The book has a good deal of life and spirit in it"—Philadelphia
                           Age.
                     
                     "It is bold and vigorous in delineation, and equally pronounced and
                        effective in its moral."—St. Louis Times.
                     
                  
               
               Who Would Have Thought it? A Novel. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.75. 
                     A bright and attractive romance, with an interesting plot, well sustained
                        throughout.
                  
               
               
               Tricotrin. The Story of a Waif and Stray. By "OUIDA," author of "Under Two
                  Flags," etc. With Portrait of the Author from an Engraving on Steel. 12mo" Cloth.
                  $2. 
                     "The story is full of vivacity and of thrilling
                           interest."—Pittsburgh, Gazette.
                     
                     "Tricotrin is a work of absolute power, some truth and deep
                           interest."—N. Y. Day Book.
                     
                     "The book abounds in beautiful sentiment, expressed in a concentrated,
                        compact style which cannot fail to be attractive and will be read with
                        pleasure in every household."—San Francisco Times.
                     
                  
               
               Granville de Vigne; or, Held in Bondage. A Tale of the Day. By "OUIDA," author
                  of "Idalia," "Tricotrin," etc. 12mo. Cloth. $2. 
                     "This is one of the most powerful and spicy works of fiction which the
                        present century, so prolific in light literature, has produced."
                  
               
               Strathmore; or, Wrought by His Own Hand. A Novel. By "OUIDA," author of
                  "Granville de Vigne," etc. 12mo. Cloth. $2. 
                     "It is a romance of the intense school, but it is written with more
                        power, fluency and brilliancy than the works of Miss Braddon and Mrs. Wood,
                        while its scenes and characters are taken from high life."—Boston
                           Transcript.
                     
                  
               
               Chandos. A Novel. By "Ouida" author of "Strathmore," "Idalia," etc. 12mo.
                  Cloth. $2. 
                     "Those who have read these two last named brilliant works of fiction
                        (Granville de Vigne and Strathmore) will be sure to read
                           Chandos. It is characterized by the same gorgeous coloring
                        of style and somewhat exaggerated portraiture of scenes and characters, but
                        it is a story of surprising power and interest."—Pittsburgh Evening
                           Chronicle.
                     
                  
               
               Under Two Flags. A Story of the Household and the Desert. By "OUIDA," author of
                  "Tricotrin," "Granville de Vigne," etc. 12mo. Cloth. $2. 
                     "No one will be able to resist its fascination who once begins its
                           perusal."—Phila. Evening Bulletin.
                     
                     "This is probably the most popular work of Ouida. It is enough of itself
                        to establish her fame as one of the most eloquent and graphic writers of
                        fiction now living."—Chicago Journal of Commerce.
                     
                  
               
               Puck. His Vicissitudes, Adventures, Observations, Conclusions, Friendship and
                  Philosophies. By "OUIDA," author of "Strathmore," "Idalia," "Tricotrin," etc.
                  "12mo. Fine cloth. $2. 
                     "Its quaintness will provoke laughter, while the interest in the central
                        character is kept up unabated."—Albany Journal.
                     
                     "It sustains the widely-spread popularity of the
                           author."—Pittsburgh Gazette.
                     
                  
               
               Folle-Farine. A Novel. By "Ouida" author of "Idalia," "Under Two Flags,"
                  "Strathmore," etc. 12mo. Fine cloth. $2. 
                     "Ouida's pen is a graphic one, and page after page of gorgeous
                        word-painting flow from it in a smooth, melodious rhythm that often has the
                        perfect measure of blank verse, and needs only to be broken into line. There
                        is in it, too, the eloquence of genius."—Phila. Eve.
                           Bulletin.
                     
                     "This work fully sustains the writer's previous reputation, and may be
                        numbered among the best of her works."—Troy Times.
                     
                     "Full of vivacity."—Fort Wayne Gazette.
                     
                     "The best of her numerous stories,"—Vicksburg Herald.
                     
                  
               
               Idalia. A Novel. By "Ouida" author of "Strath more," "Tricotrin," "Under Two
                  Flags," etc. 12mo. Cloth. $2. 
                     "It is a story of love and hatred, of affection and jealousy, of intrigue
                        and devotion. We think this novel will attain a wide popularity, especially
                        among those whose refined taste enables them to appreciate and enjoy what is
                        truly beautiful in literature."—Albany Evening Journal.
                     
                  
               
               A Leaf in the Storm, and other Novelettes. By "OUIDA," author of
                  "Folle-Farine," "Granville de Vigne," etc. Two Illustrations. Fifth Edition. 8vo.
                  Paper cover. 50 cents. 
                     "Those who look upon light literature as an art will read these tales
                        with pleasure and satisfaction."—Baltimore Gazette.
                     
                     "In the longest of these stories, 'A Branch of Lilac,' the simplicity of
                        the narrative—so direct and truthful—produces the highest artistic effect.
                        It required high genius to write such a tale in such a
                           manner."—Philadelphia Press.
                     
                  
               
               Cecil Castlemaine's Gage, and other Stories. By "OUIDA," author of "Granville
                  de Vigne," "Chandos," etc. Revised for Publication by the Author. 12mo. Cloth.
                  $1.75.
               Randolph Gordon, and other Stories. By "Ouida," author of "Idalia," "Under Two
                  Flags," etc. 12mo. Cloth. $1.75.
               Beatrice Boville, and other Stones. By "Ouida," author of "Strathmore," "Cecil
                  Castlemaine's Gage," etc. 12mo. Cloth. $1.75. 
                     "The many works already in print by this versatile authoress have
                        established her reputation as a novelist, and these short stories contribute
                        largely to the stock of pleasing narratives and adventures alive to the
                        memory of all who are given to romance and fiction."—New Haven
                           Journal.
                     
                  
               
               
               The Old Mam'selle's Secret. From the German of E. Marlitt, author of "Gold
                  Elsie," etc, By Mrs. A. L. WISTER. Sixth edition. 12mo. Cloth. $1 50. 
                     "A more charming story, and one which, having once commenced, it seemed
                        more difficult to leave, we have not met with for many a day."—The
                           Round Table.
                     
                     "Is one of the most intense, concentrated, compact novels of the day. And
                        the work has the minute fidelity of the author of 'The Initials,' the
                        dramatic unity of Reade and the graphic power of George
                           Eliot."—Columbus (O.) Journal.
                     
                  
               
               Gold Elsie. From the German of E. Marlitt, author of "The Old Mam'selle's
                  Secret," etc. By Mrs. A. L. WISTER. Fifth edition. 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                     "A charming book. It absorbs your attention from the title-page to the
                           end."—The Home Circle.
                     
                     "A charming story charmingly told."—Baltimore Gazette.
                     
                  
               
               Countess Gisela. From the German of E. Marlitt, author of "Gold Elsie," etc. By
                  Mrs. A. L. WISTER. Third edition. 12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 
                     "There is more dramatic power in this than in any of the stories by the
                        same author that we have read."—N. O. Times.
                     
                     "It is a story that arouses the interest of the reader from the
                           outset."—Pittsburgh Gazette.
                     
                     "The best work by this author."—Philadelphia Telegraph.
                     
                  
               
               Over Yonder. From the German of E. Marlitt, author of "Countess Gisela," etc.
                  Third edition. With a full-page Illustration. 8vo. Paper cover. 30 cents. 
                     "'Over Yonder' is a charming novelette. The admirers of 'Old Mam'selle's
                        Secret' will give it a glad reception, while those who are ignorant of the
                        merits of this author will find in it a pleasant introduction to the works
                        of a gifted writer."—Daily Sentinel.
                     
                  
               
               The Little Moorland Princess. From the German of E. Marlitt, author of "The Old
                  Mam'selle's Secret," "Gold Elsie," etc. By Mrs. A. L. WISTER. Fourth edition.
                  12mo. Fine cloth. $1.75. 
                     "By far the best foreign romance of the season."—Philadelphia
                           Press.
                     
                     "It is a great luxury to give one's self up to its balmy
                           influence."—Chicago Evening Journal.
                     
                  
               
               Magdalena. From the German of E. Marlitt, author of "Countess Gisela," etc. And
                  THE LONELY ONES ("The Solitaries"). From the German of Paul Heyse. With two
                  Illustrations. 8vo. Paper cover. 35 cents. 
                     "We know of no way in which a leisure hour may be more pleasantly whiled
                        away than by a perusal of either of these tales."—Indianapolis
                        Sentinel.
                  
               
            
         
      
   
