
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Heads and Hearts, or, My Brother the Colonel .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6678
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Heads and hearts, or, My brother the colonel 
            
               HEADS AND HEARTS;

OR,~
MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL
.t
ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE DANGEROUS CONSEQUENCES OF YEELDNG TO THE
IMPULSES OF THE FEELINGS, RATHER THAN LISTENING TO
THE DICTATES. OF PRUDENCE.
BY TIlE AUTHOR OF "COUSIN CECIL," " MISER'S DAUGHTER," &amp;c.
"Why should the sacred character of Virtue
Shine on a villain's countenance? Ye Powers!
Why fix'd you not a brand on treason'sjont,
That we might know t'avoid perfidious !ortalsP'
NEW YORK:
DEWITT &amp; DAVENPORT, PUBLISHERS,
TRIBUNE BUILDINGS.


f- s
F
F
t     yy i
R
-4     'rdj
.
". { i
t _

ITEADS AND HEAR
CHA-PTER I.
icy's carriage stops the way !" "A thousand thanks, my lor
*          pany."  " Clear the way there ! Knock that fellow down."  "
1 have lost my watch upon my honor !" " Captaifi Lorrinet
the way 1" " Links-links !" " Here you are, your honor."
H "t
"Way for the regent's carriage !"  "Hurra! There he is! Ble
A fine family-"  "Murder! don't tread on my corns, will y
-watch !"   "What is it ?"  "A gentleman's hand is in my p
the way there ! Don't you see the prince is coming ?"  "Th
hip-hip-hur--Murder! don't be poking the tarry end
in my mouth !" " There he comes-that's him. The fat you
big face. Ah, he's the fellow to make the money go."  "Why,
he may well make it go." " Down with that Jacobin." "2
carriage stops the way !"  "Now, my lady! Mind the step
"What's the matter, now ?"  "Way for the prince !"  "Th
goes a specimen of the real royal family of England." "XW
Why, there, sir-don't you see his Royal Highness the Prin
Regent of the United Kingdom, and I don't know what hesidi
the steps now ?"
" Oh, don't--"
'What are you about'? Oh, police ! Somebody has sto
my coat, and there was in the left hand pocket-"
" A mad dog-a mad dog !"
"Oh, good gracious! Run-run !"
"Sir John Morton's carriage stops the way! Lights here
Rattle-dash-crash! came the carriages; and rattle-das
the carriages from the state ball at the house of the Freud
Manchester Square, on rather a misty evening in February
Grace, 17-. Linkmen tore hither and thither, like so man
loose from the infernal regions, with a torch each, as a lbrid
eternal fires there blazing.
" Now, you people-do you want to get into the hall'?
you, and let the company out ? Way for the Lord Chancello
goes-there he goes !"  Links-links !" "Police! Watch !"
-murder! "There goes a panel."   "Stop thief! Stop t
that'?"  "Why, that is the famous pickpocket, sir, who-"
is my hat ?" " The Prince of Wales's carriage stops the way
In fact, though the affair was called a ball, it partook more
of a royal reception than anything else ; and the nobility o
anxious to testify their admiration of the monarchical system
dance at the French Ambassador's upon this occasion.
I-                                                                                                         The Prince of Wales made his appearance at ten o'clock, ai
quarter past. lie was, escorted by a troop of the hpouseh
with his escort and the train of carriages that came with him
fine show.

S.
"  " Lord Roke.
d, for your com-
Watch-watch!
's carriage stops
"Stop thief !"
ss him, how fat !
you ?" "Watch
ocket !" "Clear
ere he is ! Hip-
f that flambeau
ing man with the
it ain't his own
Lady Faffham's
!"  "Murder !"
iere, now-there
rhere-where ?"
ce of Wales, and
es, coming down
len the skirts of
h-crash ! went
Ambassador in
in the year of
y fiends just let
specimen of the
Keep back, will
r !"  "There he
Crash--smash
hief !"  "Who's
Murder ! where
!"
of the character
f England were
a by their atten-
nd stayed until a
old-guards; and
, he made quite a

II

_

~ ...... +........     +--+-                                   -    --   - . rrrrpWit tYli iiNiMn1II W1 1iN' 1                     _       _ _


12

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

I

MY BROTHER THE COLONEL.

18

_'    t
c.
__     _
i 
-
u
;

'I

I

After this visit, much of the attraction of the affair, as a sight for the mob,
diminished, for, although there were certainly many notable personages con-
tinually coming and going, it was royality that made up the principal interest
to the populace. The confusion, however, increased, and by about half-past
twelve o'clock Manchester Square was altnost impassable to foot-passengers.
A strong body of constables had been sent for, and tried in vain to make some
head against the mob; but they only sufficed to increase its numbers, so far
as they individually went, without, in the smallest degree, diminishing its
uproariousness.:
The carriages proceeded pretty well, for the horses trod upon the toes of
the people, and the coachmen and footmen were not very particular as to how
they forced a passage through the dense, living throng.
Hats, walking-canes, and umbrellas were thrown about as if they had been
the chance missiles of some battle-field. The few miserable oil lamps in the
square were smashed ; and had it not been for the blaze of light from the
windows of the house, through which the glittering chandeliers, with their
innumerable wax lights, could be seen, and the wild illumination round the
door made by the linkmen, the darkness would have been the inducement no
doubt, to even a greater amount of riot than did actually take place.
Several of the guests had made unsuccessful efforts to leave the house, but
could not get their carriages up to the door, and as for going on foot to seek
them, which they would not have scrupled to do upon ordinary occasions, that
was now out of the question.
Among the guests so situated, and who was thus compelled to linger in the
hall, was a Sir John Morton and his family. The family consisted of Lady
Morton his wife, his son, Abel Morton, a youth of fourteen years of age, and
his daughter, Loo Morton, who was upon that day exactly nine years old.
The residence of this family was in an old mansion on the northern slope of
the plateau comprising Hampstead Heath, and an old-fashioned travelling
chariot waited in the square to take them home, the coachman and the couple
of well-powdered footmen connected with which had made half-a-dozen vain
efforts to reach the door, being invited thereto by the shouts of the linkmen
for Sir John Morton's carriage !"
" Ah, Sir John Morton," said the Prince of Wales as he crossed the hall,
"they told me you were gone."
"1 should have been, your highness ; but it is not a very easy thing to get
away."
"There's a revolution in the square," said a gentlemanly man by the side
of the prince.                                            '
"So there seems to be, Mansfield," laughed the prince. "I wonder if they
will let me go?"
"The prince's carriage !-the prince's carriage !"
The row and the crush that ensued baffles all description, and the Prince
of Wales was away in another moment.
"Let me go, father," said Abel Morton, "and look for the carriage. It must
be somewhere close at hand. Our fellows are so stupid."
"No-no, boy ; stay where you are. There is a good deal of rough work
going on in the mob; and they will soon see, by your dress, that you are not
one of them. Don't stir, Abel, from the hall. You don't know what mis-
chief is in the minds of the people just now, cloaked by an appearance of
jocularity."
An universal groan came from the mob at this moment, as if to give a prac-
tical example of the opinion of Sir John Morton. Who or what it was they
groaned at nobody in the hall could tell; but-no doubt it was at some obnox-
ious political personage who had made his appearance in the square.
"Oh, I'd rather go, father; and get up the carriage," said Abel. "Here's
Loo, shivering like 1 don't know what; and she is sure to take cold. Do let
inc go ?"
"If you think you can, Abel, without getting into any danger," said Sir

ii

a
x
Y
p
fi

John Morton, who was n'vously sensitive when any apprehension concern-
ing the health of his darling child, Loo, was hinted to him. "If you think
that with discretion, Abel, you can find the carriage do so."
"Yes, father-yes. I can easily do it."
Lady Morton was about to say something against the certainly rather peril-
ous enterprise; but Abel, fancying that such would be the case, availed himself
so rapidly of the tardy permission of his father, that his mother had not time
to speak a word in opposition.
"Pa, you should not let dear Abel go into such a bad crowd," said Loo.
"Oh. why-why did we come hereD'
''Hush, my dear. There is no danger to us. Do not be alarmed."
"Oh, Abel, Abel," said Loo, "why don't you come back 7"
"My dear," said Lady Morton, with as much asperity as she could put on,
for she was a good soul. "My dear, Abel should not have been permitted to
go."
Perhaps Sir John Morton was getting round to the same opinion ; but 1-
fore he could say a word, either in defence or lamentation of what he had done,
Abel made his appearance in the hall again, with his honest, healthy face
flushed to a crimson glow with the exertion which he had made to battle his
way through, the mob.
"It's all right," he said. "The carriage is at the corner of a street a little
way off; but Jarvis can't get up to the door, so I told him welwould come
to him, you see, father, and there won't be any difficulty if you carry Loo."
"Come along, then," said Sir John, as he took the little girl in his arms.
"Come along. If we do not go at once, Heaven only knows how long wemay
be detained in this place. Come--come !"
A roar and a shriek from the crowd in the square at this moment, made
them all recoil from the steps of the house, and Sir John called out in a voice
of anxiety-
"What's that? what's that ?"
Loud cries of "Murder !" now came upon the night air, mingled with shrieks
and oaths. It was evident that the mob had got into collision with some
obnoxious personage, and that the riot was taking a much more mischievous
shape than it had yet done. The principal focus of the tumult, though, was
evidently upon the other side of the square, and, therefore, a better opportu-
nity for Sir John Morton and his family to leave the house could not be desi-
red. The mob swayed to and fro for a few moments, and then, in a full tide,
made way to the special scene of the tumult, so that the space before~ the
ambassador's door was singularly'clear in comparison to what it had been.
" Ah, there comes Jarvis with the carriage," cried Abel, as the vehicle made
its way up to the door of the ambassador's house."
Sir John Morton, with all possible expedition, placed his family in the car-
riage, and springing in himself, he felt satisfied that the perils and anxieties
of that night were over. But alas ! they had scarce began.
"I don't know," he said, "what on earth induced me to accept the invitation
to the ambassador's to-night ; but, somehow, you see, it was made a request
by General Hawksworth ; and he said that by bringing one's family it would
show a confidence in the existing state of affairs, which would have a good
effect at present."
"But I have no confidence in anything," said Lady Morton ; "and rather
than be terrified as I have been to-night, I would stay at home all the year
round."
"Yes, mamma," said Loo, "and I would stay with you."
"I know you would, my child; you are my dear, darling Loo, and as affec-
tionate and kind as-as---"
"Well-well,"'said Sir John, "don't cast about for a comparison. We will
rather be content to consider Loo quite peerless, only I am very much afraid
we shall spoil her among us. This is her ninth birthday, and may we live, all
of us to see the return of very many birthdays for her, and may they each be

f      5

t
x


I;

14                  HEADS AND HEARTS; ORy
happier than its predecessor. Come to me, Loo, my darling. Now don't you
be jealous, Abel, for you know we are beginning to look upon you as a man;
and if this were my last request to you, I would say, Abel, always be the friend
and protector of your sister Loo."
"I will, pa," said Abel, in a tone of voice that showed the deep sincerity of
his answer. "I will, indeed. -1 am quite ready now to fight all the world ;
and when I go into the army, pa, you know that I shall have a sword by my
side that will be ready to leap out of its scabbard the moment I only whisper
to it that Loo requires its aid."
"Bravely spoken, Abel."
The carriage stopped with a sudden jerk, and a strange, but still very clear
voice cried out-
"Is this Sir John Morton's carriage ?"
CHAPTER        II.
ONE hour before the carriage even so much as forced its way up to the door
of the ambassador's house, a lumbering, wheezing, odd-looking hackney-coach,
drawn by a couple of horses that looked coal-black in the intense darkness of
the road, which was not even pretended to be lighted, halted in the deep
shadow of a group of willow trees, that waved their long branches almost to
the other side of the way.
The man who was driving rubbed his hands together as though he were
chilled by the night air, and he laughed a strange laugh, which had-in it not
one particle of mirth.
"Silence !" said a rough voice from the interior of the vehicle. "Silence,
Jobus !"
"Oh, dear, yes sir. Silence it is, and silent I am," said the man. "I-that
is--0.! thank you humbly, sir.".
"Frogs !" cried the man who was in the coach.
At this, a strange bundle, that looked as if it had been strapped to the back
of the vehicle, unrolled itself, and another man appeared.
"Frogs !"
"Well, what now ?" said the man from behind the coach.
"Where's the box ?"
"On the roof. Didn't you say it was to go on the roof?"
"I did. Let me not have any of your insolence, Frogs. Understand me,
now, both of you," said the tall man. "Attend to what I. say to you."
"Humbly, yes," said Jobus,
"Well, I hear," said Frogs.
" Now you understand, Jobus, that you keep upon the coach-box, and the
moment you hear me whistle, you whip the cattle towards town, and go at
the best pace you can. If you are pursued you will take the first opportunity
of leaving the coach and making your escape. If you are not pursued you will
go quietly to the stables."
"Yes, sir-yes, Colonel Elk, I-"
" Silence ! How dare you mention my name, even to the night air, you
wretch?  How dare you do it ?"
" 0-I-that is, I humbly forgot ! 0, sir, I beg your pardon, indeed I do !
-If.you please, sir, I forgot !"
". Hush ! Frogs, where is the box ?"
"Here, to be sure. Have you got any ears?  I thought I heard some one
coining. It's a man on horseback, [ take it."
" Stand close then, and let him pass. What a pace !"
A mounted man swept by them at a gallop that was prodgious, and he was
gone like a whirlwind before a glimpse could be got of him, so as to omol~ at
any opinion as to who or what he wa"  Colonel Elk and his men  id ut
speak nor move for som ae few minutes after the man ou horseback had pased

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                        15
them like a mad apparition. It was the colonel, however, who at length broke
the silence ; and in a low, demoniac voice, he said-
" Look to your pistols, but do not use them until I order you. Open the
gate that leads to the garden, Frogs, and place the box inside. Quick !-quick,!
I do not know that there is any time to lose now."
The rumble of approaching carriage wheels, and the step of the horses' hoofs
upon the unfrequented road, increased in reality each moment.
"They come," said Colonel Elk. "They come," and he hastily put on a
green mask, enveloping his entire face.
In a few minutes the reflection of the lamps of Sir John Morton's carriage
flashed upon the hedge as it whirled rapidly past, thus giving that strange,
metallic color to the vegetation which artificial light ever imparts to it. Col-
onel Elk stood just upon the verge of the shadow cast by the old willows;
and when the carriage got within about a dozen yards of the spot, he, with
one bound, got to the middle of the road, and seizing the horse that was upon
the near side by the rein, he cried out, as the animal was forced back upon itS
haunches by the suddenness of the attack-
"Is this Sir John Morton's carriage ?"
The vice of Sir John Morton from the inside of the vehicle calling loudly to
know what was the matter, was the next sound that was heard. The coach-
man was courageous enough in his way, and he began to lash with his long
whip at the man who had so audaciously stopped the horses. The two foot-
men likewise got down from behind, and were rather confused to know what
to do, when Colonel Elk, who had received a severe cut or two from the coach-
man's whip, drew a pistol from the breast of his apparel, and with an execra-
tion, shot him dead.
All this was the work of a very few moments, during which Sir John Mor-
ton had made the most unavailing efforts to get out of the carriage. Lady
Morton screamed and fainted. Abel seconded his father in his exertions to
open the carriage door, and little Loo, with her hands clasped, and her pretty
face blanched as though death had robbed it'of its roses, sat still as a statue.
"What is ml this ?" cried.Sir John, furiously. "Open the door, somebody.
Thomas-Jones-where are you both?     Open the door at once."
"Try the other one, father," said Abel.
Before Sir John could scramble over the fainting Lady Morton, who had
slipped from her seat to the bottom of the carriage, and offered a considerable
obstacle to reaching the other door, it was swung open, and, holding one of
the carriage lanmps just a little above the level of his face, so that the light fell
full upon the strange and hideous green mask, there stood Colonel Elk. .
"'Good God !" said Sir John Morton.
Abel shrunk back and impeded his father. Little Loo uttered a shriek, as
the man with the green face suddenly thrust his disengaged arm into the car-
riage, and seizing her by the long ringlets that hung in such luxuriance down
her back, he had her out in a moment.
"Hold !" shouted Sir John. " Villain ! devil!"
Smash went the carriage-lamp right in his face, and he fell backwards over
the senseless form of Lady Morton. The light was extinguished, and then a
deep, hollow voice, cried-
"Ha, ha, ha !"
Half stunned and bewildered as he was, however, Sir John Morton rose
again, and dashed himself out of the carriage into the roadway, shouting-
"My child ! My darling ! help! murder ! Returnher, and take all I have !
Name your price, villains, but restore me my child. Help-help !"
A bewildering scream rose upon the night air, and Jobus then lashed the
horses in the old hackney-coach into a gallop.
"Father-father !" cried a voice.
"Follow us if you dare ! Ha! hal1" shouted the strange sepulchral tones
that had before brought terror to the ears of Sir John ; and then he felt con-
'       vinced that it was in the coach that rolled so rapidly away that his child was
borne from him.

II
Ii

I

4   ..4-mow'


'5

"

16

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

I

MY BROTHER' THE COLONEL.

17

I I
i.
1
If

"A horse-a horse ! Oh, God, anything for a horse !" he cried.d " My child,
my best loved child ! My datling! Help-help! Abel, follow me. It is
for your dear sister's sake. On-on-on !"      -
Both father and son set off in a fruitless and mad race after the hackney-
coach. The two footmen gathered themselves up, and, as fast as their legs
would carry them, darted off in the other direction. The dead body of the
coachman lay upon its face in the road, and Lady Morton, still in a complete
state of insensibility, was in the carriage.
"Frogs," said Colonel Elk.
"Here you are."
"Take her-you know what to do."
"The box ?"
"Yes. Quick-quick. She is half dead with fright; but she may recover
yet. Quick, I say. Leave the gate open-I will soon come to you."
Frogs, with Loo in his arms, disappeared into the deserted garden with
speed. Colonel Elk carefully took off his green mask, and put it in his pocket.
" Jobus does his work well," said he.
The night wind came past him in howling gusts. The clouds had, as he
hoped they would, thickened, and a few heavy drops of rain were falling. No
sound came from the only occupant of the carriage ; but a slight confused noise,
in the other direction to that which Sir John Morton and his son had taken,
came upon the ears of Colonel Elk.
" Ah !" he said, "what is that ?"
To step lightly into the middle of the road was the work of a moment. He
took a long look in the direction of the confused sounds, and presently, far off,
he saw the flash of lights, and he heard the tramp of footsteps coming hur-
riedly on. The two footmen had met with aid, and gathering courage by
numbers, now were coming back to render that assistance which is generally
too late.
A shrill wailing cry from the garden at this moment reached the ears of
Colonel Elk.'
"Frogs, what's that ?"
"The girl ! Confound her !"
"What of her ?"
"She recovers-she will scream. She won't go into the box. What shall
I do ?"
"Smash her !"
Crash! One shrill scream burst upon the night air - Crash ! All is
still.
CHAPTER        III.
THE reader will be so good as to imagine that the world and all that it in-
herits are six years older than they were at the conclusion of our last chapter.
From a lively, peach-cheeked boy Abel Morton has shot up into a young man.
The kindly blue eyes, full of frankness and intelligence, are still there, but the
color has faded from the cheeks.
Lady Morton, from that night, had been a confirmed invalid, and she looked
so pale-oh,'so pale-and she spoke so low, and sighed so deeply, that it was
evident to the most casual observer her heart had all but broken.
Sir John Morton, for a time, had borne his sorrows like a man; but those
six years of grief had sapped the better part of his health and strength. They
had changed his dark hair to an iron grey-they had planted furrows in his
cheeks, and they had robbed him of all the strength of manhood.
From the moment that the man with the green face had clutched hold of
Loo by her long ringlets, and taken her from the carriage, nothing whatever
had been heard or seen of her.
This was the grief that had eaten into the soul of the strong man, and made
him what he now was-the querulous invalid-furiously passionate about

trifles--.maddened by his own thoughts-a walking curse to himself, and at
times as bad to all about him.
There was another inmate of the baronet's house, though, now, and that was
a young girl of as nearly as might be the same age as Loo Morton. Her name
was Emma Chester, and she was the orphan niece of Sir John Morton. His
sister had married a Lieutenant Chester, who, in one of the half wild campaigns
in India, had fallen within four months of his marriage. Emma was the pos-
thumous child of their union, and her mother died soon after her birth, so that
for a time, in India, she was in the care of strangers. They were kind and
considerate strangers, though ; and it was not until the little orphan was
some twelve years old that Sir John-Morton, at the solicitation of his lady,
had her home to England.
Now, it is rather a hazardous thing to bring up an impetuous boy of six-
teen to the age of twenty under the same roof with a lovely girl of twelve,-
who imperceptibly becomes the young lady of sixteen in four years, that
glide by to the young and happy carelessly enough.
Their relationship just sufficed to place Abel quite at his ease with Emma,
and his mother told him that he was to look upon her as his sister in place
of the lost one; but he loved her better than ever sisters are loved ; and we
shallxnot be far wrong when we say that Emma Chester, from the time that
she began first toask her heart any questions at all, found that the image of
her handsome cousin, Abel, was its occupant.
The course of true love runs not smooth; and when the time came, which
it did, for Abel to pass a term or two at college, he went with a heavy heart
from his dear cousin, Emma; but that separation passed away, and then it
became necessary for him to finish some studies in London dhich Sir John
wished him very much, to excel in, so by his twentieth birth-day, Abel had
been in London for six months, from Christmas to midsummer. His absence
had cast a gloom over his fireside at home ; but as it was only to be for one
year, even Emma taught herself the secret duplicity of affecting to smile when
her heart was in reality sad.
It was during these six months that the first change to a state of quiet se-
renity seemed to come over Sir John Morton. It was whispered about the
household that it was after a dream, in which he had seen his dear child Loo,
who had looked smilingly at him, and told him she was happy, and that they
would meet again, that he shook off the heavy load of grief, and began to look
again at the world with more friendly eyes ; but be that as it may, he cer-
tainly di recover to some degree.
Now aving explained this much, we will look in upon the family. at their
breakfast on a bright midsummer's day. The room they sat in was a charming
one. Lady Morton half reclined upon a couch, drawn close to the breakfast-
table and even she seemed to feel more than usually the genial influence of such
a day as our fickle and wayward climate seldom has the graciousness to pre-
sent us with,
Sir John himself faced the window, and Emma Chester sat next to him,
and was looking in his face as he lifted the letters slowly one by one that .
were laid upon the breakfast-table, and which had just arrived by the post
from London.
"Well, uncle ?" said Emma-" well ?"
"Well, niece ?" said=Sir John, as he smiled in the sad way that he did
smile now ; but it was something to see him smile at all.
"Oh, uncle, you know that it is-is Abel's letter that I don't want to
see."
"Very well ; then we will open it."
"Now, uncle."
"Has dear Abel written" said Lady Morton.
"Yes," said Sir John ;  nd despite Emma's dislike to hear what he says,
I will open his letter the veryfirst. Ah ! how well I should know his hand
writing amid a multitude of letters 1"

4

.s
B,
12

AF
[

r'

.._.,. ,,._._...... ...u.,.
,
.

9


18                   HEADS AND HEARTS, OR,
"Oh, yes," said Emma, "and so should I."
"We all love him," said Lady Morton, "and that is why even his writing
is fixed upon our memories so strongly that we can never, by any possibility,
mistake it."
"Yes, dear aunt, we all love him," said Emma; "that is-I mean that-
that-"
"You don't love him," added Sir John Morton.
Emma got more confused than ever ; but, to her great relief, Sir John Mor-
ton broke the seal of Abel's letter, and read as follows:

" Dear everybody at the old house at home.
"It seems like obliterating time and space, and being at home again in the
dear family circle, to write these lines, with the certainty that they will meet
the eyes of those who will judge them kindly ; and, although, as I say, my
head aches and my hand shakes, it is a melancholy pleasure to me to sit up
and write to you all.
"You must know, father, that there is a very intricate point of law involved
in the subject of leaseholds of customary tenure, and I made a kind of prom-
ise to one of the Masters in Chancery that I would study it for him, aid that
is what has kept me up so late of a tight; and I have had, too, to purchase
some very expensive books upon the subject, so that I am afraid, ridiculous
as it may appear, that I am a little short of cash.
"I live in a very quiet way, and if it were not that the din of the great city
about me puts me in mind that I am in London, where, I fear, that there is a
great deal of heartlessness and deception going on, I could almost fancy my-
self a kind of Robinson Crusoe; and that my kind and estimable simple-
hearted attendant, John Rowley, was my man Friday. Ah, we are neither
of us adapted for a great city, I fear, where there is, according to report, such
vice and irregularity of life. When I have the pleasure-and what a pleasure
it will be !-of seeing you all, bless you, at the old place, I will explain to you
the rather intricate point of law regarding leaseholds that I have been study-
ing ; and, in the meantime, believe me to be, with the kindest and best love
to all,                              "Your own
ABEL MoRToN.
"P. S. Do not forget, ridiculous as it may seem, that, in my ardor in the
pursuit of my studies, I have really left myself with, I believe, but one soli-
tary guinea at one end of my purse, and a few shillings at the other."
Sir John placed the letter upon the breakfast-table and looked a little
queer.
"Law-books must be very expensive," he said.
"You may depend they are, uncle," said Emma ; "but they are of value,
you know, when once they are bought."
"To be sure that is true. Well-well, we must not grudge poor Abel the
means of becoming a great man; so, write a letter between you, and I will
send him a cheque for another fifty pounds. Tell him to be careful of his
health, and that, perhaps, next week I may give him a call in his rooms at
the Albany-not that I want to hear anything about the intricate subject, of
leaseholds."
Emma rose and kissed her uncle, to whom she was much attached, and
then drawing a little table towards her, she sat about writing to her cousin,
Abel ; while Lady Morton looked at the beautiful girl, and wondered in her
own mind whether it would ever be a match between her and Abel, which
was one of the few-things in this world that the good lady had thoroughly
and entirely set her heart upon.

1"I

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

19

I"

II

II

CHAPTER        IV.
Wn leave the fresh and balmy breezes of the dear delightful country, to
step into the huge city. Come with us, reader, to the Albany-then quite a
newly-built place, and considered one of the most elegant abodes for the
wealthy young bucks of the town.
Imagine, then, an elegant suite of rooms in the Albany, the rent of which
was, nominally, a hundred and fifty pounds per annum, but really three hun-
dred pounds, by a little management connected with a premium, which was
paid by quarterly instalments, but about which Abel did not think proper to
trouble the home authorities at all.
Well, the rooms were superb. The walls were draped with rare hangings.
The furniture consisted of that bijouterie confusion that is so much affected
by men of taste; and, in fact, an elegant and glittering litter was about the
chamber that was quite charming to behold.
The windows of the principal'apartment are thrown open. It is twelve
o'clock in the day, and Abel Morton has just got up, and strolled into the
brilliant room in a dressing-gown of quilted satin, lined with the most exqui-
sitely delicate rose-colored silk.
Upon a round table is spread a breakfast that it would puzzle any one to
know where to begin upon, it was so very choice, and consisted of so many
dIifferent things, and was heaped up and fenced round with so much silver plate.
At the farther end of the apartment was the pattern servant, Rowley, in a
white linen jacket and white kid gloves, carefully polishing a wine-glass, and
ever and anon holding it up to the light, to see if its brilliancy were marred
by any speck or fibre.
"-Coffee or chocolate, this morning, sir ?" said Rowley, in that soft, silky,
deferential whisper that such persons know so well how to put on.
"Go to the devil !" said Abel.
"Yes sir."
Rowley went on polishing his glass, and Abel yawned twice, uttered an exe-
cration, and then started, as a dab came at the knocker of the door of the
chamber. Rowley paused in wiping the glass, and listened.
"Who the deuce is that ?" said Abel.
'A dun, nir."
"A what?"
"Some low fellow, sir, wants to be paid."
"Confound his insolence !"
"A men, sir !"
"Upon my word, this is too bad !" he said. "The rascal ! No sooner
does a man get out of his bed than here comes some pounds, shillings and
pence mechanical rascal, whose whole cry is money-money-money! Oh,
Rowley, what a grasping world this is !"
Quite right, sir."
Dab! dab!
Abel Morton jumped up from his chair, and gathering the costly dressing-
gown around him, he said--
" Tell him I'm out of town--tell him I'm dead--in the family vault ! any-
thing, so that you get rid, of him, and make me a cup of chocolate directly. I
should like to shoot somebody."
Abel Morton retreated to the inner room, and Rowley went to the outer
door of the chamber, and opened it so sharply, that a man who was trying to
look through the keyhole fell in upon all fours in a moment.
" IIolloa !" said Rowley. "Serve you right."
" O, but come, I say, Rowley, is the governor at home? Come, now you
kno w I always behaved like a trunip to you, and gave you your five shillings
in the pound out of the plunder. I want my money-forty-nine pounds eight
shillings and twopence halfpenny, for gloves and peifumery. Come, now. just
.,peak to him about it."

t
9-Ii

f
x
F     "t
,t
i=     t}
'      x
X14

i f
4t
1I[.


MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

"He isn't here."
"Where is he, then ?"
"Gone to the old man to get some supplies. I needn't tell you that the
old man4s so rich he don't know what tb do with his money. Well, our
governor has gone down to him to get a few thousands or so, and then it will
be all square.",
"Will it now, really, though ?"
"To be sure it will. Look at me. Do I look like the sort of fellar that
would stick to anybody who hadn't the ready to come down with in the long
run Z"
"Why, no, Rowley."
"Then be off with you. Come next week."
Bang went the door, and Rowley went back to his master's room.
"Gone ?" asked Abel, from the inner apartment.
"Yes, sir-off and away."
"Being gone, then Abel's himself again," said the scapegrace, as he once
more flung himself in the easy chair. "Chocolate, Rowley, and be quick, on
your life. Don't answer anybody else. iat did you tell the fellow, by-the-
by who was it ?"
"Glover and perfumer, sir. Forty-nine pounds odd, sir. Kid gloves-riding
trousers, and perfumes for you know who. sir."
" Oh-ah--well-I understand you."
" Dando, sir."
'Silence, you villain ! How dare you call the charming-the exquisite-
the divine Mademoiselle Dandoloski, of the King's Theatre, Dando ? Ah ! she
is beautiful, so beautiful ! Such cheeks !
"0. or !"
"What do you mean
"Nothing, sir, only if you begin to sigh, sir, it is time for me to groan, that's
all. But sir, if I may be so bold as to give a little advice, and if you would
not be offended, and will promise not to throw the coffee-pot nor the sugar-
glass at my head, sir-
" What the deuce do you want to say?  Say it at once or I will throw the
whole tray full at your head !".
"Well, then, sir, something must be done."
"About what ?"
"The little encumbrances, you know, sir. All the day long it's nothing
else but knock, knock, knock, at the door; and what with boot makers, and
tailors, and haberdashers, and horse-keepers, and--"
"Alas !"
"Yes, sir, that's true enough. It's most of it owing to a lass."
" Silence ! Don't mock me. I dread to expose the real state of affairs to.
my father. They suppose that I am studying the law, and injuring my health
by the closeness of my attention to it. What will they all think of me when
they find out the truth? My father, my mother, and Emma Chester, my
cousin, and even the old servants-what will they not say of me
"Ha! ha !"
"You villain, how dare you laugh ?",
"It wasn't at you, sir-indeed, it wasn't. Excuse me, sir, but the fact is,
this is your first little out of the way affair, sir. You ain't accustomed to get
over the traces, you see, sir, and so you are rather afraid of the consequences;
but, of course after the first little fuming and humming about it, the old man
will pay all the debts, and you will be able to go on again as comfortably as
possible."      o-.
"I have written to him."
"For tin ?"
"Yes. For fifty. If he should send that amount, it will ward off the evil
day for a little.
Bang !-bang! came at the outer door of the chamber.

"Vanish, sir," said Rowley. "Be off?"
- "Ofl?  Where to ?"
"Into the next room, sir. Only keep out of the way, that's all. I'll drive
them off this time, somehow."
"Get rid of them if you lie for an hour," said Abel, as he dashed into an
adjoining room, with serious thoughts of getting under the bed, or up the
hitnney.
When Rowley opened the outer door, he was prepared with a small slip of
paper, and a couple of wafers, which he was deliberately wetting; and then,
heedless of the commotion and the babel of voices that dinned his ears, he
stuck the paper on the outside of the door. Upon it was written-
"Return to-morrow."
The creditors looked-at each other, and then one said-
"Will he pay then ?"
"Honor-honor !" said Rowley, as with a sudden movement he slapped the
atrcet door against the nose of the foremost of the duns.
CHAPTER V.
ROWLEY having ggt rid of the duns returned to his master and hinted to
him the propriety of taking a wife and paying his debts with her dowry.
This awkward and worldly-wise suggestion of Rowley's suddenly drove
ba k Abel's thoughts to the only being in all the world whom he would have
teek, glad to have called his own.
Emma Chester then, for the time being, became in the ascendant, that fair
cousin who was the light of the house which had been despoiled of the young
child who was still so deeply regretted.
"Leave me, Rowley."
"Yes, sir, of course, sir; but I hope you will think over the affair I have
mentioned."
Go at once-go. The suggestion displeases me. Never mention it again."
Rat, tat, tat ! came a knock at the door, and Abel started.
"That ain't a dun, sir."
"Open the door then."
Rowley flung open the outer door, and ushered in Lord Rokeley and Cap-
tain Lorrinet, of the guards.
"Ah, Morton, how are you, old fellow ?"
"How do ?" said Lord Rokeley, in a drawling tone. "'Pon soul ! how do ?"
"Oh, blooming enough, thank you," replied Morton. "Glad to see you
both. But are you up to anything? What's to be the game to-day ?"
Well, we are not particular. We are open to any offer you may have to
make us, Abel."
"'Pon soul, yes."
"I am for all and everything you can propose. Take seats."
.Dab ! dab ! came at the door.
Rowley made his appearance with a letter for his master.
" By your gracious leaves," said Morton, as he opened the epistle and a
.heque for fifty fluttered out.
"Humph !" he cried. "Here's enough to amuse ourselves with. Let's be
ff. Rowley, get my things ready. Upon my word, I was getting rather
queer in the way of resources, but now all's right, and we will have a jolly day
Of it !"
"Let's have three hunters," said Captain Lorrinet, "and race to Richmond
t'or a dinner, then. We can get back in good time for the opera."
"'Pon soul ! agreed."
"Agreed!' cried Abel Morton ; "that will be the very thing., Wait for me
a few minutes-I will be with you soon."

F s,
b
" i  S
i
t     !
yyt
E%     1{a
SS1 ,SS
X
t
"1
S
Y.
t} r
{

21

20

HEADS AND HEARTS ORS

f C    is.di
S
x.
cF=
4 fe
a i.
s
i
hx
k
_ 6f


HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,
"Sir, sir," said Rowley to Abel, as he helped him on with his coat. "Sir,
if y on please-"
"What now?"
"Why sir, shall I get you change for that cheque, sir'? Perhaps you would
like to eave a few pounds with me, you know, sir."
Be off with you. I will bring you home some money. You are decidedly
the most grasping, awful fellow after money, Rowley, that I ever met with.
Bold your noise, or I will not bring home a single guinea."
"0, but sir-if you please Mr. Morton. Really, now--"
"All's right - I'm ready, Rokeley and Lorrinet. Let's be off. It will
be a delicious day. Couldn't we get round to Roehampton and give Dando-
loski a call ?"
"Not a doubt of it, 'pon soul ."
"Come on. then-come on ! My gloves, Rowley-Ha! ha! I am so glad
you have both come--so very glad ; and Rowley, if any one comes you can
say I have gone to the North Pole with a gentleman in his yacht, you know."
Yes, sir."
Rowley saw that it was quite useless at that juncture to trouble his master
for any more money, so, with a sigh, he opened the outer door, and held it for
the departure of the two thoughtless, if not very vicious, young men. They
were upon the very threshold, and Abel Morton was pulling on his gloves,
when a shrill shriek burst upon their ears, and a slight shadowy figure (lashed
past them, and into the chambers, before any of them could move a finger
to stop it. By the lash of the drapery of the figure it was evidently a female,
and the cry that it uttered was likewise too feminine to be mistaken.
"What is this ?" said Abel. " Did any one pass ?"
"To be sure," said Lorriuet. "A female."
"Somebody uncommonly mad, sir," said Rowley.
"Mad !" said Lord Rokeley. "how fatiguing to be mad. Come on, do."
"Nay, excuse me," added Abel. "I cannot leave my rooms without ascer-
tainiug who it is that has made free with them: I will have her out."
Abel Morton looked rather serious as he advanced into the magnificent room
in which he had been so recently breakfasting. The occurrence was one of
so very strange and unusual a character, that it was difficult to say what species
of risk he might be running by taking the lead in the attempt to solve the
mystery ; and yet, as it was his ownn place he could not very well do other~
wise. Abel was soon convinced that whatever interest and mystery there was
connected with the affair, there was no danger.
Kneeling on the floor, with her face hidden upon one of the pillows of the
couch, at the further end of the room from the door, was the female who had
made so sudden and alarming an entry into the chambers.
The three young men looked at the kneeling figure, and then at each other
with interrogative glances; but for some few moments neither of them spoke.
It was Abel Morton, then, who broke the silence'
'What has induced you," he said, "to conic here. Are you in any danger ?"
The mysterious unknown uttered'a sharp, plaintive cry, and rising from her
recumbent position, she astonished the young men by presenting to them the
face and figure of a young girl of sonic fifteen or sixteen years of age, and of
such surpassing sweetness and beauty that they were struck with wonder.
CHAPTER        VI.
TH young girl let her eyes sink before the gaze of the three young men
and then Abel, advancing, said to her--
"If you were flying from any danger, you are quite safe here. Be seated
and assure yourself that no one will be permitted to harm you in this place
Only let us know what it is that alarmed you."-
" Sir, I thank you. I am very, very sorry."

MY BROTHER' THE COLONEL.

23

"For what?   Surely not for seeking protection from some insult ?"
"Oh, no-no ! But I will go now, sir. Let me go now. I can find the
way easily by myself."
At this moment a voice from the other room cried out-
"Dora--lora ! My dear Dora, are you here? Oh, speak to me."
"Oh, that is my uncle--my good uncle, I mean, and not the Colonel," cried
the young girl; but before she could leave the apartment to meet him, an
elderly gentleman, with a very bald head, and attired in a scrupulously sober
suit of black, rushed past the three young men, and clasped the girl in his arms.
"Who of you all can tell," he said, "how this child came here ?"
Ican tell you, sir, how she came here," said Morton, "but why she came
here is a mystery to us all."
"Sir, I very much fear this is a great intrusion, indeed. My name, sir, is
Elk, and this is my niece. Tell me, my dear Dora, how it was that you were
compelled to come here? I was myself passing the place, and I saw a car-
riage, the livery of which I knew too well, close at hand, and some people
who were about said that a young lady had made her way into these chambers."
"Yes, uncle-oh, yes ! You had hardly left home half an hour this morn-
ing when he came."
"My brother, the colonel?"
"Yes, uncle. He came, and in spite of my tears and entreaties, he forced
me into his carriage and drove off with me. By mere chance, the carriage-
door swung open as'we had to stop, in consequence of a horse having fallen
close to this place, and I seized the opportunity of springing out, and taking
refuge through the first open door that presented itself to me ; and thus it was
that I came here, and intruded myself upon this gentleman's roor is, for which
I tender him many apologies."
"And mine likewise," said Mr. Elk, addressing Lord Rokeley.
"'Pon soul, they ar'n't my rooms."
"Nor mine," said Captain Lorrinet.
"They are mine, sir," said Abel Morton; "but there is not the slightest
occasion to apologise, I assure you."
"Sir, you are too good. Gentlemen, I lead a quiet, and, I hope, a religions
and gentlemanly life, myself; but I am, unfortunately cursed with a twin bro-
ther, who has been a Colonel of cavalry in the Austrian service-would that
he had remained there !-but a year or two ago, or perhaps more,-he came
home here with a considerable fortune, and since then he has been my tor-
ment."
"A sad case, sir," said Abel.
-4"0, very--very. You see, sir, that my niece, Dora Elk, is a very beautiful
girl; and this brother of mine wishes, I blush to tell it, that she should visit
with him the house of a man who, although he is a nobleman, is a disgrace to
his order. Gentlemen, I need say no more. Pray accept my apologies and
my thanks."
"There is no occasion, sir, for either," said Abel. " My servant will get you
a coach."
"No--no, I thank you, but I could not think of giving still more trouble.
I thank you, sir, from my heart. Good morning, gentlemen. Come, Dora,
my child-come."
The young girl bowed to Abel, and looked her thanks with an eloquence
surpassing that of language, and then she left the chambers, leaning upon the
arm of her uncle.
"Upon my life, an angel !" said Lord Rokeley.
"She is lovely," said Abel.
Morton laughed, but Captain Lorrinet looked uncommonly grave.
"I cannot help fancying that I have met that uncle in society, and yet I
could not say,where for the life of me. But, come : are we to give up our day's
enjoyment because there is an Elk in the world who has a pretty niece'? Let
us be off at once."

s'I ,
x3' !-

f

4


"I am ready," cried Morton ; but the tone in which he spoke was rather a
strange and abstracted one.
"And I," yawned Lord Rokeley. "Dear me, I'm afraid we shall find the
day and tandems and the dinner very fatiguing. Come along."
As soon as Rowley had the chambers to himself, and by a rapid glance
around them felt quite certain that his master had forgotten nothing in the
shape of gloves, walking-cane, handkerchief or watch, he walked to the break-
fast-table. and inspected its contents.
"0, he hasn't touched the fowl, so I shall indulge myself with half of it
and as my stomach is a little out of sorts this morning. I think a glass of claret
will be better than chocolate or.coffee."
With this Mr. Rowley slipped on his master's recherche dressing-gown, and
sunk into the unoccupied seat by the table with all the ease and impudene
for which such personages are famous.
"Well," said Rowley, as he poured himself out a tumbler of claret, "here's
luck."
In this highly facetious manner Rowley drank to himself, and then, with all
the coolness in the world, he opened a letter the seal of which Abel Morton
had done very little more than break, and read as follows-
"MY DEAR - ABEL,-At the desire of your father, I write to you to enclose
the cheque for fifty pounds which you will receive with this. We were all
well, Abel, but we are now sick at heart to think that you will so much
endanger your health-that health which you know is so very precious to us
all, by over-study and by too arduous an attention'to your law-books.'
" 0, my eye !'.' said Rowley, "here's a go 1"
"'And, dear Abel, why do you shun society and shut yourself up with your
books in the way you doI Why do you not seek for some friends of your
own age, and in harmless mirth, now and then see a little pleasure ?'
"Well, I never! This letter will be the death of me. It will give me a
stitch in the side with laughing."
"' Think of all this, dear Abel, and when you come to us again, let us see
that the pallor of the student has given place to the more healthful color of-'"
The door of the room was hastily opened, and Abel Morton stood upon the
threshold.
Rowley slipped off the chair, and dashed under the table, dressing-gown, and
letter, and claret, all in his grasp.
CHAPTER        VII.
TnoMAs-Thomas, my good fellow ! Stop, if you please, Thomas, at the
Albany, and Thomas, you will be so good as to drive to the entrance in Bur-
lington'Street."
"Yes, sir."
Such was the conversation that took place between a handsome, serious, bald
man in a barouche and his coachman, as the vehicle turned into Bond Street
from the Oxford Road, as Oxford Street was then named.
The carriage stopped at the entrance to the Albany, and after gracefully
swinging in the slightest possible manner upon its well-hung springs to and
fro, it came to a full stop.
Now, Thomas, if I am detained beyond a quarter-of-an-hour, you will
gently walk the horses round Burlington Gardens, you understand ?"
"Yes, sr.
"Mr. Morton's chambers," said Mr. Elk, "if you please, beadle."
"Yes, sir. This way if you please, sir. This is the doorway. On the first
floor, if you please, sir.""
"Thank you--thank you."
Mr. Elk ascended the staircase, and tapped at the door of Morton's room.

2 4

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

3     j
1     ,

N4

f
k
y    f{'     _
P?      ' Y
i[
4'   }
i,
t       ,.
4a    v?;  #
r z
i
i
f
#' ,
ii,
f
il,_ ;
_
'f .
!r  "
i
t
( .M1    4
'y  S  
j 'a gi,  r
}  '    i
-_  ;3 '
' x  k
F ,  g  y
3F
s

11

1

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

"Is Mr. Morton within ?"
"No, sir, he isn't up."
"A very good answer, my friend. Very good, indeed. But it is now twelve
o'clock. and probably your master will be up soon ?"
Mr. Elk's fingers dived into his waistcoat pocket, and fished up a half-
guinea. It was a very bright, dazzling-looking one, and Rowley instantly held
out his hand. The half-guinea instantly dropped into it, as Mr. Elk said-
-I am the gentleman who came with the young lady here yesterday evens
ing, and my object is, upon her part as well as upon my own, to thank Mr.
Morton for his kindness. I dare say I can see him ?"
Rowley knew perfectly well that if he went beforehand to his master, and
,said-" Here, sir, is Mr. Elk come to thank you," the reply would be in all
probability, particularly in the then state of Abel's mind, a polite intimatioii
that he and Mr. Elk might go to the devil, nd there remain as long as they
pleased; so he threw open the door of the  eakfast-room, andin a loud tone
announced-,
"Mr. Elk !"
Thus taken by surprise, Abel was too much of a gentleman to insult a gen-
tleman,; and as Mr. Elk bowed upon the threshold of the room, Abel rose, and
bowed likewise, muttering something about the pleasure of seeing him.
-My dear sir, said Mr. Elk, "I have come to thank you. My good child,
Dora, would not let me rest until I had come to thank you before she started
Jbr Worthing this morning, and I need not say that my heart joins with hers
in the feelings of gratitude we must-ever feel towards you."
2

k1
tj

26


26

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR

"0, sir, it was nothing at all. The young lady took refugein the room, and
of course I should have protected her if she had been followed by any one ;
but as she was not, I had nothing to do but to feel quite delighted at your
opportune appearance."
Mr. Elk patted his eyes with his handkerchief as he replied-
" Ah, you who, no doubt, are a prudent, exemplary young man, little know
the deep anxiety of my mind."
"Anxiety, sir ?,
"Yes. I ap rich-that is to say, I am comfortable, although my income
does not exceed my expenditure ; but when I talk of anxiety I-I-"
" Pray compose yourself, sir."
"I think of-of---"
"Of what'?"
"I wish it were a what only. That would be a circumstance that might
be altered ; but it is of my brother, the colonel, I think-"
"Ah, you mentioned him."
"Yes, Colonel Elk. Oh, Mr. Morton, you do not know what it is to be
connected with a brother a colonel such as mine. If I could only think him
mad, it would be nothing in comparison with what he makes me suffer; and
yet strange to say, he is not, after all, a bad man."
"You speak in riddles, sir."
"I know it-I feel it. But the fact is, Mr. Abel Morton, the colonel is so
desperately gay and adventurous that he is always getting into scrapes, and
always getting out of them. Then he is rich-as rich as Croesus, although he
won't own it, not he."
"Indeed !"
Here a rat tat tat !-rat tat tat ! came at the outer door. Rowley popped
his head into the breakfast-room, and looked at his master.
"Don't like it, sir. Not the right thing."
"What do you mean
"That knock at the door, sir. A pretty fair intimation, but not the right
thing. Shall I keep it close, sir, or shall I open it 7"
Abel's face flushed a little that his visitor should be let into so many of the
secrets of his menage, and he cried out-
"Open the door, Samuel, at once! How dare you come bothering me about
your suspicions and your nonsense? Open the door, sir, I say !"
"Very good, sir."
Abel turned pale as he heard the sound of voices in an angry tone in the
outer room, and then the door was flung open, and an individual appeared
attired in an outrageous fashion. He wore a crimson silk waistcoat, and over
that a dirty yellow plush one. A supply of faded jewelry was about him suf-
ficient to stock a country shop in that line. His cravat was truly elaborate,
and a pin in it stuck up in front of his chin, with a knob at the end of it as
large as a cherry.
"What is the meaning of this intrusion ?" said Abel, starting to his feet.
"Who are you, sir?"
"Beg pardon, sir, I'm sure," said the man. "Hope I don't intrude, as the
chap in the play says. Ha !-ha! you take?  Ha !-ha !"
"Rowley, kick this fellow down stairs."
"0, dear,'no-not at all," said the man advancing to the table. "None of
that ifiyou please, sir. I always transacts business as a gent with them as is
gents. Perhaps you'd rather see me alone, sfr ?"
"See you alone.? See you hanged, you mean."
"0, very good sir. In course it's all the same to me ; only I thought, per-
haps, you would rather the elderly gent wasn't made fly to the little affair."
" Dear me !" said Mr. Elk. "i'll go at once, Mr. Morton, if you please."
"No-no! You beast, say at once what you want here, and have done
with it."
"Very well, sir. I'm civil with them as is civil with me. I've done no

4'.

(

r
ti

r

1;
t = r$
-fir=ia
L
d    -11

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                       27
business but amdng real gents for a long time. Tip-top swells is my caper;
and I thought I should find a gent in a place like this as would treat me like
a gent. You are my prisoner, Mr. Abel Morton. Here's the warrant. At
the suit of John Soaker, wine merchant, and the amount, one hundred and
eighty-two pounds four shillings and sixpence, expenses, in course, makes more.
Capital accommodation in a good, airy situation, No. , Chancery Lane."
"Arrested !" gasped Abel, as he sarik into a seat.
A silence of some minutes duration ensued in the magpificent apartment of
Abel Morton. Abel sat looking pale and wan at the superb breakfast things
upon the table, and Mr. Elk, through his gold double eyeglass, surveyed the
bailiff.
"Now, sir," said the bailiff. "Time is precious, you know, sir. Chancery
Lane or quod, if you please, sir. Make up your mind."
"Really," said Mr. Elk, "this is very distressing.. My dear Mr. Morton, the
best wayin all these little affairs is to pay at once."
"Pay, sir, do you say? I have not a guinea."
Mr. Elk drew Abel Morton aside, and whispered to him-- -
" My dear young friend do not allow yourself to be taken to prison. There
is contamination in the very atmosphere of such a place to one who, like you,
has a pure, fresh spirit. Do not, I implore you. Yqu have some money in
your purse now. and you shall have more. Take the counsel of an older nn
than ourself. end go to Chancery Lane to the lock-up house of this man  '
"But I have no hope."
"Your father----'
"No, no, I cannot--I dare not write to him. Alr  y ha  I deceivedhim
and all of those at home. It is horrible to think o Do not, if you value my
sanity, talk to me of my flier, sir."
"Well-well, we will not. Oh, that I had th wealth of my brother the
colonel ! He is rich, my dear Mr. Morton, and if you would only condescend
to borrow of him.--He is a bad, cold-hearted man, I tell you; but he does lend
money now and then to my certain knowledge. Will you see him ?"
"I will. If he can and will extricate'me from this tangle upon any decent
terms, I shall be obliged to both you and him. How can I see him ?"
"Why, the fact is, I was going to call upon him this morning to-forbid him
my house for the future, on account of his atrocious conduct to our niece, Dora;
but I will defer my own quarrel with him until he has seen you and settled
your  fair. I will bring him to you myself, if you will now go with this man
to his house in Chancery Lane."
"Be it so. Mr. Elk you are a friend raised up by Providence for me in my
hour of need."
Abel and Mr. Elk shook hands with each other, and the old gent, as Mr.
Lyon called him, went with a bland look from the chambers.
Morton put on his coat and cravat, and was ready forthe streets. Rowley
was despatched for a cab into which Mr. Lyon and Abel got. Rowley shut
the outer door of the chambers, and flung himself at full length on a crimson-
satin sofa.
While Rowley was soliloquising in the deserted chamber, the cab was rum-
bling and rattling towards Chancery Lane, and duly drew up at the lock-np
house belonging to Mr. Lyon. officer to the sheriff of Middlesex.
"Now, Mister," said Lyon," you may be as comfortable as a kepeordin a
pallas here, if you like. All you have got to do is to pay. There's a coffee-
room for gents as don't like to go to the expense of a private room all to them-
selves; and then there's a nice room on the second floor that you can have for
a trifle, all to yourself, with a turn-up bedstead, that all the world thinks isa
sideboard."
"That will do," said Abel.
"It's a guinea a day."
"Very well; that will do I tell you."
"A private room for the gent," cried Mr. Lyon; whereupon Miss Lyon put

s

l


2

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR

It

MY BROTHEl THE COLONEL.

29

in an appearance, exhibiting herself as a young lady of about thirty, who did
not appear to have washed her face for the last week or so; but then she wore
very large gold hearings, and had a stained old blue satin dress on, that was a
long way down her shoulders.
Abel felt sickened at the sight of this young hag, as she tripped up the dingy
staircase to show him to his room.
Abel now thought of his father, so indulgent and so kind, and so worn down
with grief for the loss of his dear child. He remembered that father's words
when he, Abel, set off to London. "Now my dear boy, Abel, as you will be
in the great city, I know that while others are leading lives of riot and dissi-
pation, you will ever keep alive the inquiry for our lost darling Loo.  And
then the old man had wept ; but they were not even such bitter tears as he,
Abel, was weeping just then in that horrid lock-up house.
But there was yet another remembrance to come to Abel; and with the
name of Emma Chester on his lips, he sobbed as though his heart would break.
"Colonel Elk !" cried a voice, and the room door was flung wide open by
the obsequious Mr. Lyon himself.
CHAPTER        VIII.
WE left Abel Morton in the lock-up house of Mr. Lyon in Chancery Lane,
and in anything but a pleasant frame of mind. It will be remembered that
the better reflections that had came across him, and which were ,most cer-
tainly for the good of his soul, were interrupted by the arrival of Colonel
Elk.
Colonel Elk was dressed in the first style of fashion; and the jewelry that
was about him, although it could not be called too snowy, or, indeed, be said
to be in bad taste, was rather strikingly massive.
"I have the pleasure," said the colonel, when the door was closed, of seeing
Mr. Abel Morton, I believe ?"
"That is my name, sir  Pray be seated."
"Thank you. A good hunting day this ; a south wind and a cloudy sky.
I wish I were on the downs. This is a d---d hole for a gentleman to be
cooped up in."
"It is, indeed, colonel."
"Well my sanctified brother spoke to me about you, and I look upon you
in the light of the peace-offering."
"The what, sir ?"                                 -
"The peace-offering between us. The fact is, that my brother and I don't
often agree, and we should have had a confounded tiff this morning, if it
hadn't been that he wanted..me to help you out of this scrape."
"Oh, I understand."
"Exactly. You see, the Earl of Cashen has taken a fancy to our little niece,
Dora, and I think I can make him marry her ; but my brother, Josiah, is as
timid as a hare, and won't let me risk the affair, in any way. Confound it !
D-n all cowardice. But, what is all this to you? Of course, you are think-
ing of your own affairs, not mine, or my niece's. You must dine with me at
my lodgings to-day. Can you do so
"Can I ?"  Abel laughed. "You forget, colonel, where I am."     .s
"No I don't. I merely ask if you are free from any engagement, that is
all."
"Quite so. There was some talk about going somewhere with Lord Roke-
ley ; but nothing was fixed."
"Very good. Is there a bell here'?  Oh, yes : there it is. Don't ,trouble
yourself, Morton: I'll ring it."
In a few moments Mr. Lyon made his appearance, with an abundance of
bows and grimaces.
"Why Lyon," said Colonel Elk, "you ought to be ashamed of yourself.

This is an infrnal shabby transaction, to bring a gentlemair here for such a
trifle. What covers all oweing in this affair ?"
"A couple of hundred, colonel, kivers all the expenses; and the little trifle
of charge, I'm sure, with- a gent as is a gent.--"
"Hold your row. There is a cheque for the amount. And now, Morton,
let us be off out of this dog-hole as quickly as we can. You will have to get
a bath as soon as possible, and give yb0i4 clothes to your man. My cab is at
the door, I suppose ?"
"Yes, colonel, it's all right. The blessed 'oss has been a-looking in at the
parlor winder, and a-standing on his hind legs, for ever so long, colonel, and
the boy a-hanging by his head."
"But really, Colonel Elk," said Abel, "I cannot permit you, without any
arrangement with me, to thus pay my debts."
"Oh, nonsense  . We will settle all that before we part. Come on Mor-
ton. It's not worth thinking about. You will be in feather again some day
soon, you know, and then you can put me in mind of it."
Abel was quite overpowered with the generosity of the colonel, and. made up
his mind that he would make some suitable return for it. The cab, with the
amazingly ,tall horse that had been looking in at the parlor windows, was
there, and a diminutive tiger, on tip-toes, held, or was supposed to hold, the
animal's head, with a toss of which he could have sent the foresaid tiger right
over his back.
The colonel made Abel get in first, and then darting after him, it seemed to
be a kind of struggle between him and-the tiger whether or not he should suc-
ceed in driving off before that diminutive personage could get up behind. The
tiger, however, by making a wild rush, and hanging on for a moment or two,
eventually succeeded in getting on his perch, and the colonel dashed}down
Chancery Lane with the near wheel in the kennel, and utterly heedless of col-
lision.
To emerge from the narrow thoroughfare into Fleet Street--to dash through
Temple Bar, and go down the Strand at a good ten miles an hour, seemed the
easiest thing in the world to Colonel Elk.
"You manage to drive fast in the crowded thoroughfares," said Abel.
"Why, yes, I hear a good deal about the difficulty of getting along; but I
don't fihd it out. My horse has courage, and so have I, and we get on our
own side of the road, and we don't stop at trifles. The snobbery get out of
the way usually."
"So it seems. But do you never meet with an accident at thispace through
the streets of London ?"
"Why nothing to speak of. A few old women run over at times."
"Indeed i"
"uYes ; but it's the force that saves them. Your wheels fly over them safely
as possible, and they get up again after a squall. To be sure, once a brewer's
dray got rather the best of me."
"I should think it would. But how was it, colonel."
"At the corner of Bruton Street was a dray, you see. Of course I was not
bound to see round a corner, so round I slapped in my usual style, and the
- off-wheel took the dray, and sent us all right over the road and down an
area."
"A fearful fall !"
"Not at all. We had a little kicking and scrambling, and then we al got
into the front kitchen you see, and astonished the natives a little. My boy-.
the same who is behind us now, I suppose-was 'found head-foremost in a
coal-scuttle ; but I walked the horse up the kitchen stairs, and brought hin
out at the front door quite comfortable."
"And the cab likewise?"
"Why no. That was rather a smash."
"So I should think."
"Here we are, though, at last.'

,
t
a
r
z


MY BROTHER THE COLONEL.

HEADS AND HEARTS; O,0

The street in which the colonel drew up was one of those numerous ones
that lead from Great Cumberland Street towards the Edgeware Road. The
house was one of a large size, and the rooms of Colonel Elk were upon the
first-floor, consisting of four handsome apartments. The appointments of
those rooms were of the first style of fashion.
"Now, my dear fellow," said-Elk, as he looked at his watch, "it wants an-
hour to dinner time, so what will you do ?'
"Anything, you like, colonel?'
"Stop a bit. Let me order the table for two."
The colonel rang a hand-bell, and almost before the sound had ceased an at-
tendant made his appearance.
"Covers for two to-day."
The attendant bowed, and made his retreat without a word.
"Now, Morton," said Elk, "they say you are rather spooney on the Dan-
doloski."
Morton blushed as he stammered out-.
"I certainly very much admire the Signora Dandoloski, of Her Majesty's
Theatre."
"Not a doubt of it ; and, I can tell you, she admires you, for no less than
three men have failed on your account with her."
"Indeed !"
"Yes: she might have capital offers; but she has taken a fancy to you, and
so there's an end of it. Her Castilian blood will have its own way you know,
so you have only to go and conquer, my boy."
"Alas-alas -"
"Why do you cry 'Alas?'"
" Because, to tell the truth, colonel, I have kept from going near the Dan-
doloski for some time past, simply because I could not go as I ought to go."
"Why, what the deuce do you mean
"Money !-money !".
"0, that is it, is it?  Ha ! ha ! Mon cher Morton, that is a common com-
plaint. By-the-by, what are your expectations, Morton?  Is the old one
rich ?"
"Yes, tolerably so. He made a fortune in India."
" Oh-ah !"
"About thirty or forty thousand pounds or so ; but he has funded the whole
of it, and nothing will. move him. He is liberal, you know, to a fault ; but
his idea of liberality would never come half-way to what I want in the metrop-
olis, as you can easily imagine."
"To be sure I can. Half-way?  Why, they would not come a quarter the
way. Well-well, we'll think of some way of bolstering you up, Morton. It
won't do to go down-hill at your time of life without a few feathers to fly with,
will it now ?"'
"Certainly not," said Abel, who began to think the colonel the most frank,
free, and engaging man he had ever met with. In such like chat as this they
passed the time until dinner was announced; and then the colonel, as he rose
with Abel, to obey the summons, said-
"Come what may of it, my dear Morton, you must not go to the wall for
the sake of a few hundreds. Youth is a season that don't continue, and the
pleasures of early life cannot be waited for. You must seize them as they pass,
or they are gone."
"Not a doubt of that," said Abel, "and I mean to seize them as they pass."
"Bravo !-bravo! And now to dinner. We will talk more of this after-
wards."

CHAP TER       IX.
WELL, Morton," said the Colonel, when the cloth was removed, "you wifl
recollect that you never can have anything with me but bachelor's fare."
"Give me leave to assure you, ColonelElk," said Abel as be stretched out
his right hand over the table, "that I have enjoyed myself amazingly, and that
your great and disinterested kindness- "
a Don't name it, my dear boy," said the colonel, as he grasped Abel's honest,
proffered hand-it was like the hand of an angel of light in comparison with
that of the man who held it in his cold grip-" don't name it, mydear boy. I
only hope we shall be good friends."
"We are-we are."
" Well, I was afraid that my brother, Josiah, had prejudiced you against
me, that was all. He and I are very different men. The fact is, that he is
cold and suspicious, and I am warm-hearted, and commit a thousand errors
without thinking of them. But come, we will dip into a bottle of claret, and
say no more of such matters. We have to visit the Dandoloski to-night, yop
know."
" Why, a-a-yes."
"What is it, man?  0, forgive me: I quite forgot about your pecuniaries.
Dear me, how ,thoughtless of me. You are not in full feather just now, Abel,
I think you said?  How much will -do for the present?  You will want to
give a trifle to the Dandoloski, in the shape of some ornament or another, sot
will draw you a cheque for one hundred pounds at once, and you can cash it as
we go along."
"0, colonel, this goodness, this excessive kindness---"
" Hush ! Here's my fellow with the wine. Not- another word about it,
except that it will be just as well not to say anything to riy brother, Josiah,
about the affair."
The wine was excellent, and Abel took care to do justice to it; and then,'
when Colonel Elk proposed a quiet game at Rouge et Noir just to pass away
an idle hour, before they went to visit the Dandoloski, Abel cheerfully con-
sented.
The.excitement of gambling was a new one to Abel. That game with Col-
onel Elk was the first one that he had played for anything like a large stake,
and he rather started to see thirty pounds upon the turn up of a card, n
jeopardy ; but the colonel looked so cool and composed, and sipped his wine
so cheerfully when he lost, that Abel drew a long breath, and thought that
Rouge et Noir was, after all, a charming mode of passing an hour.
Abel rose from the table a winner of about one hundred and fifty pounds,
and his face was flushed with the excitement of the game, and the blood was
bounding through his veins at a most unwonted rate.
" I-I will buy a pair of bracelets for the Dandoloski, colonel, as we go along,
if you have no objection."
"None in the least, my boy. It is a very nice present to make her. You
see, she is in the new opera to-night, and is not wanted till half-past nine
o'clock, so we are sure to find her at home, waiting for you."
-" For me?"
"Ay; or for some one else who will drive her to town and keep up her spirits
on the way. I suppose you keep a cab ?"
"No, no. I have had one from Slash, on hire."
"Don't do it again, then. Buy one and drive it yourself, my boy. But the
Dandoloski is not particular. My cab will hold three, and I will make room
for her in it as we come back-that is to say, if she will ride with me at U,
which I rather doubt; but if she won't, I can lend you the cab, and sek for
myself some hack conveyance, you know."
In a few moments Abel and the colonel were in the cab, and dashing along
at a rate that was rather alarming. The vehicle drew up at a fashionWe

'1
:1

80


11
X1I
f
t
F

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

jeweller's, where Abel paid forty guineas for a pair of gold bracelets, the real
value of which was about twenty.
"Now for the Dandoloski." said the colonel, and the horse began to step out
in a style that was truly beautiful, as well as a little alarming. The wheels
of the cab flew round at a rate that almost obliterated all noise ; and after a
few minutes there was something exceedingly exhilarating in the rapidity of
the motion.
The well-lighted shops appeared to fly past like ignes fatui. Hyde Park
corner was passed like something 'seen for a moment in a dream, and the dim
and more dark suburb=of Bayswater was reached in a space of time that seemed
all but impossible.
There was a narrow, but beautifully shady lane, and at the corner of it a
pretty Italian villa. Tall trees waved to and fro in the night air, and the place
had a look of fresh an verdant beauty. That was the abode of the Daido-
loski, as she was term4d by her admirers.
The Dandoloski wa one of the stars of the operatic firmament, whicl come
out with a vast amou t of eclat, but which quietly go in again in a very short
space of time indeed.
The moral character of the Dandoloski will, we trust, appear sufficiently dis-
tinct in the course of our narrative.
For her appearance, we may say, that she was a little above the ordinary
height of women: that her complexion and her hair were dark : that she had
large, black, sparkling eyes, and a high color, and a brilliant set of teeth ; a
good laugh, but a voice that had too much of the lower tones in it to make it
agreeable in a woman.
She was just the woman to attract a young and inexperienced personage
like Abel Morton, and drive him almost frantic with admiration.
"Now, my dear fellow, you must be announced," said the colonel, as they
alighted from the cab ; "for if she thinks I am here, ten to one but she will say,
'Not at home,' or something of that sort."
'Upon this understanding then, or this dread, Abel gave only his own name,
and was at once shown into a pretty reception-room, that, in its style and
decoration, transcended anything that he had ever seen or imagined.
" Beautiful !" cried"Morton. "This is quite a paradise."
"Do you think so?  Well, I own it is pretty, but I should soon tire of it.
Give me a rock-a mountain-and a cave-a howling wind and a rushing sea,
in preference to all this trickery of high-wrought civilization."
The door of the room opened, and the Dandoloski appeared. She was en
deshabille-thatris to say, she was elaborately-not dressed. The moment
she saw Abel, she made a melo-dramatic rush forward, and alighted upon his
arm, as she cried-
"0, you bad beautiful! How was you to be ?"
"Well and happy now," replied Abel, "and you ?"
"Much more dead than noting ! 0, you bad beautiful, you not come when
yesterday come to-morrow."
"I could not."
"Rather difficult it would be," said the colonel.
The Dandoloski gave a slight scream, and looked towards the window, where
the colonel had half hidden himself.
" Ah, it is one monster."
"At your service," said the colonel, laughing.
"Oh, y'ou was one brute wild beast, you know. How was you to impudence
to go here, Colonel Elk ?"
"How had I the impudence to come here, you mean?  I will tell you, fair
Dandoloski. I came with my friend Morton."
"No !" exclaimed the Dandoloski, stamping with vehemence; "you are one
bad man and ugly, and not one friend of the Abel."
The Dandoloski's eyes flashed, and she bit her  er lip, while the colonel
flung himself upon one of the cerulean couches aid roared again with laughter.

32

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                        33
Ho then took his watch from his waistcoat pocket, and held it to her eyes,
adding-
"There is such a place as the Italian Opera House, in the Haymarket, my
dear Dandoloski.
"This is much truth from one wild beast," said Dandoloski. "I.must-go.
Make excuses to me while I go to the toilette, mon cher; I come to you soon
a little while gone-half-an-hour ago."
With this she sailed out of the rcon, bestowing upon Abel, as she disap-
peared, a look that put him in raptures.
"0, she is all that is charming-all that is feeling and delightful!" cried Abel.
"I never saw such a form-such a face-such gems of eyes-such a smile ;
and even the little mistakes she makes in the pronunciation of our barbarous
language are to me so piquant and delightful, that I could listen to her all day
and never tire of them. I love her, indeed--.I love her! Dear, charming Dan-
doloski i"
The colonel flung up his heels, and roared again with laughter.
" Ah, Abel-Abel !" he said, when he had a little recovered," how very-
very-no-I won't say that---"
'"What were you going to say, colonel ?"
"Never mind ; you are young and inexperienced. that is all'; but take the
advice now of an old stager, and don't let this woman ruin you. Don't let
her get anything from you but money. Enter into no pecuniary obligation
for her. Gives her cash, or things that represent cash, such as bracelets, if
you like; but there stop, my boy, Abel, and you will know what you are
about.
"Colonel, I thank you. I cannot but feel that this is good advice, and it is
kind of you, a man of the world, to give it to me."
"If I were not, I could not give it at all to you. Abel. I wish to forewarn
you; but, bah ! here she comes again, fully equipped for London."
CHAP-TER       X.
"Now, my dear Emma, wrap yourself up well, do," said Lady Morton, as
she stood in the hall of Morton house, shaking hands with Emma Chester,
who was ready equipped to accompany her uncle, Sir John, to town, to get
poor Abel, as they called him, to throw aside his law-books, and come to-them
for a month.
"Mind, my dear, that you don't take cold. Put something round your neck
when the carriage turns a corner; and make Abel wrap himself up well-about
the throat."
"Yes, aunt, yes," said Emma. ." Good by."
Emma was glad to escape from her aunt, and calling to her uncle that she
was quite ready, she ran across the lawn, and sprang into the carriage like a
young fawn.
"My dear," said Sir John to Emma, "this will be quite a surprise for Abel
to see us at his chambers."
"0, yes, uncle, and he will' be so pleased."
"Yes, poor boy, he will. Alas !. he is my only child now; and I often think
that after all, he might as well live with us the life of an independent gentle-
man at his ease instead of being in London, with its tainted air, and stultifying
himself with a study that, however it may make a man wiser, certainly never
made men better.
"0 ,. uncle, I have often thought---"
"What, Emma ?"
"Just what you say now, uncle ; but you and aunt seemed to think that
it was more proper for Abel to go to the law; so it was not for me to utter my
opinion.

,-
i                              y
j                            N
c ,
-                                ='
t
&amp; i
t
a tie
r
if
xxt    i
F  "Cg# %}
' .
' g Ii
l Y   r
: L3     S
i   { 'ia    


84

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

i' ,

"Well, well, when we get Abel down among us at the old place for a month"
we will talk over future prospects, and see what can be done. There is one
thing, though, that I do feel strongly upon, and that is, that there is no
occasion for Abel to injure his health by his severe and continued study of the
law."
It was in this and such like discourse as this, that the fond and indulgent
father, and the gentle and loving Emma Chester, wiled away the time that the
horses in the old family coach took to carry them to the Albany.
To have chambers in the Albany was like a perpetual latch-key. The pri-
vilege of turning night into day, if at all agreeable so to do, and, in fact, to
indulge in the freest and most unrestricted manner in all the gaities and all the
follies of London.
All this was unknown to Sir John Morton, for when lie had casually men-
tioned to some better informed visitor than himself that his son was studying
the law, and had chambers in the Albany, they felt a little surprised; yet no
one lked to say, "Why, then, he will learn very little law."
In the most complete and unenviable ignorance, then, did Sir John Morton
alight from his carriage at the entrance to the.Albany, and with Emma Ches-
ter upon his arm, began to look for the chambers of his son.
As for Emma, she had almost as much idea of the sort of place she was going
to as she had of Pekin.
" Dear me," said Sir John, "where can it be ?  0, here-no, no."
Now, the beadle of the Albany was on the alert, and seeing an elderly gen-
tleman and a young lady looking about them in rather a bewildered kind of
way, he stepped up and proffered his services, and soon conducted them to the
door of Abel's chambers, for which he received one shilling from Sir John and
a grateful, kind look from' Ema Chester, who was one of nature's ladies, and
therefore courteous to everybody-
"Now, indeed," said Sir John with a gratified look upon his face, "we shall
surprise Abel, I rather think."
Sir John knocked at the outer door, which Rowley now always-kept closed,
as he considered it a kind of war with the duns, who made frequent incursions
to the Albany with the hope of finding Abel at home.
Both Sir John and Emma hardly breathed after they had knocked, so
anxiouss were they ; and, indeed, they would not have been at all surprised if
Abel had himself opened the door, with a book in his hand, and with a pen in
his mouth. But moment after moment passed glibly by, and no one answered
the summons.
Sir John knocked again, louder than before, and then a voice, in some very
mysterious manner, quite close to them, and apparently in. the very passage
cried-
" Hilloa!i what is it ?"
Emma started, and Sir John looked around in amazement ; and just above
the door in the panel of the wall, he saw that a little square hole was cut,
and that through it a human eye was looking down upon him and upon
Emma.
"Why, what on earth is the meaning of this ?" he said. "Is not this Mr.
Morton's ?"
"Please, sir, what do you want ?" said Rowley, in a soft tone, for he saw
that Sir John Morton, although he had not the most distant idea of who he
was, was a gentleman.
"Are these Mr. Morton's chambers ?"
"Yes, sir."
"Is he within ?"
"0, or ! no, sir. Hasn't come home yet."
"Yet?   What do you mean by yet ?"
"Just that, sir, and nothing else. He hasn't dome home since yesterday,
that's all, sir ; but I expect him to breakfast."
"My good fellow," said Sir John Morton, "if these are Mr. Morton's chain

Y
5
F
F'
y jj
Si3
7
i
i
3
F
1
f
r
a
.s
tj
to
a

U'
Ui

MV BROTHER, THE COLONEL.
hers, and that gentleman is out, I wish to wait for him; so, if you will open the
door, and allow me and this young lady to do so, I shall feel much o hged
and will place a guinea at your disposal."
"Certainly sir ; in a moment--in a moment, sir. Perhaps you are the gent
who got him out of Lyons's? He did send me a bit of a note last night, with
a twenty pound note in it, and said a friend had got him out of the mousetrap
in the lane. Come in, sir; I dare say he won't be long now. Walk in, miss,
if you please."
Stunned and bewildered by what he had already heard, Sir John Mor-
ton and Emma Chester, who, by-the-by, trembled so excessively that she was
compelled to hold by her uncle's arm with almost a painful pressure, entered
the chamber after Rowley.
That serving-man, who certainly upon that morning had not all his usual
wits about him, led the:way to the splendid sitting-room, and handing Emma
a chair, and another to Sir John, he said-
"He won't be long, sir. I am glad you took him out of jail, for after all,
he ain't of the worst sort; and the old governor is as close as wax, and won't
come down no how with the rowdy."
Sir John Morton held by the back of the chair which Rowley had handed
to him, and lot ed around him in anguish, while poor Emma, who had the fulL
dread of son impending calamity upon her heart, was but too glad to sink.
into a seat, and to hope that she should be able to preserve her strength in the
time that was td come.
"And these," said Sir John, "are Mr. Morton's chambers."
"cOh, yes. , They are ours; we don't exactly like to be surrounded with
rubbish ; and as we see good company, why, we like to have a decent= place
to show them into. But, lord bless;you, sir, this is nothing to what we shal
do, I hope. Abel has got hold of some tin again, somehow."
Surely, Rowley must have had something strong and bewildering rather
early upon that morning, or he would never have bee so frightfully indite
creet to a stranger ; and yet he did not exactly look upon Sir John as a stran-
ger, for he still clung to the idea'that he was the person who had relieved his
master from the clutches of Mr. Lyons.
Enmia was in an agony at the scene that was going on. She knew weU,
by the calm voice of Sir John, that something like a storm was raging in the
depths of his heart, and she would have given anything tr the assurance that
the whole affair was a mistake. But it was too real. Do what she might in
the way of building'up in her own imagination some ingenious theory regard-
ing the matter, the truth was too apparent-that dreadful truth, that Abel
Morton was deceiving those who loved him best, and leading a life of reckless
extravagance and dissipation in London.
"Are you the friend of Mr. Morton ?" she said to Rowley.
"Silence, my dear," said Sir John, before Rowley could reply. "You will
allow me the pleasure of speaking to this gentleman. Then," added Sir John,
with a smile--"you are well acquainted with Mr. Morton's mode of life ?"
"So are you," said Rowley; "So are you. I suppose you have put him all
right for the present, sir, in the way of tin ?"
"Oh, yes-yes!"
"Well, then, on we go again. The fact is, they do say'the old bloak at
Hampstead is rather warm."
"The old who did you say?"
"Oh, that's only my funny way of mentioning Abel's old governor, that's
all. I dare say he is a very respectable old gent ; and, you see, sir, if we can
only keep Abel upon his pins till the old man toddles off the hooks, why, then
there will be plenty of money, and no mistake, and no time lost, neither.?
"Exactly. But still Mr. Morton must give some attention to the law, you
know."
"Attention to the law?  Oh, dear, no. Although it wold be but retui-
ing the compliment, for the law'is beginning to pay him some attention, I can
tell you."

;t.
it
k
4
.
L{;
%jjY i
f
i
f


36

hEADS AND hEARTS; OR,

r
t
f

I
I

MV BROTHB1R) TEE COLONEL.

37

Bang-bang ! came two knocks at the door at this moment, and Rowley,
placing his fingers by the side of his nose, said, with an air of great drollery,
to Sir John Morton and Emma-
"Now, I know what that means, as well as if I were outside."
" Yordo '?1
"To be sure. Lord bless you, sir, there's no deceiving me. That's a dun,
and he's out of temper, too. I shouldn't be a bit surprised if it were that tai-
lor in the Haymarket, that made the indescribables for Dandoloski to ride
with. If you'll believe it, sir, they were white kid-yes, sir, white kid, as true
as you area sinner. But I'll go and settle this fellow-Ah ! there he goes
again ; two more dabs. He is getting desperate now."
" Hilloa !" cried Rowley through his peep-hole in the wainscot above the
outer door. " Hilloa ! What's the row now-eh?  Who are you ?"
"I want my account!-I want my money ! I will have my money !"
"Oh, well, if you will have it, that's another thing. How much is it ?"
"Oh, you know as well as I do ! Eighty-four pound, seventeen shillings
and four pence, for clothes. You know well enough. Come, now, can't I
have something on account ?"
"Next Thursday, my good fellow, but not a minute before. Next Thurs-
day we shall roll in tin; and I tell you what it is, I advise you to say as little
as possible, and to be as civil as possible, or else you will be paid in full."
"Paid in full?"
"Yes. How do you like that ?"
" Oh ! but, Mr. Rowley, you know I don't want to be paid in full. All I
want is. what's reasonable, you know. That is to say, about fifty pounds on
account, and another order. That's the proper way to do business, you know,
with gents."
" I know it is. Be off !"
Rowley descended from the chair that enabled him to reach the attitude of
the peep-hole in the wainscot, and came into the splendid drawing-room again,
rubbing his hands together.
"Got rid of him, sir," he said. "Threatened the fellow we would pay him.
That settled him rather, I take it. Enough to give him a stitch in the side."r
" But is not that," said Sir John, "just what he wants ?"
L     ess you, sir, no. Quite the t'other way. You mast know, sir, that
all th ofelows only want something on account, and another order."
"Then, Mr. Morton is in debt ?"
"In debt? Oh, Lor ! just a few."
"But how does'he pass his time'? Surely ha cannot be always out in this
sort of way'? What does he amuse himself with ?"     -
"Amuse himself with ?  Lots qf things. Why there's champagne sdppers
-there's the theatres-the saloons-there's boating on the river-there's
matches at billiards-there's hurdle-races-there's trotting matches-pigeon
shooting-sprees after dark at the West-en-there's dinners at Richmond,
and elsewhere-there's the ladies-there's---"
"That will do," said Sir John. "That will do. But has he any friends or
associates who call upon him here ?"
" Why, yes, there's a few of the fastest fellows about town, I rather think,
and they all come hero to knock up a bit of fun for the evening, you see, while
Abel is shaking his head a little after the last night's frolic. Do you know, I
don't think he can have made his head well."
"Made his head ?"
" Yes ; you know what I mean. A little touches him, and then he is on
the groan with a headache in the morning, and pitches into the soda-water.
As for me, I can stand anything but champagne, and that, somehow, does get
into my eye.-I have had a glass or two this morning."
"'So I thought," muttered Sir John in an under tone.
But, after all," said Rowley, with a loud laugh, "nothing is so funny as
when he gets a letter from the old 'uns at home."
"Funny ?" said Emma.

"Yes, to be sure. It would kill you with laughing. Why, there was one
only a day or so ago from a girl he says is his cousin, and how I did laugh
over that letter, to be sure. If you'd believe me, sir, it was positively green as
grass; it was quite as verdant as a meadow in May. 'Oh! oh ! It spoke about
his injuring his health by studying too much. Oh dear-oh dear ! I thought
I should have died when I read it.
"This is horrible," said Emma, and she burst into tears.
"Why, what's the matter, miss ?" said Rowley. "Ain't you well. Per
hips I have said what I oughtn't-"
"By no means," said Sir John. "You have said just what you ought, I
have received more information from you in this one half hour, than I dare-
say, I could have procured if I would have given a thousand pounds for it."
Rowley pressed his hands on his eyes for a moment, and then he said.
"What have I been saying, sir ?"
"Nothing very particular to you. Can you oblige this young lady with a
glass of water'?"
"Yes, sir, of course-or champagne. No, hang it ! Bother the champagne.
I have had too much of that myself, I think. Plague take it, yes. Water-
a glass of water? Yes, sir. In a moment. I begin to think I have made a
precious fool of myself."
"Uncle-dear, uncle ! Come--come home ! To our old home
"No, Emma. I wait for Abel."
"He may not'come back--"
"I will wait, if it were a month ere he set his foot in this room. I am his
accusing spirit, girl, and I wait here for him. Say no more to me upon that
point. I wait here for my son, Abel. Hush ! this rascal of a servant of his
comes with the water. You can go home, Emma, if .you please; I amano
domestic tyrant to force you to remain here against your will," then turning to
Rowley he said-
"And so you think that Mr. Morton will soon be here ?"
"Well, sir, I-I-that is, I really don't know; but he usually does come
home about this time, for after being out all night he likes to come here and
take his shower bath, and cup of chocolate, and to change his things, and turn
over in his mind what he will do next, you see, sir."
"Very proper, indeed, very proper."
" Ah !" said Rowley, starting. "Don't you hear that ?"
A peal of laughter outside the door of the chamber. sounded now upon Sir
John's ears.
" That's Abel,". said Rowley. "That's he. He seems all right enough.
Shall I tell him, sir, that Mr.-a-a-"
"Not for worlds. I will give you another guinea to say nothing. Let him
come into this room and find me here."
"Very good, sir."
"Ha, ha, ha I" laughed Abel, as Rowley opened the outer door for him
Good morning, Rokeley. Good morning, Lorrinet, my boy. Good-by Col-
onel. Remember eight o'clock this evening. By-by ! Ha, ha, ha ! Glori-
ous fun ! Rouge et noir for ever, and d-n the consequences ! Keep things
going somehow. Curse the law ! Good morning, all of you. Hip, hip, hurra!
That's the way to do it. Ha, ha !"
CHAPTER XI.
AT the sound of Abel's voice uttering such expressions, and laughing with
such tipsy merriment, Emma had risen, and flung herself into the arms of her
uncle, crying s she did so-
" Uncle--uncle, have mercy !"
Sir John Morton rose up from the chair upon which he had been sitting, afd
confronted the half open door of th6apartment.. Emma as he so rose, slid

t
f F
tF
t
3
i
t            g.
o-              t
L
-             i
,t
E
t1
Si
{f

f

_
,.


88

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

Ii
Bu
ii

down to his feet, and upon her knees she held hitn fast, lest there should be
any collision between him and Abel upon the impulse of the moment.
"Rowley, you infernal thief!" cried Abel, as he half glanced around him at
that fidgetty and terrified defendant, for Rowley was now in a fright, at he
knew not exactly what. " Rowley, you thief, get me breakfast, and some
soda water'first, though-soda water and brandy, and earn the money better
you vagabond. Did you get the twenty pounds I sent you. you infernal cor-
morant?   Give-give ! That's your cry, you leech. You-you---"
Abel's eye fell upon the perfectly white face of Sir John, and staggering back
till he grasped the back of a chair for support, he gasped out, in half-choking
accents-" God ! My father !"
"The governor, by jingo !" said. Rowley. "I have done it, rather, now !"
"His spirit ! He is dead ! Oh, God! he is dead !" cried Abel, "and his
sainted spirit comes to chide me here ! Father-father-father !"
The father made a movement to approach his son, but Emma sprang to her
feet, crying,
"No, no. All will be explained, it is not true. Abel, say that it is not true
-not all true. Abel-Abel-"
"Emma?"
"Yes, I am Emma-Emma Chester."
"The cousin !" said Rowley. "0, or-oh, or !"
"Lost !" murmured Abel, "all lost now !"
''No, no," shouted Emma, "you are not lost, Abel. 0, no !"
She tugged at his arm, and shook him to and fro, but he heeded her not.
"Let him be quiet," said Sir )hn. "Abel, answer me."
"I-will-father."
"Are you-(the old man's voice faltered)-are you a gambler-a debauchee
-a bully-a midnight brawler ?"
Slowly Abel raised his eyes to the face of his father; and for a few moments
they gazed at each other. Then, after drawing a-long breath, Abel said, in a
low voice, that appeared as though wrung from him by despair--
"Go on, sir."
"Are you a villain ?"
"No !"
" No !" shrieked Emma. "There, uncle, I told you so. He is not a villain.
Abel, say no again ; say it with an open, honest look, and with one of the old
smiles. Abel-Abel say so again. You are not what they would, perhaps,
fain make of you. You may have erred, as some poor spirit may for a time
mistake its path ; but you will come back again-back again?"
Abel's heart beat with a strong emotion.
"Father," he said, "you. have found me out. I wandered in the pleasures
and the follies of the town, which pleasures are but follies, but which follies,
alas ! I have found not to be all pleasures. I dreaded to let you, of all living
beings, know that I was what Iam. I have deceived you. You see me before
you harassed by debt, tortured by remorse; my time and health wasted-all
unworthily. Father, I have but one solitary request to make of you. It is,
that you will now leave this place, and that it will please you, from the moment
that you do so, to forget that you have a son.",
A deep groan burst from the lips of Sir John Morton, and h'e tried to speak,
but could not.
"Sir," said Abel, and he spoke almost in a whisper. He was perfectly beaten
down, was poor Abel, to see how much his father suffered. "Sir, it will be
much better-very much better."
"No, no," cried Emma, "this must not be. Uncle-uncle ! reflect only for a
moment. This is Abel-Abel, your dear son."
"Hush !" said Sir John. "Hush, girl! Sterner hearts than yours must
act in this business. Abel, you wrote-o me for money: you were sick from
over study-you wanted to purchase books?  You wrote as much, Abel, did
you not ?"

.l

I

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.
"I did, sir."
"And-and you did not purchase the books? you were not sick from study?  u
It was all false-all false was it ?"
"All-all."
"And that letter begun with words of love to all at home-it ended with
other words of love and reverence, and these bright and fine expressions enclo-
sed a hideous lie !"
Abel shuddered.
"Emma?" 
"I am here, uncle."
" Come, my child-cone. We are not wanted here. One don't know
what one's heart is capable of until it is tried. Like the true steel, 'twill bend
even to the cracking, and yet break not. Come-come, Emma, come."
"No, no, uncle. There is Abel-look at him; are you human? Heis your
son-your boy-your only one ! Can you look unmoved ?  Dare you leave
him to his own thoughts, and the .deep temptations that beset him?  Does
Heaven leave its children thus? Speak to me, uncle-speak, and do not look
so cold. Uncle-uncle !"
"Go on, girl. These are but fresh daggers ; use them freely."
"No, no. , I would pluck daggers from your heart, uncle, not plant them
there. You are not all yourself at this dread moment."
"Come, my girl, come. The carriage waits-the carriage waits. We are
wanted at home.' Come, girl."
"One minute more, uncle, only one minute more. At hame, at the dear old
house, you know, where the soft summer sun looks down upon us amid a world
of flowers-at that dear house there is a mother---"
Sir John started.
"Yes, there is a mother. She has but a faint hold of life. It is but by one
silken cord she is held to the great world. Would you snap it at once by
telling her that you have cast 1im from you? That you had left him with
his imagination, a wreck in the wild Waste of the great world, the prey of
every danger? No, no-,-you cannot look into Abel's mother's face andsay
that you have done so."
"Peace, girl-oh, peace !"
"You cannot, your heart relents. You are his father, and let him be ten
times what he is, you must not-you shall not--you will not-I tell you, uncle
you dare not desert him."
Sir John staggered to the door, and there he paused for a moment, and they
thought that he would fall ; but he merely turned, and opening his arms, he
cried, through a gush of tears-
"Abel-my boy-my own boy-my joy-my son !"
Abel fainted in his father's arms.

CHAPTER       XII.
THE silence that ensued between the father and the son was of too sacred a
character even for Emma to break. She quite unconsciously seated herself in
the great chair that Abel was wont to call specially his own, and'which, with
its profuse gilding and silken ornaments and tassels, was quite a thing of state ;
and there, pale and nervous, and so beautiful and angelic-looking, that it was
quite a sight to see her, she waited for the ebullition of feeling upon the part
of Sir John Morton to pass away.
It was the father who spoke first after that=pause; and looking into the face
of his son, his only son, the one strong tie that bound him to the world, he
-         said--
"Abel, do we indeed know each other again 1"
"Father !" was all that Abel said in reply, but it was quite sufficient. A
smile lighted up the features of the sorrow-Ctricken man. It'was such a smile

'. f
LR
7 7
t,'

Rs
L    i
I

j ,
'
y3
i
}
z


MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.          41

as Emma had not seen yet, since she had known him, upon his face. His very
soul rejoiced in the fancied reclamation of his boy.
" Father," he said, ".the past is-is---"
"Is the past, my boy," said Sir John, "so we will say no more about it,
except'so far as we shall be obliged to settle some of its results. Come, come
-look up, Abel. I will believe that it was Heaven who sent us here to-day ;
and ought I not to rejoice when I find that you are still my own, notwith-
standing the syrens of false and fleeting pleasure tried to steal you from me
"Yes, father, I feel now, indeed my heart tells me---"
Abel could not go on, and Sir John glanced at Emma, who gently rose, and
gliding towards him, took Abel by the hand.
He started, and looked in the face of the ingenuous fair girl who was by his
side. What words could paint to the mind's eye the charm of the tender smile
that sat upon her lips?
"Emma !" said Abel. "0, Emma, you-you despise me now   -"
"My Abel, no-oh, no, dear Abel, we will all now be happier than we were
before. Abel-Abel, do not weep. We shall, indeed."
"0, Heaven !" cried Abel, "that I could for one moment forget how much
I loved you, and that upon your love rested the ark of all my hopes ! Dear
Emma, can you indeed look upon me with the eyes of forgiveness ?"
Sir John looked just a little surprised. He had not suspected that Abel and
Emma had quite such an appreciation of each other's worth as he now saw
they had; but the suspicion was not displeasing to him. He had an opinion.
and it is one that any sensible parent, we think, will have likewise, upon reflec-
tion, that there is nothing in all the world such a safeguard to the young and
inexperienced-as.a virtuous and early attachment.
Emma suffered Abel to fold her in his arms,.and to kiss her cheek, as he
whispered to her-
"After this moment, if I fall again, I am unworthy even to be pitied."
"You will not fall again, Abel," she whispered, tenderly.
"Nice," said Rowley, from his post of observation. "Upon my soul, that is
a fine girl. But what the deuce is all this to end in ?"
"Abel," said Sir John.
How Abel started, and what a little scream Emma uttered ! The fact was,
that they had quite forgotton Sir John-shall we go a little further, and say
that at that moment they had forgotten all the world but themselves? To be
sure they had. Are there not such moments in the lives of all?
"0, uncle," said Emma, "I-that is,,.dear uncle---"
," Exactly," said Sir John. "Do not tremble so, Emma. If I have unex-
pectedly to-day, in addition to awakening my son from a few heedless follies
of youth, found out that he loves you, surely these are two good discoveries
instead of one."
"Indeed, father, I do love her with all my heart," said.Abel.
"And, indeed son," said Sir John, "I approve of your choice with all my
heart."
Now, nothing would serve Emma but a good cry in the arms of her uncle,
and Rowley got still more puzzled.
"It must be gammon," he said, "broad-wheeled gammon. I should say Abel
will come down on the old man for some tin, and then get rid of him and the
girl as quick as he-can ; that's the way to do it."
"Now, Abel," said Sir John, " sit down."
Abel sat down as quietly and submissively as possible, so that Emma quite
leaped again in the joy of her young heart to see him.
"Probably," added Sir John, "you have got into some pecuniary entangle-
ments, Abel, and the only way is to pay them all off at once, so that you may
feel your mind quite at ease about them, and then we will forget that part of
the subject entirely."
"Yes, father."',
"I do not wish you to give up your studies, Abel," said Sir John "but I
should like you to remove from this place."

V

Abel slightly groaned at the-word "studies."
"And now, my boy, asI have my cheque-book with me, I will draw at chee
for the amount of the little debts."
"Well," said Rowley, "that is what I call out-and-out brick-like. What as
uncommon excellent old governor, to be sure."
"Cot~re, Abel, what will be the amount nearly?  Give me a guess now.
Overdo it, though, rather than under do it, as that will make no matter; Will
a hundred pounds cover these little plaguing debts, Abel?"
Rowley groaned, and so did Abel, as he said, faintly-
-   "I'm afraid not, sir, I'm very much afraid not."
"You are sure not, you mean, Abel. Well, well, it don't  tte or whit,
only say what will."
"Father," said Abel, with a look of desperation, "do not attempt to pay my
debts. Leave me and them to struggle together as bestImgy:, Timploreyou
to do so."
Baug-.bang! came at the outer door, and they all started.
"Nobody," said Rowley, popping his head into the room. -4o on. It's
nobody."
"Nobody ?" said Sir John. "How can you say it is nobody, sir, when Ihear
a knock that is enough to break any reasonable door off its hinges ?"
Bang-bang-bang! came three decisive knocks again.
"I mean, sir," said Rowley, "that-that-when I say nobody, you know,
sir, I mean to say that it's one of the enemy."
3

I

I

r

40

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR

'

.


:
}

1
t
f
C     t
t     $
e    f
f
J
f    5
f
4
$
f                   -
I
t
E
r4
i
t
S
r
b
t
3
S
_                f}y
fi
2
z
-           L

"There is no occasion for this sort of thing any further," said Sir John Mor-
ton. "Admit this person, be he whom he may."
"Mr. Stilt, the tailor from St. James's Street," announced Rowley, as he
pushed into the room rather an alarmed-looking individual, dressed in the
height of the prevailing fashion, or rather, in caricature of it. Rowley then
followed him, and kept in a very mysterious manner dodging behind him.
Rowley's real motive was, to give the tailor a hint to stop, if he should begin
t) say too much.
"Well, sir," said Sir John, looking Mr. Stilt mildly in the face. '"What is
your business here ?"
"My little account. Your servant, Mr. Abel Morton. I have called, sir, a
matter of fifty times, sir, I assure you."
"Stop, sir," said Sir John. "We don't want to know how often you have
called. We'wan't to pay you."
"Pay me !" gasped the tailor, starting back, and treading violently upon
Rowley's toes, for which he got a hearty kick in return. "Pay me !"
"Yes, sir, pay you. Is that so extraordinary ?"
"Why, sir-I-that is, if Mr. Morton would oblige me with something on
account, you see sir, that'is all we want; so that we see some of his money,
sir. Of course it gives me great pleasure to see his name on the books."
"But not one half the pleasure that it will give me to take it off them, Mr.
Stilt; so I intend to pay you in full. Abel, what do you owe this man
"I don't know, father."
At the word, "father," Mr. Stilt pulled a long face, and looked really dis-.
tressed.
"Sir I will call again, I will do myself the honor to call again. The fact
is, sir, the-the spring patterns, you see, gentlemen, induced me to call. I will
do myself the great honor, now, of retiring, if you please, gentlemen. Another
time wal do for the a-a little account, gentlemen. Good morning, if you
please, good morning."
"Stop, sir !" cried Sir John. "Oblige me with your bill."
"Not at all !" cried Mr. Stilt. "O dear me sir, you don't say that?  My
little account doesn't matter in the least, sir, but if you would be so kind as to
oblige me with fifty or a hundred pounds on account- "
"Fifty or a hundred pounds on account !" cried Sir John, as he sprang to
his feet.
"Yes-a-yes, sir, if you please, on account."
"Sir," cried Sir John, "what does my son owe you ?"
"Why, sir, at a rough guess---"
"Well, sir, at a rough guess ?"
"About three hundred pounds."
Sir John sat down with a groan, and the costly dressing-gown in which
Abel generally sat at home, slid from the back of the chair, where it had been
reposing, on to the head of Sir John Morton. He dragged it off him rapidly,
and looked at the satin and silk of which it was composed.  d
"Did you make this, sir ?" he said to the tailor.   '
"Yes, sir, if you please. Make you-one sir, exactly to the pattern."
"And the price ?"
"Why, sir, we book it at twenty-two pounds."
"0, and very moderate, too-very moderate, indeed. O, Abel, Abel !" .
Rat, tat, tat ! Bang bang ! came at the door.
"Now we are what I call rather in for it, and no mistake," said Rowley.
"Here's a go."

V'

]

I

42

HEADS AND HEARTS ; OR

1
i

CHAPTER        XIII.
Tus violent knocking'at the door was quite a seasonable relief to Abel, for
he was ready to welcome any circumstance that would put an end to the dread-
ful interview that was taking place between the tailor and his father.
"Shall I let 'em in, sir ?" said Rowley.
"0, yes," cried Sir John Morton,'in a high, cracked voice. "0 let them in.
As for you, Mr.'Stilt, you will be called upon by a professional gentleman, who
will look over your account."
"]3ah ! sir, I am a respectable tradesman, sir, and when, sir, anybody talks,
sir, of a professional man to me, sir, my blood rises, sir, and I feel, sir, that my
pattern book-I mean my feelings, sir, are not to be worried out in such a way,
sir. Good day, sir."
Mr. Stilt made quite a rush to leave the chambers, and violently encoun-
tered a person who was entering, so that they both rolled on to the floor
together.
"Bravo !" said Rowley. "Two to one on the tailor ! Go it ! That's the
way to do it ! Hit him again ! Six to four on the tailor ! Any takers? Go
it, Stit"
After a scuffle of some few minutes' duration, Mr. Stilt gathered himself up,
and darted out of the place, leaving rather a prim-looking man, in a white cravat,
rather the worse for his tumble and scramble on the floor.
"Walk in, sir, walk in," said Rowley. "Walk in, sir. All's right.. Allow
me to introduce you to the governor. Mr. Popham, the jeweller, sir, if you
please."
The jeweller looked a little astonished, as, upon walking in, he found him-
self confronted by such a party in Abel's room.
.' Come in, sir," said Sir John Morton. "Come in. I'm glad to see you.
Does Mr. Abel Morton owe you anything, sir ?"
"Well, sir, he does, certainly."
"Very well. What my son owes you will be paid; a gentleman will call
upon you, and pay you, on account of my son, who will be able to furnish him
with your address. Good day, sir."
"That's the way to get rid of 'em," said Rowley. "Don't I wish they'd go
when I  tell 'em as quietly as that ! But catch 'em at it, that's all !"
Sir John now turned to Abel. and spoke in a low tone to him.
"Abel," he said, "I think that I had better not remain here just at present.
I will go to my hotel in Clarges Street, where I have been in the habit of stay-
ing when in London,, and you can come to me this evening at seven o'clock. I
will send a message home with an excuse to your mother ; for she expected
we would all be back in a few hours. I feel, though, that I cannot take you
with me home until these affairs are settled."
Abel merely bowed.
"You will attend me this evening at seven ?"
Abel rose, and held out his hand, which his father shook for a moment.
Then Emma burst into tears, as she cried-
"Abel-Abel, you will indeed be different from what you have been ! You
will forsake the false pleasures that have wound themselves around you in the
town-you will indeed, Abel; and for the time to come you will be all that
your dear father can wish you. Speak to him again Sir John-oh! speak to
him, uncle. You see how depressed he is. I pray you speak to him. The
venial crimes of his youth will be to him lessons through life. It is true that
he is very young, indeed ; but if you desert him, he is lost to all the world.
Tell him again, uncle, that you forgive him !"
"I do," said Sir John.
"With all your heart, uncle ?"
"Yes, girl-with all my heart. Let Abel's follies pause at this point, and
be the present complications or amounts of them what they may, I freely and
from my heart forgive him."

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.           43


44

t
E
3
s
t
.f

f
Y
4
1
rj
'3 'ri
^4 ++ yEE
r tp
f
r    s  a
6=
z-_
#
*
g(
s                              '
s
i:
3,
F
a
t    E
' i
i3,
t
i
i
1
i

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

I

"You hear, Abel-you hear that ?"
"I do," said Abel, "and I feel that I am unworthy. Father, I will make
no promises for the time to come ; I feel that it would be but tampering with '
your feelings for me to.do so. It is only when some portion of that time shall
pass away, that you shall know me as your son again."
"Thank heaven," said Sir John. "Abel, look at that young girl."
Abel did, indeed, look at her.
"It appears that you have won her affections. She is very young, and very
innocent, and very guileless, indeed. Abel, I say that you have won her heart,
as it appears. That fact was unknown to me this morning. Abel, it is hard
to deceive me and your mother-it is hard, I say to do that ; but if you deceive
her---"
0 no -no father, I will not !"
"You hear that he will not, uncle. I will be to you the pledge for his
fidelity-I will answer for him; and feeling and knowing that such is the case,
Abel, if a thought of wrong should cross his mind, will banish it."
"Yes," said Abel, 4"yes, Emma; only that I feel how unworthy that I am
of you. Father, are you satisfied?  Do you think I would be the villain to
deceive this fond and trusting heart?  0 no-no ! I may be.thoughtless, and
upon the first introduction to the world I have done much that is wrong, and
gone astray from the path of goodness; but an angel has beckoned me back to
it again, and I obey her."
"Enough, Abel. I am satisfied now."
Abel tottered back into the chambers, and his father and Emma left them.
For 'ome few moments Abel sate in the gilded chair and covered his eyes
with his hands. Rowley looked earnestly at him. Then he spoke, and Row-
ley shrunk back, for there was something very earnest in the tones of his
master ; and as he proceeded still speaking, Rowley got quite back, and took
an amber look at him through one of the colored panes of glass in the upper
part of the door.
"Yes," soliloquised Abel, "I shall be very happy indeed. I shall only think
of the mock pleasure that I have seen in London, and with my gay compan-
ions, as I would think of the riot of a dream. There shall be nothing congru-
ous in my mind to them. Will not sigh for the theatres, the saloons, the
balls, the routes, the gay suppers, and the wild saturnalia of the spirits and
the passions that followed the sparkling wine cup, and the still more sparkling
wit that it evoked. The bright eyes of beauty, whose virtue sits so easily upon
them that like a loose garment, it can be shuffled off at pleasure. No-no! I
must think no more of such things."
Abel rose, and paced the room.
"No more must I sigh for the sunset to come, that it may usher in the life
that only begins when the bright day has passed away. Let me think. Yes,
I can easily get rid of my engagements. I have to be with my father at seven
this evening, yes, at seven-0, so punctually at seven, at his old London Hotel
in Clarges Street."
"He musn't go," said Rowley.
"Then I have an appointment with Colonel Elk at ten-ay, at ten-and
with the Dandoloski, to whom I have promised a pony phaeton. By all that's
terrible, I was near forgetting that. What on earth shall I do?  And the
colonel was to put me up to some mode of possessing the means to purchase
it. Then there's Lorrinet, who has got up a kind of bachelors' fete for to-
morrow on purpose for me, and we are to have a boat-race at Twickenham.
And then there is Lord Rokeley-why, I did promise to take a drive with him
to Brentford to-day, and to lunch there; at a cottage oinee in which he has
lodged, he says, is a young Greek girl, who is the most bewitching and beau-
tiful creature that ever lived. What shall I do'7 Alas !-alas! unhappy man,
what can I do ?".                       -
He flung himself upon the chair again.
"Lord Rokeley," announced Rowley ; and then, in another moment, he
shouted out, "Captain Lorrinet."

MY BROTHERS THE COLONEL.                       45
" Hurra !" cried Lorrinet. "Here you are, Abel. A glorious day ! How
are you, old boy? Ah! you gave us all the slip nicely last night. They say
you went off with the Dandoloski.""
"My drag is at the door," said Lord Rokeley. "What a trouble it is to live,
don't you think so, Abel?'"
"Glorious fun, I call it," cried Lorrinet. "Why, Abel, we think of all put-
ting on thick coats, and blacking our faces, and going to Tom lHuncombe&amp;
little lodge at Putney, and pretending to take possession of it, and the little
piece of goods he calls Nancy, that he keeps there in the name of the law"
"Capital !" said Abel.
" Oh, very," said Rokeley ; "but a world of trouble."  -
*  *      *      *      *      *      *-     *
It is evening. The great city is full of that strange and incessant hum of
hurried existence, which in London gives such a significance to those hours
which, in a less artificial state of existence, invite to repose. A fiery glow is
in the night sky from the innumerable lights of London; -and the riot-the
dissipation-and much of the absolute vice of the great human hive is about
to begin.
Now from several houses, where the debauch and the watchfulness of the
preceding night have been slept off, emerge the house-breaker and the street-
robber. The flaunting lady of what is called easy virtue, which means no
virtue at all, bedizeps herself in her tawdry finery. The bully-the pick-
pocket-the gentleman and the roue, find that their hour has come, for the
beautiful sunshine has passed away, and the light of heaven no longer looks
down upon their guity eyes.
.rAnd amid all the riot-and the life-and the bustle without, Abel ljQrton
is alone in his chambers at the Albany.
Twice had Rowley asked his master if he would have a light, and had as
often been replied to by a sharp negative ; so he had retired to the outer room,
leaving the young soul that was wavering betwixt vice and virtue to itself.
Bang ! came a knock at the outer door. The world had not forgot that
there was such a being in it as Abel Morton.
Rowley was delighted at the opportune arrival, for he had heard enough of
his master's soliloquy to know that there was a struggle going on in his breast,
that might. possibly end in a manner very adverse to his, Rowley's, present
interest, and he was right glad of a good excuse for breaking in upon such
meditations.
The single knock had assured Rowley that no one was at the door to whom
he must display much ceremony, and, accordingly, as he flung it open, wit-
out going through the process of looking through the little hole in the panel
above it, he cried-
"Now for it !-Who are are you ?"
Rowley was rather astonished to see no one.
".Hilloa ! A run-away knock. Well, that ain't very often here. Confound
it! who can it be? Nobody, by Jove !"
"Mr. Morton home ?" squeaked a voice.
Rowley was so taken aback by the suddenness of this question, that he
quite staggered into the chambers, a pace or two, and then he happened to
look towards the floor, and he saw, dinily, a specimen of humanity from whom
the voice had came, and who he had completely overlooked, in the extrena
sense of the term.
"Hilloa I" said Rowley, "who the deuce are you?"
"The Dandoloski's tiger."
Rowley looked at the object as well as the dubious and uncertain light
would permit him, and then he said-
"Oh, my eye!"
"Well, fellow," said the tiger, "what do you mean by staring in that way
at a gent, eh?  Is the governor at home? that's what we want to know."
"Come in," said Rowley. " Lor bless you! come in, and let's have a good

I J

-,_    -               5

3
_                      .i
F
i
:y'
S
f
_                     }f
f


{
{q j
S
z
..

:S
t t
# f
,;
eF
t! (3
{{{ 2j
sail
T
i
E 2
#SS
i j
I
..  i
t    {
-           }e
(14 7
;y 1
# a
e1
;d
:S
ti
t
A
i
X'
;  yF
{
f
t   ?
i3 i
rf
'r
t                'j
t
T    I
e
_       .
t
;
.
,
,
_
,
r,
13 i
;
., ..
.
- .
F-
.
*
4
#
x
s     i[[S
?     li
k3
i     yS
: y   e2
{
1
.-"3
F
,t
i     {
:
S
.
_   _          jf
_             i
4
i+
F     Y
'[
it
e    r
eJ
-r

f-             S
"-
ffi

=    ~-                                                                                   =1

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                      47
"That's right ! Had a little spree in Regent Street about half-an-hour ago,
or I should have been with you sooner, old fellow. The Marqais of Lander-
ford was coming along at a'pelt in his cab, and I in mine. You know I don't
go slow : but the Marquis thought to pass me, which, of course, I wouldn't
have ; so I let him get about half-a-dozen yards in advance, and then laid the
whip on my mare's neck, which always mnkes her a maniac for half-an-hour,
and off she went. I did the thing rather cleanly, for I caught the marquis's
off-wheel, and sent him and his cab through a shawl-man's window. I didn't
wait to see what damage he had done. Heard a loud crash, that was all, and
came on here as if the devil himself were behind me. But, Abel, you don't
seem the thing."
"I am though. Colonel Elk, I have made a determination."
"What is it, my boy?"
"To-to leave a town life-to go to the country, and remain with my
father, and to bid a long and last adieu to the follies and extravagances into
which I am plunging. This is the resolve I have made, Colonel Elk."
"My dear fellow, I see that something has happened to put you very much
out of the way, and I am sorry for it.. I like a young man to be diffident of
his own powers, and if you feel that you cannot enjoy the pleasures of life with-
out going too far, why, do not attempt to taste them, There are men who
dare not touch good wine, for fear they should not know when to leave off
short of hopeless drunkenness. If you know yourself so well as to be sure that
you cannot be merry and wise, why, go to the country at once, and hang your-
self in a pig-sty."
"You distract me
"Then I will take my leave. I did fancy, Abel Morton, that I saw in you
one who would be a credit to the bold and brave spirits of London-one who.
would, with his wit, his eloquence, his daring, and his handsome appearance,
get the love of all the women, and the envy of all the men; but if it is not to
be so, why, there's an end. If you must lay-by in youth instead of age-and
age will come soon enough, Abel-do so. I will leave you."
"No, no ! do not leave me !-I shall go'-mad if you do !"
"Excuse me, Abel, but I think you are a little that way as it is. But, come,
can you give me sufficient privilege as a friend to allow me to inquire what
happened to effect this change in you ?"
"Yes: my father has been here, and my cousin Emma. They know all
now-they are perfectly aware that I am not studying the law--they know
that I even have been leading a life of extravagance and riot in London-
they know that lam deeply in debt, and Iam wretched with the thought that
they do know it."
"Why, my dear fellow, there could not, in all the chapter of accidents, have
happened anything one half so lucky. Fortune smiles on you, Abel."
"Lucky ?-smiles'? What do you mean, colonel ?"
"Why, that you are relieved now and forever, from the only one drawback
to your love of gratification, and that was, that you were playing a double
game with your friends; but now that that is over you are a happy man,
Abel, and you have nothing to dread now."
"Have I not? I have to meet my father this evening at his hotel, and to
give a list of my debts, an account of my mode of life, and a confession of all
my extravagances and vices, and to hearhis condemnation of them, and then
to go with him to the country."
"Oh, Oh! Oh dear-Oh dear ! Don't kill me, Abel, with laughing. Nowdon't,
there's a good fellow. This is too rich-it is indeed !"
"Colonel Elk ?"
"Oh, I perceive Iam going too far. I am getting beyond the bounds of our
friendship, Mr. Morton. Well, be it o. Farewell; I am mistaken in you. I
did expect that as a gentleman, you w uld have given me my revenge at Rouge
et Noir."
"I will do that."

_F                                                                                                                                                                   ..

4                ,
";=;-,.


E
t
ss
t
7
,4

M t  1WTIIR, T IE CO 0NEL.

49

t
14
PI
I_
}4
 I
 I

48             .    HEADS AND HEARTS; ;OR,
" No, no. It don't matter. There are a thousand things, too, that I wanted
to speak to 'you about, for, hang it, I thought you one of us, I did, indeed.
What a disappointment this will be to Lorrinet and Rokeley, and all the other
fellows. Why, we were going to get up a kind of club, and make you the pre-
sident. And poor Dandoloski, too ! Poor devil, she has refused such an offer
from the Austrian Ambassador for your sake."
" For ne?"
"'To be sure-to be sure. But good evening, Abel. I respect you yet, my
'boy ; and when you sicken of the country, which you will in a week, come to
me and I won't laugh. I thought you would have accompanied me to my
place, and over a bottle of Lafite, we could have had a little Rouge et Noir, or
Piquet if you like it better; but it is not to be. Farewell."
'.Stay, colonel. Oh, stay."
" As-you please, my good Abel."
" Colonel, you have staggered me. If I thought that after a time my father
would not think anything of my determination to stay in London--"
"Abel, your father will admire you for being, no doubt, what he was at your
age, when he comes to think about a young man of spirit and genius, who had
the wisdom to sow 'his wild oats, and then to quietly retire to private life, when
'he no longer cared for a more public career."
"But my debts?"
" Pshaw ! stuff!"
"I-promised to be at the hotel by seven o'clock."
"And it is now half-past. Ha ! ha ! Abel, it is too late, and the old man is
over his pint of port, saying, with a shake of his head, 'Ah, I was just like him
at his age, the young dog. The lad has a spirit.'"
"Do you think so?"
"I know it. My cab is at the gate of the Albany. On with your hat, man,
and come. I will tell you as we go along, how the Austrian Ambassador's
affair went off with the Dandoloski, and exactly what she said to him. Come
on, Abel, my boy. Why, you look twenty per cent. better than you did.
Twenty,-did-I say?  I meant.a hundred."     "
In this kind of discourse the colonel got Abel into his cab, and away it went
at such a startling puce to-the colonel's lodging that it was enough ,to  t any
one's brains in a whirl to look at the cab at all, as it flew past. .rPhe wherr
they arrived, some of the finest wines, some of the most brilliant lights, and a
pack of cards, awaited them.
Oh,'was there no good angel at that moment to whisper, "beware !" in Abel's
ear?                                             . -
The flashing wine soon ascended to the head of poor Abel, and lent to his
eyes a lustre that was not their own. The color came back to his cheeks in a
full flush. He laughed and joked with the colonel about the Dandoloski and
the bitter chagrin atd disappointment of the Austrian Ambassador, who, with
all his princely title, and his almost fabulous wealth, could not tempt that one
frail, bad woman to sin; and by ten o'clock Abel lost eight hundred pounds
to Colonel Elk at that most engaging of all games to the young and inexperi-
enced, blind-hookey. Abel sprang to his feet with an execration upon the cards,
as he dashed them to the floor.
A little French clock upon the side-board played a tune and struck ten.
"I should have been with my father at seven," gasped Abel ; "I could then
have told him that I owed two thousand pounds ; but now-now God help
me, I must add half as much again to the amount, if he will. indeed, ever look'
upon my face again."
"Abel," said the colonel, "you gave me an I. O. U. for the amount of my
winnings; there it is."
The colonel screwed up a'bit of paper, and deliberately lit it, and threw it.
into the fireplace.
"Don't say, Abel, my boy, that anything between you and me need ever be
repeated to a third party. The debt is cancelled."

I

-.... ..,y.,_-.. .,..m.,... .h..,-... .,. ..N

"Colonel, you are too generous-you are too kind to me. In my impatience
I fear I say things that I ought not to say; but youyill pardon me, and make
allowances for me, I feel assured that you will, colon .
"My dear fellow," said the colonel, "you never can offend me till I am sure
you want to do it, and then it will be easy enough. Come, let us go to Long's
for Lorrinet and Rokeley. We will make a night of it, Abel, and of one tbigr
rest assured, that my purse is always open to you. Draw at once ; what does
it matter?  I have enough and to spare, though I will own to you that at times
I am pushed, owing to a congregation of unexpected demands; but that is not
now. What money will you have, Abel?"
"None-none ! I cannot."
" Pho ! Stuff! There,,you will find a couple of hundred in notes in that
case, put it in your pocket, and let's be off. To-morrow morning we will see
after this poney concern for the Dandoloski."
The tears started to the eyes of Abel.
"This noble generosity," he said, "This unheard of friendship is-is too ,
much."     h.
"There-there, not another word. Come on. We must leave the cab, it
will only be a bother to us. We can drop mat the Opera, and see Dandoloski
in her Aria; and then we will go up the town, and pick up what fun we can.
Ha-ha ! Abel, this is better than feeding pigs, and being called out of your
bed at night to attend to a sick cow. Ha ! ha ! It is life ! Life my boy !"
"It is," said Abel. "Ha!l"
*      *      *      *      *      4      *      *:     *
"A quarter to seven;  y dear," said Sir John Morton to Emily, as they sat
together in a quiet, priv  room at these hotel. "A quarter to seven, and we
shall soon have Abel her  ih us."
"Yes, dear uncle." -
"Come-come, Emma, nomore crying."
"But I do not cry for grief, uce,.I am very happy-very happy, indeed.
Does it not seem, dear sir, as i  beLhgd been lost and found again; or as if
he had gone through some great dagr scatheless, and that we had waited
tremblingly to hear the result, and now still tremblfor joy that it is a happy
one."            -           '    f..
"It is so, my good, kind Emma, and-I am all the ihaier that out of the
rescue of poor Abel from his venial errors inen4gkasvolved the fact that
he' loves you. May you both be happy. But cgm, my dear girl, I see that
this kind of discourse is too much for you. Youu nst take a glass of wine,
and we will have some ready to offer Abel as soon.as f irhts in, for I know
he will feel agitated.
Wine was then placed on the table. The lights were then trimmed, and
Sir John laid his ancient gold repeater upon the table, that he might know the
moment to expect his dear son, Abel, to come to hih, The old man's hand
trembled, and there was a restlessness about him that rather alarmed Emma
to see.
Seven o'clock came-half-past seven-eight o'clock, and no Abel.
Sir John Morton only spoke in a whisper, and it was by the greatest efforts
that Emma controlled her tears.
Nine o'clock came, and still -Abel.
"My child-my Emma" saidfi      ohn, we wll go home."
Re tried to move from his chair, hut the effo t-was too muchfor bim. For
a moment the room swam round-with him, and then Sir John Morton fainted
mna's cries soon brought the attendants; but Abel did not come !

F .


a
x
.
1
i
i
r
t
i
'8
k'

tLmL:

-.-.- .....,,... ...P.                    -             _                                     -

__                                                                                                                                       ,1

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                       51
he found the extent of the mischief he had done, and he thought he might posa
sibly atone for it in some way, to offended Heaven, by adopting you. He took
you from the dead body of your mother, and adopted you as his own child-
indeed, he passed you off as such, after a time, in this country, when the deed
of blood by which he became possessed of you was forgotten."
"Oh, uncle, where did all this happen?"
"At Calcutta, in the East Indies."
"I shall never know peace again. My poor father and mother, too! Oh,
God-Oh, God ! why do I know this ?"
"There, now," said Mr. Elk. "There now. You were never at peace with
me till I told you all this ; and you see the thanks I get for it-see my reward !
Oh, Dora ! is this kind of you to reproach me for telling you that which you
were always asking to know'?- But hear no more. If you fancy that you are
injured by the communication, I will say no more."
"Oh, yes, tell me all now. I should know all or nothing."
Well, be it so. The news of your father and your mother's tragical end
reached me and my brother, the colonel, here in England ; but it was a con-
siderable time before, under the assumed name that had been given to you,
we found out where you were, although we knew you had been brought to
this country by your father's murderer. The idea was, to us, gall and worm-
wood that you should exist under his roof. I could not rest, Dora, till I had
found yoii, and taken you from the hands- which were red with the blood of
your parents."
'"You were right, uncle-oh, yes, you were right ! From my soul, uncle, I
thank you for that !"
"I sincerely hope, too, that you will do justice to the intentions of my bro-
ther, the colonel. It was he who rescued you from the hands of your father's
assassin, for I was unequal to the task of doingso  To him you owe your
thanks for that service; and I assure you, that ho vr you may suspect or
fancy that he is not acting towards you as he ought, you are mistaken, for he
would defend you from any real insult. 'And now, Dora I hope that you will
not object to go to his house, and remain there while I transact .soine little
business out of town for about two days or so."
"As ynu please, uncle. I ought not to object. I may have, tiistaken my
uncle, the colonel; but-but the last time I was at his house, there was an
odious man--"
" Well-well, I have spoken to him about the Earl of Carlin, and I don't
think he will annoy you again; Dora. 'At all events, be assured 'of'one thing,
that my brother, the colonel, will really protect you, for he is jealous of your
honor ; and if you see cause to think otherwise, you have much more cause
to fancy yourself mistaken from your ignorance of the world, than to doubt
him."
"I will try to believe so, sir."
"Well, that is all right. Now we will be off at once. I will take you to
my brother's house, or rather, to his apartments. You are well known to be
his niece, so that there can be no scandal; and the old woman who is in the
place can attend upon you, as she has done before. Dry your eyes, my dear
Dora, and let us go at once."
"But, uncle, this is your house, and these are your servants. Can I not
remain here in peaceful ease and quietude till yoqrcome back to me'?"
"No, Dora. I have certain information that the man I took you from is
maddened at the idea of your escape, and would commit any desper to act to.
recapture you, and take you out of the country, He has got a w'l&amp;y i'n:
his head that by keeping'you he will atone for his crimes; and there   ldo
not feel that you are safe here alone. ~And let me beg of y jy. ue     x;
your liberty, and as you wish never to feel that you are again 4ie lf  ..c
your father's murderer, never to mention the name that yourha yt ldi'
recollect to be the one you were once known by.
' Will not. Oh, that name is hateful to me now.
+  ,1~

i
t                 ,
3
3
: =w :
r
.5


MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                 -     0
"The colonel ?"
"Ay. Mind me, Morton, I do not say that I know anything specifically
against him; but I watched him when his eyes were upon you once or twice,
when you did not notice him; aid 'if there were a devil in human shape,
it is surely he. Do you hear me, Morton ?"
"I do-I do, Lorrinet !"
Morton rose to a sitting posture, and e1d out both his hands, saying-" Oh,
Lorrinet, I have been so mad-so criminal mad ! You do not know all."
"I rather suspect I do. You made a pretty clear breast of it as we came
along, Morton.
"What did I tell you? said Abel, faintly.
"Just that you were in debt some two or three thousands, and that your
father would have paid it, and taken you to a happy home, but you neglected
an appointment with him, to enable him to do so, and that you were sure
that you had broken the heart of the sweetest girl in all the world, your
cousin Emma. That is the whole of it, chapter and verse. It was no romance,
was it, Morton ?"
' Alas ! no."
"Then take my advice, Abel. It is not too late. Who the deuce is it who
says that while there is a future at all, it is never too late to woo the angel
Virtue for the time that will last? Go to the old man at once. Tell him
all. Go to your cousin Emma, and at her feet beg for that forgiveness which
will be more precious to you than all recollections in the time that is to come.
Go at once, Abel Morton, and bid London a long adieu."
"I will go at once. Oh, yes, Lorrinet, I will go at once. You have saved
me. But for your calling now, I cannot say that the day would have passed
over my head without some dreadful act that would have spread the funeral
pall of a never-ending grief over the hearts of those who still love me, despite
all my errors. My dear friend, I was to have met my father at seven o'clock
last night, at his hotel in Clarges Street ; but you know how my time was
occupied-you know how differently
"Oh, Abel-Abel! Well, no more of that. I have said enough fox"friend-
ship. And now let me have the satisfaction of seeing you off."
"You shall. I-think, though, that-I owe you some money.. Did you
not win some hundreds of me at &amp;carts ?"
"Oh dear, no. Quite a mistake. We all played together till we threw the
cards into the fire, and that is all I know about that part of the transaction;
so we will say no more about it. Here, Rowley, your master's coat ad hat
-quick, Rowley. I will go a part of the way with you, for it is on my route.
And nQW again I beg of you beware of the colonel. I tried to make some
inquiries about him, but no one knows him. The Austrian Aervice is the one
from which he dates his rank. I need not tell you that 'that of itself is a sus-
picious circumstance, as it is difficult of confirmation. But come now, you
look a little more like yourself again."
"I feel better. Rowley, if any one comes for me, say I am gone out of
town for a day or two."
" Yes, sir."
"And-and-if Colonel Elk should come, you can say that-that---"
"INo," interposed Lorrinet. "Don't leave any 'message, Morton. Cone
along and see at once to the more important part of your affairs-your recon-
ciliation at home, and then the colonel can easily be disposed of."
"I will-I will. God bless you, Lorrinet-God bless you !"
" Hush-Hu h! That servant of yours is listening to catch our words.
Come at once. I will see you to Clarges Street."
With a feeling of desperation-something of that sort of resolution with
which you enter a dentist's studio-Abel crossed the threshold of the hotel.
Of the waiter he met he inquired of Sir John Morton.
"Gone, sir."
" Gone ?  Gone ?"

Y
s                  ":
y               i
"                  ' ' j


HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,
"Yes, sir. Left late last night, sir."
"And the young lady ?"
"Coming !"
Some bell had rung, and the waiter disappeared with the sharp, ambling
trot peculiar to his calling. Abel was rather staggered at this most unex-
pected piece of intelligence. That his father and Emma should leave without
further communication with him did not appear credible ; and yet, why not'?
They were the persons who had to complain, not he, Abel.  '
A very few paces down the passage, close to the open door of the hotel,
there was a quiet kind of bar, at which the waiters procured what they
required for the customers, and at that bar a young lady, with a profusion of
very black ringlets, presided. As Abel stood meditating in the hall, the black
ringletted young lady coughed slightly, and then said-
"Did you wish to see any one, sir ?"
"Yes," said Abel, with a faint hope that the waiter was wrong. "Yes, I
came to see Sir John Morton."
"Oh, he is gone, sir. He has left a letter, though, for a Mr. Abel Mor-
ton."
"That is my name. Here is my card."
"Oh, very well, sir. There is the letter."
The letter was upon a whole, sheet of paper, and just contained these
words:-

"Abel, farewell !

"JOHN MORToN."

The paper fluttered from the hands of poor Abel, and he staggered back,
into the street, until he was stopped by some one who called out-
"Now, sir, where is you a-coming to ?"
That coarse address recovered him a little, and he walked on like a man in
a dream for some little way, and then he heard the rattle of wheels, and a
voice cried-
"Why, Abel, where are you going ?"
It was the voice of Colonel Elk, and in another moment the tall-stepping
horse and the dashing cab stopped close to the curb-stone, and the colonel
himself looked out of the vehicle with a smile, as he added-
"Where are you bound to, Morton, my boy, and so fast, too'? Don't let
me interrupt you if you are hunting. Game ought to be strictly preserved
for those who find it."
"I am mad !" said Abel, placing his hand upon the side of the cab, and
looking the colonel in the face--" I am mad !",
"You don't say so?  Pho ! What's the matter'? Comne, get in here, be-
aide me, and tell me all about it. What's amiss, my dear fellow?  Mad,
indeed ! That's rather an odd idea, although some folks say we are all mad at
times. Come, get in."
"Why not ?" said Abel, with a strange, hysterical laugh, as he sprang into
the cab-" Why not?   I will dare, even if he be thle fiend himself."
" Ah, why not ?" said the colonel. "You are right enough there, my boy.
But I see that something has put you out of your way a little. Now, Abel,
I don't ask you what it is. I am a man of the world, and might advise you;
but I press myself upon no man's confidence. You can do as you like, and I
shan't take it as any offence ; but, my dear fellow, if money is at the bottom
of your difficulty, only say the amount, and if my means or my credit will
help you to it, you will soon smile again."
"Colonel," said Abel, "I am now in that mood that if any one would be so
good as to pick a quarrel with me, and kill me, it would be about the great-
est favor he could do me."
"Stuff! Here we are."
"Where-oh, where ?"
"Why, at my rooms, to be sure. Don't look so sad. Abel. It's all right,
and 1 am not the devil, as you politely hinted just now I might be."

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

55

,
I

/

I

;
7S s
s
st x
,i   {!.
E   =t
F  :
{
t
kP
}[  ' x
R M'
'
F
r  r
t  =a
f   ti
t i}ta
s  ,,
-
t
fi
y
b
r
rg
:
.y
,e
,i
.
i

L

a

,si

In the course of a few minutes more, they were seated in the handsome
room where Abel had already been initiated into the mysteries of rouge-et-
noir, piquet, and blind hookey. A bumper glass of old wine sent the blood
through Abel's-veins with new activity; and drawing a long breath he
said-
"Colonel, all is lost, now. My father throws me off, and disowns me. I
went to his hotel, and he had gone, leaving a note for me, which contained
only the words, 'Abel, farewell!' And,- therefore, I am a beggar, Colonel
Elk. I am encumbered with debts that I have not the slightest means of
liquidating. I am cast off by the only person who could and who would
help me; and the prospect before me is despair."
"Indeed !"
"You smile, Colonel Elk ; but it is wrong of you, who only sit as the spec-
tator to the dismal drama of my destruction, to smile. I, the actor, have dif-
ferent feelings."
"-Abel Morton, if you thought I smiled because you were unhappy, you
are wrong.- I smiled because you seemed to think that there was no hope of
your emerging from that state of'unhappiness ; and give me leave to state, my
good friend, that any man in the world would smile to hear you say as much.
Why, good gracious ! Abel, what does all this come to? You are in debt:
you have quarrelled with your father. That is all."
"All?"
" Yes; and. not t very fearful amount, either, whatever your fears may
make of it, believe me. Come-come, fill your glass, and we will talk over
the affair, and see what is to be done. Did you ever do a bill ?"
"Then it's time to begin--"
The door of the colonel's room was at this moment opened, and a man ap-
peared at it of so singular an appearance, that Abel felt alarmed. The man
was so red in the face-so-shabby in his apparel-so bleared about the eyes,
and such a picture, to take him altogether, of intoxication and ruffianism, that
he was quite a sight to see.
" Hilloa !" he cried; "hilloa ! Twenty pounds,-I say, and no mistake!
D-n it, twenty pounds !"F
The coutenance of Colonel Elk became as pale as death, and he plunged
his hand into the bosom of his apparel with so significant a look and gesture,
that no one could doubt but that he grasped a. weapon there.
"It's nonsense !" cried the man at the door. "It's no use trying it od with
me. Twenty pounds, and I'm off for a week. This is my time. Should
go quite mad all the year round, if I didn't drink now and then-quite mad.
You know me, and I know you. Give me the money and let me go. By
Heaven-yes! I should go quite-quite raving mad !"
As the mysterious man spoke these last words, he held his head with both
his hands ; and, indeed, to look at his face and eyes, one would think that
there was ample occasion for him to do so.
"Infernal scoundrel !" growled the colonel-and he sprang upon the man.
A fierce struggle ensued, which ended in their both rolling out of the room;
and then the door was closed, as though by some other agency, and Abel was
left alone.
While he was wondering at this, a tall inner door, at the farther end of the
room, which was so papered that one could hardly tell it frith a panel of the
apartment, opened, and a female figure appeared, and came a few paces into
the room. Attired in simple, but elegant drapery, this'young girl-for she
was very young, indeed-looked more like a spirit tn nything human, with
- her pale face and her long, dark hair ; and yet sh  extremely beautiful,
'  and Abel Morton thought that surely he had see = . ace before.
It was quite evident that the young girl did-no  erve that any one was
in the room, for she spoke as she slowly advanced. .
"A weary time," she said. "A weary time. Oh, what will become of


56

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

MY BROTHER' THE COLONEL.

57

me at last'? Alas ! alas ! I feel at times as though I could throw myself upon
the mercy of the world."
Ah ! she had seen Abel, and started back with terror.
"Do not be alarmed," said Abe. "I am no enemy, believe me. I am a
friend of Colonel Elk's."
" A friend of his, sir-so young, toQ ?"
"Should that disqualify me ?" said Abel. "Let me offer you a seat."
"Oh, no-no ! You are a friend of his, or-or do you take him to be a
friend of yours? Which is it ?"
"I hardly know what to say. Colonel EJk is so good as to honor me with
his friendship and advice."
" Ah ! that is it ?" said the young girl.
"I fancied as much. Oh, sir, fly from this place, I implore you. You do
not know-
The door of the room opened, and Colonel Elk strode into the apartment.
There was now an angry flush upon his brow ; but the moment he saw the
young girl, he staggered back as though he had been shot.
" What is the meaning of this ?" he cried. "You here ?"
"Yes, uncle, and by accident," said the girl. "I thought you were out,
and that the apartment was vacant, so I came here to dispel the ennui of my
mind, as Mrs. Green was out."
"If I mistake not," said Abel. "this is the young lady who-"
Abel stopped short. He feared that ho was getting upon rather tender
ground, since he was going to say--" This is the young lady who sought
refuge in my chambers from you, Colonel Elk ?"
"Mr. Sydney-;-my niece," said the colonel, in a very bland manner. "You
may go now, Dora."
"Why call me Mr. Sfdney, colonel ?"
"Call you Mr. Sydney' What do you mean'?
"Just, that you introduced me to your niece as Mr. Sydney, that is all, and
it struck me as rather odd."
"Did I, though? Well that shows what a state my mind must have been
in. That fellow's name $ydney who came in here just now, drunk ; and
his infernal name is so ruinnind in my head, that I should not be at all sur-
prised if I had called the girl herself Mr. Sydney. The fact is, he is an old
soldier, and one of the greatest ruffians when he is in liquor-'-which, to do
him   mmon justice, is not above twice a year-in the world. I bought his
di, , from the army, and have kept him ever since."
"  strange taste, colonel."
' Nay, not so. The fellow is a complete nuisance to me, but he saved my
life in India, and I told him that while I lived he should never want a friend ;
so t am bound to keep my word ; and if he were to plague me to ten times
thi extent he does, I should feel that I ought to put up with it. But we will
nd   talk of our own pecuniary perplexities, and my opinion is that we most
throw ourselves upon the Jews. I can get a few bills done off hand, and at
once,     t much bother ; and if you give me your acceptance for five
thus     ounds, why, upon my credit, they can be turned into  sb. That
is the    : g sehleme that I can think of just at present for yonr scue frail
your little   ulties."
Yes, but-abt hills, you know, colonel, have to be paid. There is .s ta.
thing as a bill moved at maturity.".s
"ha, ha, ha ! hat is good ! Paid, indeed ! I think I see it. That is to
say, until it is quiteggnvenient so to do. Then it is better to pay them, and.
[should be the te   frst; person to advise such a course; but, until then,
Abel, we go throng     riess of renewing them, you see.?-
"There is sometW     that."
"There is everytlii  in it, my dear Abel. There is peace of mind-there
is pleasure-there is a full purse-the smiles of beauty, and all the thousand
and one delights of youth, with ample means, in such a city as this."

" And you really think that such a thing could be done ?"
" I-know it;. and Iwill,do it, if you like it, Abel."
"Like it? Why, a--a-that is to say, how can I do otherwise than like it?
;_ia like some mariner stranded upon a desert shore, who is asked if he likes
wapecast to him."
"That is just it, Abel. You take a very proper and capital view of'the
matter, indeed. And now we will have another glass or two of wine, and I
will tell you further what I expect will be the results of my plan of operation."
The colonel then explained the modus operandi, taking good care that Abel
@ank enough to stultify his better feelings.
Uow he got home that night, Abel could not tell exactly; but he did find
Aiwself upon the couch again in the morning, dizzy, and sick, and faint, and
ihhbead throbbing, and Rowley creeping about the rooms as usual and wait-
ig till his,master should have sufficiently recovered to say anything to him,
At length, a knock coming at the door, Abel started, saying,. "What is
A note for you, sir."
Abel opened the note, while Rowley drew up some of the blinds so as to
give him sufficient light to read it, and he saw that it contained the following
words:
"My dear Abel-Don't forget that you are to b   me at one to-day.
"Yours in this world, and in  hers.
'"From the colonel." said Abel, faintlyas the noe topped fromhis hands ;
and then, shading his -eyes, he began to try to recollect what it was that he
had to be with the colonel at one for.
4

=,

7.

it{ e
,   ZZZZ  k
t
H
ft    4    t
h
l   jgg  ,
k 1
k    '4    19
t
Ee   :
'mot  1
,t
222222} '
T     'F
j t( {ta
{
i
Ia   f
Y      y
i'
}
AL
fa
1 i
S
a'
ik
ti
t

-._----.-__,,.      -        - -

-4

I


58

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR7
CHAPTER XIV.

IT is half-past three in the morning. Abel Morton has been out with the
colonel, and he has come home again--home to the colonel's lodgings, as he
calls them, although the whole house was his, and only inhabited by his crea-
tures. Lights were flaming in the chandelier of the large room, where Abel
has already seen so much of the road to ruin. The roar of laughter came from
that room, and the shout of tipsy revelry.
Who is there?
First, then, there is Colonel Elk himself, cool and cautious, and affecting a
wild and boisterous mirth that is nothing but affectation. Then there is poor
Abel-his cautionflung off-his complexion heightened-his eyes dancing with
an unnatural lustre, and the wine cup in his hand. There is Lord Rokeley,
too, lounging back in his chair, and looking half asleep, asif it were really too
great a trouble to get drunk ; and there were four others -round the table,
choice spirits and instruments of the colonel ; and one of them, a man who, by
his appearance, one could see wore the mark of a geptleman. The others were
born blackguards.
With what a shouting, roaring madness, the, mirth of the tipsy crew came on
those early morning hours. But it is not with their sayings and doings that
we would fill our page. Let us repair to a room upon the upper story of the
house. It is an apartment adjoining a bed-room, and may be called a dress-
ing-room, a study, a boudoir, or what you will, inasmuch as it belonged not
to any of the principal apartments of the house. There is a.solitary light burn-
ing upon the front of a mirror in a gilt sconce, and kneeling by the side of a
chair, and striving to hide from her perception the roar of the wild riot below,
is a young girl.
The long ringlets of her beautiful hair hung right down to the ground, and
there lay in beauteous levity. She shudders, as now and then the riot below
assumes a yet wilder tone, and she fancies that even that room adjoining to her
chamber may not be sacred. .
"This is too dreadful !" she said. "I cannot stay--I will not stay here. It
will kill me. If I could only gain the street, if I could but get some convey-
ance to my uncle Josiah's house, all would be well. He knows not-he can-
not dream of what goes on here, or he would never, for a moment, permit me'
to be the spectator of such scenes. I am the spectator of them with my hear-
ing; and who knows how -soon, in the insanity of intoxication, they may not
compel me to be present at such rude riot'?  Yes, I wil-l leave the house at
once. Sleep I cannot ; and if I could, I dare not."
She rose, and with trembling steps passed into the adjoining room, from
whence in a few minutes she emerged with a shawl wrapped tightly round her,
and with a bonnet in her hand.
"Oh, if I could but pass the door of the dining-room," she said, "in safety,
I shall be able to escape, I hope-that is, I think there is no one in the house
who will stop me.",
She had got about half-way across the room to the door, when there came
a gentle tap at it.
'Dora would not have heard that tap. but that at that moment there wasa
lull in the racket below. Some one of the party seemed to be making a speech
and the others, in tipsy gravity, listening to it, therefore it was that Dora heard
the tap at the room door. Y
Now, in that house there was but one woman as a resident, and she was a,
hag-like creature, who kept up a kind of state in the parlor. The cook was
an old man wlfo had been a kind of waiter or cook at some hotel, and who
never emerged from the' wer regions. The impression of Dora, therefore, was
that the person tapping at the door of the room was the hag-like female afore-
said, who went by the name of Mrs. Booker.
"Come in," said Dora.

'

is

Id

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                       59
Then a head and a face peered round the edge of the door into the room, and
a voice said-" Don't be alarmed. It's only me-Jobus. Don't you know
Jobus ?  Oh, Miss Dora, it's only me, humbly me, if you please. Oh dear-
oh dear ! May I come in'? They are rather coming it down stairs, Miss Dora,
but I have got something on my mind to tell you, and I can't sleep-I can't
eat-I can't drink. Humbly now, if you please, Miss Dora, I should like to
speak to you, if it's only for five .nuaes. Oh dear-oh dear ! I wasn't
always what I look like now, I assure you, Miss Dora. Time was when I
could walk about and look at the bright sunshine and not cower past my fel-
low ieen as I do now-oh God ! yes, as I do now-as I do now !"
"Speak freely, Mr. Jobus," said Dora.
"Oh dear, she calls me 'Mr.!' Oh-oh! Don't do that, young lady, if you
please. Call me plain Jobus. I am very plain Jobus.",yog      y
"Very well, Jobus ; what have you to say to me?"
".Ah! that's better; but she did call me  Mr.' Oh, Miss Dora, I was a
Mr. once ; but I am only Jobus now. I once walked, and looked, and spoke
like a man; but now I only crawl about like a worm of larger size than com-
mon, and all the world treads upon me, and I dare not turn, no-no-no---I
dare not turn,, I am sink too low for that. But-still, if I thought--"
"Mr. Jobus, if you really have anything to'say to me, let me beg that you
will say it at once, and not keep me in this terrible state of suspense."
"Well, I will. Miss Dora, I am very humble; and when the colonel throws
his boot-jack at-my head I say nothing; bIut stillI am human, and the worm
now and then feels the heels of his enemy. I come to serve you. There is no
good intended for you in this house, Miss Dora. There is one below-he is a
great man; too; a nobleman, who will stay here to-night, Lord Carlinis hi4
name. Beware of him-oh, beware of him! I am a poor wretch myself, but
I didn't like to see you fall! Oh, no-no! I warn you! That is what I had
first to say to you; and if this Lord Carlin comes to you, and if he is sober
enough to understand what you say to him, say that you will call up Dor"ndL
-    If you tell him that, he will, iii his amazement and his terror leave.you. lie
is superstitious, and he has a fancy that the disembodied spirit of one whp i  
this world loved that man, is often, if not always with him. Ohisn'tit s
thing to think that with all his wealth, with all his power, and with all
wickedness; that man is made the veriest wretch upon God's earth b dread
of a shadow of the imagination. Ha ! Oh dear, oh !"
"What is the matter, Jobus?"
"I am afraid I enjoyed that, and laughed."
- "You did lugh. But Jobus, I will leave this house at once. Surely I
need not stay here to be even forced to protect myself from any one's brutal-
ity."
-"No, you needn't leave the house. Don't do it. Don't, I say. The door
is fast, and you cannot leave it. Your uncle, Josiah, is out of town, and yon
have nowhere to fly to. Besides, you have a mission here. Oh, dear--oh,
dear !"
'. mission'? What mean you'?"
"1 will tell you! Oh, would that I dared tell you all! But no-no, not
yet. It would be no use now-for too much mischief is, I fear, done already.
You must save Mr. Sydney who is brought here as a victim."
"But--ruh                           ee savci.
"Nay, hear me out-I humbly beg of you to do so. That young man has
a father who will be sent with sorrow to the grave. He has a mother _wlio
will break her heart if he is not rescued from Colonel Elk. He has a cousin,
a girl who loves him with her whole heart and soul, who will be but a listless'
mourner through the world if he fall ; but I think that you may winhim and
save him."
"But of what must I warn him'?"
"Just of this. Tell him that it is the trade of your uncle the colonel, to
inveigle young men of fortune to play at dice or cards with mim, and to rob

4          _

i

I

I


HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

them of their all. Tell him that the colonel carries on a vast amount of busi-
ness as a discounter of bills;; and by that means, and the gaming-table, he
will succeed in being the absolute ruin of any one who trusts to him. Tell
him to fly from this frightful temptation while he can."
"No, Jobus; I cannot do it."
"You cannot?   Oh dear ! Oh-oh !"
"No. It would be unseemly of me, a young girl, to go to a strange gentle-
man and tell him such a thing. What would he think of me?"
"Oh dear-what worms we are ! Ha ! I laughed again, I'm afraid. Lis-
ten to me, Miss Dora. Have you forgotten the father-the mother-the cou-
sin who loves him? Does it not strike you that the-great God will bless you
for looking over a little conventional impropriety to save a soul ?"
"Mr. Jobus," said Dora, "you are not what you seem."
"Oh, yes; a worm-a mere earth worm."
"No. You have been off your guard, and you have spoken in a style which
assures me that, in your humble position here, you are acting a part. You
have been very different from what you now are."
Jobus clasped his hands together with great force.
"Tell me, is it not so?  Oh ! why should one who can speak as you speak
-one who cannot help showing that he has education and moral ability-
stoop to such a degrading position as you now hold here in this house."
Jobus uttered a strange cry, and covered his face with his hands.
"Oh, tell me !" said Dora. "Perhaps, weak as I am, I can do you some
god."-
"No-no. Touch me not-do not speak kindly to me. I am in the power
of your uncle,.and-and that power is based upon his knowledge of my crimi-
nality."
" Alas ! is it so?  Will he have no mercy ?"
"None, but upon condition that I be his abject slave. But you will speak
to Mr. Sydney?  I know you will. Blessings-blessings. Farewell,-fare-
well! I will come to you again "
CHAPTER        XVII.
" HuRiA !" cried Colonel Elk, as he burst into a roaring laugh at his well-
covered board, upon which glistened an array of decanters and glasses. "You
don't drink, all of you. Come, Carlin, you fight shy of the bottle. Why,
Rokeley, you are as sober as a judge; and as for you, Abel, I suppose you
mistake this for a conventicle, you are so shy of the decanter."
"No, by Heavens-no !" said Abel, as he hastily filled himself another glass,
and tossed it off. "I-I-almost-begin to think that-I-that is-what was
I going to say ?"
"Try back," said one of the colonel's other guests, who looked like some-
thing between a horse-jockey'and a member of the swell-mob.
" Oh-ah !-so I will. I was going to say---D-n it! I don't know what
I was going to say. But I will give you a toast."
"That's right, my boy !" shouted the colonel. "Now for4your toast. What
is it?  Bumpers, I suppose, Abel ?"
" Oh, yes; bumpers-bumpers all round."
"All's right. Here we are, fully charged. Now for the toast, Abel."
"Well, the toast and the sentiment is, Dando-oh, yes, to be sure-Dando-
loski, the loveliest of her sex ; but-the toast is, the loveliest of her sex, and I
don't mean to mention the name, though it is Dandoloski-the fairest of her
sex-no, hang it, she ain't, for she's dark. Bumpers, then, gentlemen, to the
fairest face, who is dark, and her name remains in the recesses of-of-be quiet
-the recesses of this bosom."
"How prudent," said the colonel. "I suppose, Abel, you think that some
of us will cut you out-eh ?"

Un'.

MY BROTHER' THE COLONEL.

4 No, I don't."
"Then why don't you tell whq she is ?"
"Go to the deuce, and fill you glasses again. I suppose you will be inti-
nating that .Iam drunk next ?"
' Oh, no-no---no !" cried everybody. "Ha !-ha '-ha !"
"Upon my word," said Rokeley, rising, 'this is dreadful. I have now the
fatigue of going home, and to bed. Good evening."
"What, are you off Rokeley ?"
"Yes. Ah ! Oh, dear me! My cab is outside, I dare say. What a tro
ble ! Good night, all of you-good night."
Lord Rokeley left; and then, at a wink from the colonel, the two make.-
weights, in the shape of sporting-looking gentlemen, rose, and declared that
they must go likewise sothat in a little time, Lord Carlin and Abel were the
only guests of the colonel.
This Lord Carlin, of whom the reader has already heard indistinctly more
than once, was a man past, what may be considered the middle of life. He
had a large head of very curly black hair, and whiskers of the same hue,
which met under his chin, and stuck out in a rounded roll most strongly from
each side of his face. His eyes were deep and sunken, and his complexion in-
flamed by strong potations, which upon some constitutions has such an effect.
He was dressed in an easy, fashionable style, for the taste of which, doubtless,
his valet was accountable; but it was the expression of the face of this man
that made you see in a moment that he was a heartless scoundrel; and by
coming to such a conclusion, there was- no risk whatever of doing him the
lightestCinjustie.
hWell, Carlin," said, the colonel, as he glanced at Abel, "our friend here
has,I hope, enjoyed himself."
Lord Carlin laughed, and pushed the decanter towards him, and while Abel
was filling another glass, the colonel leant over to Carlin, saying-
"To-night .'
-Yes, to be sure, if you like. Is it all right ?"
"Quite ! And you may as well hand me over the bills."
"Here they are ; so now, I hope, you are satisfied, colonel? The entailed
property cant be touched, but the proceeds--"
"Of course can-so listen to me. I will sit here. You go up stairs. We
have nothing in this house. You understand, Carlin? I have told you which
door. Go, and prosper. Our friend, Abel here, will not be able to inter.
fem."
"I don't know what the devil, Colonel Elk, you invited our friend Abel
here for on such an occasion.~"
"No ?  You are well aware that I have my reasons for what I do ; and I
say, that unless Abel had been here, the affair should have gone off. Let that
ifllace. I have the bills. You have kept your word. The girl is up stairs,
hillo  hAbel, my boy, are you asleep ?"
"Eh? what is it ?-I-that is, surely I am nodding. I hope I igaven't
taken too much wine, colonel ?"_
," Not a drain."
"Oh, well, in that case it's all right. Where's that ugly fellow you: calhi
Carlin, eh?. I don't see him now ?"
"Oh, shirked his glass, has he? Ha! ha! How odd it is. When I begin
a " ha bl-laugh, now, I feel as if I couldn't leave off-ha ! ha! And yet
I am as sober as a chief justice! Ha ! ha n"
'  I'm afraid I have. A pause ensued, which the colonel broke by saying,
Abel ill you win a few hundreds of me ?"
"Yes, I will; but don't'-..don't--say-that I won your money while you
were drunk, that's all. I pity you very much. Where's my handkerchief?
Let me weep for my friend who has taken his other glass. Let the snipen-
tJetic tears fall on the carpet.--I will play at cards, but don't say now, my

r, w  Y

60

61


MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                        63
'd without disturbing her by any attempt to reach it through the little sitting-
room that has before been alluded to.
Lord Carlin produced a key from his pocket. That key had been given to
him by Colonel Elk the day before. It belonged to the door that had not
been opened for so long ; and then, before he applied it to the lock, he again
looked cautiously around him, with his brows drawn down, so as to concen-
trate his gaze into every corner.
Without the slightest noise, the dour yielded to the touch of the villain who
opened it, and then appeared the narrow passage that wound round the little
room, and finally terminated in the bed-room of that innocent girl who had
been brought to that house to'be betrayed-betrayed. too, by one who called
himself her uncle !
Lord Carlin advanced with slow and noiseless steps. It did not take twelve
of those steps to reach the door that opened into the bed-chamber ; and that
moved upon its well-prepared hinges as noiselessly as the other door had
done.
Lord Carlin all but held his breath, now, as he found himself in that sanc-
tuary of innocence. The room was quite dark ; but the door between it and
the outer apartment was open, and through that there streamed a reflection of
a light.
"She is'up," whispered Carlin to-himself as he peeped into the outer room,
and there saw Dora sitting in an old-fashioned, high-backed chair, with her
hands clasped, and such a sweet, meditative look upon her face, that that alone
ought to have been sufficient to deter him from his dastardly purpose.
" All is well," he muttered. "The colonel has not played me false. All is
well., She will, of course, try to escape by the ordinary mode of egress from
the room, so I must get between her and it. The door at which I have
entered is closed, and she will not dream of it. Now-dear in your exquisite
beauty, and dear to purchase-Dora you shall be mine i"n
With a bound he passed the chair upon which the young girl sat, and
reached the ordinary door of her room, against which he stood, as he regarded
her with flashing eyes. She heard the step in her room, and in another
moment she saw the man. One cry-burst from her lips, and then she rose
and looked in the bloated face of the rou6, with such a death-like paleness upon
her own features, that no sculptured form, of rare and exquisite beauty, could
have looked less life-like than did she.
"Well, my dear," said Lord Carlin, "you are rather alarmed, I daresay. I
am Lord Carlin, and you will be a lady. Your uncle quite understands it all,
my love. He knows that I will do what is right to-morrow, and elevate you
to the peerage ; and he, knowing how much I love you, has given me permis-
sion to have a little conversation with you to-night, you see, first. Don't let
me disturb you. Sit down."
Dora seized the bell-rope by the side of the chimney-piece.. At a touch it,-
fell. It had evidently been tampered with.
"Come, come," added Carlin. "I don't wish to be rough or rude to you;
but you must be pleased to consider that you are my wife and so you may
scream, you may rave, but mine you are, and mine you shall be. I speak to
you fairly. You shall want no luxury that London can produce for you. It
is for you to make your conditions, or to be that worse than wretch which
your own obstinacy will make you. You re beautiful; I am rich. I love you.
You have charms--
"Yes, and a knife," said Dora.
As she spoke she produced from the fol  of her dress about her bosom, a
knife, and held it with a desperate clutch.
" Pshaw ! Do you think I am afraid of a knife in the hands of *ayscared
girl?"
He advanced a step or two, but Dora held up her disengaged hand to her
ear, and said-" Ah-! there is that moaning noise again; yes, there it is again
in the chamber-in yonder chamber. Oh, sir, was it manly to seek to unmerve

_______________________________________________


64

HEADS AND HEARTS;i OR,

me by supernatural terrors. before you came there to attack a weak girl?'
Was it to drive me mad that you sent a figure through this room to that one
-a female figure, like a cloud. ,it said to me, 'Beware-beware !' and it
named the name of Dorinda."
Lord Carlin staggered back till the door stopped him.
"Hell and fury!" he shouted, "you don't say that?  It did not say that.
There is nothing-nothing !"
" Ah !" cried Dora, "there it is again ! It comes-it comes ! Oh; one glance
at its glassy eyes, and at the bloodless lips of the shadowy form is enough to'
drive those who can take that glance and live to madness ! it comes now!
There, in the gloom! It will be through the door in a moment now! Oh, do
not-do not !"
Then Lord Carlin turned, and dashing open the door of the room, made a
rush to the landing-place. The light on the staircase was out, but he just saw
a something tall and white close to the stairs-head. He fell, uttering a loud
shriek, and then rolled from top to bottom of the flight of stairs.
Dora sunk to her knees in the little room, and burst into tears.
"Miss Dora," said a voice. "Oh, dear! here I am. Be composed-I hum-
bly ask you to be composed, Miss Dora. It is much better to be composed,
if you please. Ha !"
"Is that you, Jobus ?  You have saved me."      .
"Don't mention it. I am only a worm ; but I think that Lord Carlin is
rather the worse for his tumble down stairs. Oh dear, yes ! It will do him
good, perhaps. Ha ! Oh dear, did I laugh?  I borrowed a sheet from the
colonel's bed, and met him on the head of the stairs. Ha ! I have laughed
again. Pray excuse me, Miss Dora, for laughing again."
"Oh, Jobus, you have befriended me, and now I will leave this house."
" Stop ! the younggentleman below, Sydney as they call him. Don't you
seem to remember him, Miss Dora? He is lying on his back by this time im
the drawing-room. The colonel will go home with Lord Cailin now, and the
young man will sleep of the fumes of the drugged wine."
"Drugged wine?"
"Oh dear, yes, of course. The colonel knows how to do that. When there
is a victim wanted he just puts a little something in the drink, and then,
whether there is little or much taken, it does just as well. But in a few hours
you will have an opportunity of going and speaking to him. You may save him.
Will you not try to save him ?"
"Why is it, Jobus, that this young man of all others, excites your sym-
pathy ?"
"Will you pardon me if I do not tell you that just yet'?  Be satisfied that
you cannot go wrong with a good motive. I am very troublesome, and it is
great presumption in me to say this. But will you promise ?"
" I will."
"That is well. I humbly thank you. Sleep now till you hear me, humbly
tap at your door. You will be undisturbed ; I will take care of that. I am
but a mere worm, but I will protect you."
Without waiting for any reply, Jobus closed the door softly and crept.
away.
The first act of Dora now was to rise and fasten the door again. and then she
sank to her knees, and prayed and wept.
ae*          *      *      *      *      *      *
It will be recollected that we left affairs in the drawing-room of Colonel Elk
in rather a state of disorder. The colonel himself was alarmed at the cry that
had come from Lord Carlin, and had sprung to his feet. Abel, in an attempt
to do so likewise, had found his length upon the floor, amid a wreck of bottles,
glasses, wax-lights, and wine coolers, and the broken chair, the back of which
had given way in its fall with him.
There was something very ominous and alarming about the profound still

I

MY BROTHER, TUE COLONEL.
ness that reigned in the house. You might have heard a pin drop. Theeo1-
onel got fidgetty.
"Holloa!" he cried. " Holloa! what's that?"
With a nervous gesture he rang the bell, and he could hear the tingle of it
for some moments ; but no one came. A full five minutes passed thus, avid
then the door was very slowly opened, inch by inch, and a head appeared. It
vas the head of our friend, Jobus.
" Scoundrel !" cried the colonel.
"Humbly, yes," said Jobus. "Your worm is here."
"You crawling hound I" said Elk.. "What has been the- occasion of that
noise in the house? Tell me this moment."
"Humbly, yes, sir. When I had the honor of hearing the bell ring, and
knew that such a worm as i am was wanted, in consequence of the-excellent
Frogs being dreadfully inebriated, I rose from my stool with three legs, in the
pantry, and ran up stairs, and upon the landing I saw the great Lord Carlin,
noble sir, lying on his illustrious back in, I think, a' kind of swound. I
hope a worm as has crawled over him did not damage the peerage. Oh dear f
Ha!. I didn't laugh, I assure you,,.great sir, that I did not laugh."
Colonel Elk strode to the door of the room, and, flinging it open, there he
saw Lord Carlin, as Jobus had said, lying upon his illustrious back, in a state
of complete insensibility.
"How could this come about ?" muttered Elk. "I am astonished and star-
tied at this event. What can it meadt? Did he merely fall?' Is it an accident
and nothing more 7"
The colonel then called Jobus.
"Humbly, yes, s
"Can you bring Lord Carlin into the room ?"
"I will try, sir. I humbly, and with all respect to you; sir, think I can."
Jobus went on to the landing, while the colonel returned to the drawing-
room, and then grasping Lord Carlin by the throat with a force that must have
gone a long way towards strangling him, and which left a livid mark for days
upon his throat, Jobus carried him into the room, and placed him on a sofa.-
The colonel had provided himself with a decanter of cold water, which he now,
from a height of about two feet, deliberately poured, splashing, upon the face
of Lord Carlin.
"If that don't revive him, he is dead," said Elk..
"Humbly, yes, sir.
Lord Carlin gave a gasp or two, and opened his eyes.
The colonel took up another decanter of water, and went through the same
operation with it, and Lord Carlin, getting a good mouthful of the water, was
as nigh choking as possible.
"He is better," said the colonel.
"Humbly, yes," said Jobus.
"Leave the room, curse you.
Jobus glided away in a moment. He knew that if he delayed only time
enough to engender the thought that he did not go as quickly as he might,
the decant r would be at his head, for the colonel still had it in his hand.
As soon as the door was closed upon Jobus, the colonel gave Lord Carlin a
shake by the arm, and said--" Come my friend, tell me if you please, or can,
how all this came about ?"
"Oh, yes, I will tell you. Wine-give me a glass of wine-not in that tum-
bler. Give me one of the water glasses-yes, that will do. I am parched-
quite parched, and sickat heart."
Without any remonstrance upon the amount of the dose of stimulant, the
colonel handed to Lord Carlin the wine he required, and the goblet, which held
about half a pint, was drained to the very bottom.
"Take another tumbler of wine," said Elk.
" No, no ; no more, if you please, colonel."
" wVell g

Ii

@@     Y

qi


MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

"Do you think it possible that the dead may be permitted to visit this world
and drive those mad who had known them in life?  I say do you think it
possible that a girl who dies by her own hand, just because she plunges into
an intrigue, and afterwards turns spooney and repents, can live after the'grave
has closed upon her and-and-and, as I say, drive a man almost mad ?"
" Do you?"said Elk.
"I don't know-I don't know. She was there, though."
"What, up stairs ?"
"Yes-oh yes-Dorinda."'
"What, the little creature who took the poison that you lefton her dressing
table for her about a year ago 2"
" Don't-oh, don't say that ! But she was there ! That was why I fell
down your staircase."  He sprang to his feet. "I cap't stay in this house !
The air is thick, I tell you, and long wavy streaks of blood are in it. She was
in the room above, and she met me as I came out. Only for a fleeting moment
I saw her, but that was enough. I can't live and see such sights as that !
Why am I haunted, and a hundred thousand men, who have done the same
things, ay, and worse, are permitted to go smilingly to rest, as though nothing
were amiss-why is this?  I must go ! The door-the door ! Where is the
door ?"
Lord Carlin made his way out of the room with precipitation, and in'the
course of a moment or two more, the bang of the street door announced to the
colonel that he had left the house. Then Elk looked grim and thoughtful, and
with his hands clasped behind his back, he slowly paced the magnificent apart-
ment to and fro for some time in silence.
A deep groan came upon the colonel's ears, and he starred and uttered a cry
of alarm, and pressed both his hands upon his heart.
"What is that?  Oh, what is that?  Help-no, no ! Oh, fool-fool! It
is the drunken moan of yon slumbering man. Abel Morton, you are in my
power. I could kill you now, but I reserve you for a worse fate than that ;
for I do think, in my soul, that I can make you kill yourself in the time that
is to come."
He reeled to the door of the room and opened it.
" Jobus-Jobus! Attend to this Mr. Sydney, who is a little the worse for
champagne. I am going to bed."-
"The worm, sir, will do your bidding.. Good-night, sir."
The colonel ascended the staircase, and Jobus looked after him.
"Ha! Oh, dear, did I laugh?  Oh-oh ! The worm laughed. Perhaps
it won't be a'worm always, though !"
CHAPTER XIX.
Jonus stood for a little time gazing upon the wreck that was upon the
table.
Broken glasses-cards-dice-one smashed decanter, and a large slop of
sherry pouring along the table-fruit-a few flowers-cigars, and on the floor
-Abel Morton.f
Poor Abel did not lie very pleasantly. To tell the truth, his head was a
little lower than his heels, for they were still upon the wreck of the chair
that had gone over with him ; and the probability was strongly in favor of
a fit of apoplexy before the morning.
Jobus approached him, and laid him more level. He then placed a couple
of cushions from off one of the couches under his head, and Abel had a chance
of surviving then the wild riot of that night.
But Jobus wanted to say something to him, and he wanted, too, to keep
Dora to her promise of saying something to him; therefore, it was a great
point with Jobus to rouse Abel Morton up, and having seen the colonel oper-
ate upon Lord Carliti he adopted the same mode.

Abel on opening his eyes asked-" Where is the colonel ?"
" Up stairs."
"And you ?"
"Oh, don't mind me. I am only a worm-a thing of nought. But tell
me, are you sufficiently in your senses to understand what is said to you?
Does your brain throb with the fumes of the wine? Are you sane enough
to listen to good advice, young man?"
"Oh, yes, yes.e I feel tolerably well. A little dizzy or so, perhaps, but the
cold upon my head is very grateful-I don't think I have taken too much
wie"
"Don't you?"
"No; I could not have done so, or it would be impossible for me to feel as
I do now. Indeed, I am rapidly recovering-save a little feeling of weakness
at the stomach. Is this your remedy, my good friend ?"
"Don't call me a good friend, if you please. I am a poor humble wretch--
a mere worm ; but I will fetch one who has something to say to you; and I
too, if I were not such a poor creature, I, too, could say something."
"What would you say ?"
Jobus went to the door of the room, and peeped out, and listened, before
he would venture to say it; and then, creeping up to Abel Morton, in a low
vice spoke to him-
" Young ,man,,if you have a spul to pollute-a soul to lose, and to allow to
writhe in anguish for countless ages to come-if you have a home-affection
which you wish not absolutely to blast forever-if you have the smallest ven-
eration for the great God who made all things, and who willeth'not that the
meanest thing he has so made should perish-leave this house at once and
forever, and close your own door forever against its owner."
Abel looked at Jobus with astonishment.
"Do you comprehend me ?"
"Oh, yes, you speak plainly enough; but--"
"That will do. I have said what I had to say. Now be quiet, and I will
bring you another who Will say it likewise."
Jobus left the room abruptly, and Abel Morton clasped his head with both
his hands, and tried to think.
"Oh, .fool, fool !" said Abel. "Why did I plunge so madly into the wine
cup? Why did I bring this confusion over my brain, and this fever to my
lips! What can that strange man mean by his solemn warning? lie is one
of the attendants of the colonel, and ought to know. What can I do ?-what'
ought I to do?  Did I play?  Ah, there are cards and dice. What was the
result?  Did I lose?  Have I to be told the tale of how much more near to
perdition I am than when the sun last rose--"
The door of the apartment opened, and Jobus appeared. He was beckon-
ing some one to follow him, and then Dora appeared. How pale she was !
She looked more like a spectre than .a living being, and her hands shook as
she strove to still them by holding them one within the other.
"Sir," said Dora, "be assured I come to say to you that you stand upon
the brink of ruin-that all true affection-all dear ties of love-all joy and
purity of heart and purpose-will be wrecked and lost-utterly lost, if you
listen not to the sober voice of warning. Leave this place. Never return tG
it. Speak no more to the bold bad man who is master here.. I can say noth-
ing further, for I know not who and what you are; but this'much promised
to say, and I have said it. I hope to heaven it may save you. You are
warned."
Dora turned and slowly left the room. Abel followed her with his eyes,
and when she was gone he looked at Jobus as he muttered--
"A rare vision, that-who is she ?"
"The colonel's niece."
. His niece?  Oh, I recollect. I have now a kind of confused idea.
Abel covered his face with his hands for several minutes, and let his head

$

I

l     f
F   l
F  yS 3.
'} 5
. 4   .;.f
Y
E j 5
_ll
'  ,$y
f'tf
; _
C
r
; Ys
xt
$$    r
s-7r
{
t   ;  ;
K  i19=
s
t  fg,
X
t
s    %S
F
_;
t
C
E
n
2  t

63

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

67


-N-    --JJ*S~r IN1

MY BROTHER' THE COLONEL.                       ta
gions; but I liked you, Morton--you will, I am sure, now, excuse me
speaking in the past tense. I say, I liked you, and I did my utmost to save
you. I have failed, and so, farewell. I will not quarrel with you."
The captain took up his hat and left the room. Once only did Abel say-
" Lorrinet, come back ;" but the captain was too far off to hear him, and with
a groan the wretched young man fell back upon the pillows of the couch.
"If I could only die, now," said Morton-" Oh! if I could only die just
now, it would be better for all-so much better for all."
Rowley made a rush into the room, and stood looking, for once in the wa;
a little alarmed by his master's couch.
"What now ?" said Abel, feebly.
"Oh, sir-sir! it's all up now. You see. They-the Philistines, you see
-sir-are coming in full force, sir ! They have held off for a day or so, and
I had my ideas'that something was brewing, sir, and now, here they are!
The staircase is full of 'em, sir ! There's the fellow about the bills for the
parties, I'm sure, and there's-Oh, for ! oh, for !"
Bang, bang, hang, bang, bang ! went the knocker of the outer door of the
chambers, which Rowley had just managed to shut after Captain Lorrinet.
Abel sprang to his feet. and uttered some of the most awful oaths that ever
came from his lips. How did they manage to lodge in any portion of his
memory?-
Oh, don't, sir," said Rowley. "Oh. don't."
Get me my razors-stay, my pistols ! Oh, God, I shall go mad !"
Bang, bang, bang, bang ! came again upon the door, and each ylow of the
knocker seemed to go through Abel's brain. He felt his strength-desert him,
and he staggered towards the sofa again, and fell upon it. Rowley got a chair,
and mounting upon it, he placed his eye to the peep-hole he had established
above the door, and while he kicked with one leg'to his master to keep quiet,
he reconnoitred the enemy without, who were certainly in very great force
upon that memorable and most malapropos occasion to poor Abel.
"Oh, for !" said Rowley, as he looked out like a warder from a tower, or
like the fair Rebecca upon the storming of Front de-Bouf's castle, when Ivan-
hoe lay sick with wounds upon his couch. "Oh, for ! there will be. a pretty
game now, I rather think. Indeed, my 'private opinion is, that all the fat's
in the fire."
With this allegory Rowley was so completely satisfied, that he winked to
himself several times, and kept his eye rather away from the hole in the wall,
so that the aforesaid Philistines should not notice him.
An old weazen-faced, blear-eyed looking man, with an expression of much
low cunning in his face approached the door. This specimen of humanity
was followed by a shabby, hulky-looking fellow, who kept his hat down over
his brows, and who looked as if he had not had the advantage of an inter-
view with soap and water for a month at the very least.
Rowley instinctively knew who these people were.
"A broker and his man !" said Rowley. "The Philistines are a-coming i.,
rather, I don't think."
Bang, bang ! at the door-tingle, tingle ! at the bell-the kicking of feet-
the bawling of voices-the oaths of those who were locked in the throng-
the murmurs of those who were foremost-the jeers of others who, being
only newsmongers, took no per onal interest in the aff~iir, and rather enjoyed
the riot-all made up such a babel of sounds, that Abel sprang from his
couch, and stood in the doorway of the inner room, looking the very personi-
fication of confusion and despair. "-
"Tell me-tell me, Rowley, who they are that are really without making
this mad riot."
"Yea, sir, I'll tell. There's lots of 'em, sir. There's a broker and his man
close to the panel, and I rather take it, sir, they come about the little bill that
was due last week on account of the goods and chattels, you know, sir."
"Oh, ah-yes, I did give a bill, and-and-"


MY BROTHERS THE COLONEL.

71

"I am shot !" yelled the broker. "I'm shot t I'm a dead broker and apprai-
ser ! Oh!-oh !"
"Murder !" shouted several of the others, and there is no knowing what
might have ensued, if a tall figure, arrayed in a handsome military cloak, with
a deep scarlet collar, and no end of tassels and silken frogs about it had not
suddenly appeared in the midst of the throng, and cried out in a voice of com-
mnand--" What is the meaning of all this? Has bedlam broke loose? Row-
ley, where are you? What does it all mean ?"
"Oh, colonel," said Rowley, from his peep-hole. "It's only the Philistines,
that's all-and they won't call again."
CHAPTER XX.
THAT some rather serious catastrophe might have occurred at the door of
poor Abel's chamber, if Colonel Elk had not suddenly appeared among the
besiegers, is probable enough; but his appearance produced a, cessation of
hostilities, and a great effect upon all parties. To be sure, the creditors all
began to speak at once at first, but the colonel raised his hand, and cried-
" Silence ! One of you will be enough to tell me what all this is about."
"Really," continued Elk, this disturbance is of the most disreputable char-
acter. I am quite amazed to see men of seeming respectability engaged in such
an affair. What on earth does it all mean ?"
"In the name of,the law," said the old broker, whose calling had made him
irrascible and wroth, and who now shook with passion, "in the name of the
law I will have the door open! I have an execution against the goods. I will
put in the execution, in the name of the law."
The colonel turned sharply to the old broker, and in a tone of voice that
seemed to go right through the old man's head, he staggered back so, he
cried-
" What is the debt ?"
"One hundred and eleven pounds, six shillings."
"Where's your authority ?"
"The execution is-is---"
"No; your authority to take the money. Here is the amount. Can you
give a receipt for it ?"
"I-I--that is the execution. I didn't, of course, expect to be offered the
money on the place-the staircase. There are the costs."
"Yes, up to this moment; but no costs to you, for you have done nothing.
I leave to you, if you have any authority to take the amount-the debt and
costs. Charge what you will; and I can only tell you, that if there is one
sixpence taken beyond what you are legally entitled to, I will place the mat-
ter, within an hour, in the hands ofthe sharpest attorney in London, who will
have your skin rather than not make you pay for your indescretion."
" I won't stay !" cried the old broker. "I don't care about the debt and the
money. and all that sort of thing. I came to get the furniture I won't stay.
Come along Bill-come along. I don't like the job."
The colonel quickly put the others at their ease; for, turning to them, he
said, in quite a mild and bland tone of voice-
" I am sorry that you have all thought proper to come in this way to tor-
ment Mr. Morton. I know, and very little inquiry might have let you all
know, that he is a young gentleman of great expectations, and that your money
is perfectly as safe as if you had it in your awn pockets. And I tell you
all, that I have such a knowledge of the resources of Mr. Morton, that I am
ready and willing, within the hour, to'pay all his debts to the tune of ten
thousand pounds, if they went to as much."
"I 'Il call again, sir," said the confectioner,-" I'll call again. It's Mr. Mor-
ton's custom is all I want, sir."
"Yes-yes," said all the others in chorus. 'It's his custom, sir, that we
are all anxious about, nothing else in the world, sir."

r,....


MY BROTHER, 1HE COLONEL.

78

remedy of the colonel, he was bolstered up, as it were, for the time being, and
better able to converse.                                , m   g
"I am better," said Abel.
"Of course you are, old fellow. You have not quite got your head into good
order yet, Abel; but a'few days will do wonders for youno doubt, and you
will be all right, and able to take your bottle or two without taringnimuch
about it the next day. This is.merely a passing call, though,.audI musti be
off now"                                       .
"Oh no ; don't go."
"I wouldn't, if I could help it; but the real truth is, Morton, that when I
say I will do a thing. I am never content till I have done it" :7-
"What thing ? Pardon me for asking you; l know not what I say."
"No apology, Morton. It was to your affairs I alluded; ehtirely. I have
promised you that I would see you over your difficultiesabd:I will}doAso.
That is t1he business that just now engages my attention: YoU mist b pro-
vided with funds. You must be removed from this degrading position; and
you must be ade independent.'at:any cost, of the persots at hon&amp;'S
"My father !" said Abel, as he let his head drop upon hishaids.
father-my mother-Emma !"           -
The. colonel bit his lip ; and if Abel had but seen the scowl that covered his
face, he would have thought himself confronted by a fiend. Thee wan a very
awk ard pause now for a few moments. I was broken by the coloneL{
" e  dear fellow," he said, "yob still wish to make all things right at
home?"~
5

iii$ipuuum


MY BROTHEt      THE COLONEL.                  75
n I will.
"A thousand thanks, Abel, Mind, I shall expect you to the minute; for
now I have made up my mind to ask your advice and to follow it, I amall
impatience till I hear what you have to say concerning the affair that i shall
lay before you.
"I will be with you to the moment, colonel. At eight this evening '?"
"Yes, at eight. And now, Morton, pa don me for hurrying away  emo you
in this way. I see you are better, though."
Colonel Elk walked to the corner of the Albany, where his cab was in
waiting for him, and beckoned to the servant, who approached with such a
multitude of touches of his hat, that it was quite a wonder the brim stood such
constant manipulation.
"Drive after me.".
"Yes, sir.
Elk walked on till he came to a. French restaurateur's, of fashionable, pro-
fligate, and expensive notoriety, and the cab followed him. He entered the
place like an habitue, as, indeed, he was, and ascending to the magnificent
saloon on the first floor, he repaired to the deep recess of a back window,
which was partially secluded from the rest of the room by a screen, and there
he sat down, and took the letter from his pocket that he had just so cleverly
intercepted from reaching the-hands of Abel.
A diabolical smile crossed his features as h read the superscription of the
letter.
"Abel Morton, Esq., Albany, London."
" Ah !" he added, "Isaw the Hampstead postmark upon it, or I shouldhave
let him have it; but then I guessed it was from the father, or the mother, or
the pretty cousin-ha! ha !-and so I thought it might as well reach my
hands first, and last too, for you can never see it, my most simple Abel."
The colonel broke the seal of the letter, and, without the quiver of a nerve,
opened it wide at once.
Colonel Elk turned the paper about,'and upon three of its sides there
appeared to be separate letters signed by three different writers.
"Why, what on earth are tiey all about ?" he muttered. "John Morton
to one-Ah ! that's the father ! Eliza Morton to another-that's the mother
Emma Chester to the third page---that's the cousin !"t         h
The colonel's dark eye flashed with triumph, as, holding the letter careless.
ly before him, he added,-
"Why, by---, I have the whole family in my grasp ! Well, well, we will
see what John Morton has to say."
This diabolical villain then read the following letter addressed to Abel by
his father,-
" Mg DEAR Boy,-I do not know, but I will not doubt, that you came to
the hotel in Clarges-street after I and Emma were compelled to leaves on ac-
count of a little indisposition that laid hold of me, and the anxiety that your
mother was sure to suffer from our long absence from home.
"Now, Abel, all I have to say is, that I am much better than I was, and
that I long to see you at home, when every little entanglement that may be
about you can easily be set to rights.
"Come Abel, soon-come at once, Abel, for we all expect you. I believe
your mother is going to write something to you On the other side of this page,
so-I leave it clear for her, ard subscribe myself right down in the=oorner,
*Your affectionate father,
" Jomx MoRTorN."
"Very good," said the colonel, as he turned the page. Now, we will see
what the affectionate mother says."

:

k= _ ,
w - :,; ,
i


r

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                      77
"Not understand me? Well, that is a good one. To tell the truth, though.
I hardly expected to find you here.. I thought you would be amongthetrqop
and flowers Abel, with the pretty cousin on your arm, and the mamma lookv,
in so pleased, and the byes of'the papa dancing with joy; I thoughtto tell
the honest'truth,-that-by this time you were snug at home, and:able toIook"
upon past follies as'a fellow may look at tfc world through the wrong end ofK
his lorgnette, sending everything a longway o11 and wondering he could ever
have been there, But it is all right now, isn't it?  You have made tling;
square with the governor now?"
Abel rose and looked at Lorrinet as though he would eat him up; and there
was a pause of a few minutes' duration, and the two young men looked=at eaeh
other 'as though each would look right into the heart of the other.'
I""Well;"=said Lorrinet at last; " what's the matter now ?"
"The matter'?"
" Yes;-out with it; you don't seem all right. Have you, or have you not,
made up:matters with the home authorities'? 'Can you ever have, been AIbo
enough to go backsliding again? That is not likely. Why, man, I left you
at the door of the hotel. You didn't, after that, play any tricks, surely'?"
"Captain Lorrinet, does it strike you, or does it not, that you are 'taking
very great liberties with my affairs ?"
"Then I beg to inform you that you are, sir."
Alas I how low had Abel sunk now, that in order to cover the disgrace
of his own conduct, he was forced to pick a quarrel with the only persona
London whom he could call a friend, and who had the manliness oftheart to
try to put him in the right path, from which he was so woefully strayi in,
Lorrinet looked at him compassionately for a few moments, and thea he said,
"Do you mean this, Morton?"
" I do, sir,"
"Well, I perhaps ought to have expected it. These are the things that stop
the fresh-current of a man's honest-intentions. Morton, you are too weak.to
withstand the temptations of the town, and the wicked philosophy;of that
fiend in human shape, Colonel Elk.'
"Sir, Colonel Elk is my friend, and I do not choose to hear him reviled
beneath my roof."
"Just so, Abel my boy-just so. But if your roof stretched up to Heaven
I would say what I say, and that is that Elk is a villain. and-I do not know
it, mind you--but Isuppose that you are his dupe."
" Sir I"
"Oh, rave away; it's the truth for all that. Why, your tell-tale face is
quite suflflcient to convince any one that you know it is the truth.. Thefact
is, you have been weak enough to forego the purpose which you had when
leftyou, and so you are ashamed to look me in the face, because you know
that it was an honest-purpose. You wish to get rid of me. You would rather
not see 'me any more, I know it. I have committed the great crime of stand-
ing between a weak mind and its follies and impulses, and so I am no longer
welcome. Come now, you know that is, the truth)'
w" Sir,' cried Abel," good morning., You shall heir from me."
"Do you mean a challenge'? because if you do, I-won't fight."
"You won't fight, sir'?"
"Oh dear no. I will send the communication to Hampstead, my dear Abel,
with an 'urgent request that Sir John Morton will provide you with a strait-
waistcoat as soon as possible. and have your head shaved. But come. nnr,
Abel, I like you after all."
"Go to the devil, sir !"
"I won't-I'll see you further, first ; but I want to save you from going
there. I will forgive you now, all the past, if you will start fair again."
"Will nothing rid me of your presence, sir. I decline your acquaintance.

-.


i4

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                       79
self-subduing cat walked round him like a property she was pleased to protect,
With her tail on end.
Abel leant against some iron railings, and burst into tears.
Well, that was the crisis, if you like, in the history of Abel Morton.
There he was in Bond street still-a few doors only from Oxford street
though, and so affected by the earnest beauty of the vision that had thronged
to his heart, that he was compelled to-pause upon that spot.
And now a troop of good angels should have surrounded him, and withsmiles
and gentle ministerings urged him on. Perhaps amid the dim shadows around
him they were beginning to collect. Who shall say no to that,? k Whowill
take upon him to thrust from his heart such guileless beings? Perhaps their
purer essence though, after all, could not bear the jar and trouble of the great
world ; and so, when there came a horse with a light-built cab with a dash to
the curb-stone, and when a voice cried out-." Morton, as I live !" they lied.
Abel looked up.
Colonel E!k was there, stretching his gloved hand out of the cab to greet
Morton. The tall horse was chafing the bit, and stamping upon the curb of
the pavement. The little tiger was holding on behind as though his life depen-
ded upon the frantic character of his clutch-and so it did.
"Why, Abel, my boy, this is a treat."
"No, no," said Abel.
" Yes ; but I say it is. I was afraid of being late home for our appointment
and here I meet you en route."
" No-no ! Oh God, no !"
"Why, what's the matter, Abel ?"
" Nothing-nothing ! Oh, leave me, Colonel Elk. Leave me now, Ibeseech
you, I implore you !"
"Well, as you please. Here is a note that was sent to my place ibr you
from the Dandoloski, She thought it safer t send it through me. It is an
acceptance of your kind offer. Eh ? my boy, ou are a lucky one. But come,
get into the cab. All's right, Abel. I can mnage the cash affairs easily, and
all will be well."
"No, Colonel Elk, I am going home."
"Very good ; we will have a cool night of it in your chambers."
"I am going to Hanipstead."
"To the Home Office ?"
"To my father's house, Colonel Elk."
"Well, no living being has a right to-But stop-a little closer, Abel. My
lad has ears, and I don't want him to know all your affairs. Step into the
cab, and I will speak to you. Nay, I will expedite you on your route, if
you will have it so. The horse is fresh, and a few miles to the north will do
him no harm."
Abel had a bewildering doubt, but he did get into the cab, and the colonel,
true to his word, set off at a trot to the north.
" Now, Abel," he said, "have you made up your mind to go home?"
"I have."
"And to give up the town, and the town friends?"
Abel muttered something about being always delighted to see the colonel,
to which that patient individual replied by merely saying, with an emphasis,
" Stuff l"
"I feel that I have at length made a right determination," said Abel. "That
is a feeling that I have no doubt about."
"Right or wrong, Morton, it is your business and no one else's, y good
fellows it would be taking a very great liberty indeed, for any one to tell you
you were a geose.
"It would, Colonel Elk. I assure you, sir, that I should feel myself bound
to resent such a liberty."
"Very good,". added the colonel, "I may have my opinion, but that, Ipre-

_                              -                      -                                  ' '
 ..


MY   fltOTtER, TerE COBDNEL.
Abel, and he fainted and slipped off the seat of the cab downsto the floor of
it, and there lay, dead to all the world and its gossips.
"Morton-Morton! By Jove, he has fainted !--.Ah!"
The colonel slowly and carefully turned the horse's head towards town
again. The whip just touched the horse gently on the neck, and as if it had
been guided by a flash of fire, the animal crouched for a-moment; ere it darted
off at such a trot that it was awful to look at it. The wheels flew round
noiselessly-the horse seemed by six inches nearer to the ground than he had
been, owing to the length of the stride he made-the tiger's- hat ew ofd and
he held on in alarm, with his hair streaming out on end ; and in one quarter
of an hour, Colonel Elk got over three miles and a half of ground, and drew
up at the door of his own house.
A pelting rain was falling at the time, and=the colonel, the moment the
door was opened, called out-
" Jobus-Jobus !"
"Humbly, here, sir," said a voice.
"Place a light in the small dining room."
"Yes, sir. Oh, dear, yes, in a moment."
The colonel took Abel from the cab, and placed him upon his feett He had'
partially recovered, and could just walk with help. Jobus lingered to see
that it was Abel, ansd then darted up the stairs to obey the order he hads
received ; but yet he was not in time.
Jobus had just got a lamp partially lighted as the colonel came into the
room with Abel, and let the latter fall upon the sofa.
"Beast !" cried Elk, "why is the lamp not ready ?"
"Humbly,' sir, I didn't know--.-"
"Be off with you, idiot !"
"Oh, dear, yes, sir, I'll be off with pleasure. Always yours humbly, sir."
Colonel Elk caught up a horsewhip that lay across a side-table, and struck
Jobus with it, and then fung it after him out to the staircase-landing. Jobus-
picked up the whip and hid it beneath his coat.
"Wait-wait-wait !" he said. "Oh, wait. The time may come for me..
Oh, Jobus, don't now-don't be impatient don't be angry-oh, don't. Be,
humble and meek, Jobus, and listen.-Ah !"
The door of the room was flung open again, and the colonel cried out,--
This lamp has gone out. Jobus-Jobus,'I say ! Curses on him I he has
gone off, now, for the night, I shouldn't wonder."
Jobus was as flat up against the wall, close to the door, as he could possi2
bly b , and the colonel passed him to descend the stairs. Then Jobus, after
a moment's thought, stepped into the room,-and got 'under a sofa that was
between the windows, and which had a loose Holland cover over it,.reaching
to the floor, which effectually concealed him.
The colonel 'came up stairs again with a light ; he had found one in they
hall. The oaths he uttered, and the threats he pronounced'against both Jobus,
and Frogs, were awful to hear. The latter, he knew, was upon his drunken
carouse; but the former he expected to have found, although he suspected that
he had left the house to recover himself from the blow of the whip
The colonel closed and locked the door of the room, and lit the lamp that.
was upon the table again. It must have been'some sudden draught thathad
Blown it out, for it burnt now quite well enough. The room-was small though,;
ahd there was a still and close air in it, which was'farlfrom being favorable
to the recovery of Abel; so Elk openedthe Window, and then;he poured out
a glass of port wine, and got Abel to swallow it; and the -poor -bewildere
wretch looked about him like a man but newly awakened fromsome disas-
tfons dream.
"Well, how are you now, Morton 7"
Abel only shook his head, and murmured something in which Elk detected
the word "Home !"

w

rir.r                     ,_~__


HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,
Oh, what a demoniac smile crossed his lips for a moment ere he spoke
again.
"Well, Abel, here we are."
"Yes, here-we are"
Abel looked about him and shuddered ; and then he said, in a low voice,-
'-Five thousand pounds-that is all !"
"Yes," said Elk, " that-is all; but it need not matter, that I am aware of,
unless you make something of it. Now, Abel, listen to me. You know, as
well as I do, for you are a fellow of sense, and sound, good judgment, when
you like to use it."
Abel felt a little flattered, and the colonel administered another dose.
"I say, Abel, you are just the sort of young fellow, with a fresh and vigor-
ous intellect, to fight your way through anything, if you like to do it ; but
there is the difficulty."
"The difficulty ?" said Abel.
"Yes. The difficulty is to get you to bring your undoubted abilities to the
purpose in view. You know, as well as I do, that it will never do for us to
go to Hampstead, and say to your father-' Here we are-'I am coming home;
but my friend here must have a cheque for five thousand pounds, and after'
that, there are all my debts to pay that you before heard of.'"
" Oh, no-no !" shuddered Abel. " It would never do !"
"Of course it wouldn't. When you will but condescend to think, there is
no one in all the world comes to a more correct conclusion than you do, Abel
-but there is no getting you to think at times. I tell you, my boy, there is
no reason on earth why we should not fight through the matter, and especi-
ally without letting your friends know anything of it. That is the great
point."
"Oh, yes; that is the great goint."
Abel took the wine that Elk placed before him.
"Your father is old ; and why, in the name of all that's good, should the
remainder of his life be embittered about these pecuniary affairs?  A bold,
brave young spirit like yours should stand between the old man and such
affairs. If you go to him, you must go with your lips sealed, as regards'
these matters, and with a feeling in your own mind, that you have really and
truly settled them."
"Settled them ?"
"Yes, to be sure ; did I not tell you that I had thought of a way of doing
it?"
"You did ; but-how is it possible ?"
"That is the point, my dear Abel. But are you better now than you were?
Don't drink without eating something. There are biscuits-although the wine
is too good to hurt you; but how do you feel ?"
"-Wonderfully better."
"Very well. Don't turn round to-morrow, now, and say that you were
coaxed and persuaded, and all that sort of thing. If you still wish to go home,
say so."
"Oh no-no! You said five thousand pounds ?"
"I did."
"Then I have no wish to go home."
The tone of voice in which poor Abel spoke, ought to have melted a heart
of stone; but the colonel's coolness was.a great deal harder than any stone
could possibly be. And now Elk's conduct became very mysterious, indeed.
He crept to the door of the room, and unlocking it, he looked out, and lis-
tened. All was profoundly still. Then closing and locking the door again,
he drew his chair close to the table, upon the other -side of which, corner-
wise, and facing the colonel, was Abel, and he spoke in a low, confidential tone
of voice, little dreaming that Jobus was under the sofa.
"Abel," said Elk, "I have given much attention to the subject of our joint
difficulties, an4 I find that your name is a good one."

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

83

"A good one ?"
"Yes. I see you don't understand me, Abel Morton ; allow me to explains
The money lenders have no aversion to your name, you comprehend ?"
"Oh ges. Ah, to be sure."
"Well, Abel, I propose raising the sum of five thousand pounds. Don't shake
your head, old fellow; I am not going to pocket it. Never mind the play debts.
Let them wait. What I want to do, is te get you clear of all those trades-
men, who are plaguing your life out, and to place in your hands funds to go
on with."
"Yes, I see."
" Well, Abel--your name is Abel?"
"uWhy, yes, I suppose it is, colonel."
"We will take it for granted that your name is Abel. Your father's name
is John, I believe ?"
' Yes,"
"How old is the governor ?"
"I think about fifty-eight."
"Oh, well, he can't last very long, at all events."
"Colonel 111k, 1---"
"Oh, come now, don't get into a passion, my dear fellow. This is business.
and when I speak in this way, I don't mean any disrespect to your father,
any more than an insurance office would, in making inquiries concerning his
health, before granting a policy on his life; but you are so hasty. Now, as I
say, your father's name is John, and yours Abel; but John would look so
much better on the face of a bill, that---"
" What ? Good God, what ?"
"I advise you to accept for five thousand pounds in the name of John!"
CHAPTER XXIII.
.   AT the very communication of this terrible and criminal project from the
colonel, Abel started to his feet aghast, and shook in every limb.
"Gracious Heaven !" cried Abel, "is it possible that to me you could make
such a hideous proposition, Colonel Elk? You are joking. surely ?"
"I don't see any joke in it," said Elk, drily.
"Joke, sir?  No, there is no joke in it; but I mean that it is quite impos-
Bible that you can be serious in making such a proposition to me."
Very gobd.'
This imperturbable coolness upon the part of Elk had all its effect upon Abel
Morton. He found it something impossible to speak passionately to a man
who looked so calm and collected, and he sunk .back into his seat again, say.-
ing, as he did so-
"No-no, you did not mean it. You could not mean that. That was not
the scheme that was to snatch me from embarrassment. You have only enun-
eiated such a proposal to try me, colonel."
The colonel replied by a shrug of his shoulders, and an elevation of the
eyebrows.
"It is forgery," added Abel. "Rank, deliberate, villanous forgery, I tell
you, Elk."
"Don't be violent, my boy. I know it."
"And yet you-you-that is--that is, you thought-you still think that I
--that it would be a means--"
"Abel," said Colonel Elk, as he coolly lit a cigar, without showing the
least tremor of a nerve. "Abel Morton, I enunciated to you a proposition, in
which I am quite serious. At the first flash of it, without hearing anything
about it, or of the feasibilities, or advantages, or safety, you fly off at a tan-
gent, and get alarmed; so let it drop."
Well, but-but--"

I

J.

9.

'T                      -     vt. y ' .'}
k            4
1


84,

uEADS AND HEARTS ; OR,

"If my explanations which I intended to give to you are not desired, we
will say no more about it, Morton ; and in that case, why, the most manly
thing you can do, is to pass your life in a debtors' prison."'
"Oh. no-no !"
"Well, I thought you had decided against going with me to Ilampstead ?"
Abet wipced again, at this, .while every particle of color for a moment left
his face, and then the hot blood came slowly back again, until his highly
heightened color showed the state of agitation he was in ;-he at last said,
"Well, there can be no harm in listening to what you were going to say.
I do not commit myself by that, colonel. Go on-I will hear-all."
There was a slight twitching of the eyes of Colonel Elk at these words F:om
poor Abel ; and a more than common compression of the lips, for from that
mpy cpt he made sure of his victim.
"' Since you have a desire to know what I have to say in defence, or rather
in explanation of the proposition which I have made to you. I would not
shrink from given you that further proof of my confidence. You are in those
desperate' circumstances which -require desperate remedies, Morton ; but, for-
tunately, the one I propose to you is not desperate at all. It simply points
out a means by which you may safely extricate yourself from your difficul-
ties."
"Safely ?" gasped Abel.
"Yes; the word rather surprises you, I see; but I say safely, and I mean
it. I will now explain to you how. If you were to put your name to bills,
no One would cash them. because it is well known, or it would be well known
upon inquiry, that you had nothing, but were even dependent upon your
father's good opinion for your future prospects. He may leave you the bulk
of his fortune, or a bare subsistence, or nothing."
"Or nothing," repeated Abel..                         '
"Well, such being the case, everything connected with your future pros-
pects depends upon the sort of estimation in which you are held at home. I
need not point out to you, Abel, that if you go with me to your father, and
ask him for a cheque-to pay me and others, you are lost forever in his opin-
ion.
"Go on-go on
"Therefore," added the colonel-and he placed a great stress upon the
word therefore, as if the consequences were quite cldar-" therefore, you will,
by agreeing to this little plan of mine, be serving yourself in the end, and not
losing character with the home authorities. Now, the plan is simply this:7
If your father don't think very ill of you, he will leave you the bulk of his
cash, since he has but you to provide for. An annuity to your mother, should
she outlive him, and something to Emma, will'be the only drawbacks upon
your enjoying all he possesses.".
" Well," said Abel, half choking, as his mother and Emma were thus spo-
ken of-" Well, what then ?"
"Why, of course, you will eventually marry Emma, so that part of the
affair will he no hindrance ; and even if your mother were left, solely depend-
ant upon your affection, I know, Abel, that she would lead the life of an em-
press if you had the means in'your power."
This was a cunning piece of flattery to the affections of Abel, and the colonel
saw it in a moment.
"By signing your father's name to bills for a considerable amount," he said,
".you will :soon be put into possession of cash to such a figure as will snake
all your difficulties vanish unto thin air at once. I can and will get the money
for the acceptances, inisuch a quarter that they will never see the light, and
it is really impossible that your father should ever hear of their existence;
and before each of the bills becomes due we will see the party holding it, and
substitute another for it, paying the interest for the amount, and so let the
affair go on till you are in possession of the property which will be yours
assuredly, and then you can pay them all of at once inan hour."

MY BROTHER! THE COLONEL.

85

Abel looked bewildered and shocked.
"Now for the advantages," added the colonel. "You get rid of all your
debts at once. You are able to go on in the course ofenjoyment which your
fine intellect and keen perceptions so eminently lit you for. You are able to
go to Hampstead, and make your peace there,'saying that you  have yourself
arranged all your debts, and have nothing but his love to ask of your father,
and you are at once, then, on the best te ms with cousinEmma. These -are
the results, Abel."
"Oh, if I could only be sure of all that !"-
"Come, now, where is the difficulty ?"
"Discovery !"
The colonel smiled.
"If that be all," he said, "you may banish such a thought from your mind,
Morton. First of all, it is quite out of the question that any suspicion should
arise concerning the genuineness of the signature to the bills; and if it did,
the parties among whom it would rise, would be the very'ones whose inter-
est would be most endangered by a discovery."
"Do you think so 7"
"No-'-i know so. I tell you, Abel, that if you like to do it, the thing is as
safe as sitting here."
" Oh, colonel, if you should be mistaken-if you'should be too sanguine
about this affair-i--"
"I am not the likely man, Abel."
'' I have stooped to folly, but not yet to guilt #"
r' Psha ! Now, consider how you spare the feelings of your father by this
little ruse. Will it not be delightful to you to know that he is passing the
few remaining years he has to live in serenity, rather than in disquiet con-
cerning you ?  Oh, Abel, filial affection ought to protipt you ?"
Abel shuddered.
"Besides," continued the colonel, "who do you wrong in the transaction '
No' one. Into whose pocket do you ultimately dip'your hand? 'Why, your
own. In fact, the whole transac ipn ine'ans nothing' more nor less than an-
ticipating, in a great emergency, some of 'that forttlne which will be yours in
the time to come. But you know, Abel, that a guinea when you want it is
Worth. ten" when you don't. Of' ourse, pay-day m1ust come. It generally
does come sooner or later, always; in a commercial country likethis; but
you are willing, and you will be i'eady to'pay."
"Oh, yes, that is'clear enough."
"Well, then, is there any other objection, Abel?"
"Nothing but that the deed'itself is criminal, and that by 'ome unforeseen
accident it may be'discovered.
"That is a fear that besets all enterprises; Abel. 'Yonu haveaminind able to
judge for yourself. I can but, as a tan of'thOWorid, whw has:seen a great
deal of it, give my opinion-and that is that no posible ccha ,ezists by
wieb you may be'harmed' in the transaction. Itsehmr td me to-be full to
the brim of advantages, while the evils lurk in a tiimid'imagination."
"It is shocking."
"What is shocking ?"
" Thateach moment I seem to becme  more and 'morelhiiiliatized to this
ter1rile ' plan of procedure."I
t"o y u 'call that testible 7"
6I dannot'hnelgi t "
" Then you' nistake it very much, Abel. It is your'esoi whichis  be-
coning convinced, and gettingfamed in opposition to your imagination. That
is always the case with fine intellects like yours."
'No-no!"
"  Oh, but I say yes. I have seen too many 'cases, not to be a judge of them
by this time, Abel. Come, now-all you have to do, my good fellow, is to
write John, instead of Abel, before your namp, and you at once step from a

I

51

.      N
-.

t
:

'_                                              s                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -           -
-                                       t
ms           =s- +ie.                                            -   '. .r+a .*a.q'R^""'4'v+.t.,enw,....w..+,.^r1 e.v                                                                                     ...M.,w-.t-u ..,..i           -                               _


IR.

86

MY BROTHER; THE COLONEL.

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

position of debt, danger, and difficulty, to one of ease, affluence, and joy.
Then, there is the Dandoloski your own. There is the London season, with
all its delights, just beginning, and the universal cry is-'- Where is Morton?
Will he be the hero of the season, or is he going to skulk away with scorched
pinions, and be heard of no more'? Is he to show himself a man, or to be
considered a boy, who only for a brief space escaped from school, and then
was caughtabecause he got a few hundred pounds intordebt, and was taken
back again?' Come-come, you laugh at all that.
"I do, colonel. They shall find I aig no boy."
"Of course not. The intimate friend of Colonel Elk, I think, might be some-
body in the gay world of fashion, even if he were not Abel ofthoems whose
career, from his own style and intellect, is calculated to be oeo h  otbi-
liant upon record. I can tell you, Abel, that if you do retire from life there is
not a few who will be devilish glad of it."a
" Glad of it ! How so ?"
becausee they will not have your rivalry to dread. I would just ask you
candidly, putting all self out of the question, how are such fellows as Lord
Rokeley and Captain Lorrinet, and a host of others I could name to you, to
stand up against you and your capabilities ?"
-"Well I-you flatter me, colonel."
' I flatter?  You don't know me, Abel, yet, or you would not say that'?"
"Well, don't be offended."
"Not at all. I am, to tell'the truth, rather a cynic. Take another glass of
wine. Thank you, I can reach the decanter myself. Here's to Dandoloski,
Abel, and may her smiles never want the sunshine of preference from you.".
"Thank you. She is a fine creature."
iie"Well, I never saw her equal."~
"Nor ever will, my boy. Here are some slips, you see--just reach that pee,
you see, on the side-table."
Abel did so with trembling hands ; and the colonel, from the depth of a
very large pocket-book that he had with him, took out five slips of paper, and
spread them out upon the table before Abel.
"Theseematters are easily managed," he said. "Suppose we make them for
two thousand pounds each, and that will spare 'a deal of trouble, you know.
We will make them due respectively one month after each other. It will just
look like a ready and common mode of raising ten thousand pounds, that is all,
Morton, and nobody will think anything of it. You know I will cash the first
one without saying anything of the others ; and then produce them, old fel-
low, as we happen to want them. Who knows hut that some slice of luck n
play may enable us to pay them off, and be done, with them'? I say we,
because, from this timeI look upon itthat our interests are identical, Abel;
and if I  have any good luck, I will take care that you share it."
The colonel stretched his hand over the table as' he spoke, and shook hands
with Abel. Poor Abel's hand was as cold as if death had struck it.
"More wine," cried Elk, as he filled Abel's glass, for he saw the state in
which his victim was.
"Yes; I am rather cold. I will take more wine, colonel. It is good wine."
"None better. And now to business."
Morton's very lipsshook as he looked at the slips of paper, with the omi-.
nous-looking stamps in one corner of each of them. If they had been death-
warrants, each of them to be filled up with his name, in case one should fail
from any informality, he could not have gazed upon them with more shrink-
ing dread.
"I have not consented." he said-" surely I have not consented ?n
"Consented, my dear fellow?  What do you mean
"I mean, that surely I-I-that is, I did not say that I would do it?"
"If you did, it don't matter; for you can draw back easily enough, and leave
it alone. Why, my good friend, if you don't like a thing that is so easy, so

C'

SpT

safe, so really kind to your father--for it eases his mind, and takes nothing
from him--you need not do it."$
"That is a relief."
"Edxactly; so you know quite well, my dear fellow, what must be done in-
stead, that is all. You value, or you do not value the peace, the calm serenity
of your father's last days-you do not value, or you do, the quiet serenity f-
your mothers evening of life-you do no value, or you do, the love ofhat
cousin, with the sparkling eyes-for T know she has such;: but if you do, Abel,
you will spare them all, by adopting this little bit of finesse, which will enable
you to laugh at fate."
"But, Colonel Elk, once more let me entreat' you to pause. Is there -n
dishonor in this course '?"                                       n
"Dishonor'? Do you think that I would give up  my position in society, or
even jeopardise it to clear you of a few difficulties? No, Abel ; I don't mean
to say but that I have all the wish in the world to do all I can for you-I
don't mean todsay but that you-are a fellow after my own heart;but I cannot
commit a kind of moral suicide for you."
"Then you really, from your soul, think that if I sign those bills in my
father's name there is absolute safety'"
"As absolute 'as the world can make it. I repeat, situated as you are, it is
a duty. Now, there was the Marquis of Deuceace: he enjoyed one half of his
patrimony in the sane way, before he became Duke of Swindelham."
"Did he really'?"
." To be sure he did.-Well how do you feel -now'7"
bBetter--I--think-that is--I feel as if I were really inclined to draw' the
bills.",
"Accept them, you mean, old fellow. I will draw them. Come, is it all
right?2"
" Yes-yes ! How close the room is, though. But it's all right, colonel. It's
as you say; the only course. I will do it !'
CHAPTER XXIV.
COLONEL ELK took one of the blank stamps, and wrote those fearful words
that have made many a cheek blanch to look upon--those words which in
their results, have beggared the proud, rich man-have made the poor desti..
tute--words, which have turned the widow and the fatherless out of house
and home to perish-words which, in time gone past, have strangled wretches
at the Old Bailey-words,. which now float about the brains of' needy. strug-
gling tradesmen, like hideous gnomes, gibing them to despair-words which
have strained the trembling hand to the throat of the suicide-words which
it i well for men to look keenly at, and to ponder upon ere they endorse !
Let us look at them.
"London, May 14, 18-.
"'Three months after date, pay to me or order the sum of One Thousand
Pounds sterling, for value received.

"To Sir John Morton, Bart.,
"Hampstead."

"JOHN ELK."

"All right, eh'?" said Elk.
"I suppose-it is-I don't know exactly-I fancy it is."
"Very good; now all you have to do is to write 'Accepted, John Morton,'
across the face, and the ridiculous transaction is over."
Abel took the pen in his hand.  Oh, was there no good angel at that
moment ready to dash it from him?  Was there no gentle spirit to whisper

I

I

iP

30 -


MY 33OTliEU, IE COILONj.

89

drive in the cab, or what? Are you inclined for wine--cards? Anythingyg
like, Abel, so that you cheer up, and don't keep on that hang-dog sort of0loo.
Suppose we drive over to the Dandoloski?"
Abel licked his parched lips.
"Oh. it is wine you want ?"
"No-no! But tell me, Colonel Elk-did T, or was it only a dream--did.
I, really and truly-o! do not deceive me, did I sign my father's name to-
to-a bill ?i"
Elk nodded.
chkeIretract," said Abel, speaking with difficulty, and as though be were half
,bed y the effort. cI withdraw it. Give it to me back again. ,I ktow
better now. Oh, how could I be so mad! It is a great crime, if there were
ruity, crowd da i against God--a sin against my father. .It is a lack ini-
agai,  co dne  Elpi  a t ousand  hideous ingratitudes.  Oh, give it  e back
n           k, and let us never speak of this again !"
"Hark you, Abel Morton.
" Well--well ?~
"It is now that time of night when men's imaginations reign in defiance of
third direon. omorrow, when broad daylight dawns upon you, On Will
think differently of the little transaction, and then we will talk of it."
see"Give it to me now, Colonel Elk. If I, upon cool reflection in the morning
eno particular objection to the scheme, I can then return it to you."
"Excuse me."
6

_,

"  '


~-~- ~-t-~.

HEAUS AND        A TST   U                                                             MY BROTHE
"You will not ?"
" Don't say ' will not,' Abel. It is a harsh term to use between us. Come
--come. I am quite sure that, in a few days, when you find everything satis-                                      C'HAP
factorily settled--when you find yourself surrounded by all those means and                 THE hour was an early one. Th
appliances to elegant living-which, permit me to say, no one knows better                 not begun in Chancery Lane as the'
how to enjoy or to estimate than you do yourself--you will look back upon                 den. It was a den; and Lyon was a
what you feel and say to-night with surprise. You will bask in the sunshine               devour. It will be recollected that
of woman's favor. Do you forget that for you the Dandoloski has given up                    The child of Israel who opened th
the Austrian Ambassador? Would you behave shabbily to her after she has,                  and then he said-
Pfor you, behaved so nobly"h                                                                                              s
There was a dim idea in the mind of Abel that the preferences of a strumpet               "Yes; but not toany of the cage
had not anything very noble in them; but he rose, and in a weak, sickly                     "Oh, it's the colonel," cried a m
voice, said-                                                                              tawdry finery of an early toilette, t
" Very well : I will go home. You will come to me ?"beoitdengsa.                                               I'shec
"As sure as that'the sun will light up this half of the world again to-mor-             ate parlor."
row, Abel. If I come not to you, then ' Chaos has come again.' Mind howYeh, said the small represent
you go. The stairs are rather steep. I will light you. Confound it, AbelColonel Elk into a room that was
one, to look at you, would not fancy that you were at the commencement of
as brilliant a career as ever was opened to a man."
"To-morrow," said Abel-" to-morrow !"                                                     "Tell "
..In a few moments he had left the house. During the absence of Elk from
the room, Jobus peeped out from beneath the sofa, and merely said "Oh                       "Oh, aomones how gl     ad
Then, hearing the sound of the colonel's returning footsteps, he, pulled his                "Very likely. Take a seat old fe
i          head in again in a moment.
hElk reached the room; and pouring himself out three glasses of wine in                    MrLyon sai down, and then Elk
rapid succession, he drank them off, and then he paced to and fro for a few              Jion of                ampstea
minutes in silence, after which he burst out into such a hideous peal of laugh-           hn   o   me o getdi  forea. t
ter,'that Jobus felt the blood retreat from his heart with a strange gush as               a     coloe      One hound,
he heard it.
"Why, it's done !" said Elk. " It's all as good as done, now. Brother-                   "Oh-oh      I onish I had it."
sister-father--mother--cousin ! Ha, ha ! Ruin--despair! Ha, ha ! God--                      "Very well. Good    morning,
it's done ! Suicide, perhaps ! Ha, ha, ha!  Wine, I say-more wine! I                       "     sh                      .
will drink deep, now-deep; for it is done ! How cold I am! How I shake !                  "Very stop,   ood    mo   sh I
What is this?  Am I ill'? Oh, no--not I ! My constitution is of iron ! I                   "Sery lkely. Goo morah.
have no nerves-all is well ! I want excitement as a, conclusive charm to this            be able ocooit.
triumph! The gaming table! Yes; that is the thing for me! Ha, ha!                          "Very good. Where is he?"
Oh, yes, Abel, you shall see me to-morrow l,!Hr                                                   " adM.Sadah         sh
He left the room, and in half a minute Jobus heard the street door shut                Hee ish   r. Shadrach      ,    e
Awitha bang that shook the whole house.                                                    "Very good. As you have been
me! What worms we are ! So it's all settled, is it?  Oh, ha ! No I didn't         .        Coloyou w     ca  me ad
laugh-not I. Well, we shall see-we shall see. I think I will speakto
Frogs; I think I know where to find Frogs. He wants a little excitement,                 a   five hundred pounds i cash, t
does he? That dear colonel ! He shall have it. Oh, dear, yes. What a pity                 undred i tapioca.
it would be if he didn't have it ! I am so very humble that it would quite                    t      do    udsad oln
grieve me. Ah-oh, dear. I musn't really give way to laughter. Oh, no !"                  due a   nd   rd    take four
Jobus crept from the room and down the stairs, at a slow pace; and when
he was nearly in the passage, there came a sullen dab at the street-door.                  The two Jews made some telegr
"Frogs, for a thousand pounds !" cried Jobus, as he opened it, and his fel-              "ou touhdrae      to tadeany
low servant fell right in, and lay insensible from'drink in the passage.
" Ah !" said Jobus, as he closed the door again. "He's come home, has he?              suppose .
I'm afraid the bottle is Frogs's little failing. Dear me.                                  "O    -n very w er ol  w
with you we know---"
'Stop !" said F~k. " Young Mort
to me last night, and told me that he
man had promised to accept a bill fo
-you see. The fact is, Sir John and I
" Iknow that,"sad Lyon.

, THE COLONEL.                    ,.
PER X_
e legal traicm-that traffic in souls-had
colonel rapped at the door of Mr. Lyone
hungry lion, seekingever whom he might
Abel was once confined in this den.
e door looked doubtingly at the colonel
-birds. Is Lyon at home ?"
aid of Judah, showing herself in. all the
he only article of which that seemed to
lonel, Benjamin. Show him into the pri--
tive of the dethroned race, as he preceded
by Mr. Lyon devoted to the reception of
3'," said the colonel.
his appearance.
see you.~
low."
said in a clear and distinct voice-
has, for the convenience and accommoda
zousand pounds, which young Mortonha&amp;
ill you do it ?"
did you say ?"
S so, so scarce."
My time is valuable."
is my partner, now, and'perhaps he may
walked-into the room. '" Here, colonesh
listening; it saves me the trouble of ex-
Will you-do the bill ?"
vill do it on certain conditions, and they
wo hundred pounds in pictures, and one
"But I tell you what I will do ; I wit
you shall hold the bill, and when it comes
dred pounds-more."
phic signs to each other, add then Lyon
with an affected deep sigh, said-
f the five hundred pounds in sperm oil, I
you are a shentleman, and when we deal
on is, after all, your customer. He came:
had been to Hampstead, and that the old
r a thousand pounds, if I would draw it,
have spoken before.

-


92

HEADS AND HEARTS ; OR,

"Very good. I drew this bill. and Abel Morton took it away, and brought
it back to me in three hours, accepted. There it is."
The colonel threw the bill before the Israelites, and Mr. Lyon took out of
his pocket a greasy cheque-book, and gave a draft for five hundred pounds,
upon a banking-house in Chancery Lane, which does not disdain to keep the
accounts of such worthies.
"That will do," said Elk. "I am rather short of tin now ; but you know
where to find meat an time."
"Oh, yesh, colonesh-oh yesh. It is all right, no doubt."
The colonel left Mr. Lyon's premises with the five hundred pound cheque
in his pocket, and went direct to the banking-house, where he procured notes
and gold to the amount. After that he made his way to the chambers of
Abel Morton in the Albany.
It would be vain to attempt to describe the state of Abel during the night
after he had left Elk's house. Half maddened by conflicting sensations, poor
Abel paced his room to and fro, looking for the daylight ; and when it cane
he fancied that he could sleep, and he fell into a strange and fitful slumber on
a sofa.
"Colonel Elk, sir," said Rowley, close to his master's ear, for he had made
some half-dozen attempts to arouse him. "Colonel Elk, sir."
Morton sprang to his feet.
"No-no !"'he said. "Destroy it ! I did not do it! Help !"
" Lor, sir, it's only the colonel."
Abel'sunk back again. His eyes met those of Elk, who had glided into the
room, and who shook his head at him over Rowley's shoulder. -
"Oh, colonel how are you ?"
Poor Abel looked like as malefactor in the presence of the executioner, and
when Rowley had left the room, he glanced at Elk as though hewould look
into his very soul.
"Well, Abel," said Elk, "it is all right."
"Right ?"
"Yes, to be sure. Here is the money, and I may congratulate you upon the
profound safety of the transaction, as the bill is in the bands of the highest
Character. In fact, there is no calculating the nice sense of honor of those who
hold it. By-the-by, as you never had a cab of your own, and it is a thing
you ought to have, for it is not up to the mark to hire one, I have given an
order for a nice set-out for you. Only two hundred pounds in all. It will be
at the door in half an hour. Then the Dandoloski is delighted, and says that
you must drive with her to-day. Your infernal creditors shall all have their
mouths stopped. We will arrange our series of fetes for the week to come,
and you will be the happiest dog alive; and all so safe, too, that you need not
give a thought to the morrow."
Now, Morton was not the strongest minded person in the world, as the
reader well knows ; and during the speech of the colonel he had, as it were,
rocked to and fro in his distraction, and at its conclusion he knew not what
to say or to do. There were many advantages enumerated by the colonel--
there was money before him-there was the assurance of positive safety; and,
lastly, there was the fact that the bill was actually parted with.
"Well," said the colonel, "why don't you laugh ?"  ,
"Laugh ?"
"Yes. They who win ought to laugh ; and Fortune and you, I take it, have
played a game in which you have come off the winner. Is it not so?  Have
you not beaten the slippery goddess? To be sure you have. Come, Abel,
this whole matter just resolves itself to this-you are afraid that the bill will
be found out to be a-a----"
"Oh, hush '"
"Well, well--there is no occasion to say it. Language is given us to express
ideas; and if we have the ideas without the language, we may as well hold

MY NROTHN4l~    Tt!N COLON2Lt.
ouir tangues. I say, then, you are afraid of a discovery, that is all Abel; and
I tell you t'banish that from your mind, and not be under the smallest
apprehension that your father will have to pay the bill to save you from a pro-
gecution."
Abel started to his feet. That was the first time such a'view of the 'dae
had ever occurred to him.
"What's the matter ?" said the colonel.
"I did not think of that.rIt never struck me that, in the event of a dis
Otvery, that W'ould be the result."                    eeto      i.
"Why, where were your wits, Abel?  You did not suppose, did you, now,
that if the worst case to the worst, your father would prosecute you for using
his name-did you.we
"hush !-speak low. No: he could not-he would not. I did not think
of that ; it did not strike me."
"Well, this is good," said the colonel. "Why, Abel, I do believe you have
had the Old Bailey in your mind's eye. Ho! ho ! The worst that can po..
sibly come of the whole afihir (and that is almost an impossible contingency)
is,. that the old man would have to pay the bill. That's the very worst that
could happen ; and I don't know, Abel, but that the chance of that is bettr
than the certainty of the disgrace and the horror of goinghome'and telling all,
now."
"Peace'!" said Abel--" Oh, peace ! Colonel Elk, I will no longer talk of
home-I will no longer think of home. The deed is done, and so far it ispast
regret. I will tl'y, by plunging into the vortex of pleasure, to drown all recol-
lection of it. Since the means of raising money does presentitself to my grasp,
I will avail myself of it. I will be all that I can be with extended resowces,
and with youth and the love of delights that with me shall know no change,
I will revel in the smiles of beauty-I will drink deep of the wine cUp.
fusic with its thousand witcheries, shall awaken the'echoes of my soul; and
then, if fall I must, as some day haply I shall, I will yet fall in glittering frag-
ments !
"Bravo !" said the colonel.
CHAPTER XXVI.
Wnmrt Jobus opened the door of Colonel Elk's house to let in his fello .o
laborer in the vineyard of Elk's wickedness, Frogs, he hardly expected to hd
him so far gone as he was.
" Ah," said Jobus. "Here you are, just like a pig. Get up, will you?"
.Go'to the devil !" said Frogs.
Jobus shook his head, declining the proposition, and then he stood for some
few minutes in deep thought.
"Oh, if I could only get Frogs now," he said, "to help me, sorely something
might be done by two worms-surely it might. But dare I mention it to him
-dare I ask him?   Oh dear-oh dear ! What a thing it is to be so dread-
fully drunk as this Frogs delights in being! lie is a very bad man-oh, ver
bad, indeed. And yet-and yet he is human, and he cannot love Elk or Elks
service: for what does he get by either ?-Blows-oaths--threats. Ah, deai
me ! that's what he gets. Now, if I could only venture upon saying to him,
Oh, Frogs, let us try and do what is right-let us save the innocent,? what a
thing it would be ! Frogs !"
u Brannyanwater."
"Eh  "
u Brannyanwater."
"Oh, dear, he means \brandy and water by that, I do believe. What a
very extraordinary way of saying it. Frogs, my old acquaintance-Frogs, i
"Aafanaafanascrew."

4i

- E
i
,,,:

,i,,,,.,  ...,.,....._ -.  ._..w..,.   ..,.,. ..._w   r ,    ..  ,.,.._....,_ _.    _. ... .. ..._.... _                                                  ..,.s.. ,...     -   -                                                                      - -
.-t          .-               .,,                               ., v         ,r rwn, w}_    "-a+ yx;F cx^u-r -+nr      * -    .+ ^.4 . a. ,s     ws  .,k . "l Aam .ca..,a: ,";xak ",t . .=    s ~


I

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

"Eh?   What do you say'? Surely he means half-and-half and a screw
of tobacco, only he puts it so oddly together. I'll try him with a little cold
water."
Jobus crept down stairs and brought up a jug of cold water which he fill..
ed Frogs's hat with; and then, as that gentleman sat up, with his back against
the wall with tipsy gravity, Jobus suddenly clapped his hat on his head.
"It rains," said Frogs.
"A little," said Jobus. "How are you now ?"
Frogs sneezed twice or thrice, and then he managed to get to his feet and
staggering into one of the parlors, he flung himself on to a sofa and fell asleep.
It was a weary time that poor Jobus had there to wait for the awakening
txf Frogs. The colonel was out the whole of the night at the gaming-table;
and even when the faint light of early dawn began to peep in at the half
closed shutters, he had not come home. But Frogs began to babble of past
events in his sleep.
"No-no !" he said-" no, I say ! You shall not do it Stevens. No ! The
curse of the innocent blood will cling to you, I say ! Give me up will you -
Hal! ha ! Give yourself up for the murder, i'f you like ! Ha ! ha ! Oh, God,
I can see a child's hand through the red flames !"
"Oh, dear," said Jobus, "what worms we areas"
"Yes-yes, I say ; the fire is too hot !" cried out Frogs. "I did not light
it ! You did that, fiend that you are ! Why should I save you?  We are
both guilty'!-both-both !"
"Frogs ?" said Jobus.
"Yes," replied Frogs, still in his sleep.. "Oh, yes."
"What are you talking about ?"
"Why, the fire in Calcutta, to be sure. They all perished-all-all I say!
And yet the one man escped whom I wished-to burn. Yes, I wished it as
well as Stevens! He was hunted by the colonel."
"What colonel?"
"Morton, now Sir John, you know."
"The Lord have mercy upon us !" said Jobus, "and he is answering all this
in his sleep. Oh, dear-oh, dear ! Frogs !"
"Well, what now?  Don't talk to me of this. To be sure, my own child
would scorn me now ; and I dare not look-at her ! Oh, God, no ! And yet
I did, only yesterday, peep. through the old hedge, and I saw her. She
screamed, and the people came out to chase the tramp-yes, that was what
they called me, the tramp-from the door."
Jobus crept to the feet of Frogs, and looked at his boots.
"Ah !".he said, "the worm knows the look of London mud from soil off
the country roads. Frogs has been out of town. -Oh, dear, me! Frogs -"
"Well, go on ! What now'?"
"Who is Stevens ?"
"Ha !-ha! You know, don't you, reverend sir ?"
"Oh, Lord ! he calls me a reverend sir. No, I don't; and, besides, if I do,
you must declare it to me, you know."
"And you promise, then, to save my life ?"
"To be sure," said Jobus.
"Well, then, of course, Elk is Stevens-Lieutenant Stevens, of the Bombay
Artillery, you know ?"
"Oh, dear, you don't say so'? And how old is your child, Frogs, now?"
"Oh, God, why do you talk of her? She is-is mine-my only one. I
killed her mother, you know ?"-        -
"Oh, no, no!"'
" Not by a blow. I did it by degrees. I broke her heart ; and my little
Lucy is now thirteen. Has.the reprieve come yet?  Oh, then, the hangman
stares at me, and points at the rope. No, no ! I say, I did not do it all
alone ! Save me! Oh, God help me, now! The fire is in my blood ! my
brain bubbles ! Ha, ha ! Murder !"

94

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.
With a yell, he sprang to his feet, and looked around him. Johns had
made a dart from the room, so Frogs fo ad himself alone.
"Where am I?    Where'?  Oh at ho    ! Home! No! I won't call it
that ! Where is the crowd, and the hangman, and the gallows?  Nowhere ?
Was it only a dream after all-only a horrid dream?  Gracious Heaven  I
thought that I confessed all to the clergyman at the foot of the scaffold; and
that he promised me a reprieve if I did so; and now it is all a dream ! Well,
that is as good as a reprieve of itself ! How ill " feel 1"
Jobus tapped at the door.
" Who's..tat4- Who's that?"
"Only me," said Jobus. "How are you now, Frogs?  You qame in a lit-
tle time ago and laid yourself down there, and I thought I would come to see
how you were, you know. Well, are you all right ?"
"Be off with you. Go to the deuce. Where's the colonel ?"
"Gone out, Frogs. Oh, Frogs, I want to speak to you."
"Speak away, then. I'm parched, and nearly mad. What is it, idiot ?"
"My good friend-."
"It's a lie. I'm not your good friend, nor any one else's. I never was a
good friend but to the devil, and he isn't at all grateful, as he ought to be."
"Very likely not, Frogs. He hasn't I believe, the reputation of being so.
But I want you to listen to me for a little while, Frogs. Don't it strike you
that we have served this Elk long enough ?"
"El ?"
"I say, don't it strike you that we have served thi Elk long enough?
What do we get by it, good Frogs?"
"What do you get by it, you mean ?"
"And you ?"
"Well, you get safety. He told me you had done something."
Jobus's face flushed, and he let his head drop into his hands, as he uttered
a deep groan.
"He told me you had done something, and that he knew it," added Frogs,
u and that was why secresy and a home were all the world to you; and as
for me, I don't mind owning, that I am'pretty much in the same predicament.
Jobs looked up, and then he crept closer to Frogs, and laying his hand
upon his arm, he said, in a low tone, broken by emotion-
"Frogs, there is a future even in this world, for every wretch who has but
one day between him and eternity. We may have many days."
"What do you mean ?"
"I mean, that you and I may yet do something, that may have the effect
of reinstating us in the opinion of the world, and in our own opinion, which-
is of more importance still."
"Stuff!"
"Well, I am a poor forlorn creature. There is no one in all the wide world
who can claim kindred to me. I am the last, I do think, of my race. Home,
kindred, all have gone from me; so, after all, but for the sake of dying with
some one gentle deed of charity nestling in its sweet recollection at my heart,
-I would be content, now, if Heaven's lightnings struck me, and there's an
end. But--"
" Eh ?"
"But, I say, oh, Frogs, I have pften thought, if I had had a child, now, for
example-"
"cA child ?"
"Yes; I have often thought that if Heaven had only given me one little
one-one of those little ones which God the man said where to come.untobim
I would make the endeavor to break through the mist of wickedness around
me, and by some one deed strive to obtain the right to hold that child to my
heart, and in the face of the great world cry out, 'I am your father!"
Frogs breathed very hard.
"You mean to say-you-you--".

..rsw     -


963

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

"I mean to say, Frogs, that if I had such a blessed incentive to virtue as you
---nd I have not-I would set about counteracting Elk in the most hellish
scheme he ever thought of ; and I would rescue five innocent beings from the
fell destruction that otherwise will light upon them: I say, I would do that,
Frogs; but alas ! I have no little one to wind its arms about my neck, and
while its soft lips nestled on my cheeks, whisper, 'that was well and truly
done, my father."
" Air-water-I-choke !" gasped Frogs. "God !, I never thought of
that ! I shall-choke-choke     "'
Jobus hastily held water to his lips, and then dashed some on to his face ;
and then, with his handkerchief, he patted the water off the haggard connte-
nance; but it came again, streaming down the cheeks, and then Jobus saw
that the tears were flowing fast from the eyes of Frogs.
"Blessed-blessed !" said Jobus.
"What?" gasped Frogs. "What is blessed ?"
"Why, these tears, to be sure, my old friend. Are they not blessed ?"
Frogs sobbed aloud, and flung himself back upon the couch ; and for more
than five minutes nothing broke the stillness of that room but the deep grief
of that wretched man, as he wept the weeping of years in that one hour.
At length the torrent of feeling thus suddenly and 'strangely awakened,
ceased to overpower all other perceptions, and stifling his sobs, Frogs looked
up in the face of Jobus.
" Jobus," he said, "I too-No-you said you had no dhild?"
"' None-none."
"Well, Jobus, old fellow-don't look at me so-but-but I have a child,
and if, by any magic, she could rest upon my breast and say, 'Well done,
father'I-I think that I could be content to die then."
"Magic," said Jobus, slowly rubbing his hands together. "Did you say.
magic'? Oh, dear ! I think, worm as I am, that in the intention and the
determination around you, Frogs, to do a great and a good deed, there is a
magic such as Heaven itself sanctions, and lends the might'of all its powers to
render beautiful."
"Hush !" said Frogs; "the street door !"
CHAPTER        XXVII.
AT eight, o'clock P.M., when many hard-working and sober-minded peo-
ple, in and about London, were thinking of settling down quietly with their
lhmilies, and rationally passing an hour or two before retiring to rest, Abel
rose from his chair in the chambers of the Albany, ready for the life that was
to be his during the next eight hours of the night and early day.
Lord Rokeley has dined with him-Colonel Elk, too, has done him that
honor, and looks, indeed, as if he had taken just a little too much wine. There
are two other guests, whom we need say nothing further of, than that they
were well known as men upon town-that is to say, young men of good family
and ample means, who were doing their best to dissipate the latter, and to
effectually get rid of whatever credit or repute had ever attached to the
names they bore.
" Now,.Abel, my boy," said the colonel, "what is'it to be I Here we are,
all as fresh as mountain daisies, and ready for anything in a respectable way."
"Well only say what is to be the programme of the night's proceedings,"
said Abel, "and I am your man. - What do you say, Rokeley ? Can't you
think of some novelty I"
Rokeley shook his head, and replied that it was a great deal too much
trouble to think at all, and that he never did anything so d--d low.
"Well, said the colonel, "is it to be the opera first ?"
" Agreed," said the others.

'I

MY BRO1 ER, THE COLONEL.                      97
"But it's rather early," added one. "We have almost time for a drive in
your tandem, Morton."  Yei
"What, five of us!" said the colonel.
"That's the fun pf it. Some of us will have to hold on  it'
for three."
"No, I vote against that," said a young gent, with an affected lisp. "I
think we may kill an hour at the Opera, and then it will be  ttinon forten
O'clock, and then I should advise we tty the suburban alarm dodge for an
hour or two, by which time London will be getting quiet, so that we can do
the war-whoop in the quiet streets;- and what do you say to trying the oa..
pital dodge'? Then we can turn in and have some broiled bones and cha-
pagne somewhere, and after' that we can beginonthe lamps, and knockers,
and bell-pulls about Russel Square and thereaway, till we get tired of the fun."
Well done," said Abel.
"Certainly," said Elk, "we might do more than all that; and if we feel
tred of the out-of-door enjoyment, there will be no difficultyat all in turning
tn somewhere and having a hand at cards, or rattling the ivories a little-while
"Thank you all the same. But what do you mean by the hospital dodge?
that's above me altogether. I hope it's nothing that involves a  trouble ?"
"Not much," said the gent who had proposed it. Allow me to explain it
to you."
Ah, do.
"Well, you know, at the hospitals in London, as well as everywhere else
peace and quietness are considered to be everything, as you ma naturally,
expect ; and the hospital dodge consists of all of as going with speaking
trumpets, and getting right in as far as the hall, or further if we can, andthen
all bellowing out'at once--' The end of the world has come!' Or--' Prepare
for your final doom !' Or else, uniting in a great roar that shall transcend
anything the terrified patents ever heard; and ten to one but you frighten
"Has that been tried ?" said Lord Rokeley.
"No; it's only a suggestion," said Abel Morton; "but it's rather clever
don't you think? "
" Why :-ah !--I dare say it is ; but not very-ah !--humane, is it ? ~r1
"Humane ?" cried the proposer. "My dear  okele  yu     t    h
all belong to the lower classes who are in the public hospitals."
"In fact, all poor people," said another.
Ah, well, if there's anything I hate more than another, it's poor people
so do it if you like."
"Well, now," said Colonel Elk, "here are five of us. you knew; and it's
out of the question that we can all go in the tandem. I will get my qog-cart
and that will hold three nicely, you know, and thus it will leave thE tandem
with only two ; which, after all, is its proper complement; but I should ad-
vise Morton not to drive tandem fashion at night. It only gets you into a
tangle if you are in a hurry ; and you never know when you may be on these
occasions. Take the gray cob, Morton, and then, you know, you will be
equal to any emergency."
"I will. That is good advice. But it's to the Opera first, I suppose ='"
Oh, yes, to kill time."
,Come on," said Morton-" come on Rokeley. Rowley where are you?
illoa, there, Rowley 1"  \y
"Here, sir !"
"You will have the tandem, with the gray cob only, at the corner of the
Cera colonnade, at ten; and you will go the colonel's, and order his' man with
t dog cart."
Rowley held open the door, and the party left Morton's chambers, talking -

4.


98

HEADS AND HEARTS ; OR,

very loudly, and occupying very much of the pavement, as they walked down
to the Haymarket.
Lord Rokely's uncle, the Marquis of Santre, had a box at the Opera; and
after ascertaining that that noble personage was not present, Lord Rokeley
took possession, and conducted his companions into the box, where they'
all talked very loud during the grand scena ; and when the Prima Douna
of the season was dwelling upon a long sustained note, which seemed like the
last trill of a lark, as it mounts heavenward, to be dying away in space, one
of the party finished it by such a sneeze, as made everybody in the house jump
again, and completely obliterated all the effect of the dying cadence of the
singer's voice.~
"'Pen soul, that was good," said Rokeley, "only rather a trouble."
"Capital !" said Morton, wiping his eyes, into which his stifled laughter had
brought tears.
By ths time general attention was turned towards the box, and many a
lorgnette in the circle was directed to the occupants, so that Rokeley, for fear
the affair should come to the ears of his uncle, the marquis, suggested that it
would be better to beat a retreat at once, as it was cose upon ten o'clock.
When they reached the colonnade, they found that Rowley and a groom
were there with the two vehicles; and they at once mounted, and turned their
horses' heads westward.
"I suppose the villages and detatched houses down the western road," said
the colonel, "will do? We can go by the Uxbridge Road, and get back
through Brompton and Kensington, and so on into London again, if that will
suit."
"All's right," said Morton. "Rowley, are the speaking trumpets in the
tandem?"
"Nows fr ite.
"Be sure you all scream if you see anybody crossing the roadway," said the
gent who seemed most prolific in expedients to show off his practical wit. "If
it's an old woman, you will see what fine fun it is. But you must all scream
together."
's By-the-bye," said the other, "we had better pull up at the end of Oxford
Street, and all shriek at once, and call out 'The child-the child and if that
don't frighten everybody that hears us I don't know what will.
We can try it," said Elk..
They now went on at a rattling pace; but about half way up Oxford street
they saw a milliner's shop still open, and through the various articles in the
window might be observed the heads of some half-dozen females, bending over
their work, which no doubt was wanted for the gorgeous convenience of some
female specimen of pride and selfishness on, the morrow, who cared little what
sleepless nights she condemned the poor slaves of fashion to, so that her pride
was pampered.
"Stop-stop !" cried M'Leon, who was quite the wag of the party. "Do
you see that donkey ?"
"Yes." said Abel, "what of i t ?"
"What of it? Why, its providential. Colonel, draw up a little closer, here.
You see the donkey opposite that shop ?"
"To be sure."
"Well, it will be fine fun, won't it, to put him in at the window ?"
"Rather. But I don't see how."
"Three of us can do it. One on each side of him can lift him up on his hind
legs, and another behind him with the gig whip, you see, and in he goes
." Good : let's do it."
Abel took care of his own vehicle, and Lord Rokeley of the dog cart while
the colonel and the two gents alighted, and made their way up to the monkey
-who, with drooping head, was wondering when his master. who was taking
his glass at a public house some. three doors off, would think of going home

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.
and relieving him of the weight of the two baskets that were slung across hs
back,.
The window of the milliner's shop was quite close to the pavement and
came nearly down to the ground, so that everything was tolerably favorable
tren Lao hRokeley entered into the fun; and putting one of the Bpean
trumpets to his mouth, he prepared to second the affair as well ashe could,
Colonel Elk stood with the whip reh,"and one gent got, to the astonishment
of the donkey, on one side of him,  the other on the other, with each a
shoulder under his fore-leg.
"Now for it-hoist away I"
"Here you go 1" said the other; and the donkey was lifted to
in a moment. Crack ! came the whip, and with one bound the animal "went'
right through the milliner's window, to the intense gratification of the con-
federates. At the same moment Lord Rokeley executed such a yell through
the speaking trumpet, that it made even Abel Morton start again.=
Screams came from the people of the shop-awatehman sprang his rattle.
and people began to rush out of the public house, just as the tvo gents and
Colonel lk regained their vehicles, and set off at such trot, that pursuit was
a chimera.
"'Pon soul," said Lord Rokeley, "that's what I call clever, now. Was it
much trouble?"
"Not a hit," said elk, laughing. "But here we are at the corner of Oxford
Road. Now for a general yell. Get the "trumpets out. All together, now.
I will cry Out first, and then do you all raise as awful a shout as you can,"
"Yes-yes! All right."
"Are you ready ?"
" Quite."
"The child ! The infant l" shouted Elk, in a dreadful voice, and the others
raised such a yell in chorus through the speaking trumpets, that both the
horses took fright, and ran off at a break-neck speed.
The effect of this sudden alarm at such a spot, was truly great. Every win.
dow for nearly a quarter of a mile round th neighborhood was flung;open.
The maddened passengers ran against each o er in their distraction. Some
echoed the wild cry of " The child-the child !" others wondered what sort of
infant was run over that could raise such a yell upon the occasion as the speak-
ing trumpets had produced ; for if an elephant had been having his eye-tooth
extracted, such a terrible roar could hardly have been expected s
Two or three people in their fright, sprang upon strange persons' steps, and
hammered away at the knockers; and one old lady, who was rather corpulent,
actually scrambled right over a broad marble slab., in front of a fishmonger's
window, and alighted in the show, amid a perfect ruin of soles, and salmon,
and lobsters.
"Well," said Morton, as he held his -sides, and tried to cheek his laughter,
after be had succeeded in quieting the gray cob. " Well, if this isn't life,- I
don't know what is, that's all. It's exquisite."
"'Pn soul, its good, rather," said Roieley. "This will he a glorious even-
ing,. notwithstanding the trouble."-"
"Oh, hang the trouble !" said one of the gents. "I'think that donkey busi         _
ness was first rate."
"And so was the child," said another.
"Well, I admit that it was good. But here we are in the country, and we
certainly ought not to leave a bell-pull to any gate or doorway on either aside_
of the road."
"Nor will we; so here goes for a beginning. Draw up close under this
wall, Morton."l
The two vehicles were soon at a stand still under the shadow of the wall of

4.

,-                     e                                                                       I


MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                       1(1
Rowley was much more reserved and respectful to his master sincere had
found out that plenty of money had sprung from somewhere.
"I shall rise. Nobody has been, of course ?"
"Well, sir, nobody of any consequence. There has been two females, sir,
that's all.
" Females ?"
"Yes, sir ; a cat and a kitten, as one may say--that is, an old one and a
youngone ; but when I told them you were not up, they said they would call
again."
"Who the deuce can they be ?" said Abel, as with his brains rather in a
state of confusion, he hastily dressed himself ; and then copious ablutions in
cold water cleared for a time the cloudy state of intellect which had been in-
duced by the potations of the night previous.
"Are you sure they asked for me, Rowley ?"
"Oh yes, sir, and.--"
Rat ! tat ! came a kuiock at the door of the chambers.
"That's the same knock, sir."
"Stop ! say that--that--Yet who can they be. Stop a moment, I-Well,
show them into the breakfast-room. Is breakfast laid, do you know. Row-
,ley?"
"Oh yes, sir--all's right ?"
"'Then show them in, and say that I will come to them in a few moments.
'do you hear ?"
" Yes, sir."
Abel looked at himself in the glass, and would have been glad if he could
have washed away the haggard look of dissipation which was beginning to
cling to him, despite his youth and fair constitution ; but that was out of the
question ; so, hastily making himself as passable as he could, and wrapping
around him his costly dressing-gown, he left his chambers, and entered the
gorgeous apartment which did duty. with all its glitter, as breakfast, dining,
drawing, and supper-room, being called by those different disignations as the
time of day, or the use it was being put to, for the time being warranted
Two females were seated before him, and. Abel bowed.
Ladies," he said, "I understand you desire to see me."
Upon this, one of the figures lifted its veil, and a voice said, in accents be-
tween anger and grief.-
" Oh, Abel-Abel, has it come to this, indeed, you bad, indifferent youth,
that I am forced to come here to such a sink of iniquity4 to tell you that you
are going as fast as you can to ruination !"
"What !" exclaimed Abel. "Mrs. Bennet, my mother's old housekeeper !"
"Ohdear, yes-you needn't look surprised ; and here's Miss Emma, too."
" Yes, Abel," said the other female, throwing back her veil. "After much
prayer and many shrinkings from the act, I at length felt that whatever cor-
struction you might mistakingly put upon this visit. it wasmyduty to make
one effort to restore you to those who--who--.--"     y
Emma's heart failed her at this juncture, and she burst into tears. Abel
would have flown forward to clasp her in his arms, and to tell her how much
he loved her still, for at that moment he felt that he did ; but Mrs. Rennet,
when he made a movement so to do, gave him a poke in the chest with the
huge ferrule of an umbrella she had with.her, as she said-
"Get along, do. We don't want none of your pertended infections here.
Get along. Its again my will that poor Emma is here at all, and they think
that she has come to London with ine to go to the dentist's, but for my part, I
would rather have all the eye-teeth in my head pulled out by a hundred mad
elephants, if I was Emma, than hare a word to say to you. Get along, do."
Mrs. Bennet made another demonstration with the umbrella, which she kept
at the charge, so that Abel was quite defeated, and he could only say-
"Emma--Emma, I know I am unworthy of you-quite unworthy that you

a


MY BROTHERS TUE COLONEL.                      194
CHAPTER RXXIX.
Wa have heard that Emma had stated the fact of Sir John's presence i
London, at his hotel in Clarges street ; and that he was full of the intention
that had brought him to London, and now we will state what that intention
was.
There existed in Lincoln's Inn Fields, in one of those tall houses on its
southern side, which were once the residences of chancellors and lord-keepers,
a Mr. Carnac, a solicitor of experience and skill. He was, to be sure, now,
declining into the vale of years, but a youth well spent, had procured to the
old age of this man of law and justice, too--for he was as rigid in equity as
he was learned in all the doubles and shuffles of legal science-a green old
age. His intellect was still vigorous, and with a love for his profession which
had grown upon through many years of practice, he still sat day by day inl
his consulting-room, surrounded by the insignia of his practice.
Now, Mr. Carnac had long since made a very pretty fortune ; but he felt
that without something to do, the active mind that had been doing something
for so long would soon decay and go to ruin, so he still practised.
It was to Mr. Carnac that, while fighting the battles of the Merchant Prin'ees
in India, Sir John Morton had from time to time forwarded portions of his
earnings for investment, and it was to the skill and integrity with which those
investments were made, that Sir John, in his old age, owed that competency
which made the decline of his life easy and elegant.
Now then for the plans of the old baronet.
He intended to go to this Mr. Carnac, whom he had not seen for nearly a
year, and to make him acquainted with the whole particulars of the defection
of Abel from the right course of affection and duty, and to abide implicitly
by his advice in the matter. Sir John when he made up his mind to consult
a physician never set up his own opinion in opposition, and so with regard to
Mr. Carnac, before he went to him he asked himself, "Am I prepared to abide
by his fiat in this business ?" and having answered, "Yes," hewent.
it was about midday when Sir John Morton-stooping more than he had
ever done before, for his heart was bowed down with grief, and looking as if
twenty years had been added to his age during the'last twelve months--
stopped at the broad court in front of the mansion in which Mr. Carnac's
chambers were situated.
The poor, fond father now paused for a moment, and in a weak voice he
spoke-
"Oh, Abel, Abel. my son, what a cruel necessity it is that forces me to repair
to a stranger, and tell him all that I feel for you, and all that you have done,
to force such feeling from me. Abel, my boy-my child, are you quite lost
to me.
The old man-the bereaved old man, for he felt that he was such at that
time, leant against the iron rails, and waited awhile to recover some outward
show of composure before he ventured to face the stern integrity of Mr. Car-
nac.
Yes, Mr. Carnac was a man of stern integrity, perhaps, after all, a little too
stern, and that was the only thing that Sir John Morton had a lingering fear
of in the transaction. He thought it possible that the old lawyer might be
just a little too harsh and energetic in the business.
"Well, well," he said, as he ascended the steps of the mansion, " we will
talk the matter over. He will soon see what my feeling is upon the sujeot ,
and we shall come to some conclusion, no doubt--no doubt."
"Sir John Morton, sir," announced a clerk of Mr. Carnac's, who occupied
a small apartment adjoining that of his principal.
The old lawyer sat still and silent.
"Sir John Morton, sir !"
The old man started. He had lapsed into one of those dreamy reveries of

.


MY BROTHER, THE 'OLONEL%

105

coine entirely lost to us amid that dread vortex of dissipation into whih so
many plunge, and from which so few ever rise again. His studies are'eadt'to
the winds--his best afections have followed them. Extravages- -debt-
dissipation, and the wild orgies of miscalled fashionable pleasures, have' en-
veloped him in ruin-ruin "
"Is that all ?"
"All, sir ! Is it not enough ?"
Well, the cas is common enough. I grant you, Sir John Moto. But
where is he, now ?"
"Residing, I think, in the Albany.' I dare not see him; and-what-is most
bitter to me is, that he refuses even to throw himself upon my affhctionsfor
tho relief of his embarrassments, and shuns me as though I were the gresest
enemy he could have. Oh, Mr. Carnac, there have been timed-when I have
tried to persuade myself to .be indifferent to all this--when I have said to
myself Let him take his own course--I have done with hliin' Butsoon
te dearer remembrances of our deeper affeetios than can b eso whistled to
the winds have come across me, and I have felt that the-tie Which bhidasa
thatoher   ehiid is one that can be severed only by death. I often wish
"My dear sir," said Mr. Carnac, "it seems to me that you take these
youthful follies of Abel too much to heart ; and it-seems to me: too; that-yon
make another very great mistake, indeed."
"What-other ?"
.:You will pardon me, I am sure, for alluding to it; but I do-think-that by
aiding your son in the way you do to raise resources with Which to carry

_

:..:. .        . ..._.r..                                                              -                                                           _


MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                      107
to confide his wishes at once to his old man of business, in which case there
would have been no difficulty or publicity.
"I am, dear Sir John Morton,
"Yours, very respectfully,
"AnoLraus LAK    CARno."
Word for word, with a painful sense of the distinctness of the statement,
did poor, bewildered, agonised, Sir John Morton read the copy of the letter
through, and then he laid his hand upon the back of the chair and looked at
Mr. Carnac.
"Is this all real ?"
The lawyer nodded.
"And am I not quite mad ?"
"I hope not, Sir John."
Sir John rose and leant on the table, and Mr. Carnac rose likewise, and was
a little alarmed when the old baronet took hold of him by the collar; placing
his lips close to the ears of the attorney, Sir John said-.
"Sir, I never placed my name to a bill for a thousand pounds, or a thousand
pence, or any other sum, in all my life !"
Then each sat down with a plump upon their chairs, and stared at each-other
more fixedly than ever.
"Then you mean to say," gasped out Mr. Carnac, "that-the--the bill-"
"Go on, sir." ,
"The bill is a-forgery ?"
"A d-d forgery !" cried Sir John, banging his hand down upon the table
with a force that made the papers thereon jump again, and knocked the ink
out of the stand. "A rank forgery, Mr. Carnac ! I know nothing about i;
-1 never heard anything of it till this hour, sir !"
"This is serious.
"I don't care whether it is serious or droll ; it is a lie, sir--a stamped lie!
Abel will tell you as much, Mr. Carnac. The poor boy is being made a victim
as well as I. We must now see each other to expose this horrible deception.
But yet I can hardly think it. Who is this man, Lyon'? What is he? How
comes he with my name appended to his bills?  Where is the rascal ?"
'Stop,-Sir John."
"I won't stop."
"You shall stop, Sir John.
" Shall ? Shall, did you say ?"
"Yes; because I will tell you why. The man Lyon is now, as you heard,
in the outer room. Quietly and calmly we will find out how he came by the
bill. He need not know who you are. Nay, I will pass you off as a gentle-
man who possibly may advance the money. It is of the utmost importance,
Sir John, that we should hear his statement regarding the possession of the
document. There is villany somewhere, and it is worth the unmasking."
"I submit, sir. I submit ; but, of course we must give the forging rascal into
custody. I will prosecute him while I have a drop of blood in my veins."
"Not so fast-not so fast, Sir John; you must first ascertain that this Mr.
Lyon is the forging rascal,"
" Do you doubt it ?"
"Yes."
"Are you mad to doubt such a self-evidenced fact? Why you yourself told
me that the rascal had brought you the bill to get it discounted."
"I did; but I have too good an opinion of Mr. Lyon's cunning to suppose,
for one moment that he is cognisant of the fact of it being a forgery." It would
aiot pay him, Sir John, I tell you. It would not pay him."
"Not pay him?   What do you mean by that ?"
"Just what I say; but you shall judge for yourself. Say nothing but in
reply to me, and we will have this man at once into this room. You will soon
See, ir John, whether or not I am correct in my opinion conerning him."

..rt           _  y r3 '  Ylrnf  N    Y. w: rtwul.        - F ,                       s                                            _     _


SHADSC A1JJ                                                                             MY   fiROTNEN TUE C
At the sight of Sir John Morton, Mr. Lyon rather paused, although he did                i      l
not know that gentleman.                                                                             d   EkphoyuIda i1
"I will call again, Mishter Carnac, he said.                                              " E     'ded              -
"No," said the solicitor "pray be seated, Mr. Lyon. I wish you to see this               "Emma      ca   out Rowley,   a voice that
gentleman', as he is a client of mine, who now and then accommodates other               an4 then n an instant Ab   sprag up    him, a
clients with advances, you understand, Mr. Lyon."  -c -           -                        "hoRa   ai r w hat do o
"cYesh, I hopes ash you.are very wells, shir. Momsh ish tight in the city."                 Wh       -     a
" Oh, is it 7" said Sir John.                                                                  toyou meat, I say, by this isolence
" Well Mr. Lyon," said the solicitor, "about the bill, now."                           before ny fce?  You, the idle di-one-the cor
"Yesh, it ish as good as gold. An'acceptance of Sir John Morton's, of                  teos'upon m  the wretch who grows sleek upon
a p t a ,f o r  a  t h o u s a n d  p o u n d s .  I  d i d  i t  f o r  f r i e n d s h i p ' s  s a k e ,  n o t  t h i n k - i  h u d w n  h  o e , f r i  s a  o d a  a k n t , y u k o , M ."j W e
ing  * shud*wat then money for idt is as good as a ank noteo  know                               ,,Whrfoecalled you out as you did now ?
Carnacas you can tell this gent, if you please."                                       -nswer
Thract is ruthoughrell                                                                            t, sir, you were calling after the ye
'r'Thtitre"IIto" Do youl mean to say," began Sir John;" but Mr. Carnac silenced him by a                  really"-"
o Doo nian t sa," ban Ses pe te  n~ene atiilened~h.Mt dear yonag friend," said Mr. Josiah Elk
look. That look, though, did not escape the keen. penetration of Mr. Lyon,               th s~ay   pIg'e    factwhisnergfo
who began from that moment, to suspect that something was amiss, although               he    e    poes dotfac  o as *eermg forn
what it was he could not for the moment think. Ie was thoroughly upon                    edat."e
his guard though, and his ferret eyes looked from Mr. Carnac to Sir John, and             "Mr. Elk in"
back again, with some restlessness.                                                       "Ye   Mr M
" Have you the bill with you ?" said the solicitor. 'Ye.hopenour;da                                    ia e reyhnt one
"Yeshi"                                                                                Ael our o acqaof   Rowleyt, adst rd
a well, who did you take it from, Mr. Lyon ?ou                                               go at oe,"  hoa, am moredn
"1From the proper person, Mr. Carnac. The drawer and the indorser."                  other now."t ne"cesydaIBmmredn
4" John Elk, I think you said ?"                                                                             a But; my deat sir ho* ark yu in
" John Elk, I said."                                                                                 sirn       7
"tAnd the bill is accepted by Sir John Morton for the accommodation of                  uLd P
"                 his son Abel, I think you said ?"                                                         That a true bill," said Rowley. "If eve' their
"I have nothing to do with that. The bill is a bill. I have discounted it,           wh   hov          th      atc Abe, ton  b by
-           ;and ani an innocent holder, and that is all; you will be in the same position                                    o heou hitelysretreatn
if you cash it for me."                                                                  "My dear young friend," said Mr. Elk.
" But who is this John Elk ?"                                                          "Oh, ds irg;o o  pekt
The drwer."" Oh no--no"itsekt me. I tell you I afa
s #                   "cThe drawer."ccpOhno
i  ." But what is he ?"                                                                                "cutisyys        irCCmd adiit
a          colonel, he says, but I know nothing. I hold on the faith of the        at, Ibn  s  a ye si ans
is ff ~~~acceptor.lfat'btes
a"A colonel'1" said Sir John, ;rising. "Pshaw, sir ! A thief, you mean. I               "My brothel 7--my brother, the colonel ?"
tell you, Mr. Lyon, or whatever your name may be, that the bill is a forgery.            "es, sir; your brother the colonel."
1 ,.I am Sir John Morton, and will not pay one farthing of it. It is a rank1                            ,"   h dearde !       sraid from the     is
deliberate forgery, sir l"                                                              " Of what sir ?"
" Will'you say that again ?" said Mr. Lyon.                                           "That it would come to this."
"A thousand times, sir, if necessary. It is a forgery ."
"S'help me, where's my hat?  Where is my hat?   Oh                                    "Indeed
Mr. Lyon's hat was upon the floor. To seize it and dash it on his head, and         no"But ny dear young friend, if I may be permit
rush from the chambers, were the operations of a moment or two, and poor              fatt thatppg w e  he  agnins'o o ary aui
Sir John sank into his chair again with a deep groan.                                not-ignoring al thatda-id I   nsrl
*         -" Good God, si Q                                            hat havd you to say ?"
".Did I not w.arn you of the colonel'2"
CHAPTER        X X X.                                          "You did," said Abel, gloomily.
IT will be recollected that Rowley, at.the conclusion of the visit of Mrs. Ben.      "Did I not tel you, sir, that his pursuits and
net and Emma to the Albany, had announced the mild, the urbane, and the               e   t?  Did I not tell you that, although he mi
ntlemnly  r. JsiahElk o Abl Moton.e case of emergency that had ax'isen, I did not
a   i   . ~gentlemanly Mr. Josiah Elk to Abel Morton.Liteceseoo
Poor Abel was deeply agitated by the interview he had had with his fair            acquantane?    I rather think that I-did tell you
cousin. The flush of excitement was upon his cheek, and there was a whirl                 ou d-you did,
of different sensations in his brain that nearly maddened him.                       brother theon,    o drw y     io any thry
"Who, said you ?" he cried out to Rowley in a loud voice.                         ho
"Mr. Elk, sir."
I"Tell him-no--no!: Where am I?                 Hush! Oh, Emma--Emma! why'                      "Hope not i,      re    bl   btepc      h
IfI

OLONEL.
duld have shunned he--yon
rang through the chambers -
nd caught him by the threat.
? Do you dare to mock me
norant-the robber who fat
my ruin, body and soul!"
Answer me, you scoundrel
ung lady. I--oh, lor, sir--
stepping into the rdota with
the first time into an apart-
y dear and esteemed young
or a day or two. Dear me. I
'anything very wrong ?"
to a seat.
erous to myself than to any
re was one mad he is, and-"
ce of indignation at Rowley
far the better part of valor;-
mad--mad !"
our brother that I have to
eyes with his handkerchieL
ery much afraid."
fitted to call you'such; did I
ntanceship, and'blinking the
ed to me, as a brother, didt
name were very widely di-
ght be useful to you in the
advise you to cultivate his
all that."
ou have not permitted rmy
great extravagances--I do
worst. Your brother, the

____

E
;_
A    Ir  - -


MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL,

colonel, Mr. Elk, has drawn me into worse than extravagances. He has gone
far beyond that, and dragged me with him. He has drawn me into crime -"
"Crime?   Oh, no !"
" Yes, sir, he-he-,---"
Abel turned pale as the thought flashed across his mind that, perchance, he
was acting very foolishly in himself declaring the fact of the frightful means
that had been resorted to to raise money. How could he tell what the stern
rectitude of Mr. Josiah Elk might prompt him to do in such a case? Poor
Abel trembled at the thought of the abyss down which he had nearly plunged,
and he was silent.
" My dear young friend did you say crime ?"
" I-no--that is "
"You certainly did use the word, and I hope that you will have the good-
ness to explain it to me. Who knows but that I may be able to save you yetI
Let me beg of you to tell me all. Alas, that I should be compelled by truth
to siiy so much, but the real fact is, that my brother, the colonel, has led a
wild and lawless life abroad, and he is not very particular about how he accom-
plishes his objects."
" LIe is not, indeed," groaned Abel.
"But yet I hope he has not been so persuasive with you as to induce you
to join in any nefarious scheme?"
"No-no; you mistake-that is to say-yes, you mistake, my good sir 1"
"But you said crime."      --
"Did I?"
"I will take my oath in every creed in Christendom that you said crime."
"No-no. But if I did, is it no crime to widen the breach between a father
and'son? Is it no crime for a man of extended experience to involve a young
and inexperienced one in extravagances and vices? Oh, tell me, sir, if you caa
where the wild riot of improvidence ends and crime begins ?"
"Alas! that is all too true."
Abel drew a long breath, as he thought that at any rate he had got well out
of the difficulty which his rather imprudent words had drawn him into.
"My dear young friend," said Mr. Elk, "I wish now that, despite the im-
portant business which called me from London, I had remained in it to watch.
over you; but I had not an idea that you were quite so-so-excuse me
for using the term-weak. I say I did not think that, or I would have
remained. But now I gather from what you say, that you have been led into
a disreputable mode of life by my brother, the colonel.
" Yes."
"Well, you repent of all that ?"
"Oh, so bitterly !"
"Then the remedy shall be found at once."
" Impossible, sir !"
"Nay," added Mr. Josiah, Elk, as he rose, and a kind of benevolent smile
played around his mouth. "There you are wrong, Abel Morton. You are
very wrong. There is always a way out of every difficulty, if we choose to
embrace it. You are very wrong, indeed, my dear young friend. Now I will
tell you what I advise."
"Go on, sir. I am obliged to you."
" My carriage is in Burlington street, and you will at ouce come with me,
and we will go to your. father and tell him exactly how you stand with my
brother, the colonel, and with every other person with whom you may be in
any way involved. I am a man nearly his own age, and I suppose, can speak
to him candidly and reasonably, and I do not doubt for a moment but that
you will be received into the bosom of your family again, and that all will be
well."
Abel laughed discordantly;
"Oh, sir, you know not what you say. You speak of what you know

nothing, Mr. Elk. What you propose is impossible. Ah weeks
only one short week, and such a course might eAeeksago, perhaps
But why not now ?,           r             saved me.
"Oh, peace, sir, peace ! Do not speak to me of this again.
you alL                                                  I cannot tell
"Nay, Mr. Morton, believe me to be your friend and if anyfa
of honor towards my brother kepsyou silnfrin;a    if n     edsee
the winds,"                k            t, think you may give that to
"No.-no, I may not. Let this conversation drop, sir. P
almost said more than I ought to say. But I wil tel , r Elkp thavI
have chosen my own road to ruin. and I must pursue it now. IElk,ratefulI
to you, sir, for all that you have said and for all that you would do; but,
a word, you cannot help me."     ,y                       do;but, in
"Alas 1-alas !"
"Yes, sir. Grieve for me if you will; but that is all Ione
who bears towards me a friendly feeling It is only now ican ask of any te
meat of riotous life, that I can find peace.No  no, In the mad excite
such a course; but I find a temporary oblivion.'Sr, I dhnot fnd r peacehin
visit. I should not have received you thus stranl I thank you for this
the moment of your appearance had muchdiscompsly but those whoeft at
"I saw a young lady."               diop       e'
"My cousin Eumma, sir."
"Indeed ?"
"Yes, that same cousin Emma who now feels, and I feel it too, that she i
to all that is bad and debased; for her to give her hand tothIs good ad gret
Morton-Rowley p,                                   the reprobate, Abel
"But, my dear young friend l"
"Champagne, Rowley."
"Yes, sir.
" Oh,.dear." said Mr. Josiah Elk, "let me implore you-"
"To blow my brains out, sir" cried Abel "I tell you-
with, if I do not drink--ay, if I do not drink deep. yu I shall dy the life's o
seems to run but sluggishly through myheart. IAmuteadyk the esbleo
spirit of wine to aid its progress. Rowley, the wine!"utmvoke the subtle
"Coming, sir."
Snap! went the wire of the cork. Pop !_gurgle gurlec
ing, bubbling draught from the tall-necked bottlegandrgAle came the dae-
glass to the last drop                        Abel drank a bumper
He held the glass listlessly in his hand for a moment, and cl
The subtle spirit of the wine that he hadntalked of then mound o his eye,
and flinging the glass to the farther end of the apartment  whe to his brain,
into a thousand fragments, he cried out-
"More wine--more wine ' Mr. Elk, you will take a lasswtm"
Mr. Josiah Elk rose and buttoned his soberlooking oat rightmeto t
throat. He shook his head sadly, and the powder which right up to the
an aspect made a filmy cloud around him. He sihe dgaveits enerabe
"Poor lost one !" he said. "Poor Abel l"
"Sir 2"
"I pity you."
s"Stop, sir ! Let me again quaff a deep draught of elysiumn
soul in the wild, but beautiful aroma of this kighofeim, a nd steep my
you."   dgly drink,and then I will pity
-  Oh, dear me, this is very sad. Good morning  Mr. Mort
It was very sad," said-.Abel;. "but it issornongr.ot ne
"Ye,4sr  ,           ;tbt tis SO no longer. The wine, Rowley {n
bYes, sir."                                             Ri e  ut
Abel drank deeply again, and then he laughed aloud, and rising. ridou-

f

I

1I LLj--1 hL  _______

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

110

19i


112

MS 1 OTRER, TUBCOO1lflL.

HEADS AND HEARTS'; OR,

"I have an appointment to-day. We all sup, or dine, or lunch, I know
not and care not which, so that there be bright wine and bright eyes, at
Richmond. Will you come, Mr. Elk 1"
"Will I come. sir?  Mr. Morton, I should not at all wonder but there will
be friends 9f-of-excuse me for saying it, doubtful morals-at your fete I"
"Ha-ha! Good ! Why, certainly, the, e will be the Dandoloski, and there
will be Mademoiselle Paroline Pavier, danseuse at the Opera, and there will
be the charming Arabella, with her piquant voice, and her eyes-oh, such
eyes! And then there will be the---"
"That is quite'enough, sir. Mr. Morton, spare an elderly gentleman, who
wishes to lead a sedate and quiet life, and who loves, with a paternal love, all
mankind, the details of matters not at all to his taste. Good morning, sir."
"Good morning ! Ha.-ha ! But, Mr. Elk, come now-for once unbend
and come with us, sir. I know that in all that you have said to rne, you
mean well."
"Oh, yes-come with us. You will be delighted. There will be every-
thing that is or can be delightful in this world. There will be music-"
"Excuse me, sir."
' Wine-"
"I cannot."
" Women-sunshine-Ha-'-ha !     Mad laughter-the    merry jest-the
dance-   "
"Oh, gracious ! I cannot stay to hear all this, sir. I wish you good-day,
and a good deliverance from your many follies. I am very sorry to say that
I consider you a lost young man."
With these words Mr. Josiah Elk hastily left the chambers, but Abel
laughed loudly, and then looking serious for a moment or two, he said-
"By George! there was something I had to say to Josiah Elk, that I have
not said. What on earth could it be?  I was on the point of saying it, too,
I don't know how often, and it always slipped me somehow. What on earth
could it be?"
Abel paced his room twice, and then he added-
" Ah ! I know now. It was about that girl, Dora, at the colonel's. I wan-
ted to beg him, at least, to remove her from beneath the contamination of
that roof.' How could I forget it ?-How could I forget? She is not fit for
such company and his set, I being one ; yes, she is not fit to be associated
with us. More wine, Rowley -"
"Oh, 1or 1" said Rowley ; he's a-coming it rather; now, I don't think, above
a bit."       -
"Do you hearascal?"
" But'the drag is t the door, sir, if you please, and-and the things are all
in, and I rather thi k, sir, you said you were going to Richmond, didn't you,
sir ?"
" Yes. I will go at once. My coat. Curses on you, what do you mean by
being so slow?  There, there, never mind ! shut up the place, and come with
me, Rowley. You don't get out often, confound you !"
"Yes, sir-no, sir," said Rowley, replying to both remarks.
"That will do. The sun shines, Rowley, and we will make a day of it, old
fellow. Ha-ha ! Hang care, Rowley."
."Oh, very, sir."
"I say, hang care, you dog. What do you mean by staring at me in that
sort of way, sir ?"
"Who ?-I, sir?   Lor bless you, sir, I was looking out of the window, sir,
that's what I was. Oh, for ! champagne on an empty stomach has done it,"
said Rowley, aside.
"Quick-quick, Rowley."
"Yes, sir-I'm ready, sir. AlPs right, sir."

1i

"ha-ha! of course it is. hang care, Rowley, I say."
"Certainly, sir; and pull his legs."
"Tobe sure-to be sure, Rowley, did you ever see that little Arabella
Julie?"
"No, sir."
"Then, you dog, you have lost a treat-round as a dove in full feather, you
log-plump as a little partridge--rosy as twenty cherubs-such eyes-such
lips-Curse you Rowley, what are you grinning at ?"
"Me, sir? Oh, dear!I"
"Come along at once, and don't be making a fool of yourself there, will
you ? Come along V
Well, he is funny at times," said Rowley.
The chambers were locked up, and Abel and Rowley mounted the "drag.)
Rowley had rather a dread of Abel's driving on that occasion but he deter.
mined to hold on and chance it.
With a sickly smile, and a strange wild kind of light in his eyes, Abel
Morton started for Richmond at a slashing pace, Alas ! poor, poor Abel.
At the express desire of the Dandoloski, that day had been set apart for a
ftechampetre in the grounds of the villa which Abel had.- taken fotbher at
hnond, and the ladies and gentlemen invited were all of a kipdred class as
regarded morals and habits. Alas, poor Abel, again!
But we shall see that, bright as the day looked, there was a storm hovering
in the horizon of Abel Morton's fortunes which was destined to burst with
fury over him ere nightfall.
CHAPTER          XXI.
Ir will be remembered that we left poor Sir John Morton with his man of
business, in no very enviable frame of mind, after the startling discovery that
Mr. Lyon had been the means of making to him, Sir John, of the length that
Abel had gone to supply himself with cash.
The old man sat for some moments gazing in silence at the lawyer, who
seeing a change coming over his countenance, got alarmed, and rose from his
chair, saying-
"Sir John, you are not well!"
to the flo of th camber.John Morton, and thenfell fainting from his chair
A carriage was procured, and he was taken carefully to his hotel in Clar-
ges-street, where, fortunately, Emma was not at the apartments to be shock.
td by the sudden arrival of her uncle in such a state. They put the old man
to bed, and then they left him to his own sad thoughts for a titne; but it
was not likely that Sir John Morton would, after he had rallied from the
first shock of the direful intelligence that had been brought to him, content
himself with remaining inactive.
The sound, prudent, good sense of the old man was sure to suggest speedily
some course of action; but, pending that fact, we must follow Mr. Lyon'from
Lincoln's-Inn-Fields, upon a mission which that worthy painted to hi self-to
be of the first importance.
The precipitancy with which the scio -f the chosen people left the chain.
hers of Mr. arnac, was something terrible. He had-darted pastthe elerk ia
theouter office like an apparition, and was in the-open air witha speed that
he would himself; in his more sober moments, have considered to be: quite
fabulous.
But Mr. Lyon had an object.
What object could it be that had such an effect upon the speed of Mr. Lyon,
but one connected with money? What but the ruling passion of such minds
could induce such efforts of agility as he made in dashing through some courts
and alleys in the neighborhood of Clare Market, until he reached the Strand ?

-U m~-~--~

9

; . ..   _o...o.      _ ._            ..._._ _.___      .._._..._         .,...__._       _._...._,,,,,_,,, ,,,
=,                                                    ..


114

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

It did not occur to Mr. Lyon that Sir John Morton would gladly have paid
ten times the amount that was specified upon that stamp rather than a hair of
Abel's head should be injured, notwithstanding all that he had to regret in
the follies of his son.
If Mr. Lyon had happened to take that view of the case, he might have
thought that the keeping.of the bill might not be a bad speculation ; but, on
the contrary, he acted upon his first impulse-the same impulse that would
have actuated him if he had suddenly found himself in possession of a bad
sovereign-the impulse to-rush to the person of whom he got it, and demand
change for it.
Thus, then, was it that Mr. Lyon, with trepidation, flung himself into a
cab iin the Strand, and directed the driver to the lodgings of Colonel Elk.
With what trembling anxiety Mr. Lyon looked at the bill, as the cab sped
on ! How he turned it over and over, and seemed to think that the very
stamp and the paper had a spurious look, now that he had been taught to
know that the "Accepted, John Morton," that was its principal charm, was
no longer correct, and as it ought to be.
'Oh, what villains," exclaimed Mr. Lyon, "there ish in this world ! Oh,
what villains!"
And now the cab turns into the street where the colonel resides, and Mr.
Lyon cranes his neck from the window. The colonel's cab is at the door, and
the door is open.
"Faster !" cries Mr. Lyon to the cab-driver. "Faster 1"
"Eh ?" said the man, drawing up.
" Go on, wretch ! Go on !"
"What did ye pull the blessed check-string then for, stupid ?"
"Go on. Oh, go on. Never mind."
"Oh., it's all very well to say never mind. Kim up."
The colonel appeared at the door of his house, drawing on his gloves. Mr.
Lyon, in an agony of apprehension that he would spring into his cab with his
usual celerity and drive off, opened the door of the hack vehicle in which he
rode, and called out-
" Colonesh, colonesh !"
The cab-wheel went with a jolt over a stone, and Mr. Lyon overbalanced
himself, and fell sprawling into the kennel, just in front of the tall horse in
the colonel's cab.
"Oh, my eye !" said the cabman, "there you go! But you wont bilk me !
I sees you !"
Rolling off his seat, the cab-driver collared the mud-bedraggled Mr. Lyon
and demanded his fare.
" S'elp me," said Mr. Lyon, "I means to pay. Colonesh, stop ! Don't go
colonesh ! How much is it?
"Three-and-eight-pence."
"Three-and-eight-pence for a mile and a half?  Oh, s'elp me. Oh, colon-
esh, I must speak to you. Don't go."
"What the deuce is all this about ?" said Elk. "I can't wait here all day
for you, Lyon."
"Stop, stop !"
"Go to the deuce."
The colonel had his foot upon the step of his cab, when Mr. Lyon threw
the three-and-eight-pence frantically to the cabman, and rushed up to the
colonel, and seizing him by the arm, whispered-
" Colonesh, the bill-the bill !"
"What bill ?"
"For a thousand-the bill--Morton's acceptance---" -
" Well ?"
'- It's a--forgery !"
"You don't say so ?"

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

ii1

" Yesh, colonesh ; it ish noting but stuff. It is a forgery, and it won't be
paid."
"You don't mean that '"
"1 do. S'elp me! I do I"
' What have you had to drink this morning, my good friend, Lyon ?"
"Nothing-nothing. I ish not drunk, colonesh. It ish a forgery, I tell
you. Sir John, himself, told me."
"Really, now-you don't mean that ? Abel Morton wouldn't play me such
a trick."
"Ha-ha !" laughed Mr. Lyon, hysterically. " Ha-ha ! Perhaps not
colonesh-perhaps not."
"Just so. Well, what do you mean to do ?"
"To do ?" cried Lyon, swinging his arms like a windmill. "To do? What
do I mean to do ?"
"Yes-that's it."
"My money-my money !"
"Well ?
"I say, colonesh; my money. I--I will have my money. I will go to a
police-office--.I will have everybody taken up-I---"
"Go on."
Oh, colonesh, what shall I do?
Well, I think yd'u had better come inside with me, and let me hear how
you found out this affair, if it ain't, after all, one of your swindling tricks;
for you know what a vagabond you are."
' The colonel took his foot off the step of the cab, and lounged into the house'
followed by Mr. Lyon, who shook again from apprehension that he might lose
his money ; for the idea of going to law with Colonel Elk, about whose resour-
ces and person there was much mystery, appeared desperate to the "scoun-
ter.
Jobus had the street-door in his hand, and bowed very low as M  Ilons
and the colonel entered the house.
"Come this way," said Elk, as he led Lyon up stairs.
The colonel conducted Mr. Lyon to the drawing-room, and Jobus closed
the street-door, and rushed to the room above, into which he locked himself;
and then, adroitly removing a piece of floor-board which he had loosened from
about the centre of the floor, he lay down flat upon the aperture, and could
see into the drawing-room through the interstices of a large rose ornament
that was in the middle of the ceiling, and which had been pierced for the pur.
pose of ventilation.
This position not only gave Jobus a sight of whatever took place in the
room below, but enabled him to hear distinctly every word that was uttered.
The colonel locked the door ; and then, turning to Lyon, he said--
"Now, Lyon, what is all this about'V"
In a few words Mr. Lyon told him of what had taken place at Mr. Car-
nac's.
"And so the old man repudiated the bill 1"
" Exactly, colonesh."
"Where is it?"
"(Oh, s'elp me ! it ish here ;4but it ish waste paper."
"Lyon, I am done by this young fellow, Abel; but that is no business of
yours. It was upon my responsibility and word that you advanced money
upon this bill, and it is but fair that I should repay you every farthing. If
there be any loss, it should'be mine."
As he spoke, the colonel took from his pocket a black pocket-book, of rather
large size ; and selecting a bank cheque from it, he wrote Mr. Lyon a draft
for the amount he had advanced upon the bill, and flung it across the tablo
to his.
"That puts you all right, Lyon. Give me the bill."

w  _ -

f

_                                              ,;
_

,


116

flEAI tSAND HEA1tS; on,

"Take it, coloiesh-oh, take it. You ish a real gentleman. It ish a plea-
sure to do business with you. my dear colonesh."
"Now, Lyon, this has taken me by suprise, you see, and I must make in-
quiry about it; but if I want you to give evidence of what you have seen and
heard to-dy, you will come readily forward ?"
"S'elp me ! yesh, colofesh !"
"That will do. But it will oblige me if you keep quiet till I give you the
word to speak. I don't know how the affair may turn out, my good friend,
but bear in mind that you shall gain by it in all its stages, as soon as I give
you the hint to act."
" Yesh, colonesh."
"Good morning.""
Mr. Lyon bustled out of the house, and the colonel placed the bill in hiS
pocket-book, and the pocket-book deep in the recesses of his breast-pocket.
Then he paced the drawing-room to and fro for a few moments in silence,
after which he paused in thought.
"It is blown rather too soon," he said. "It almost amounts to a blunder.
Well, never mind. It was to come to this. Let it be. Sir John Morton--
ha!--I now have you on the hip ! Nothing short of all you are worth in the
world, together with such tears and cries as are wrung from a despairing heart
shall now pay this bill. Ha-ha! I triumph, now-t triumph ! I have you
in the toils. Through your affections, now, as I ever swore I would, I crush
you!"
The colonel stalked from the room, and left the house.
"Oh, dear !" gasped Jobus. "The worm crawls about, and-and-hears
strange things, and now and then it-ha !-no, it don't laugh. I didn't-Oh,
dear ! Not yet-not yet ! Murder !"
Frogstapped at the door of the room.
"It's only me, Jobus. Are you there ?"
CHAPTER        XXXII.
THERE is a special providence, Shakspeare tells us, in the fall of a sparrow
and certainly there is some such spirit-aiding safeguard over the actions or
a man in such a state as Abel Morton was, when with Rowley he started for
Richmond, for be got there perfectly safe and sound.
Abel, too, was sobered by the light cool air and the exercise, so that when
he reached his destination, he was very nearly in his hsual condition.
Rowley, who really had had the most serious fears that his master would
upset him on the road to Richmond, was quite delighted to reach the villa in
safety ; and he alighted with animation to assist in arranging the littlefete in
the beautiful garden of the petite chateau, that sloped right down to the very
margin of the river ; and yet was so shut in by evergreens from curious eyes,
that it was as private as possible.
The party consisted of the Dandoloski, a couple of dear friends-of hers, whose
manners, albeit graceful and theatrical, were just a trifle freer than the usages
of ordinary society sanctions, Lord Rokeley, the two gents who had played
their parts so well upon the occasion- of the night's amusement in and about
the metropolis, and Colonel Elk was to have been there, but he did not cone.
There was a strange flush upon the face of Abel, as he advanced to hiS
guests who were there before him, that sufficiently let them know that he had
been indulging in some stimulating potations, early as it-yet was.
"Ah, you are one bad rogue !" cried the Dandoloski, as she patted his cheek
with her fan. "You have go for to drink de wine."
"Well, I certainly have had a little champagne," smiled Abel._
. "He have had one little champagne, the beau gargon. Is he not what you
call red in one face ?"
"Red in the face am 1?" said Abel.

MY BOTHER, THE COLONEL.                      117
"Ah, yes, is he not, and all because he go for to forget one petite small little
souvenir for me."
"No," said Abel, as he took from his dcket a small parcel. "The bracelet
I promised you is there, my charmer, and I only regret that it is so utterly
impossible any jewels can come near the brightness of your eye; so, of course,
my bracelet must look but dim."
" 7'res bon !" said Dandoloski. "That is what you calLyery good compli-
ments. Oh, you love !"
These last words were addressed to the bracelet, for which Abel had only
given sixty guineas.
"'Pon soul," said Lord Rokeley, "I wonder how I came to get here. It
was such a trouble."
"I only wonder you get anywhere," said Abel, "my dear fellow; and yet,
if the fashionable chronicles are to be believed, you are at most of the enter-
tainments in high life."
"Ah--am 1?"
"Are you?   Come this is a good one. Here is Rokeley going from place
to plade, and pretends he knows nothing about it. Come, now, that is too
bad."
"Well, 'pon soul, you see-.allow me to explain. My fellow, you see-one
of the most useful servants in the world--only has two bad q ities about
him."w                                  ybo
"What are they ?"
" Oh, he is a thief and a liar !"
" Trifles," said one of the gents. "What more of him. Rokeley ?"
"Why, you see, he keeps all the cards and invites that'come for me, and at
the proper time he puts me into a coach and takes me somewhere where there
is a lot of people, and demme, that's all I know about it."
A roar of laughter followed this lucid explanation of how Lord Rokeley
patronised the re-unions of high life ; but lunch being announced soot turned
attention to that substantiality. The absence of Colonel Elk was dnly.com-
amented upon; but everybody agreed that he would be there before sunset.
Champagne corks flew out at intervals, and Rowley, by the aid of Lord Roke-
ley's man, and the Dandoloski's tiger, mauged to attend upon the party very
well.      '
The Dandoloski and the two young ladies from the opera contrived;4o iabibe
a very serious quantity of champagne ; and as the gentlemen were-not at all
behindhand in that particular, the. fun, if it was not very clever or salient, get
fast and furious.
"What shall we do now ?" said one:of the young ladies.
"Here you are," said a gent. "Cards, if you like, or whatisay yon all: to-a
game at blind-ian's-buff?"
"What !" said Lord Rokeley; "do you think that would take the trouble
sir, to catch any one, or to allow myself to be caught by anybody. No,:air,
catch me at it."
"We will play some cards, Abel," said Dandoloski, "and you shall pay me
all the win, and Ishall make you pay allt he lose, so one adantage will all be
to you very much."
'That will do."
A couple:of hours passed rapidly away at cards, very muehto te advan
tage of the ladies, who pocketed all the stakes without the smallest cren y,
let who would: win or lose. Coffee was handed round and. then more cham-
pagne, and then grapes, and then barrels of oysters were, opened ; and there
was singing and dancing, and a chase of' the two young ladies by the gents
among the shrubbery ; and when the sun, with a fiery glow; began slowly to
descend in the western sky, and a cool air swept over the surface of the river.
Abel proposed, with a champagne bottle in one hand, the cork of which he
held down with his thumb, as the wire was snipped, and a glass in the other,
a toast and sentiment.

f

g             -        ,...,                                                                      _ .                    _..      -
F                                                                                                                    ~}_Y              -
"%                                                                                                                                      -        ,

ir61i


MY BRO THEI      THE COLONEL.                11
i  Who are you ?" roared Abel, "and. what do you want  re ?"
"You don't know me?   I mean, you don't recollect  ?"
No--stay=-yes. I have seen you."
"Ah ! you know the worm now."
"You are in the service of colonel Elk," added Abel, and his voice shook as
the idea crossed him that something had gone amiss. A death-like paleness
came over Abel's face, and the perspiration broke out upon his browas he
looked keenly at Jobus, and said-
"Well-well ?"
" Ah !" said Jobus.
"You have a message for me
"Oh dear, no."
"From the colonel ?"
Jobus shook his head.
" r. Morton," he said, "I have walked from London to say a few words
to you from myself. Will it please you to listen ?"
"Ando and-Colonel Elk did not send you ?He has no message for me?
Nothing has gone-that is-'-.he does not want me ?"g
"Oh dear, no.
"Ha, ha !" Abel laughed, and dashed his hands across his eyes, as he whia-
pered to himself- What a relief !"'
"You will listen tp me ?"
Not now, my good fellow! Another time ! I am occupied now ! Go and
rants over yonder hedae  mrry  ou will end my man and the other ser-
Champagne ?"          g   o, go! A glass of wine for me ! Who has any
"Here, Morton," said one of the gents, as he handed Abel a full brimmin
sparkling glass of the bubbling seduction, which he'blhdsootnper-.
mitted to be the enemy that had gone into his mouth tobselaaysobrains.r
Abel took the glass, and his hand shook.     to steal away his brains,
"It is welcome," he said. "I drink to----"
"No!" said Johns;and he caught Abel by the arm suddenly, and the glass
Insolent rascal !"
"No !" added Jobus.
"Pitch him into the river !" said one of the gents.
gly Jh, what fun it would be !" said the ladies from the opera. "He is so
"IH would be one good thing for all to cold bath him in n  ie"
Dandoloski, arching her brows and shaking her head.in onerver, said the
It would be such a trouble." said Lord Rokeley. "If it is to be donelet
my man and yours do it, Abel."s                              d
"No !" said Jobus; and then, clinging to Abel's arm, he rose on tip toe, and
said in a hissing whisper in his ear-'P                        ,n
"The bill--discovered--forg---.ery' Ah !'"
Abel staggered back a pace or two.
"Stop !" added Jobus. "Follow me-I will tell you all."
'I faint"
"No you don't-you haven't time."
Abel drew a long breath.
"Oh, don't mind me, my good friends," he said, making a frightful effort to
seem gay and at his ease, "Don't mind me. I am-that is, it's all right-
qiAbout right.This good fellow, you see, brings me some news--."
"Aothis family," said Jobus.
"Yes, about my family. You hear-my-my family."
not gHa  to now that."said Dondoloski to the ladies of the opera. "I did
"So you will excuse me," gasped Abel, "for a few minutes only, while I

ItIT

-   .r.       ..y. n-.....-     __                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
.                    -                             e                         -                                                -


I.    -x,

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.         121

speak to this good-good fellow, here-this rather odd-looking, but well inean
ing fellow."
" Come," said Johns to Abel-" cone !"
"I will-I will. You-vou will all excuse me for a few moments, only a
few moments, that is all. Ha ! ha ! It is quite a joke, that is all. Ha ! ha!1"
Jobus led him away from them across the lawn, and past a clump of trees,
and so out of sight, though not of sound, of the rather astonished party on the
lawn.
"Now." said Abel, "tell me all-all; for the love of God tell me all. What
is it vou would say ?"
"Hush! Everything is to fear from precipitation-everything to gain from
coolness and courage."
"Go on-tell me all. Do not madden me."
"Young man, at the solicitation of Colonel Elk, and under the influence of
his bad and debasing spirit, you signed your father's name to a bill for a thou-
sand pounds."
"I-did. But how came you to be aware of it ?"
Johns pointed upwards, and Abel looked up, too, at the sky.
"He," said Jobus, "works his way with the meanest tools. At times I feel
that it is appointed to me to save you."
" Save me
'Yes. Do not grasp my arm so tightly ; you know not what you do. Oh !
be calm-he calm."
"I will try. Take your own course. Go your own way to work. I will
only listen to you. Tell me all, though, I implore you."
"I will. But you will promise me that nothing shall induce you to let Col-
onel Elk know that I am your informant ?"
"So help me Heaven, I will not !"
"That will do. The'time will come when I shall tell him myself. I hope,
poor degraded wretch that I am; but not yet-oh, not yet. Young man I
saw you sign the bill-I saw you."
Go on-tell me all."
"Well, the colonel got money for the bill from a Jew discounter named
Lyon. He again took it to get money for it to a Mr. Carnac, a lawyer."
" Good Heavens--my father's solicitor !"
" He-he ! Just so."
"And you laugh !"
"Oh, dear, no; quite a mistake-worms don't laugh. Don't say I laughed ;
I'm afraid I was near it-but, no-no--not yet. It will be a singular fact in
. natural history, that a worm has laughed, when some day I laugh ; but not
" Well--well ?"
"This Mr. Carnac showed the bill to your father."
"Oh, God!"
" ie repudiated it. Lyon brought it back to the colonel, who at once
returned him his money, and I am here to tell you."
"And the colonel has it ?"
"Yes."
"Then I breathe again. There is but one-but one. Oh, what a relief !
It has got back to the colonel's hands, and all will be well. Oh; why did you
not tell me that at once
"I thought it best to keep the worst news to the last."
"The worst news !-but what else can you have to tell ?"
"I will tell all. The colonel intends to assert that he new nothing of the
forgery. but that you gave it to him as the genuine signature of your father,
and he intends to threaten to prosecute. Do you understand me?"
"Your words. I do."
"And my meaning ?"

12G

I

rwrr.. m j

"That is impossible. Why the colonel is my friend."
"Ah-ah ! Oh, I'm afraid I nearly smiled."
"He is the man who would stand between me and:dishonor, rather than
inflict it upon me. You judge him too harshly, Mr. Jons. You are much
mistaken. From my heart I thank you for all that you have done fr ea
and I will richly recmpense you; but as the colonel has the bill, all will
well."
"Unhappy young ran 1 I tell you that nothing short of your father a
whole fortune will rescue that bill from Colonel Elk. He is your deadly foe.
liHe will destroy you !"                                        fe
"I will go to him at once."
"noer-.4 say, no. There is another you should go 'o--not to dim."
"Another?"
"Yes,your father. There you know you will find a friend. Oh Mr. Mor-
ton, it is not yet too late. Throw off at once and foreverthe mask ofdisguise
that you wear, and that would haunt you for ever if you were totry to retain
it still. Go to your father and tell him all. Conceal nothing-atmtr ot
extenuate or fritter away nothing. Tell him all, and let him feel thathe has
a son again. He will forgive you-he will aid you. With the money t han
in your hand to redeem the bill, go to Elk and try your fortune withbiw.
If he refuse, then you will know him thoroughly, and must fight with his
evilmachinations as best you may. But now let me implore you to go to
your father."
8

_                                                _                    _   _                          ..  .._       -                     -    -                                                                    a___4
yi


122

HEADS AND HEARTS OB,
CHAPTER XXXIII.

c I WILL go to my father at once," said Abel.
"Thank Heaven for that !" exclaimed Jobus.                 will go
"I will go at once. My father is at his hotel in Clarges-street. I sl will go
there at once. A thousand thanks. I feel better with the very resolution to
go to him. Rowley-Rowley, I say I"
"Yes sir," said Rowley, as he ran across the lawn to his master.
"The carriage !-in a moment--the carriage .!
Yes, sir"
The guests began to approach the spot, and Jobus said to Abel-
"Go at once, I will speak to them."
Abel darted through the house, and got to the outer gate abutting on the
road.
"What is it ?" cried everybody to Jobus. "Come, old fellow, tell us,"
said one of the gents.
"Now, ugly," said Lord Rokeley, "what's it all about ?"h    ladies
"You'll be pitched into the river if you don't tell," said the young lde
from the opera.
"Come this way," said Jobus, in a mysterious whisper. "I'll show you.
Hush ! hush ! this way."
They all followed him down to the water's edge. ha d bought wJoas
spreading itself over the scene, and there was the boat that  g
over the river.
"Now, ugly,"~ said Lord Rokeley, "tell us."
"Tell'us, beautiful," said Dandoloski. "Tell us about the one small family
of the bad Abel."-
Johbs sprang into the boat, and seizing an oar, he said to the waterman-
" Push off quick-that will do. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening.!-
He ! he !-Oh, dear! A worm laughs at fools and rogues-at ladies of liberal
morals, and their dupes. Good evening ! He !-oh -"
*      *      *    '*       *      *      *      *      *
Abel Morton took the advice that had been given him, in the garden at
3Richmond, by the worm, as Mr. Jobus delighted to call himself.
it was quite dark when the wretched victim of his own thoughtless pas-
sions staggered up the steps of the hotel in Clarges-street, where he expected
he would find his father.  -
It would be impossible to depict the state of mind of the unhappy Abel
during his rapid journey from Richmond to London. If he had led a long
life of real extravagance and sensual enjoyments, the sufferings of that hour
and a half would have been a dear price to pay for such fleeting enjoyments.
Perhaps Abel really thought more, and more to the real purpose of thought
during that time than ever he had done in his whole life before.
And what an errand he was going upon !-what a confession he had to
make !
Time was, and that only a very short period before-so short, that it
might be reckoned almost by hours-when he had shrunk from the idea of
going to his father, merely to tell him that he owed a few debts.
Abel thought it quite impossible that he could face his father, his mother,
and Emma, and tell them he had exceeded the allowance that had been made
to him.
Oh, what a relief now it would have been to him, if he could have felt that
he had no more to tell than that!a
But Abel is upon the steps in Clarges-street. Now, Abel, i dress, man-
ners, and general appearance, is a gentleman ; but how like a poor, cringing
varlet does he ascend those steps ! How abject is his look-how shuffling
his gait-how completely has that nobility of rectitude which all men inherit,
and which none but themselves can ever deprive them of, departed from him!

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                      128
It is quite a moral to look at Abel Morton as he ascends the steps of that
hotel.
But now he has reached the hall, and he he has pushed open the swinging
glass doors that noiselessly close either way. A smart dapper waiter makes
the hurried, offhand bow of his fraternity, and utters the words.-
'Coffee-room, ir?   first door tothe left, sir.-Yes, sir-coming, sir!n
A bell had tingled sharply, and the waiter was gone.
Abel staggered to the bar, at which he had received that letter which the
diabolical craft-of Colonel Blk had left for him with the hope' that it would
Sever, or tend to sever, the ties that bound him to his once happy home, aid
he addressed the girl who presided there.
"Is Sir John Morton staying here at present ?"
"Yes, sir."
"I--that is, I wish to see him."
"Thomasl"
" Yes miss."
"Is Sir John Morton at home ?"
Think somiss. The young lady and Mrs. B. upstairs. Think Sir John's
'with 'em, miss."
"Take up, this getleman's name, Thomas."
"Yes, sir--card, sir?  Yes, sir-yes, miss."
"I-a--that is, I haven't a card with me," said Abel. "I will go up at
ponce. They don't know me-I mean they know me quite well."
"Yes, sir-no, sir.?
The waiter looked a little suspicious, and timidly counted over six silver
spoons that were on the front of the bar; but the young lady who presided
-at the bar came to Abel's aid, and said, in her most winning accents-
I think I recollect, you, sir ; you called once before. Are you not Sir
John Morton's son, sir?"
C f-_am"
"It's all right, Thomas. The gentleman can go op. How can you be so
stupid, Thomas ? I have no patience with you."
Abel reached the landing upon thetop of the stairs. A grimly black statue
carried a lamp there, which cast a tolerable radiance around the spot. There
was the door which he had but to open to confront those dear friends who
had never known so much unhappiness for many years as he had used
them.
Well might the guilty son tremble.
Once he wavered in his resolution, ,and the idea that he might yet manage
to leave the hotel without his presence being known to those whom he h
come to seek, crossed his mind; but his good angel at that moment prevailed
and persuaded him to stay.
Where else'was he to go
To Colonel Elk? Alas'! had not Johns said enough to dissipate the idea
that he would receive much commiseration in that quarter? At all events,
could he expect that such a man would listen to him, to the detriment of his
own pocket?
"No-no," sighed Abel. "If I go to him, as go I must and will, I must
ga with the means of paying that dreadful bill; and where are those means
to come from but from my father, whom I have so deeply wronged? I sst
go through with this dreadful ordeal."
So Abel tapped gently with his knuckles at the door of the room. :
There was no answer.
A faint feeling came over.Abel, and he tapped again.
Now, he thought, or it might be only fancy, but yet he did think, that he
heard a sound as if some one were sobbing in the room; and as he heard such
sounds, the blood seemed to pause at his heart, and he leant against the black
and grim-looking statue with the lamp for temporary support-
" Who is it ?" he gasped. "Who is it that weeps for me I, Yes; it must

4

t                          LL                                                                                                                                 .' "                             _                                           _        _      ail   4a "

.
' ,    w ''.


I

124

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

I

be for me, for who else have they to weep for but Abel, the profligate, the
criminal ?"
Again he tapped at the door of the apartment, and as before, no notice was
taken of the demand for admission. The fact was, that such a trembling ter-
ror was at the heart of poor Abel, that the third time he tapped for admission
he did so lighter than at first..
Still he could hear that sobbing from some one in the room.
"God, who can it be?"
A waiter came shuffling up the stairs, and ashamed of being seen upon the
landing in such a state of agitation, Abel gathered boldness for the moment,
and opened the door.
In another moment he was in a large and handsome room, and he had closed
the door behind him. All was darkness in the room, save the weak reflection
of a light that came from an adjoining apartment, the door of communication
to which was open about a couple of inches ; but that ray of light fell upon a
kneeling figure, who was resting upon a chair and sobbing.
It was a female figure.
Abel shook again, as he by a single glance saw all this ; and as the door
when he closed it went with rather a sharp noise shut. the kneeling figure
looked up a little, and said quietly-
"Is it you, dear uncle ?"-
Then Abel knew the voice, and in an instant he recognised the kneeling
figure as that of his cousin Emma.
Abel had to make a great effort to speak, but at last he did manage to say-
" Emma !"
With a cry she sprang to her feet, and clasping her hands, she said-
"Oh, it is Abel ! It is he ! He comes at last. Abel ! Abel !-Oh God, it
is Abel, at last !"
She sprang forward and fell into his arms in an hysterical passion of weep-
ing. The door leading to the adjoining room was flung open, and Mrs. Ben,
net, with a lighted candle in her hand, came into the front room.
"Oh, gracious, what is this ?"
" Abel! Abel!'" sobbed Emma. "It is our Abel, who has come to us at
last !"
"What !" cried Mrs. Bennet. "The alligator ?"
" Yes-no, no-I do not mean that. It is Abel, and he comes to us in love
and-and in repentance; do you not, Abel ?"
He tried to speak, but a choking sensation in his throat prevented him, and
he staggered to a chair, upon which he fell rather than seated himself.
"Abel, can you not speak to me
" Fiddle-de-dee !" said Mrs. Bennet.
"Oh, ring the bell quickly."
"No, Miss Emma, we don't want all the waiters and pert chambermaids of
the hotel here, hardly. I suppose the real 'truth is, that the orang-outang is
ashamed of himself, and has nothing to say."
"You are very cruel, Mrs. Bennet."?
" Oh, dear, yes-no doubt I am, of course. Now, porcupine, how dare you
look us in the face ?"
Mrs. Bennet held the candle close to poor Abel,,so that when he made an
effort to look up, which he did directly, he saw nothing but it.
"How pale he is," sighed Emma.
" Ah, to be sure.' Tigers of the jungle may well look pale, I rather think,"
added Mrs. Bennet.
" Emma," said Abel faintly
"Yes, Abel, I am here."
"Father-my father ! I do not see him."
Abel's eyes wandered round the large and handsomely decorated apartment
and certainly Sir John was not visible.

r
t

t.i

wl9,a._....--,._,...

___ ___ _                                                                  -.r

r

f "No, Abel, your father is not here; but we are in momentary expectati~g
of his return here."er;bteaemmo                       nay
Abel shuddered.
" You are ill. Abel. Yu are very ill,"
"No-no- It's my soul thaeiverykgI,"
I am."                       is sick, It is conscience that makes me w -at
He covered his face with his hands, and rocked              e ha
"gYes'" said Mrs. Bennet   ean the consciee to and fro upon the ch
gve him a nudge and say, 'Think of me."    of a hyena may some ary
"Oh, Abel," said Emma, "cast aside this over
and indeed it is, sufficient that you see alls overoring grief. I will b
again to those who love you. You gee, your errors, that you comn soa
fo' I always told your father thyu gve me, too, a great triumph by doi
his head and say that you were los t you would ; and when he used to share
'-'the hour might be nigh at hand thst to him for ever; I told hi then thewo
hold you to his heart as he was wont toouldo."wou
"Oh, Emma---Emma !"'
the'tnd see, n w," she   , trying to smile through her tears, "se
th'ime has cm.hr er=c Sp                                       o'
"Is this possible ?"
"What possible, Abel '"
"That you can forgive the past 7"
Oh yestfullyfA~el  y
lies, that like a dream for thetime obs c t be able to forgive follies
happier now, Abel."e              scure the reason. You wib
"Follies, Oh, God!i she calls them follies!"
"What else should I call your acts Abel 7"
"Crimes ! Hideous black crimes !A
"Oh, no-no I"
"oHoldp! Tell me, Emma, has my father-that is, do you know-did he tell
you that ?-oh, answer me."                and Mr. Carnac? Did he tell
"No, Abel.
"No. I knew it-I guessed it, Emma, do not touch m
me. Do not speak to me. Do not look at me. I au     stand further fro
4cI will not think you so, Abel. I would nt e  amunworthy.
you. You surely exaggerate your actions."  hear another say as much of
"She does not know-she does not know  ! Ohh
when she does !"o, how she will loathe me
"Abel you terrify mel"
"I myself am terrified. But look you Emma:
unworthy of your compassion ! It is possible enough in me you se a  et .
ness of your spirit you may pity me; but it is scarcely Poss   thae gentle-
forgive me. You speak offollies-h     t Heaven! butacely possible that you a
were "u follies; but now-now there are crimes to answer for, and I am
" Abel I-Abel! you kill me by"
"And I shake like a jely" by these wordss"
"A   n I shaeike tat jell" said Mrs. Bennet, as she sat down with such s
plump upon a chair, that it creaked again. "Whadostertlnkeia4'
"Hush !" said Emma--"hush "gat does the rattlesnake mean
Abel sprang to his feet.
"What is it 7" he cried. "What d
to drag me to a jail-~-to a felon's cell? eyu hear ? Tell hen ! motheywoI
cameher toblas yo wih tell?  Tell me that, and then ask me why
came here to blast you with the sight of one so deeply guilty as I am! (Io

-r w,         "    r  -., ..  ..v.    ,..        ++"4             , -aa  -r t  v r a                r-=wur       _            +r e...a.w. . r.                       +_

MY   Q HF , 'rah COLQNEL.


[26

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,
CHAPTER XXXIV.

THE sound of a slow and solemn footstep upon the stairs now came quite
plainly, upon -the ears of all in the room.
Emma was too terrified at the vehement language of Abel to be capable of
making any reply to his fierce interrogatories; and it devolved upon Mrs. Ben-
net to cry out-
"Good gracious ! why it is Sir John, of course !"
" My father ?"
"in his galoshes," added Mrs. Bennet.a
"1-I thought-no matter. I am very faint! Some water-water i.    is
my father. 'My heart tells me now that it is. I came here to see him. Why
should I try to shun him now
Emma tremblingly poured from a decanter that was onthe table, a glass of
water, and held it to the fevered lips of Abel.
"What have you to fear ?" she said, "What is that you can possibly have
to fear'? Is it possible that any one can have made you doubt your father's
affection for you, Abel ?"t                                   -
"No-no! But he ought not to love me-he ought not.. HItisI-   I n
-I myself that have raised-the impassable barrier betwixt him and me.  e
comes !"
Abel let his head fall upon his breast as the door of the room opened, and
Sir John Morton, with a slow and heavy step, looking so deathly pale that
he might have been taken for the spectre of himself, entered the apartment.
Emma crept towards the door, and stood before him for a moment.
" Uncle," she said, "dear uncle."
"Yes, my dear Emma. What would you say to me, my darling?      You
are all that is left to the old man to love now."
" Oh, no-no--no, uncle !"
"Yes, my dear, yes. Abel is-that is, he has left me now. We shall never
meet again."
Emma could not speak, but she stepped aside and pointed to the figure of
Abel, as it sat doubled up upon the chair, with the face hidden in its hands.
Sir John Morton stared and uttered an exclamation.
"What is this '" he cried. "Abel ! Impossible ! No-no -"
"Yes, uncle, it is Abel !"
"The rhinoceros has come, sir," said Mrs. Bennet
"Your son !" said Emma.
"No! I have no son
" Oh uncle, uncle, say not so !"
"It is true, girl !"
"It is true," said Abel, rising with an effort. "It is true, and I-I have no
father, and that is true tool I have no purpose here ! This is an intrusion,
very great intrusion. I know it is-I feel it is-I feel that it is! I will go !"
"Abel, you shall not !" cried Emma.
"Yes, yes ! Farewell ! Sir, I-that is, Sir John Morton, you see, I say
nothing to deprecate your just anger. Sir, you are right-quite right. No
son of yours could act as I have acted. You have no son
" Abel !" shrieked Emma, "-this must not be."
"I-will go now! I will go'"
"Uncle, can you look upon him as he is, and hold to this stern purposehIs
it possible ?  Is it your nature?  No, it cannot be, it is not! Abel, you shall
not go! Kneel at your father's feet ! He loves you still! He does! By
Heaven he does love you still !"
Sir John Morton fell heavily upon the floor.i.de.n
Emma shrieked for aid, and Abel flew to his father's side, crying out in
frantic accents-
" He is dead ! He is dead ! He is no more, and I have killed him,1 I am a

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                       127
murderer now ! It wanted but this last stroke to make me all that I was
surely born to be. A forger-a thief. and now a murderer !"
"Help! Murder !" cried Mrs. Benret.
There was a rush of footsteps upon the stairs, and the door was flung open,
as the landlord and several waiters appeared, alarmed by the cries from the
rooms of Sir John Morton.
"What is it?  Oh. what is it ?" cried everybody.
"He breathes," said Emma.
"He lives !" cried Abel.
"it's only a slight faint," said Mrs. Bennet. "Go awl all of you, do.
The old gentleman hadn't seen his son for never so lo  and, you see, as
there was not much light, he took him for a ghost."
"Dear me !" said the landlord.
"Bless us !" said all the waiters.
"There, now, go all of you, do," added Mrs. _Bennet. "We are much
obliged, but Sir John is better now."
The landlord and the waiters retired, and then, with some difficulty, Abel
and Emma and Mrs. Bennet got Sir John Morton on the couch, and he -was
able to sit up in a moment or two. He looked wildly about him, and then
suddenly bursting into a flood of tears, he spread out his arms, crying-.
"Abel ! my boy, Abel!"
In another moment Abel was pressed to his father's part.
Mrs. Bennet slunk away, shaking like an autumn leaf, into the next room,
and Emma, too, felt that the interview between the father and the son was
too sacred a thing for any one else to participate in-so she went to the far
end of the large room, and sat as still as a statue, trying to persuade herself
that she was looking out of the window, and that she saw the people and the
carriages that were passing in the street below.
It was some minutes before either the father or the son could speak, and
then it was Sir John, who said-
"Your father's heart is still your home, my Abel."
Abel felt choking, but he managed to say-
"Can it be possible that you can forgive me, father ?"
"Yes, my dear-yes. Anything, and everything; so that I hold you thus
to my heart again. Oh, my child, my Abel-I was so desolate without you !"
"You know all, father ?"
"Yes, my boy, I do know all. But why do you weep?     Come, now, we
will be all happy once again."
"Happyw?"
"Yes-and why not ? Have you not, like the prodigal, returned at last--
and shall we not rejoice on your return ?"
"Oh, God !" said Abel, "and this world of pure and holy forgiving affec-
tion was what I disregarded for the follies that have occupied me. Father,
father, I was mad-mad !-I must have been mad !"
"We will think so, Abel-youth has its follies, which, in excess, may be
considered to be a sort of midsummer madness-and so we will say no more
about it. You are with me, and that is all I care to know. Come, I must
see you smile again, and we must go home to-night."
"To-night, father-so late ?"
"Ay, my boy--late as it is, we will give your mother a few hours of hap-
pier refreshing sleep than she would otherwise have. Where is Emma ?"
" Here, uncle."
"Come, my darling-you see that all is well, now."
Emma began crying so bitterly that nothing would comfort her; but she
kissed her uncle, and then held out both her hands to Abel, who pressed
them to his lips ; and then, still sobbing, Emma rushed into the adjoining
room, where Mrs. Bennet had taken refuge.
" Dear girl !" said Sir John. "Oh, Abel, indeed she loves-you!n
"I am not worthy of her, father."seo                yu

NrnL

,..c...
+                 y

S


"Pl r  rrfr. a un-

128

H   AS AND HEARTS; o e,

"But you may be. The future is your own yet, Abel. But let me look at
you, my boy. Alas ! how thin, and pale, and wan you are ! Why, we shall'
have to nurse you to get the color back into your cheeks again. You see that
I-I am quite hearty !"
Poor Sir John ! He was but the shadow of his former self. Abel quite
shuddered as he looked at him.
"Now, my son, we will sit quietly for about an hour, to let Emma recover
her composure, and then we will go to lampstead."
"But, father-father -"
"What would you say, Abel ?"
" That-di'eadful-bill !"'
"Say no more about it. A mistake--a mere mistake. I will pay it when
it becomes due, and there will be an end of it."
"But listen'to me, father. It is in the hands of Elk--that man who was
my ruin. While it remains with him, we know not what may happen; and
-and I owe him other monies. Oh, father, you do not know how very heed-
less.and how very wicked I have been !"
"The bill has got back to Elk, has it ?" said Sir John. "Well, he will be
no friend of yours, Abel, when he finds out that he has lost you; so it will
be as well to pay him, and be done with him. You shall go to him in the
morning with the money for the bill, and redeem that, and then ask him for
an account of all other claims he hus against you."
. "Oh, father, to-night-to-night !"
".To-night ?"
"Yes-yes ! I know I am unworthy that you should do this much for me
at all-I know that well, father ; but yet I know that it pleases you to do it,
and that in doing it, you wish it well done ; and so I say, let it be to-night,
if you love me' I cannot sleep while that bill is in the hands of Colonel Elk.
Oh. let it be to-night !"
'If you like, Abel, certainly. And yet, if I pay where is the danger ?"
"Father, you have already properly and truthfully repudiated it."
"Yes, but-but if the money be forthcoming, surely all will be well ?"
"I tremble, to doubt that, father. But let me go at once.. If that arch-vil-
lain Elk, for such he is, should strive to make a market of the bill-should
attempt to use it for revenge, as well as for profit-oh, father, there are many
awful possibilities."
"You alarm me, Abel. I will give you a cheque for the amount at once.
And now, in my turn, I say, to-night let all be settled. You shall go to him
at once. You have information that I have not."
"I have, father."S
"Then you shall tell me all at another time, Abel."
"Yes, father, indeed I will."
Abel shook with apprehension as the words of poor Jobus recurred to him
-those words which signified, although obscurely, how much danger there
was to be apprehended from Elk's continued possession of the forged accep-
tance.
I .am warned by a friend," he added ; "but as you say, father, there will
be time to tell you all when I return. I will go at once."
"Do so, Abel; and I hope to see you soon return with a happier aspect.
Calm yourself, my dear. There is, after all, nothing in your case that money
may not put to rights."
"No, father, I hope-that is, I think nothing."
Sir John Morton drew a cheque for a thousand pounds, being the full amount
of the bill; and as he handed it to Abel, he said-
"Give him that, without reference to what he received from the Jew, or paid
to you. Let him have the amount in full, and that will surely satisfy even hia
cupidity to the utmost."
"Father, I know not how to thank you."
"Hush, Abel; between you and me there is affection, which' goes so far

b

1ItY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                  i29
beyond thanks that they should never be mentioned at all. ' Now go at once,
my dear boy, for I see you are anxious to do so."
I am, father-I am."
"And tell him to call here to-morrow, when I will see him and settle alI
with him upon your account."
"Too good-you are too good, father."
"Go-go, now. I have not been so happy, my boy, for a long, long time,
as I am at this present moment."
Abel would have left the room at once, but Emma just at that moment came
from the next apartment, and Sir John, laying his hand upon Abel's-arm, said
in a low voice-~
" The bill affair is between you and me only, Abel. Not even your mother
will ever know of it."
Oh, what a relief that was to Abel! -He was almost upon the point ofgreet.
ing Emma with a smile as he said-
"Dear Emma, I shall soon return."
"What, Abel," she said, "are you going from us again so soon ?"
tOnly for a little time, my dear," said Sir John. "Let him goat onde, and
then he will be the sooner back to us."
"Go then, Abel."
Emma was smiling through her tears, and Abel Morton: with the cheque for
a thousand pounds in his pocket, at once left the room and the hotel.
CHAPTER XXXV.
HEEDLESS now of a thick rain that was falling, poor Abel dashed through
the reeking streets in the direction of the colonels house. The distance from
the hotel in Clarges street to that ill-omened abode was very short; and Abel
could go quicker on foot than he coul if he delayed the time to look for and
hire a conveyance.
It would be difficult indeed to define the feelings of Abel Morton as he thus
sped madly on, jostling aside the passengers on his route to the colonel's house..
At times, the reception he had met with from his father and from Emma quite
overcame him, and the tears would gush to his eyes.
then a feeling of deep and desperate indignation would come across him at
the conduct of the colonel, accompanied by another which was of wild and
strange wonder how he, Abel, could have allowed himself to be the victim of
such a man,
Yes, now that he began to see Colonel Elk in his true colors, he began, in-
deed, to think that some hallucination, must have been over him to induce him
ever to listen to such weak and gross temptations.
When some poor victim quaffs the cup of pleasure, and is giddy with enjoy-
ment and delight at finding it at his lips, it generally happens that at the period
of reaction he wonders at himself for yielding to what then he cares not for,
bnt which was at the time such an all-engrossing delight.
Perhaps the repentance of the profligate and debauchee is only in proportion
to his sins.
Abel reached the colonel's house, and stopped, faint and staggering at the
area rails. He drew his breath laboriously, and now he felt that he might as
well have walked easily all the way, for he had to wait to recover himself a
sufficient time to have done so without hurrying at all.
Abel glanced up at the indows of the house. Through the inte stices of
its Venetian bins came long va ed pencils of light, and once a roaring laugh
came upon the ears of the listener.
Colonel Elk was evidently enjoying himself with his friends, and Abel Mor-
ben, who but a short time since would have been first and foremost at the
board, was clinging to the area railings and looking more like a ghost than a
living man.

-L
I-s


't

130

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

"I will see him though," thought Abel, "were he in the midst of the wildest,
maddest crew that he ever assembled within these walls, I will see him-
Abel seized the knocker and thundered at the door. It was opened by a
strange man, whom Abel had never seen before.
"Is Colonel Elk within."
No, s."
"It's a lie, that," said Abel, and dashing aside the opposition of the man, he
strode through the hall, and up the stairs to the door of the room he knew so
well as that in which he had stultified his faculties with the wild orgies that
the colonel was in the habit of holding with his intimates.
A roar of laughter followed some sally of wit, as Abel laid his hand upon
the handle of the door of the apartment. He waited half a minute until the
mirth was on the subsidence, and then he entered the room. .
Some half-dozen people were there, and the ill-omened Lord Carlin sat op o-
site to the door. Colonel Elk was lolling upon an easy chair at the head of
the table.
Decanters-vases of flowers-fruit-wine-coolers, and all the wild disorder
of a drinking party strewed the table. The eyes that turned upon Abel were
for the most part unsteady with inebriety, but the glance of the colonel was
like a flash of lightning.
"Colonel Elk," said Abel.
"Well, Morton my boy-what now, eh?    You are late."
"And unexpected."
"Not at all. I sent to-your place to say I had forgot an appointment. I
had to meet the present good company, and to hope that when you got away
from the fete business at Richmond, you would come round ; and here you
are."
"No, Colonel Elk."Ba
"Indeed! Then I see what others see not, I suppose. But come, take a
glass of champagne, if ghosts drink at all. If you are not Abel Morton you
are his double; and I like the original quite well enough to say welcome to the
imitation."
"Colonel Elk, I have something to say to you."
" Say it, my boy."
"In private."
"Stuff! Say it here. Has the fair Dandoloski jilted you at last, or has
your bay nag bolted?  What's the row
" fa ! ha !" roared the guests. "What is it ?"
"Why don't you sit down'1" said Lord Carlin. -" It ain't civil to be stand-
ing there looking on and playing the spy upon other men's potations."
Abel placed his hand upon his head, and then turning to Lord Carlin, he
saidl-
" Ah, I recollect. You and I, my lord, have met before in this room, I
think ?"
"Very likely. Ha! ha ! Come, spy, sit down."
"I'd rather be a spy, although I am none, my lord, than a villain !"
"A what '"
" A villain !""
Lord Carlin half rose, aid seized a bottle, as he cried-
"Say that again, and I'll throw this bottle at your head."
"No, thank you, my lord," said the person next him. "That's my bottle.
Throw your own if you please."
A roar of laughter followed this, during which Lord Carlinflung a decanter
at Abel ; but it passed him, and shivered to pieces an antique vase that was
upon a pedestal behind him.
"Hold !" cried Elk, rising. "If Mr. Morton comes here to insult my guests,
I beg to request his absence."
lie shall hear from me," said Lord Carlin.

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                      131
"It will be a disgrace," said Abel; " but through life one must, at times,
hear from disreputable people."e
"I will have no more of this," said Elk. "Gentlemen, continue in your
seats. I will soon return to you. Mr. Morton says he has something to say
to me in -private. I, too, have something to say to him, which probably he
would not wish to be too public. Now, Mr. Morton, if you will follow me
although you have neither studied time nor place for your interview, you shall
have it.
"I will follow you,'4aid Abel.
The room to which the colonel led Abel Morton was upon the ground-floor.
It was a handsome apartment, but very dimly lighted; and yet what light
there was came from above, and was passable.
After closing the door, the colonel turned to Abel, and said-
"Well?"
"Colonel Elk, I--"
"Go on, sir."
"You call me 'sir!'"
"Why, yes. The fact is,-I feel a little aggrieved at something, that is all.
But say what you have to say, for your looks seem to imply that you come
here in a hostile spirit."
"Then my looks belie me, Colonel Elk, for I do not. I come on a specified
errand. The bill--"E                 f.i
"What bill ?"
"Can you affect ignorance?  The bill for a thousand pounds that you--
that is, that I- "
Oh, I comprehend. The bill of your father's ?"
"No, colonel-do not call it that: you and I know better. You know with
what anguish-with what mental throes I yielded to your persuasions, and,
in an evil hour, signed tlat bill !"
"Eh?"
The look of intense astonishment that the colonel put on was one of the
most admirably acted things in the world. -.
- "Can this be possible ?"
"What possible ?"
"Why, that you--that--But it don't matter. Colonel Elk here is a
cheque for a thousand pounds, the full amount of the bill. What I have
received of its proceeds does not, as you well know, reach one-half-nay, not
one-third of that sum. Take the cheque, and give me the bill."
The colonel at once suspected that Abel knew something of Mr. Lyon's
trepidation, and he became anxious to know through what channel he got his
information--although, in his own mind, he set it down that Sir John and Mr.
Carnac had ferreted him out, and told him all.
"Well, Morton, and when you have paid the bill-what then ?"
"Then, colonel,you and I part, and I hope to Heaven I may never look upon
your face again."
"Oh, indeed ! And pray, my young friend, what put it into your head
that I had the bill ?"
"Lyon returned it to you."
"He knows all," thought the colonel. "But how, is the mystery-Ahb
well ! who told you that-eh ?"
"I decline giving the name of my informant. There is the money : I ask
you for the bill."
"I have it not."
"You have it not ?"
"Certainly not. The fact is, when Lyon came to me-you know he came
to me ?"
"Yes, in a rage and a fright, and demanded his money again."
The colonel paced the room twice.
"Who in the name of all that's- wonderful has told him that 7" he mut-

'F

,'


r I'

13M

HEADS- AND HEARTS; OR,

tered. Then, suddenly pausing, he said, "When you saw Lyon, did he say
anything about meeting me to-morrow, at twelve-?"
"I have not seen Lyon."
The colonel was thrown completely back again into .the region of conjec-
ture, and he glared at peor Abel as if he would look right into his heart, and
there discover what it was that was hidden, and that he so much wanted to
know.
"Mr. Morton," he said, with rigid calmness, "Lyon did come to me and
informed me that your father had repudiated the acceptance."
"He did-naturally he did."
"And I felt obliged to give the money back to Lyon."
"Here is the full amount."
"And as I, in my unsuspecting nature had been so grossly deceived by you
whom I considered a friend-so grossly as to have palmed off upon me a for-
gery-_"
"Colonel Elk !"
"A forgery, I say, for a true bill, I feel that there is a duty I owe to my-
self ?"
"Yourself?"
"A duty I owe to society."
"Monstrous !"
"As you please, sir. The bill is in the hands of a professional man, who,
at my request, will keep it for the purposes of public justice, or give it up to
me, according as I shall dictate to him. Sir John Morton, if put upon his
oath, dare not own the acceptance as his. Mr. Lyon is one witness, Mr.
Carnac is another, I am a third."
"You ?"
"Yes. I can see that you came here to-night, and dragged me from my
hospitable board to listen to your wild offers to bribe me to forego a prosecu-
tion !"
"A prosecution ?"I
"Yes. Areyou too far gone in the stupidity of guilt to understand me?  I
say, a prosecution for forgery ! Forgery, sir-a base, deliberate forgery !--
Do you understand me now?"
Abel sank faint and dizzy into a chair.
"Oh, this is not real !" he said.                        .
"Very good, sir ; I will leave you to that idea. Perchance its reality
will become a little more apparent shortly."  -
"No, no, stop ! You are jesting?"
"Sir!
"I say you cannot mean what you say. You or I must be mad. I
tell you, Colonel Elk, my father will pay you all. This is his cheque.
'Tis only for the bill. Whatever other claims you may have against me
he will settle with you in full. Let me not think you worse than a devil !"
"And what do you see in me, sir, that you should think I would sully
my hands by compounding a felony ?"
"What?"           -
"Compounding a felony, sir. That is the term. That is the act you
propose to me. For a few paltry hundreds of pounds, you think, sir to
jnduce me to forego my duty to the public of this commercial country? No,
sir, you are mistaken."
"But you--you it was who urged me to commit the act. It was at
your most earnest intercession I did it. You it was who painted to me, in,
alas ! too seductive colors, its advantages, and declared its absolute safety
If I am guilty, then are you doubly so."
"Dreams, sir, dreams !"
"No, Colonel Elk, these are no dreams. I too, can threaten !"
The colonel stepped up to Morton and whispered in hissear-
" Where are your witnesses-eh ?  Where are they?

MY BROrHER, THE COLONEL.
The name of Johns came to the lips of Morton but he di
lie merely said-ps                       o   ,    h   d not utter it.
"I have them.
" Ha ! ha!" laughed the colonel. aEven if you had, Abelwhere
would be the use? They would not be believed. You would only he
thought to have suborned some poor shrinking wretch to try to blacken me
and if you succeeded, Abel Morton, would that whiten you-eh ?--Answere
that."                                                          m
"No-God, no !"
"Of course not. You are yet, Abel, a reasonable man-a very reasonable
man. Come, you want the bill."
"I do--I do !"
"You want it of me at any price ?"
"Yes-oh, yes. My father will pay you all. To free me-fromyour
devilish grasp, he will pay you all that you can demand."fy
"That is well. Now we understand each other, Abel. . I have your life
in my handso-mark you, your life. As a gentleman of public spirit, I could
take that bill to armagistrate, and at once relate such a tale as would secure
your immediate arrest and committal for trial, upon the enforced evidence of
your father, Mr. Carnac, Lyon, and myself; but-but, Abel, you can tell
your father that I would come to terms, and no better go-between could
be found, for if the negotiation should fail, and you attempt to give an account
of it, no one will believe you, the felon !" , andnyouoattemptato giveanaaccoun
" Go on," said Abel, faintly.
"I set some store by the bill, but yet I will sell it to youalongwithall
its powers of mischief."i                        o        g   ia
"Yes-yes. My father will satisfy even your cupidity."
"Very good. You were kind enough to inform me, my dear Abel. that
your father had in the public funds a sum of thirty thousand pounds. What
he has at his bankers I will not inquire into. BtuoatrferWohmao
the thirty thousand pounds in the funds, I will give up this bill !"
Abel sprang to his feet.
"God !" he cried, "am I trafficking with the father of all sins ?-i
human' being with whom I hold converse, or a devil ?"S-this
"Go on-go on ! This is highly melodramaticc"
"Elk! Monster ! Fiend I"
"Bravo !-bravo ! Bravissimo !"
"The' bill ! Give it to me, or by Heaven I will force it from ou at the
hazard of your life, villain !I"y
"And do you think that I am fool enough to carry it about with me? No
no, my old friend, Abel, I am too old a fox for that; and if anything serious,
you understand, happens to me, my professional friend carries-the transaction
to a magistrate at once. Come-come, calm yourself. All will be well."
"This is too much. Wretch ! is it my soul that you would entangle in the
snares of your diabolical villainy? Is it murder you would wish me to com-
mit ?"
" Beware ! I am stronger and calmer than you are. Lay but a finger
upon me, and you will rue it.""Nbtetodeha-tan"
-"No, better to die than-than-"
The colonel dashed past Abel, and was out of the room in a moment.
" Police !" he called.
"No, oh, God, no !" said Abel, as he staggered out of the house. "Oh, no
no!I"

i

I

ji

L

Ty       3             _.
_                                                                                               I" {                          i
-                                                                                                                                                -


184

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,
CHAPTER XXXVI.

Ir was at an early hour in the morning following the interview between
Abel and Colonel Elk. that Jobus, who was not as yet suspected by the colo-
nel, rose and stepped out of the house.
Jobus went towards Lincoln's-Inn-Fields, and deliberately ascended, the
steps of the house in which were situated the chambers of Mr. Carnac, He
tapped gently at the outer door, and was desired by the clerk to come in,--
and in he went, in his quiet, creeping way.
"Is Mr. Carnac within ?"
'cNo-not come yet."
"Oh, dear me. Well, I must wait."
"There's a chair."
"Thank you. I am only a worm, I assure you."
"A what 2"
"A worm, my good sir, if you please. We are all worms-he! he ! you
are a tapeworm !He ! I nearly laughed."
"Bother take you and yo   jokes !" muttered the clerk ; but the arrival
of Mr. Carnac put an end to te colloquy ; and upon hearing that the stran-
ger wished to speak to him, le asked him his name and business,-for the .
exterior of Jobus was by no,  a  prepossessing.
"You will have bo&amp;h in private," said Jobus. "If you will not, I go at
once ; but you will live to regret it deeply." "Come in," said Mr. Carnac,
and he led the way into his private room. "Now. sir, what is it ?"
" You are a good lawyer," said Jobus ; "that I have ascertained. Your
opinion is quite sound enough upon any subject that you choose to give it."
Well, go on."
"Listen to me," added Jobus, and he held up a shrivelled hand, and touched
the thumb with the forefinger of the other hand. "If A. has committed a
forgery by using the name of B. on a stamp, and C. holds the bond or bill so
forged, can C. force B. to do more than acknowledge it by the implication of
paying it upon demand, or wouldthe civil law step-in-and compel B. to pro-
secute ?"
"C. may make a public complaint consistent with his knowledge of the
facts," said Mr. Carnac, "and then no compromise of the felony would be
allowed."
"Oh! If C. delays doing that, can he still do it, notwithstandingsuch delay
for selfish purposes ?"
"C. may allege reasons for delay ; but whether he did or no, the case as
against A. would be good."
"Oh! X. having committed a felony, is he barred by that fact from giving
his testimony in a court of law ?"
"Oh! Can A., as in the former case,.be successfully prosecuted without the
production of the forged instrument ?"
"Oh! Good morning."
"Stop-stop !"
Jobus was gone like an arrow from a bow, out of the private room, past the
derk, out of the chambers, down the steps, across Lincoln-Inn-Fields, and down
a turning out of sight.
"Clarges street," muttered Jobus, "Clarges street ! Ah ! Oh ! Now for
the old man.,Ha!"
Shufflingaalong at a much quicker pace than any one would have given him
credit for, Jobus reached Clarges street, and slunk into the hall of the hotel.
No beggars here !" cried a waiter.
"Certainly not, young man. Is Sir John Morton at home ?" .
"Gone away."

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                     185
"Gone away ?"
"Yes ; this morning, early."
"Failed," said Jobus, as he left the hotel, "failed there at all events. Well
--well, we shall see-we shall see. Ah !"
Emma and Mrs. Bennet came slowly up the steps of the hotel.
" H umbly,". said Jobus, as he gently laid his hand upon Emma's arm.
"Humbly, a poor worm would speak to you for Abel's sake."
"For Abel's sake ?"
"Ay. You will listen to me ?"
"Oh, yes-yes. Come in."
"No-no. I will tell you here. I find, now, that they told me an untruth
just now when they said Sir John had gone. No matter. Perhaps they
thought I wanted to beg of him. But it is better to see you. Do you know
all."
"Yes, oh yes. You warned Abel. He described you well. I know it was
you who went to Richmond and warned him."
" Ah, he told you it was a worm; I suppose ?"
Oh, no-no! A dear friend."
"A what? A-dear friend?   Ha ! no I didn't laugh. But young maiden,
listen to me: tell the poor father-tell Lim to give time--tell him to tempo--
rise-to give colonel Elk hopes--tell him that a worm is grubbing, grubbing
in the dark, to do him good service, and that when he has done it he will call
again. But time.-4time must be granted, and that can only be by temporising
-playing with Elk. Do you understand ?"
"I think I do. You mean that we should give him hopes of acceding to his
terrible terms, do you not ?"
"I do. Good morning."
Jobus was off again, and took his way to the colonel's house as quickly as
he could, for he dreaded that his absence might attract Elk's attention and
awaken suspicion. As Jobus neared the colonel's house, Lord Rokeley's cab
drove from the door, but before Jobus could see it, or he would have pondered
a little before crossing that threshold again.
The only two persons that Jobus had at all to dread might, within a few
days following that fact, declare to the colonel that it was he, Jobus, who haq
been to Richmond with some communication to Abel Morton, was the Dan-
doloski and Lord Rokeley. The other gents and the other ladies were not
visitors of Elk's, except by special invitation.
The danger which poor Jobus dreaded had come to pass. But he could not
be said to be altogether unprepared for it, inasmuch as he had well considered
it, and intended to secrete himself elsewhere if it should happen, and to take
such steps as he could to save Abel.
It so happened, however, that Rokeley was getting up a yachting expedition;
and despite the trouble, he called upon the colonel to speak to him about it.
Elk received him with his usual cordiality, and after saying how sorry he was
that his engagements in London would deprive him of the pleasure of going, he
added-
"Well, how did you get on at Richmond ?"
b Pon soul, demme, I hardly know," said Rokeley. "It was rather slow;
bt Abel gave us the slip in a deemed unhandsome way."
"I deed ?
"Why-ayes. A fellow came to him, and said something to him, and off
he went, you see."a
"A Jew-looking fellow ?"
" Why-nay-_no."
"Oh, yes. A veritable Jew in tawdry finery, and a three days beard? A
rather thin fellow, with lots of whiskers ?"
"Demme   o."
"Who the devil, then? I beg your pardon, Rokeley, but this is just the
thing I want to know. Who was it ?"

,
a -
,

,- lLLlSNlL1jW[

E

4'

,


136                 HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,
" Why-a--ftha's good when you sent him. We all came to that conclu-
sion afterwards, for after taxing my memory, and a deuce of a trouble it was,
I recollected where I had seen the fellow."
"Where ?"
"Here, to be sure. One of your familiars-one of your domestic friends-a
very odd-looking fellow, indeed, and he said he was a mere worm. Poor soul,
he looked like one."
"He dies!"
'Eh ! Did you speak 7"
" I merely said 'indeed.' And so you found that out, did you ?"
" Why-a-yes, I did ; but it was a trouble. So you can't come to Cowes
in the yacht dodge, eh ?"
"Precious sorry I am that I can't."
"Oh, well, I don't know that 1 shall myself, for when it comes to the time,
I dare say I shall find it such a trouble that I shan't be able to prevail on
myself, you see, to go ; only as it's my yacht, you see, I'm bound to ask the
fellows I wish to go. Ah !"
"Exactly. Well, as it's this day week, I will make an effort."
"An effort ?  Oh, demme, don't do that. It puts me in a perspiration to
think of such a thing. If it's any trouble, of course, I can't expect a fellow to
go. Good morning. I shall go and lunch somewhere, and that's such a trou-
ble as never was known. Oh, dear !"
"Good morning, Rokeley. I am much obliged to you."
CHAPTER XXXVIL
PoOR Abel, when he left the house of Colonel Elk, after the agitating inter-
view he had had with that villain, staggered along the street like a drunken
man. The very worst that his imagination could possibly picture to itself in
the conduct of Colonel~Elk had actually now at last taken place.
"It is over-it is over!" said Abel, as he clung to some iron railings
for support. "That man will kill me ! Yes that man will kill me !
An awful idea then crossed the mind of Abel. It was an idea engendered
by the despair of his heart-it was one of those ideas which made folks think
in old monkish days that the enemy of mankind dogged the footsteps of
the wretched.
"Would it not be better," whispered Abel, and he looked around him and
at the night sky, and then shudderingly to the earth again-" would it not be
better, by a sudden and speedy end, to save all those who are so dear to
me the thousand pangs that they may still have to suffer-to save myself-to
concentrate into one rude shock the terror and the agony of all the time that
is to come-to-to depart of my own will from the great world-to die even
by my own hand ?"
It was, in truth, an awful thought that, and well might Abel Morton shudder
as he gave utterance to it.
The streets were now nearly deserted, and it was only now and then'that
in the distance Abel could hear the footfall of some solitary passenger,
wending his way homewards, perchance from some late revel, or mark the
unsteady gait of one who had loved the bottle wisely and too well. '
"Yes !" he muttered. "it surely would be a deed well done ; and how
easy-how very easy it would be."
It seemed, now, as if some palpable fiend were whispering in the ears
of poor Abel its fell counsels, for he added, in a half-smothered voice-
"Yes, there is the river ! A sure and silent death. Then a pistol would do
it easily-or-a knife-no, no-poison! I have knowledge enough to ask
for the drug that would at once arrest the progress of this most exquisite
human machine, and start the soul upon its journey to that other world from
whence there is no return. Yet poison will do it well !"

MY BROTHER, THE'COLONEL.

Alas, poor Abel!
After the dreadful suggestion had found a home in his heart and brain,
it each moment grew into more and more tangible, yet horrible cohsisteney.
He thought how his father would grieve at first for him, and how hie
gentle cousin would shed many tears--how his mother, too, would give way
to much agony of grief; but then he thought of that universal law of human
nature, which makes grief for the dead so very transitory a feeling, and which
dries in such an incredibly short space of time the eye of the mourner
t would be a shock." he said, "but that would be all, and from the
moment that it was felt'it would be diminishing, for there would be nothing
more to drad7
He walked on a few paces, now, down the street he was in.
There came a glare of green light upon the eyes of Abel Morton, and with
a feeling of sudden confusion, he stepped back, and shaded his eyes with his
hands to escape the influence of the sudden illumination.
A glance then showed him from what it proceeded.
lie was close to a large chemist's shop. A lad was putting up the shut-
ters, and yawning between each one.
"Poison !" said Abel to himself. "Poison !"
In another moment he was in the shop.
The lad put down the shutter he was about to stagger out with, and'look-
w at Abel, he said-
"Did you want Mr. Brown,.sir ?"
"Mr. Brown   h Who is he'7"
9

17

L  t_ ET

. ,.m.    , _.    _,           r


a

1&amp;8                 HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,
"~Master, sir. lie ain't at home."-
"Oh, you will do it-you can serve. I suppose you can."
"Ohyes, sir."
Th bye wentbehind the counter, and looked at Abel with a glance of in
iry. Abel put as calm a countenance as he could upon the transaction, as
he said--
"h y pet spaniel is so old that I want to put it out of the world as tenderly
as possible-give me some drug that would dhere ut it me  be lometh
quick and effe ive .t like to hear that it had lingered in agony.".
"Yes, sir, I understand, sir.. If you bring it to-morrow, Mr. Brown will
do for it, sir."
"Oh, thank you.'~
Abel felt that he was suspected, and he moved towards the door ; but with
his hand upon the lock, he turned and smiled as he said-
"It wou   save trouble, though, ifyou could give me the drug at once."
"Well, so it would, sir. If you will be careful-"
"Indeed I will-it shall never get out of my own possession, I assure you.
You will let me have it ?" added Abel.
"Yes, sir, if you please."
The boy took from a drawer a small bottle, and decanted from it about
twenty drops of colorless liquid into a lilliputian phial. That he securely
corked and tied the cork down, and then wrapped it in paper; and as ha
handed it to Abel, he said-
cc That will do it, sir."
"A thousand than
" Sir-sir ! If you please ?"
"What is it ?"
A shilling, sir-you forgot."
"Ah so I did. I beg your pardon. There is the shilling. Good night-
godngt       iengt-vr-vr"Avr iengt.Abel dashed into the street, leaving the boy in a breathless state of alarm
contingent upon the strange conduct of the gentleman whom hehad served
with enough of the most deadly drug in the shop to kill a company of grena-
diers.
Morton crossed the roadway at once, with the bottle in his grasp. He
heard a footstep after him. That it was the boy from the shop,e whose o uspifr-
ons had been again excited, he could not doubt, and, tearingho
its envelope, he cried-
'iYou shall not baulk me ! FatherEmma-mother-all-all-farewell!
God 1"
A fearful hand dashed the little phial from his grasp, and it was smashed
upon the pavement at the same moment that a voice cried-
"Good Heavens, Morton. what is the meaning of this ?" fCaptaLorr-
Abel uttered a cry, and 'sank half fainting into the arms of  pain
net !
"A coach.! a coach !" cried Lorrinet-" a coach, I say aftertr allinthe
Yes, your honor. 0, bedad, and it's myself that will be after calingrth
illigant coach for your honor," cried an Irish laborer, who had just appeared
upon the scene of action at that moment. 'Coach    coach   Here' None,
our excellence, and a mighty good one for a night coach it is, to.Nw,
Mr. Coaches, I hope yer vehicle is cane and dacent, for the ontlemen !"
"Where's the fare ?" growled the coachman.  Who wa             -
it a sell'? I suppose it is I"
it want a coach," cried Captain Lorrinet, as he helped Morton to the edge
of the pavement. he coachman "that's the ca.r is it. No, I shan't take him.
D ruk  s ba z th Ico'c see  him  further, first  "

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                       139
"e You mistake," said Lorrinet. "This gentleman is taken suddenly un-
well. He is a friend of mine."taesudnyn
"And if the jontleman is a little bit on the wrong side of the whiskey bot-
tle," said the Irishman, "hasn't he a right to be so, if he likes ?-Is it a dir-
ty spalpeen of a coachman that's to say a word about it, one ways ot'ather
ways, I should like to be after knowing ?"ayor t'other
"I am better !" said Abel.
The Coachman heard the voice, and it seemed to have the effect of assu-
ring him that it was really sickness, and nit inebriety that wstefmatter.
" Oh. well," he said, "if sobe'as the gemman is hill, in as the matter
him. always expecting to be paid according , you see, sir."' courseIt s
Where shal I tad Lorinet. " Anything you like. Abel where will you go?
"Oh, God !"
"Home, will you go?'
"Home--home ! I have no home but the grave. Who are ou
to me of home ?"gyowhospeak
Captain Lorrinet saw that it was useless to ask any questions of
then, so he told the coachman to drive to the chambers in the A Abel just
aae the orders aloud, so that'if Abel had had any particular objection to ge
there, he might have said so; but as he did not, Capain Lorrinet was at once
assured that that would do.waatoc
Half a sovereign sent the Irishman away a richer man than he had been
since the would times, as he said, when the O'Gradys were the born kin  of
Connaught. The coachman carefully shut the door of his crazy vehicle and
rumbled it off to the Albany,.                              eice n
"Morton-Morton !" said Captain Lorrinet, in a low tone, close to the ear
"Yes-yes, who speaks? It is done--it is done."
"Don't you know me ?"
"No-no."
"I am Lorrinet-your old acquaintance,Lorrinetyou
"And are you dead, too          nce"Lrrnet yu'
" Dead'?ano, man, no; you are not dead, nor anything like it, Ihope. The
fact is, I was going home and I happened to see you in a chemist's shop by the
mere accident of casually glancing in at the door as I passed it. The expres-
sion of your face struck me as being such as I had never seen it wear before;
and a feeling that it was a duty incumbent upon me to do so, made me stay'
and watch you. I saw you come out of the shop, and then you crossed the
road; and as you did so, and I followed you quietly, I heard enough to con-
Vince me that you had a dreadful project in your head. Oh, Morton, I was in
time to save you from yourself."                               wsi
Abel covered his face with his hands. and sobbed.
Good, said Lorrinet.
The coach rumbled on;ubut the young officer said not a word to Abel Mor-
ton until these sobs had subsided, and the wild passion of the overwrought
feelings had had itshway. He knew well the virtue that there is inroug
and ho    each drop that came from the eyes of poor Morton would wash away
some portion of his soul's agony.y
h e coach stopped at the Albany.                   -
"Lorrinet," said Abel.
"Yes, old fellow. How are you no,w.?"
There came agleam of light from the lamp at the centre of the Alban in
at the coach window and by its light Abel held out his hand to Lorrinet, say-
"Can you forgive the past ?"
"it is forgiven and forgotten both, Abel," said the young captain, as he hear-
tily shook the proffered hand.
"Alas !" said Abel, in a low tone to- himself, "here is another noble and

mTTL

}
I

-.             _


MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                     11
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
It wanted a little persuasion upon the part of the young captain to get Abel
to touch the wine. He associated it with the ruin that had come upon hin.
and the very sight of it made him shudder.
"Nay," said Lorrinet. "I saved you in your house the abuse of wine ;
but recollect that one Who knew the human heart has called it, when used
wisely-
'A goods familiar creature.'
It is excess, Abel; that converts the good genius into a fiend. Come, drink t
glass, and you will be all the better for it."
Abel did drink the one glass, and he was all the better for it; since it 2w
wine, and not the strange compound which people generally believe, in the
ordinary experiences of life, to be such.
"Come, now, you are better ?"
"I am, Lorrinet-I am."
"That's right. And now, Abel. what can I do-anything, or nothing?
Speak out, old fellow. Is it possible'for one who wishes to do you a good turn,
if he can, to do it, or to try to do it? Don't be afraid of the magnitude of the
task ; only say what you would have me do."
"I will-I will !"
"That's right, now, and friendly. Go on, Abel."
Abel spoke with difficulty ; and his voice was low and gentle. It had a
hurried, broken sound with it, too.
"Lorrinet, you are good and kind. You have not opened my eyes to your
character to-night, for I feel that I knew you were what you have proved your-
self long ago ; and even while I spoke to you with words of bitterness, I felt
that I was a guilty spirit, driving an innocent one from its side, rather than
suffer from the constant contrast."
"Nay, Abel, don't say that."
"Yes, I ought to say it, for it is the truth."
"Well, now, Abel, you began by saying that you had something for me to
do, and you have wandered from that."
"So I have-so I have. What was it? Oh, I know now well what it was.
Lorrinet, it is because I love your good and candid noble nature, that I ask
you now to leave me, and never more to think of the cunning, guilty Abel
hMor ton."
"Leave you now ?"
"Yes. For your own sake, leave me. There is such a thing as the coa-
tamination of guilt. I am like one with the plague-I should be deserted of
my fellow-creatures. Go-go ! You do not know me yet."
"Nonsense. Abel. This is just some crotchet of yours. Come-come, I
know all about it."
"No-no !"
" Bit I say yes. You have been going into all sorts of wild extravagances,
and, in fact, leading a life of riot. That is it. But how many have done so
before you. old fellow? Let it suffice, now, that you have awakened to the
folly of such a career ; and then at once, quick presto! it is over and you are
a new man."
"He knows nothing," said Abel.
"Oh, don't I ! Come, now. Unburthen your sorrows to me, Abel, and I
will talk you out of them."
"Captain Lorrinet," said Abel, as he dashed the empty wine-glass to the
ground, "unite those fragments again by a word, and then you.can fathom
my position ! I am lost !"
"Lost?  Why what on earth do you mean, Abel ?"
"Go-oh go from me, sir. I--I am not worthy that you should sit thus

f

-
',
_


I.

4'

14READS AND HEARTS                       o UN                                                         MY BROTH:
in my company. My hand should not touch yours again. You should shun                      what can be done with him. I
all recollection of the fact that you once knew the wretched Abel Morton ?"              find out about Elk, and now I am
"Is this merely the raving of repentance in excess ?" said Lorrinet.                   with you and yours."
" No-no, it is not-it is not ! I am-"                                                    'That is anew light upon my m
"What?""Ionly wonder itnever struc
" A felon !",
" A feon !"your story, for as yet, you see, ,El
Captain Lorrinet started to his feet                                                   trary, I fancy he is out of pocket;
"#A felon ?  What have you done'? Not mur--                                            su fathe r isi as this."
" No-no, I am guiltless so far."
"Then tell me all. Abel-Abel, you see before you a friend. I always                      Lorrinet guessed the truth. Th
liked you, for I always felt and saw that there was real good in you; but                Carnac's had brought things to a
you were weak, Abel, dreadfully weak, and easily led-I will say that you                 reach for some time. Abel would
were more easily led for evil than for good; but I always thought that that time         the toils than he was ere the stunn
would pass away, and I think that it has now-I hope it has. Do not send                  been allowed to reach the ears of t
me from you, but tell me all. You have made use of a word in reference to                  Abel looked in the face of Capta
yourself that you owe it to yourself to explain. I ask you, and urge you,                the young man reflected upon his s
Abel, to take me into your confidence."                                                 came across his mind that at such
" I-will."fred
" That is right, now."
9  }  Tha is igh, no."                    ..                ." Oh, Lorrinet," he said, " You
"Yes, I-I-will. Oh, Lorrinet ! how you, with your notions of right and                  "Stop a bit; Abel. I think I do
wrong-with your noble sense of honor-how you will shrink from me when                   seen, at your recent visits to the co
you hear all !"                                                                          w    Ays       seie "
"Perhaps not."                                                                                      How
'Yes-yes, you can't help it. I say, Lorrinet, you can't help it."                     tend against  I have a dim remem
"Well, let mie judge for myself."
Poor Abel now shrank from the task that he had set himself, and Captain                  she   warned. e o f Elk; and
Lorrinet saw that he did so; but he was too well disposed towards him to                tress.
say a word to release him from it. Lorrinet really wished to serve Abel, and              Lorrinet paced the room again w
he felt that he could not attempt to do so unless he knew exactly how he was            ing before Abel Morton, he said-
situated.                                                                                 "My friend, from the first mome:
After some hesitation, then, Abel did tell him all: and whatever may have             -and--
been the feelings of Captain Lorrinet during the recital, he did not let Abel           .  She
detect them by word or action.                                                            'Well, I-the fact is, I think I
"There, you see," said Abel, speaking thickly as he came to the end of his           you see."
story. "There you see how degraded I am, and how utterly impossible it                    "To-night?"
S                      is that you can do me any good.                                                          "Oh, no; some days since. She
" That is all ?"                                                                     the colonel's hideous familiars doggie
"It is-it is !"                                                                        "Jobus ?"
The villain! The incarnate fiend !" ."The same. But I will not call
Lorrinet rose, and paced the room twice; and then halting in front of Mor-           since it was he who gave you notice
ton, he said-                                                                          tion, and would, no doubt, do you a
" Abel, I have a promise to exact of you before I say a word on what you             young girl, and-I-that is-"
have just now related to me. I think that I ought to deserve smich a promise             "You spoke to her ?"
at your hands."                                                                         ."Well, I rather think I did; and
" Name it."                                                                          again, I told her in plain language
" It is that you will never again attempt the act that my accidental inter-          her, and detested her uncle."
ruption saved you from to-night."                                                        "What did she reply to you, Lorr
"So help me Heaven, I will not !"                                                      "I could see, even through the t
"That will do. And now, Abel, you want my opinion ?"                               young heart spoke in my favor, bu
"I-do."                                                                             decidedly promised-"
" It is just this, that you have got into the toils of the most deliberate,            "Surely not ?"
cold-blooded wretch the world ever saw, add that there is some reasdn for all            "Do not be so hasty, Abel. Wh
this proceeding, of which you are, as yet, in complete ignorance. As regards          then I begged her to meet me again
yourself, you have absolved your soul of the act by making your peace with            hour, I promising to be there every d
your father, and after that I have nothing to say ; and so, in common with            at that moment the odd fellow, Jobu
all who wish you well, I have nothing to do but to try might and main to              to remark that an Elk is coming."
'                      save you from the villain Elk."
"You will still aid me ?"                                                             "I did. I took it as a   that
"tOf course I will. Hush, Abel. Do not thank me yet. Wait till we see

ER, THE COLONEL.                  143
always thought there was a something to
convinced that that something is connected
nind," said Abel.
you before. It did me, as I listened to
k has made nothing by you-on the con-
and the only hold he has on you is through
t he never intended the affair to come to
e fact was, that the eclaircissement at Mr.
oint that Elk did not intend they should
have been drawn very much deeper into
ing intelligence of the forgeries would have
he fond, doating father.
in Lorrinet, and there he saw how deeply
ituation. A feeling of intense thankfulness
a time Heaven had raised him up such a
see no hope for me ?"
see hope for you. Tell me : Have you
lonel's, the young girl they call Dora, and
when we have troubles of our own to con-
nbrance of a scene with that young girl, in
as well, too, as my recollection serves me,
r own situation was one of peril and dis-
ith rapid strides, and then suddenly paus-
nt that I beheld that girl I loved her, and
met her a little while ago in the streets,
was alone-that is to say, she had one of
ng her footsteps."
him a hideous familiar of the colonel's,
e of what was going on to your destruo-
igood turn; but, as I tell you, I met that
as I was afraid of not meeting with her
who and what I was, and that I loved
inet ?"
tears that gathered to her eyes, that her
t she implored me to forget her, which I
ich I decidedly promised not to'do; and
on the same spot every day at the same
lay, with the hope of seeing her; and just
is, came up and said--' Sir, the worm begs
the colonel was at hand, and as the girl

Y~l111r      . ='S         ear, :/

LL. Tt hm1 _____________________________________________


Ii

144

HEADS AND HEARTS; ORr

appeared to be in an agony of terror at the idea of him seeing me talking with
her, I left her."
' And have you seen her since, Lorrinet ?"
" Alas, no !"
"Then what hope can I have from her?  Ah, you see how selfish I am: I
think of my own wretched.cause only, not your love."
"My love can manage very well by itself. But I expect to see her, proba-
bly to-morrow, and I will interest her in your favor to a certainty, if you will
let me tell her all."
"You may, Lorrinet. Oh, God ! they come !"
A violent knocking at the outer door of the chamber at this moment star-
tied the friends. Rowley fell into the fire at once, but it had luckily nearly
expired, and Abel, with his very lips bloodless, sprang to his feet, crying-
"They come to drag me to death--to a felon's death !-to the scaffold !-
God !-the scaffold !"
He fell heavily to the floor.
The violent knocking continued.
CHAPTER . XXXIX.
COLONEL ELK was furious at the idea that it was Jobus who had been to
Richmond to give notice to Abel Morton of what had passed concerning the
bill. The death of Jobus, from that moment, was, in the mind of Elk, an
affair all but finished. It was thoroughly decided upon.
Truly. Jobus's revenge, that he so much wanted against the colonel, was
beginning, even then, for his name had become a terror.
"Curses on him !" muttered Elk with bitterness ! "who now, could have
supposed that such a cringing, wretched hound as that would even have been
able to give one-half the uneasiness that I now feel?  But so it is. I am
compelled to work with mean tools, and at times must feel the consequence
of so doing. I will put an end, though, to this state of things tolerably
quickly."
Now Jobus slept in one of the attics of the colonel's house, and most
miserable, indeed, were the accommodations for repose that Elk had vouchsafed
to allow Jobus and Frogs. They occupied adjoining rooms, but the colonel
had sent Frogs upon an errand, which would keep him out of the house until
the following morning, and he looked upon that fact as quite providential, for
at the time he had done so the idea of making an end of poor Jobus's earthly
career that night had not crossed the villain's mind, as the occasion for it to
do so had not arisen. Now, however, there seemed to be nothing to impede
the execution of his villanous design.
The clock in the hall of the house struck two in a muffled tone, and when
the dull sound had died away, Elk said-
"Surely, if he sleeps at all he must be in that state now. It shall be the sleep
of death."
Elk retired to the private room which he called his study, although the only
thing he ever studied there was how to carry out his plans of cruelty and
mischief, and opened an iron safe that was fixed in one of the walls, and the
doors of which were papered over so as to resemble as much as possible the
remainder of the room.
From that iron safe he took a small pair of pocket pistols, and carefully
loaded them.
"c hese will do," he said. " They have never missed yet, and it is not at all
likely they are going to play me such a trick now ; and yet--"
Elk paused, for the notion had just struck him that the noise of the discharge
of the pistol might arouse the woman who was in the house, and Dora, who
was still there, occupying the room immediately above the drawing-room.

;Y
' '

+  _              !F                               i   -        -, _  y  _         .-.      _Y  _                      ..           ,._   ,mot  _           ..  ,.

h
I

MT BROTHERS, THE COLONEL,                   145
"rNo,"' he said,, after a thoughtful pause, "there are silenter and quite as
sure modes of putting him to death than by the pistol. I have the means here
at hand.'
From the iron safe then, Elk took several weapons, evidently of foreign man-
ufacture, and from among them he selected an Indian-made dagger, the handle
of which was as long, and just about as heavy as the bladeneither being above
eight inches.
Elk touched the point of the weapon with the tip of hisfinger, and smiled
as he muttered to himself-ti
"It will do. One blow with this, even given with the weakest hand, would
drive it to the hilt. In my grasp it cannot fail."
Elk replaced the other weapons in the iron safe, and had closed the door of
it sharply, and turned the key in'the lock, when something touched his arm,
and with a cry of surprise and terror he bounded back, and fell over an otto-
man that happened to be in his way..
"Uncle," said a voice.
It was Dora, in a loose morning wrapper, and with a small night lamp in her
hand. She was very pale, and appeared as if she had risen from her bed in
some alarm.
"Curses on the girl !"said Elk. "What do you mean by stalking about the
house in this way?  To bed !--to bed !"
"No, uncle."
"And why not'? Dreaming again, are you? I suppose you are half asleep
now. What new crotchet has taken possession of you ?"
Dora trembled, and placing the lamp upon a table, she sunk into a chair and
wept bitterly.
" A plague take you !" cried Elk. "What is the matter now ?"
"Oh, uncle, let me go to my uncle Josiah. I am safer there, surely, than
here. Oh, let me go, I implore you !"
"What for?   D--n it, do you mean to say you are not safe in this house?'
What do you mean by it?"
"This is what I mean. Read that."
As she spoke Dora placed before the colonel a little slip of paper upon which
was written-
"Dora, fly from this place. There is danger. The street door is not fast as
usual. You may escape. Do so while you can."
"Where did you get this ?".
"It was thrust through the keyhole of my bedroom door, and a slight noise
awakening me, I rose in alarm and saw it."
" Indeed ! And mho wrote it?"
The colonel asked this question in the most calm and quiet manner in the
world, as if it did not at all irritate him to find that any such writing had been
given to Dora. It is possible enough thab Dora, in her innocence of heart,
might have been deceived by the colonel into telling who it was that had given.
her the written paper if she had known, but as she did not, she could only
shake her head and reply--.
"I know nothing further of it than I tell you; but it has alarmed me, and,
coupled with what occurred here not many nights ago, it makes a continued
residence in this house irksome and impossible."
'You don't know what you speak about, Dora," said Elk. "What other
circumstance do you allude to ?"
Dora looked calmly at him as she said-.
."I presume that I ought to look to you for protection, as you call yourself
my ancle; but after such a man as Lord Carlin, by your connivance, made an
attempt to intrude into my bedroom, I can hardly think that you value my
safety, or your own honor."
" Listen to me, girl. As.I said before, you -know not of what you speak.
Carlin, upon that occasion, had taken too much wine, and did not know where
he was. lie has apologised to me.'

" - -
_      ." -_
_       ",_
-     :

t


.-

146

HEADS AND HEARTS ; OR,

"And am I nobody ?"
"Oh, he will apologise to you if you like."
Dora shuddered.
No," she said, "that would be an additional degradation. It would be a
disgrace to any who valued their honor, or who had any fair repute to lose, to
talk to such a man.d
"I am much obliged to you, Dora, for the compliment, as Lord Carlin is my
friend, and came here to-night as my guest."
"You choose your own friends, uncle, and please yourself. All I ask of you
is to allow me to quit this house. I have been to the outer door and find it
fast, contrary to the statement in the note that now lies before you on the
table ; and so I come to you and demand my liberty."
Demand ?"
"Yes, uncle, I demand it."
"To-morrow." ,
'No, to-night.",
"I telltyou, girl, I cannot take you to my brother Josiah's to-night ; and
I likewise tell you that there is no danger whatever. But if to-morrow morn-
ing you choose to go to Josiah's house and stay there, although he is out of
town, you are quite welcome to do so. If you think yourself safer there, though,
than youeare here, I can tell you that is a delusion."
"There is not the same rude riot there, if there be the same-"
Dora paused.
Oh, go on," said Elk, "let us have it."
"Duplicity !" said Dora.                       dhgl
p'icita!' goodand so you don't think my kind, good, affectionate, highly
religious brother is quite sincere, eh l You think you have found him out  "
"That is not a question which should be argued between you and me, uncle.
Let me go, I implore of you."
"Alas !-alas! why I should stay here till to-morrow, when there may be
danger to-night. I know not. Oh, uncle, let me go! I do not ask you to go
with me-I do not wish to take up any of your time ; but I implore you to
let me go from this house, for I am terrified to remain longer in it.
"Dora, you are excited by fears that the light of day will dissipate. It
neither befits your honor nor mine that you should leave this house to-night.
if you think calmly and seriously for a few moments, you cannot fail to per-
ceive the justice of what I say. Rest assured that I will protect you, and that
you may sleep in peace.".
Dora saw that it was quite useless for her to urge h1er imperious uncle fur-
ther; for although he spoke to her without passion, and even strove to do all
that he could to put an expression of kindness into his face, and manner, and
tone, she saw that he was thoroughly determined.
."1 must submit."
"Do not call it submission, Dora. Go to rest, and be assured that you are
quite safe."
She slowly left the room, and proceeded to the upper floor ; and Colonel Elk
placed his head upon his hands, and remained for some few moments in deep
thought. thenn he said-    ,
"Jobus again-Jobus again -"
Snatching up the little note that Dora had laid before him, he closely exam-
ined the writing.
"It is not his hand," he said, "but that is nothing-that is nothing. It is
clear to me that he is plotting mischief, and he dies; and with him dies the
mischief. But whence the cause of this warning?  Carlin was not to come
here again till to-morrow night. He cannot surely be trying to steal a march
upon mre in this aitir ?  It is very strange."  -
Elk paced.the room for some few minutes in-silence, and then pausing he
muttered-

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                     147
"Yes, the arrangements were all clear and distinct enough. Carlin was to
come here to-morrow night at the hour of one, and I was to let him into the
house ; previous to which I was to take care that the lock of Dora's chamber
door was sufficiently tampered with to afford him easy enough ingress to that
apartment, and then I was to hear nothing. But not to-night-not to-night.
Oh, it is the mistake of the good Mr. Johns, without doubt. Peeping, prying
and listening-discovering my secrets in some way that I know not of, but
which will matter nothing when he shall be dead-he has found that there is
some such little arrangement between me and Carlin, and so he warns Dora
in time. Good--good-very good, Mr. Jobus; we will' see if we cannot put
an end to your little ambition, and scatter your plots and maneuvres co the
wind. We shall see-we shall see, my good, kind, Jobus."
The colonel then hid the Indian pQniard in his bosom, and slowly left the
room, and crept upstairs in the dark.
In order now to explain the position of affairs in the house of Colonel Elk
upon that important night, we must leave him for a few minutes to go upon
his bloodthirsty errand, while we say a few words of other people and their
hopes and wishes.
Lord Carlin, although one of the most utterly dissipated noblemen in the
kingdom, had never been able thoroughly to understand why it was that Col
onel Elk had been so anxious to sell to him his niece Dora ; for with all his
tact, Elk had not managed to conceal that he was more anxious for Dora's
complete destruction, than for the sum of money which Lord Carlin would give
him for his silence and connivance at the atrocious piece of villany.
With this view, Carlin, instead of leaving Elk's house upon that night, had
managed, amid the confusion of the departure of the half drunken guests, to
slip into a small room adjoining the hall, and there to secrete himself.
Frogs had given Jobus notice of the fact ; and Johns had, of course, natu-
rally enough come to the conclusion that it was with the full authority and
connivance of Elk that Carlin had so acted, and therefore had found it only in
his power to warn Dora of her danger, and put it to her reason to attempt an
esca pe.
If she should fail in that, he fully intended, with the assistance of Frogs, to
keep up the watch, for the purpose of defeating the villainous intentions of the
colonel and his lordship.
Jobus, tob, was aware of the attempt which Colonel Elk was about to make
upon his life, and he had-"his own plans regarding that-plans which would
necessitate his leaving the house, probably, but which would still let Elk re-
main in the dark regarding the fact of whether he were dead or alive.
Now Jobus had no idea of how the colonel meant to try to deprive him of
existence; but he could guess that it would be by some effeitual and silent
method, so he took his way to the attic of Frogs, and there waited in expec-
tation of what would occur, much wishing that Frogs would come home so
that they might concoct measures together for mutual safety ; but it had so.
happened that the colonel had sent Frogs from the house upon an errand-a
protracted errand-almost immediately after he had warned Jobus of the fact
of the presence in the house of Lord Carlin.
Such, then, was the state of affairs at the house of Colonel Elk upon that
eventful night-a state of affairs which looks pregnant of mischief, and which
could not possibly continue for long without producing some rather important
results.
Johns, after having warned Dora, had gone up to the attic of the house, and
there had remained in deep thought for some time, after which he leant over
the balustrade of the staircase, and listened if he could hear any sound below.
All was silent-for a titie, but at last the sound of some one weeping cane
upon his ears, and he then saw Dora slowly ascending from the floor upon
which Elk usually held his wild orgies.
That she had been not only unsuccessful in her attempt to leave the house,
but that she had encountered Elk, appeared to him to be propositions not at

,


MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                     149
"Not so loud, my lord.
"Good. I suspect he is playing with me, and that is what I do not feel
disposed to put up with; so here I am, without his leave, and now you, Mr,
a-a----
" Jobus Worm, Esq."
" Pho ! pho-! none of your jokes just now. All I want you to do is to
conceal me for another hour somewhere, and then to let me know when Elk
has left the house, or retired for the night."
"Certainly. Follow me."
Jobus led the way quietly up the staircase, followed by Lord Carlin; and
passing by the door of Dora's chamber, he took him right up to the attics of
the house, and into his own room.
"My lord," said Jobus, as they stood in a stream of calm and quiet moon,
light, that struggled through the latticed window-panes into the low-roofed
attic-" My lord, this is my humble chamber. This is where the worm coils
himself up of a night, to pretend to sleep. You can stay here."
"In safety ?"
"I suppose so-Stop !"
Jobus had no sort of idea of laying any traps for the life of Lord Carlin;
and it just occurred to him, that if Elk should come there to seek him, Jo-
bus, there might be an awkward eclaircissement ; but then, after all, it would
serve both Elk and Carlin right if they were mutually to recognise each other
in that attic, and the probable contingent upon such a circumstance would
force Elk to put an end to the idea of taking his, Johus's life that night. Of
course, too, he considered that Lord Carlin would soon enough make himself
known if there were any danger. The more Jobus thought of Elk's surprise
and disappointment, the more amused he was at the idea; and he chuckled
in his odd way.
"What is the matter now ?" said Carlin. "Why are you so silent ?"
"He !-ha! It's a curious fact that I did laugh; but it's over now. I
was thinking, that is all."
"About what ?"
"The colonel. There is no one in the house to come here but the colonel
and myself. If he should come, of course you will know him; but he may
not come, after all."
"Not unless he has some suspicions."
"Certainly not. Good-night. This is a homely place, my lord, and you
can amuse yourself in it for awhile. I will let you know when the colonel
has retired to rest, or left the house, as he often does at this hour; and then,
my lord we will see what is next to be done."
"You are sure the girl is here in the house ?"
" Quite."
" Yery well, that will do. And as for Elk, let him come or stay, I don't
think that he can oppose me. Do you be faithful and energetic, and you
shall have more gold."
"Oh, what a promise !" said Jobus. "How well do you know the human
heart, my lord-how well aware are you that those little bright, sparkling,
golden media of exchange are quite sufficient to make a man sell his fellow-
man, or plot for the destruction of such innocence as Dora's. How well you
know, my lord, for the poor avarice of gold, even I, worm and wretch as I
am, will aid you, the despoiler, in your wickedness this night. You could
not doubt it, knowing human nature as you do: it is impossible to-doubt it.
Oh, my lord, you are a great philosopher ; and you have studied the human JN.
heart in general by studying your own in particular."
"I'm d-d if I know what you are at !" said Lord Carlin. "I am rather
in doubt whether you are most rogue or fool."
"A little of both, my dear l'rdd-a little of both," said Jobus. "I have,
in common with the human race, that delicious mixed Character-'-he !-he !

.1

, '    _
,
-a _ ..
,


MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                      151
the dagger gleamed for a moment;like a comet in the moonlight, and the next
instant it was buried to the hilt in the heart of Lord Carlin.
One agonizing shriek-a struggle to disencumber himself of the bed-clothes
-a strange, gurgling sound like a man drowning-a sob-and then all was
still.
Still as death !
CHAPTER XLI.
AFTER directing the blow with the poniard, which he thought had termina-
ted the mortal career of Jobus, Elk folded his arms and stood with apparent
calmness regarding his victim.
The death silence did not seem to appal him-that brief, but terrible strug-
gle in the bed-clothes was remarked by him in silence-the strange gurgling
sound. terminated by one deep sob which proclaimed death, passed him un-
heeded.
When all, then, was still, and when the body had in its writhing turned upon
its face, and lay there in the repose of death, Elk spoke.
"It was sure to come to this sooner or later," he said, "and now it is over.
Farewell, Jobus ! You might have lived a little longer; but as it did not suit
you to do so, go. Farewell !"
The colonel wiped the dagger on the corner of the coverlet of the bed, and
then he glanced about him as he muttered-
"It will be just as well to place this somewhere where no prying eyes will
find it."
After a little consideration, he-reached his hand and arm as far as he could
up the chimney, and struck the dagger into the brick-work, and there left it.
".They will not look there for it, even if it be sought," he said. "And now l
think it will be the turn of Frogs next; for the time has nearly come when
these two men will be a hindrance rather than any benefit to me ; and what
with Jobus's real treachery, and Frogs' dangerous drunkenness, I should live
in terror if I did not get rid of them both."
Elk then paused awhile, and rested his chin upon his hand, and appeared to
be lost in deep thought.
"The body," he said at length. "Ay, the body ! - That is the question.
What shall be done with it ?"
There was another pause of thought for a time, and then he said, sudden-
ly---
" What does it matter'? Nobody will miss him. If I do not inquire for
him nobody else will. A few days slow must settle this business with the
Mortons, -and then I'm off--off from England for ever with my wealth that I
will wring from them, and be well satisfied that I have had my revenge."
The colonel stepped to the attic door, and possessing himself of the key that
was in the lock on the inside, he took it out and transferred it to the out.
Then leaving the room with its dead and bleeding occupant, he closed the door
and locked it on the outside and walked deliberately down the stairs.
Reaching the private apartment in which he kept his iron chest, he opened
it and took from his pocket the black pocket-book in whichhe kept his most
valuable papers ; and after a brief glance to see that the bill which had the
forged signature of the elder Morton was safe, he placed the book in the iron
chest and locked it up.
It was at that moment that Elk thought he heard a noise on the stairca
and he reeled back and turned pale.
It was only for a passing moment, though, that he allowed himself to give
way to any fear. Snatching one of the wax lights that he had lit from a
branched sconce that was upon the table, he sprang front the room to the
landing.
" Who is there ?"

I

0

.
Ig
+  T


IADaS AND nEArs  O,                   Y  OT;C     NL1

There was no reply. and the house seemed to be as still as death itself--as
still as that inanimate and bleeding form was in the attic, the soul of which
Elk had so suddenly and so awfully sent to its account.
"A delusion," he said. "It was nothing. I am full of strange fancies to-
night. It was nothing; or perhaps some accidental movement of the door,
that was all."
As he stood. he could not but feel conscious, though, of a very strong cur-
rent of wind coming up the staircase, and he walked down to see what occa-
sioned it.
To his surprise he found the street door of his house wide open.
This gave Elk rather a shock at the moment, for he could not, for the life
of him. understand what it meant. lie closed it again carefully, and then he
found that the little patent lock, upon which he depended always, to keep every
one in at night whom he did not choose to let leave the premises, was broken
and partially wrenched off.
A dark flash of anger and surprise crossed the countenance of Elk as he saw
this, but he could not devise who had done it, or for a few minutes come to
any opinion concerning it. Then he suddenly started as he said-
Ah ! it is part of the scheme of Carlin, to be sure. 1 had nearly forgotten
him. Ha ! ha! so he is to find his way here by the front door; is he?  We
shall see-we shall see."
The colonel then left the hall of the house, and proceeded up stairs, and as
he did so, he muttered to himself-
'Everything goes on well. Quite well. I destroy the Mortons, and I get
from them a large sum of money. I will get from the old man an enormous
price for the bill, of which I will give him a well-executed copy, and the origi-
nal I will send with my compliments to the sitting magistrate at Bow street.
But not till I am far away--far enough from all reach. Then by that time,
too, Frogs will be dead-dead as Jobus is. I shall be quite contented if he
be as dead as Jobus is at the present moment ; and then, too, by that time,
thanks to the ungovernable passions of Lord Carlin, and the facility that I
shall throw in his way, Dora will be such a wreck that they will all wish her
dead."
Colonel Elk reached his own room, and sat down in rather a self-gratulatory
mood.
" I wifl take care, though," he added"to furnish myself with the means of
ready escape. Within the next few hours I will see to that, and then all will
go on excellently well-excellently well. Ha! ha ! What fools are they who
take it upon themselves to say that a clever man may not bend even circumn-
stances to his wishes and vices. I bend them, and how very successful I am
We leave the colonel to his self-felicitation, at a moment when, to tell the
truth, everything was in reality going wrong with him.
He'had committed a murder that he never dreamt of committing.
He had let a man escape whom he thought he had numbered with the dead.
lie had himself done the very act which saved Dora from the ruin and des-
truction which he was even then prophesying would be hers.
Yes. Colonel Elk, who so flattered himself that he could even bend circum-
stances to his stern will, was the veriest slave of them that ever drew breath
in this strange world of change and instability.
Let us now take a peep at our friend Jobus.
After leaving Lord Carlin in his own room, Jobus had retired to the elegant
apartment-equally elegant with his own. and adjoining to it-which had been
in the recent occupation of Mr. Frogs. There he had heard the approach of
the colonel.
That Elk's stealthy progress up the staircase was to seek him and take his
life, Jobus did not doubt for a moment ; and when Elk entered the attic in
which Lord Carlin was, it became a great surprise to him, Jobus, that ho
heard no sudden exclamation indicative of the surprise of them both at such a
meeting.

Not having the least idea that Lord Carlin would find, or attempt to find
any hiding place from the colonel in the attic, poor Jobus could not suppose him
in any danger of his life.
But as moment after moment slipped by and he heard nothing, a strange.
undefined fear began to creep over Jobus that he had unintentionally been the
means of dragging Lord Carlin into.a trap which would be his destruction.
With all his detestation of Lord Carlin, and with all his knowledge of hip
utter worthlessness, Johns did not intend such a thing as that, so he cautiously
opened the door of Frogs' attic to listen, and if needs be to save a life.
All was so fearfully still that Jobus was puzzled how to account for it; but
yet that very stillness had something awfully ominous about it, and the deep
curiosity that had taken possession of Jobus's mind increased each moment.
Not for many minutes longer could Jobus have endured the state of sus-
pense in which he was, but he little suspected it was to be put an end to in so
awful a manner as it was.
Suddenly, as if a thunderbolt had fallen upon his heart, came that one shriek
from the murdered man.
Jobus staggered back into Frogs' attic, and if the wall had not stopped him,
there is no knowing how far he would have gone ; but as it was, there he
remained, with his arms outstretched before him, his mouth and eyes preter-
naturally wide open, and his very hair almost standing on end with terror.
What took place after the one frightful scream from the murdered man,
Jobus knew not. The echo of that one fearful cry filled up his whole sense of
hearing, and it was not until he heard the sharp click of the lock, as Colonel
10

r
.
,
i.
, , .
..:   .

I
i
#
L 1
u

152

Xg

MY BROTHEf  THE COLONEL.


I

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                     15
Abel, made him think that the officers of justice were upon his heels, and that
he was about to be dragged to a prison.
'They must let me in," groaned Jobus, and he leant against the doorpost
to try and recover himself a little.
While he thus leant, he asked himself-
"How little or how much of what I know, shall I tell to Abel Morton, if he
be here, or shall I tell him any as yet ?"
This was a question tolerably in accordance with the cautious timidity of
Jobns's character. The, fact of the murder of Lord Carlin pressed upon his
intellect like a dead weight; and he was distracted by a thousand doubts and
fears, when the door was suddenly opened and as he had been partially lean-
ing against its panels, he fell upon all-four into the outer room of Abel Mor-
ton's chambers.
"What is it ?" said a voice.
" Oh-oh-oh !" said Jobus.   "Who may you be?      I am only the
, worm."
It was Captain Lorrinet who had opened the dooi, and upon recognizing
Johns, he called out-
"Why, Abel, it's Elk's odd man."
"I am-I am," said Jobus. "The Lord have mercy upon us all !"
" Jobus ?" said Abel.
"Yes, Mr. Morton. How do you feel now ?"
"Who is with you," said Captain Lorrinet, as he observed that Jobus
looked over his shoulder every moment suspiciously.
'Nobody, excellent sir," replied Jobus; "but if it would be all the same
to shut the door, it would be much more satisfactory to me, I beg to assure
you; for though I don't think there is anybody after me just now, I don't
know who may be."
"Close the door, Rowley," said Captain Lorrinet ; and then pointing to the
inner-room, he said to Jobus--" Come, you have not sought this place with-
out a reason, and if it be Mr. Morton whom you seek, you will find him
there. You have already done and said things to let him and his friends
think that you are befriending him, so you are welcome."
"I will follow you, noble sir," said Jobus.
Nearly bent double, and looking more horribly pale and ill than usual, Jo-
bus followed Lorrinet into the inner-room, and there sat poor Abel, with
scarcely more color in his cheeks than Jobus had in his.
" Good morning," said Jobus.
"My good friend," said Abel, "you bring me some news, Iam sure?"
'Why, a-oh, dear !"
"Speak," said Lorrinet.
" I-a-a-Yes, I am speaking ; but I don't know where to begin. I feel
as if I should like to say a great deal, but-but"
" But what?"
"My story is in my heart and brain like a tangled thread, and I can't get
hold of the end of it to draw it out properly. But, oh, young sir, you stand
upon a precipice-indeed you do ;'and I almost think that flight, instant
fight, till something can be done, will be the best thing for you to think of.
There have things happened at the present time which have so strange and
significant a connection with the things of the past, that I-I don't know
what to say ?"
Bang !-bang! came a knock at the door of the chambers, and the whole
party sprang to their feet. Jobus then slid down to his hands and knees, and
crawled under the table at once.

IUIuI IL  1*$*        pTJ if                                                         _______________

. _    ._    _  is        ..            . _  ,.. z. ,,}"     -,,..,a u     n--'    " -  r -, ,.,b. r.m tr        :-s.= ..y   -* s,..   : -..-,  .._,.,  .-,., . ....,+ti... ......, aa.. t-  -se:. :, .9. ~ .


156

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,
CHAPTER XLII.

THAT this sudden and alarming knocking at the outer door of Abel's cham-
bers portended the arrival of Colonel Elk, who. with inhuman powers and
unblushing assurance, had come to drag him, Jobus, away to death, that in-
dividualin his present state of mind, had no more doubt about, for a few
minutes, than he had of the fact that he still breathed.
The state of agony that Jobus was worked into, under these circumstances,
completely finished the confusion and mystification of mind that had been
growing upon him ever since the murder of Lord Carlin.
But for that diabolical deed, Jobus would have preserved his usual calm
imperturbability, and, doubtless, would have communicated in the best way,
and at the best time, all that he knew of Elk and his proceedings ; but, cer-
tainly, his mind was to some extent now unhinged.
Abel was not without his fears, too, that the loud summons for admission
to the chambers came from foes ; and even Lorrinet looked anxious. The
young captain, however, felt the impolicy of refusing admission to whoever
might be there ; and after the first feeling of surprise was over, he called out
in a clear voice-
"Rowley, open the door."
"Yes, sir."
Rowley flung the door wide open, and Sir John Morton, with Mr. Carnae,
appeared upon the threshold. The old man looked ten years older than he
had done the day before, and his very lips were white with agitation and
dread as he advanced a couple of steps into the room.
His glance first fell upon Captain Lorrinet, and to him he spoke.
"Sir," he said, "my son
"Is here, Sir John Morton." said Lorrinet. "Pray walk in, sir."
"Thank Heaven ! Oh, Abel-Abel! is this right to keep me waiting in
such an agony of suspense ?"
ua Quite wrong." said Mr. Carnac.
"Father," said Abel, "things have happened-Oh, father, I-"
Abel glanced at Lorrinet; but the captain felt how needlessly cruel to all
parties it would be to say a word about the projected suicide of Abel, so he
stepped forward, and relieved him from the state of embarrassment in which
he was, by saying-
"Sir John Morton, the fact is, that Abel delayed calling upon you at the
hotel in Clarges street because he was in the hope that by so delaying he
should have been able to bring you better news than he now has,"
"Sir," said Sir John Morton, "the worst news is that which is engendered
by the frightful anxiety of an expectant visitation. I have counted the min-
utes, and each one seemed to be fraught with some new horror. I speak to
you, as one who seems to know a dreadful fact."
"I do know, sir."
"Father," said Abel, faintly, "that is Captain Lorrinet of the Guards."
"Are you the son of Colonel Lorrinet, sir, who fell at Burgos ?" said Sir
John Morton.
"The same, sir," said Lorrjnet, and his voice faltered.
"Well, young man, your father died in my arms."
Lorrinet staggered to a seat, and tears came to his eyes; but Sir John
walked up to him, and took both his hands in his.
"Young man," he said, "I do not know if you have been one of my poor
boy's tempters or not; but Iam glad to see you for the name you bear."
"Father," cried Abel, "Captain Lorrinet was the only man who made a
bold attempt to step between my soul and the follies that I am guilty of.
For that attempt I quarrelled with him, and sent him from me ; but in the
hour of regret, and distress, and anguish, he came back to me, prompted by
his noble spirit, and forgetting all theinjustice of which I had been guilty to

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

157

him--forgetting all the foolish petulance which should have offended him, he
has held out his hand to me-that hand which I am not worthy to touch-
and said, "Abel what can I do for you ?"
Sir John Morton wept as he again shook hands with Lorrinet, and said
faintly-
-'Another time, my dear young friend-another time. I can't Say to you
now what I would say. God bless you. There, now, that is the blessing, re-
turned from my lips to you, that your father gave me in his last moments
his last words were, 'God bless you, Morton !"
Captain Lorrinet stepped to the window to hide his emotion, and then Mr.
Carnac, after a preliminary "Hem !" said-
"Mr. Abel Morton, your father, finding you did not return from the little
mission he had sent you on, sent for me, and I attended him at once. His
great anxieties brought him here, and I would not permit him to come alone.
Have you seen Colonel ELk ?"
"Ah, my dear boy," said Sir John, "only tell me that you have seen and
settled with him, and all will yet be well."
"I cannot, father."
"You cannot see him ?"
"I have seen him, but-but he declares that-he will not part with the bill,
unless-unless---
" Unless what, 4bel ?"
Abel was about to give utterance to the proposition of Elk to the effect that
he would not part with the bill but at the sacrifice of the whole of his father's
fortune, but he checked himself, and would not say it. He only added in a
weak voice-
"That is all.---He will prosecute."
"Prosecute when I will pay him ?-I will pay him three times over !"
AeStop,' said Mr. Carnac. "Are you sure he has the bill himself, Mr.
Abel?"      "
"Quite !" said a voice from under the table, and Jobus laid hold of the at-
torney's ankle to assist him in emerging from his place of concealment.-
"' Quite !"
Murder !" shouted Mr. Carnac.
"Don't .be alarmed, sir," said Jobus, "it's only me ! The poor earth
worm, sir, that's all!"
"Why, good gracious, that is the man who came to my chambers and put
to me some half-dozen hypothetical legal questions, and then ran off so that
nobody could stop him. Don't let him go now, gentlemen. He must be the
devil himself."
.'Ah," said Jobus, "you lawyers are always thinking of that retired dig-
nitary ; but I am, on the contrary, only a worm. How do you do, Sir John?
Hope you are pretty well, Mr. Carnac. If X. gives a bill to W-"
"Oh, plague take you," cried Mr. Carnac, "-I won't answer any more ques-
tions, but I will give a general opinion, and that is, that if any letter of the
alphabet can procure in any way, a certain bill from E. and hand it to M. it
will be a good piece of work done."
"Oh," said Jobus, "perhaps J. if he did that, might call upon Q. and say,
"What the deuce is all this," cried Sir John. "The only Q. I know is Mr.
Quested, Lady Morton's uncle."
Jobus clapped his hands together, and cried-
"Lady Morton's uncle, is he ?"
"You are sure of that ?"
"O' course."
"And-and-for you-that is, for Lady Morton, Mr. Quested, the great
East India nerchant will do a favor-eh? eh ?"
"Anything in his power !"

_S

hN1ULjiuwTh

Y               .. v       . .     ,_ .     .n  y
i
t        w
i                                i6

,          .,      _.


1.- :,  ,,

158

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

159

Jobus lifted his right leg, and spun round on his left as he cried, to the
amazement of everybody-
" Ri-to-looral-loo !"
"H~e's mad !" cried Sir John. "Keep off, sir !"
"Tol-de-rol-lol-de-li !"added Jobus. "Did you ever see a worm dance the
polka?  Oh dear, I'm afraid I'm committing myself very much, indeed. Oh
-oh! Ah, dear me ! Is his name Abel Quested ?"
"It is. Abel is his god-son."
" Tiddi-iddi-iddi! Oh, no-I didn't mean that-I-Oh for ! I rather think,
gentlemen, that you see before you an impetuous worm, who, by the power
of unforeseen circumstances, is just a little insane at present ; but he will be
better soon, I assure you."
He is quite mad," said Sir John.
"Not quite, Sir John, let me remark. And now I must be going ; but be-
fore I go, I have a little bit of advice to give, and that is, that Abel Morton
keeps out of the way for a day or two-only three days we will say. There's
an empty house next door !"
These last words were an aside by Jobus, but.although no doubt quite pro-
perly connected with some idea of his own, they seemed so totally irrelevent
to what was going on, that they only the more confirmed the parties present
in the ides that he was a little cracked.
' He," said Mr. Carnac, indicating Jobus, "is a very extraordinary person,
and it is not for me to give any opinion concerning his mental peculiarities ;
but the advice regarding the departure of Abel. from London for a few days,
while we endeavor to negotiate with the ma ,lk, is too good to be neglected."
"He shall go at once," said Sir John.
"Let him go to Oxford," said, Captain  et, approaching the party from
the window where he had been. "There is a coach within one hour of the
present time starts from Hyde Park Corner for that city. Let Abel go by it,
and the promptness of the step 'will be its security."
"Yes," cried Sir John.  ' Come, Abel, come."   a
"Father, I will go if you wish it," said Abel; "but let me implore you not
to give way to that man, Elk. He will make the most terrible demands. Oh,
do not allow your affection for me to wrong you ! Better that I should fall,
than that the latter part of your life, and of my mother's too, should be spent
in want."
"Want !" cried Sir John. "He-he don't ask all we have surely, Abel ?"
"He-does !"
"The villain !" said Lorrinet.
"I expected it," said Mr. Carnac.
"I knew it," said Jobus.
Sir John Morton was the first to recover from the shock of this stunning
communication, and then taking Abel by the hand, he said-
"Cheer up my boy. We will fight and conquer this bold, bad man, yet.
Fear nothing. Come. We will take the advice of Lorrinet here, and go to the
Oxford coach office at once. Let us all go. The streets are quiet and still at
this hour, and you will be off in safety. Come, Abel-come."
"God bless you all-I can say no more."
"I will ride twenty miles on the road with you, Abel," said Lorrinet, "and
then you won't feel dull."
Sir John thanked the young officer by a glance, and Abel shook his hand,
but did not utter a word.
They all left the Albany together, and Jobus hovered on the outskirts of
the party, rubbing his hands together, and now and then uttering the name of
Abel Quested to himself. Rowley looked after them till they were out of his
observation, and then shaking his head, he said-
"Something wrong with the governor. Don't know what it is; but there's
a blessed screw loose somewhere, or the linch pin out of the blessed axle.

sy
X-}'r'
t
y }f

I

4

-- --

s

Well, we shall see what we shall see, I suppose. Oh, what a nice cove that
Johus is !"
The coach office at Hyde Park Corner was soon reached, and Jobus was just
chuckling over the name of Abel Quested again, when he suddenly flung him-
self on the pavement, and ran off half the length of a quiet street close at hand
upon all-fours, and then, with a shout of dismay, he got upon his feet, and off
he went at his utmost speed, leaving the whole party stricken dumb with
amazement at his sudden flight.
CHAPTER        XLIII.
WHNw Jobus ran off in the sudden and mysterious manner we have
recorded, the only one of the Morton party that was at all disposed to go after
him was Captain Lorrinet; and he having an idea-a perfectly correct one, too,
as the reader is well aware-that Johns had a great deal to tell if he could
only be brought to tell it, was determined not to lose sight of him if he could
possibly help it.
The fleetness of Lorrinet soon brought him up to Jobus, and catching him
by the collar, the young captain cried out to him-
"Stop, my friend, we cannot spare you just yet."       '
"Murder !" shouted Jobus.
"Don't you know me ?" said Lorrinet. "I am a friend."
"Police! Murder !" roared Jobus again, for his fears had so overcome him,
that he could not believe it possible anybody had hold of him but the redoub-
ted Colonel Elk himself, and he fully believed that in the course of the next few
minutes he would be sacrificed to his fury.
It was fortunate for Lorrinet that the hour was one at which there were very
few people about, as Jobus, by his cries would soon have collected a crowd,
and when that is done it is not so easy to get rid of it again.
"Peace-peace !" cried Lorrinet, as he turned Jobus round and made him
look him in the face in spite of all his resistance. "Look at me, man, and dis-
pel your fears. Do you know me now ?"
"Oh-oh-oh dear !" said Jobus.
"I say, do you know me ?"
"To be sure I do. You are the general-no, the corporal-bless me, no,
you are the captain."
" Well; and what made you run off in such a way ?"
"I saw-I saw-oh !"
"'What ?"
"It wasn't a what. I saw him!"
"Who?"
"Oh-oh !"
"Speak, I charge you. If you are what you affect to be, namely, a friend
to Abel Morton, you will shake off the degrading fears that possess you and
speak freely to me, if you dread to do so to him. I am one who will do all
that can be don for him and his; and I am one, too, who feels largely inter-
ested in what taes  ce at the house of Colonel Elk. If it be necessary that
some part of your munication should be held by me in strict confidence, I
pledge my word of  n   s an officer and a gentleman that such shall be the
case ; but I implore yo  longer to deal in mysteries or half-communications,
but to speak freely in the cause of right and of justice, and to tell all you know.
Better tell me nothing than leave me wandering about 'n a maze of conjecture
that cannot but be most prolific of error andof destruction. Speak, I say, and
speak freely."
"Oh, dear !" said Jobus. 4"Oh l"
"Come, now, be a man."
"A what?"

_,
;
-,


HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

"A man, I say, be a man. Discard these unworthy fears, and speak to
me freely."
A man !" groaned Jobus. "I'm only a worm !"
"Nonsense. Tell me, is it possible that you repent of the manner in which
you came forward to try and serve those who were oppressed by that atrocious
scoundrel, Elk ?"
" flush ! Oh, hush !-
"Nay, I speak freely, and I call him a villain of the first magnitude. I would
just as soon say as much to his face as here to you."
"Oh dear-oh dear! I will tell you, young man, what made me fly from
vou and your friends in such a way. Yes, I will now tell you. But don't
let us stay here. Let us get as far as possible from that coach office." "
"Whef-efore ?
Jobus turned and looked the young captain in the face, as he said slowly
and solemnly-.-
" Because Colonel Elk was standing in the doorway of it."
" Colonel Elk ?"
" A h !"
"Impossible !"
"Very likely ; but it's as true as the gospel for all that. I saw him. lam not
very likely to mistake him. Oh dear, no. I saw him."
"Then poor Abel is foiled in his attempt to leave London. By what con-
founded jugglery could he be there? Are we living in the days of witchcraft
that that fiend, in the shape of man, can have a premise of our thoughts and
desires, as quickly as we can ourselves conceive them ?"
"No !" said Jobus, "no! It has been some cross accident, that is all. The
colonel meditates flight."
" Ah indeed 2"
"But not before he has settled all his affairs in London. The probability
was that his errand to the coach office was connected with such a meditated
flight. He was there to make inquiries. But he did not see me. Oh, dear !
I don't think he saw me."
"Nor I either." said Lorrinet. "I don't think it was possible; and you were
off so quick, and in such an extraordinary manner, that he could not observe
you, even if he heard an alarm."
"No-no. That is true. He was not looking my way at all, so I feel sure
that I escaped him."
"Not a doubt of it. And so, he means to leave London when he has settled
all his affairs, does he ?"
"Yes, and England as well as London. He thinks that he has settled one
of his little affairs ; but he hasn't. I live !"
"You are an extraordinary man, Mr. Jobus, and I wish you .would be
explicit, instead of dealing in such mysteries as you do. But come, now I will
trust you with a secret of mine, and I hope that may induce you to trust me
with one of yours."
"What is it ?"
"I love Dora."
"Ah, I partly guessed it. Are you sure you love her ?"
"As sure as that I live."
"A cup of coffee !"
"A what ?"
"A cup of coffee. Only three-halfpence. . Come into this shop-I will tell
you something."
"Nay," said Lorrinet, with a smile at the kind of coffee accomodation which
Jobus seemed to think would suit him. "I will take you where you will be
more comfortable and more private, too. This neighborhood is very well
known to me. Trust me to take you somewhere."
"There's an empty house next door," said Jobus.
"Next door to what ?"-

"I was only making a little remark to myself; you go on, and I will fol-
low you. Yes, I will tell you that something that you ought to know. She
shall be saved, poor child-poor child !"
"Of whom speak you ?"
" Of Dora.'
"Then I could listen to you all day, my good Jobus. But here is a private,
quiet hotel, where they know me, and we will breakfast here, and you can
communicate to me freely what you please. I feel that in listening to you I
am, probably, doing more good to Abel Morton than if Iran back to apologise
, for my desertion of him just now."
"You are so."
Th'young captain was well known in the hotel; and as it was now fairly
morning, although, certainly, the hour was rather an early one, they found no
difficulty in getting admittance to the place; and in'a quiet, cheerful-looking
private room, Jobus and Captain Lorrinet, to the vast suprise of the waiters
-a surprise, however; which they were too well bred to permit to appear in
their manner, or in their faces--breakfasted together in good style.
"Young man," said Jobus, "it does not often happen that a mere worm like
myself is able to say anything to a young and ardent lover that he will think
of such importance as what I am now about to say to you."
"For Heaven's sake say it quickly, Jobus."
"I will. You loye Dora?  Well, there is but one drawback in yqur own
mind, to your happiness, for she loves you."
She loves me! Ah, yes, I know-I feel that she loves me ! I will take-".
"Another bit of toast ?"
"No-no !-my oath that she loves me.    Beautiful Dora !-dear, dear
girl,! I think I see her now. I would not grieve her pure and gentle heart
for-"
"A new laid egg ?" said Jobus--"
"Not for the universe. She is, I tell you, Mr. Jobus, dearer to me than life
itself, and without her I should feel like  "           ,
"A small lump of sugar ?" said Jobus.
"But tell me all. Come, I am all impatience to hear you."
"Very good. Then, you would like her ten times better if she had not Col-
onel Elk for.an uncle ?"
No-no !"
"You wouldn't? Oh, dear !"
" No; but I can tell you that I would rather such were not the case. I
eould not possibly love her better than I do. But yet I know that it will be
a source of grief to her and regret to me, that she is in any way connected with
that man."
" Just so. Then, she ain't."
"What?"
"I tell you Dora is not the niece of Colonel Elk, nor in any way in the world
related to him."
"You astonish me ! You-take away my breath !"
"I thought I should. Listen to me: Did Abel Morton ever tell you that
many years ago he lost his sister Loo, as they called her, and that his father
became prematurely old in consequence of his grief; and that from that day to
the present they had never caught sight of her, or been able to get any news
of her fate? Did Abel ever in a moment of confidence tell you that ?"
" He did-he did!"
"Ah I".
"But you don't mean to tell me, Jobus-that is to say, you don't intend to
assert-you-you cannot say-that-    "
"I do."
"That Dora is Abel's sister-the child of Sir John Morton? You don't
surely mean that ?"
"1d.

smm...m

_         -                  -                                              -     _

:
...   ,- .

i fl--uii

-                                    ,                                          -               . .

's

~
-

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

161

160


PV

162

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR7

The young officer had risen from his chair in his anxiety and agitation, and
now he sank back into it again, and looked keenly at Jobus for some few
moments in silence, after which he said in a low, deep-toned voice of much
emotion-
"And how long have you known this ?"
Jobus felt the reproach keenly.
"How long have you let the father gro  prematurely old by grieving for
his child?  How long is it that you have let the mother's tears flow for the
loss of her darling?  How long is it since you have cast a shadow over the
heart of the brother for the loss of his sister? How long is it since you have-
deprived that young girl of all the dear and fond delights of home, kindred,
affection, such as she might have had ?"
Johns shuddered.
"Answer me this !" cried Captain Lorrinet, with vehemence. "I demand
that you answer me this !"
Johns rose, and tottered towards the door of the room.
"It is enough," he said; "I know it all. I see altthat. and it is natural
that you should think as you think, because you do not know all. Farewell
.--farewell. "
'"Stay."
"No. It is better not. Henceforth I am in your eyes too criminal to be
attended to. What I would say will now pass for nothing. I know that you
are quite right, young man. I know that I am all you say I am, or think I
am. Forget me. Farewell !"
Jobus would have left the room, but Captain Lorrinet sprang after him. and
stopped him at the door, and led him back to the seat he had risen from, and
then said to him-
'.Forgive me ; I am too hasty., and in all probability I have said to you
what I ought not to have said. It is true enough that I cannot tell how you
were situated-I cannot be a competent judge of the circumstances that di-
rected you to act as you have done. Forgive my hasty speech, and let us only
think now of the best mode of saving that young and gentle girl from the
contamination of further residence beneath the roof of Colonel Elk."
Jobus sighed deeply.
"Young man," he said{  t is true that you do not know all the circum-
stances with which I was surrounded, but I will tell you that for all the years
that have passed away since the child was snatched from the arms of Sir John
Morton, I have watched over her safety, although I could not-dared not re-
turn her to him; I have night and day attended upon her, and I have warded
m her  any dangers. Perhaps I ought to have told all long ago, long
--lona go ; ut my spirit was broken, and I could not-I could not !"
Jobus   his head droop upon thQ breakfast-table, and wept.
Then it was that Captain Lorrinet reproached himself for what he had said
to him, and thought how wrong it was for him, in health and spirits, and with
no depressing influences about him, to speak plainly and boldly of what was
right, and of what another ought to have done, and yet how impossible it
might be for that other to pursue such a course, when, perchance, he was
bankrupt in health, spirit, and pocket-when the very lassitude of a nearly
broken heart was upon his mind-when to live appeared a burthen, and when
even the justice of Heaven was converted into a shuddering doubt.
"Come, my friend," said the young officer, gently laying his hand upon
Jobus's arm. "Come, my friend, I feel that you have not forgiven me yet."
_' Oh, yes-yes. Have you forgiven met?".
'1 have nothing to forgive, but much-very much to thank you for. Let
us, in the name of Dora, shake hands, and banishing from our minds the past,
except in so far as its recollection may aid us in the future, let us concert to-
gether for her benefit."
"Call her Louisa Morton."
"Oh, yes. What a happy change !"

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

'It is a happy change; but we will make a happier change
man, you have now a mission to the house of CoelrEchan eoYoung
wise. We can help each other."               onel Elk; I have one lik.
"Assuredly we can."
' But I must exact from you one promise."
" Name it.
"It is, that when you succeed in saving Dora from the dangers that
round her, you will take her to some place where she can remain in honor asur
in safety, and not at present say anything to Sir John, or to Abel Mrton of
her happy discovery.
"Believing, my friend, that you have a good reason for all you say, or d
in the matter," said Lorrinet, "I cheerfully consent to your wish."ay,
"Be it so, then, and now I have much to tell you. Yes, I know from sad
experience how dangerous a thing is a half-confidence. I ought to have told
you nothing, if I did not tell you all."
"That is true. But you do not repent telling me what you have 1"
"Oh, no--no. It seems to have ,taken a mountain off here."  Jobs, a
he spoke, touched his heart, and then he faintly smiled as he added-" I think
that all will be well at last."
"Without a doubt," said Lorrinet. "But now let me beg of you to leep
nothing from me. I feel assured that there is much, even in yo ur own his
tory, which it is well that I should know, for I will hepyou, if it be possi..
ble, and recover you from the state of mental thraldom in whichyou a
to have been so long."                                     3o   ppe
Upon this. Jobus, in a low tone, made a long statement to the u ofcer,
which greatly excited his surprise. and to which he listened witheyoungstianer
ions attention.nanz"
At the conclusion of the statement, the heads of which will he soon known
to the reader, they remained in consultation for about half an hor longer,
and then Jobus rose to go, and as he did so, he said to Lorrinet--omret
" Remember, we meet at twelve o'clock t-nighato." rmt
rn    of CHAPTER       XLIV.
WHEN Jobus ran off in so sudden and mysterious a manner from the party
ty that was making its way to the Oxforys crosa omcande frmwhe Cpaty
Lorrinet ran after him, the rest of the party had not the least idea of wh
or wherefore they so disappeared.  pwhy
Abel and his father looked at each other in surprise, and Mr. Carnac looked
at them both as much as to say--
"Are the people all out of their wits ?"
They were none of them, though, for long kept in this state of suspense,
for Abel Morton caught sight of Colonel Elk, as Jobus had truly described
him to Lorrinet, standing upon the steps of the inn-door, at the very moment
that he, Elk, had caught sight of Abel and his friends.,a   y
" Father l" said Abel. faintly. "Colonel Elk stands now before you."
For a moment, then, the father staggered at the idea that the man who had
been, and was the direst enemy his son had ever had, or was ever likely to
have, was before him; and then he recovered his composure, to outward ap
pearances at all events, and was upon the point of advancing towards Elk,
saying as he did so--p
"I will speak to him," when he was stopped by Mr. Carnac who in a de-
termined manner said-e,
"No, Sir John. No."
" Yes, hut---.
"Nay, my dear sir, permit me, if you please, as your solicitor and m
busmess. I am here, and I am the'fit and proper person to speak to the-
hem! the individual now before us."  n
I

q

,_ :

.1.

,
=
I
r


I f

164

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

With a slow and sauntering step, the colonel approached the party. The
truth was, he was as much surprised to see Abel and his friends, as they
were to see him. His first idea was to avoid them, as their's was to avoid
him ; but both parties had improved upon that notion, and thought, upon a
little reflection, that it would be better to remain.
And now Sir John placed his arm within that of his son,-and strove to look
the enemy of his family in the face. Alas ! Sir John did not know how great
an enemy that man really was to him and his !
Mr. Carnac advanced a few paces, in order to prevent the colonel from ap-
proaching to within speaking distance of the Mortons, and then slightly bow-
ing to him, more from habit than from the remotest idea of paying such a man
any respect, he said-
"Your name, I'am informed, is Elk, sir ?"
"Wellsir," said the colonel, " and yours 7"
"I am Mr. Carnac, of Lincoln's-inn-fields, the attorney of Sir John Morton,
and likewise of his son, Mr. Abel Morton."
"Indeed, sir !"
"=And." added Mr. Carnac, I have to request, upon the part of my clients,
that anything you may have to say concerning them or their affairs as con-
nected with you, you will be so good as to say to me."
Colonel Elk looked keenly at the attorney, and then he said-
"Have your two worthy and exemplary clients, sir, been  confidential,
with you?"
"My clients, sir, are confidential with me
"Very well, sir; perhaps, then, you are aware that I can have nothing to
say to you, as you are not a metropolitan magistrate, with one of whom my
business must lie in the matter with which you, no doubt, are well acquainted ?"
"I have very little doubt," said Mr. Carnac, calmly, "that you allude to
an alleged forgery. If you wish to go before a magistrate upon the subject,
we are willing to meet you there forthwith."
"Say you so, sir ?"
' Certainly. We are in a position to meet you before a magistrate ; but
vet we would avoid even that, if we could, at some expense too, as we do not
court publicity to affairs that no family would wish blazoned to the world,
however they might feel confident they have nothing ultimately to fear."
"You are quite a man of business, sir," said the colonel. "Do you know,
I think I shall, be able to arrange matters very well with you. I have no
particular desire to give publicity to the transaction'you so ingeniously allude
to, although the result of that publicity 'would be to hang one of your
exemplary clients."
" Not at all."
"Or transport the other for perjury."'
"Oh dear, no."
Mr. Carnac calmly took a pinch of snuff.
"Sir," said Elk, "Sir John Morton repudiates or owns the signatures to the
bill?"
" Ah !"
"If he repudiate it, Abel hangs."
" Ah !"
"If he owns it, I indict him for perjury, and have witnesses to prove that
he did repudiate."
"We are in a position liemeet all that. Perhaps we may find an important
witness too."
"Ha! ha! Noyou won't !
At that moment, Colonel Elk, in his inmost heart blessed himself for
murdering Jobus, as he thought he had done, for, by some means, it was
pretty evident that he. Jobs, knew more of the transaction than the colonel
thought known to mortal man with the exception of himself and Abel Morton

MY BROTHERS THE COLONEL,                      165
"Very good," said Mr. Carnac, as he indulged in another pinch of snuff-
"you can do as you please, sir."
"But what-.--."
"'Go on, Colonel Elk."
"What do you mean to do ?"
"Nothing. We are quite contended if you are, and if you are not, we wait
quietly and patiently for your acts, resting quite certain that we shall have
early information of them."
Colonel Elk glanced around him for a moment to be satisfied that no one
was within hearing, and then he said to Mr. Carnac-
"hark you, sir. Your clients will have to pay. They have, no doubt,
told you as much. Call upon me, at twelve o'clock to-morrow, and I will
speak to you."
"c No."
"No ?  You will not ?"
"Certainly not. You can call upon us, if you like-you will find us all at
the Albany to-morrow, at the hour you mention, when, if you like to make
any reasonable proposal, I shall advise my clients to accede to it, and if not,
we can at once adjourn from there, with all our witnesses, to a magistrate,
for I shall advise my clients to bring the affair to as speedy an issue as
possible."
Elk bit his lips.
"To-morrow, at twelve, then. At the Albany."
" Be it so.
At this moment, Abel sprang foward ; he was no longer able to maintain a
prudent reserve; and confronting the colonel, he cried-.
"If you were a man !--if you had a little of the courage you always made
such loud profession of, you would meet me face to face, and let the death of
one or both'put an end to this complexity !"
"Ha! ha !" said the colonel.
"Villain! coward ! assassin"
"My dear Abel," said the colonel, producing a splendid gold snuff-box,
and indulging himself with a pinch of its contents. "My dear Abel, I strongly
advise you to keep your temper, not that it matters to me a jot, not a jot-
for I can put it all in the bill ! Ha ! ha !"
" Monster !"
"The ladies don't say so," smiled the colonel, "or if they do. it is by that
rule of. contrary, which makes the sex so delightfully enigmatical..-Good
evening, Abel  Remember me, by-the-by, to the fair cousin. Ha! ha!-
At twelve to-morrow, Mr. Carnac; and remember, a hundred eyes are upon
the actions of that young eman, Abel Morton. My myrmidons hem him in
upon all sides. You understand me. Any attempt of his to escape can only
produce an awkward eclaircissement, and cannot by any possibility succeed.
Good evening. A cool air up this evening."
The colonel turned on his heel and sauntered down Piccadilly as if nothing
at all were amiss.
"Mr. Comae looked after him with a kind of admiration, although he thor-
oughly comprehended the villany of the man. During a tolerably long expe-
rience he had never come across a man with such thorough self-possession as
Colonel Elk, and he felt all the difficulty that there would be in dealing with}
such a person.
Turning to Abel, the lawyer said-
"Permit me to observe, Mr. Abel, that you were very indiscreet. You
cannot hope to better your position with such a man by speaking to him as
you have."
"I could not help it," said Abel.
" Well--well, it is done now, Bot what say you, Sir John Morton? Do
you feel disposed to give Elk an interview to-morrow at twelve o'clock at the
Albany.

I

'

,.:, .. ,


I

166

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

(}.,no-no."
' Well, if I might advise, I should say, oh, yes-yes."
T.'le what good end '?
",lcst this, that every hour we gain in the way of negotiation with Elk
dauges the case he has to bring against Abel, and places him in a worse posi-
tion t  -o before a magistrate with his complaint. I strongly advise you to
give ih the meeting he desires, and I am of opinion that hewould shrink
from onvthing in the shape of pr'osecution much more than we should."
S that isa blessed thought," said Sir John.  "Abel, we will pay this man,
and ;,.t rid of him,"
Oh, no-no father !"
"is myboy, we will. At any price we will get rid of him. What does
't matter if he does take all our money?  I have some claims as an old officer
upon the government, and you and I can get into the army at once; so if we
can but keep the old house over our heads that we are all so accustomed to,
we shall be happy enough."~
"Father, father, rather than Elk should so triumph, I would'
Abel paused.
"My son," said Sir John, "I will not pretend to guess what dreadful
thought was in your mind at that moment, but remember we suffer now upon
your account; and if you have one spark of feeling for me and for your mother.
you will allow us to act as we think proper, and most conducive to our own
happiness in the affair now in progress. You must leave all to us."
I will," said Abel, faintly.
"Come, come." said Mr. Carnac, "let us give up all ideas for the present
of Abel leaving London. Th e colonel has been kind enough to state that he
has surrounded him with spies, and I think from what I have seen of the man
that nothing is more probable than that he has done so; and therefore, let us
agree upon the meeting for to-morrow at twelve at the Albany."
"Be it so," said Sir John.
"I am content that it should be so," said Abel. "But let it be the only
and the last meeting between you and that man, father. Refuse his terms at
"We shall see, my dear boy," said Sir John, "we shall see.. But what has
become of. Lorrinet ?"                              "obls       ou
"lie ran after that man, Jobus," said Mr. Carnac.  "Doubtless Johs
saw his old master, the colonel, and naturally wished'to avoid him, seeing that
if IBk had observed him, he must likewise have observed that he was in our
company. They will doubtless find their way back to the Albany."
"At twelve to-morrow, then," said Sir John;- "all will be settled at twelve
to-m~orrow."
The old man shuddered as he spoke.
OJHAPTER XLV
As one clock sounded in rather cracked tones from the clock-tower of St.
James's Palace, Jobus reached the bottom of St. James's street, and paused
to wipe his face, with an apology for a pocket handkerchief. We say apology,
for it was a rag with an extraordinary collection of rents in it; but Jobus was
not very particular.
With a cat-like andstealthy tread, Jobus approached the gate of thepace,
as though he contemplated making-a sudden spring at the soldier on duy
there: he regarded him for some minutes in silence. Then, in his odd way,
Jobus spoke-
"Oh, dear me ! there is a man with a gun on his shoulder. Oh-oh! what
a strange thing it is that worms are to be found who will go and kill other
worms, and run the risk of being smashed themselves, for sixpence a day I
Dear me ! Oh-oh, dear ! I didn't laugh, if you please, Mr. Soldie."

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                      167
"Stand back !"
"Oh, certainly--with great pleasure. But-he! he !-'-is it pl-eaant walking
np a drun here, and only now and then achieving the victor of getting
onto a trunk set up on end ?"                           yogetn
"Eh?   What do you want ?" said the sentinel.
Jobus pointed within the gate.
"Be of ' !" cried the soldier, "or I shall take you in charge, and give you to
the guard !"                             yua    hre n     ieyut
"it would be no great gift," said Jobus. "But do you have to find your
own pipe-clay? I have often wondered, but never thought of asking any gal-
The soldier made a charge at Jobus with the butt-end of his muske
when he found that that did not alarm him, he brought it dow, s set, and
upon the intruder's toes; but Jobus by a spring on oe side, avoed th hoped,
p iment, and held on the instant a small slip of paper so close to the eyes of
tesentinel, that, dreading some artful mode of despatching him by thatans,
the man bobbed back his head so quick that ie nearly broke the side-ans
the sentry-box by the crack he gave it.                      aelo
Oh dear," said Jobus, "that Would be cheap at a week's  a"
Curse you !" said the soldier.a                  pay.
"I hope you didn'thutyuhed          aiwsn
read this."        hurt your head   Say it wasn't your head, and then
The light of a neighboring lamp shone upon the paper, and the soldier, who
possessed the accomplishment ofiebeing able to read it, saw that it was an order
from one of his officers.r
"Oh !" he said, "'Pass the bearer.
Why the deuce didn't you say at first that youhad a pass?"
"Oherear," iosaid Jobus, "I would have done so, but the fact is, I was so
interested in your delightful conversation, that you see, I had no time. Ah,
oh !"'                                    y     ,Ihanotm.A,
"Pass on! Confound you !".muttered the sentinel to himself. "I believe
you have come out of some mad-house."    -             f     beee
Jous, with his hands behind him so as to prop his back up as well as he
could, walked into the courtyard of the palace.       Fh
"Who goes there 7" cried a sharp voice, as though the words had been jerked
out by some ingenious piece of machinery that condensed them into as small
a  space  as  possible. " easaimab s
"Me," said Jobus.
battle ! went a musket, and the next.moment Jobus saw the oint of a
bayonet at his breast.P                                           $
Stand fast !" said the voice.
"Certainly," said Jobus, "with great Leasure."
"Guard !" said the voice again.
"Anything you like," said Jobus; "but  t get in a passion."
A sergeant hearing the call for the guard, hastily made his appearance from
a doorway, through which Jobus could see the glare of a comfortable firemand
making up to Jobus and the soldier on duty in the court he said-- rean
" What is it ?"
"Prisoner !" said the soldier.
"Anything you like, gentlemen," said Jobus. "But perhaps as the id-
vidual with the muff on his head, and the little shaving brush hanging to the
side of' it, outside the gate there, has let me in, you might, as youare great
worms, think I had some authority. He ! oh-I didt laugh! But read
that."
" Oh-ah !" said the sergeant, "a pass from Captain Lorrinet. He told me
he expected somebody. Hem! My friend Lorrinet mentioned you."
"You don't say so ?"

..    NsV -  --        _.,   ,b;;.,    ',+y'.t a=t. .., .. t... ~  ::n- ....-a,.,w ." _,

I

-


UEAI)S AND HEARTS OR

"Oh, yes, he just mentioned to me a friend of his would be here, and you
arb that person, no doubt."
"No doubt," said Jobus. "I'll mention to the captain, when I see him,
your friendly way of speaking of him."
"Eh? God bless me! don't do that, I beg of you. You see, sir, that-that
in a way of speaking, the captain is rather a kind of-odd-tempered man, you
see, and he might possibly not like it. I don't mean to say that he would
not like it, but he might not, you see; so its better to say nothing about it."
" Ah !" said Jobus, in his odd, dry way, "then from all that, I suppose, one
may gather, that the friendship is all on one side."
-- Wrhy, a-a-that is-this way, sir, if you please-this way, sir, to the
captain's quarters, if you please."
Jobus was conducted to rather a handsome and well-lighted room, in which
there was a good fire,'and in which he found Captain Lorrinet resting upon a
couple of chairs.
A gentleman for you, sir," said the sergeant, "if you please."
Yes," said Lorrinet, rising. " Jobus, you are welcome."
Ah !" said Jobus, "it's the first time that a worm has been in a royal
palace. And so this is St. James's, is it, young man'? A i! And pray, what
does thgt represent on the roof of the room ?
That," said Captain Lorrinet, "is some allegorical picture. The ceilings
of the palace are almost all so painted ; but they have got so blackened by
age and neglect that one can hardly see the subjects."
' Ah-oh dear !" said Jobus. And then, when the sergeant had left the
room, he laid his hand upon the arm of Lorrinet, and said-
"Young man, there may be danger in the enterprise that we are going upon ;
but, danger or not danger, we must manage to carry it out."
Of course."
"You will go armed ?"
'Certainly I will. lam resolved that nothing shall prevent me from taking
Louisa Morton from the house of Elk this night, but her own determination
not to come with me. I have written to my aunt Lady Sylvester, asking her
to receive Louisa for a day or two, and she has sent me word that she will do
so with pleasure ; so that there will be no difficulty in the matter if Louisa
Morton makes none."
"And that she will not, when she hears that there is no tie or kindred that
binds her to Elk."
"Will she'believe us, Jobus ?"
"I should say yes. There is always a something about the truth which
makes it quite impossible to be doubted for a moment. Besides, her heart wilt
plead in favor of all that you say to her, be it what it may."
I hope so."
Captain Lorrinet had been upon guard that night ; but he had exchanged
with another officer, who might be glad of a similar accommodation another
time ; so he now rapidly took off his uniform coat and put on a plain frock
one, and a round, ordinary hat, and was ready to accompany Jobus on the
expedition to the colonel's house.
-"I have as important a task to do at Elk's house as you have," said Jobus.
"No doubt you can guess it ?"
"I think I can. But I can tell you some. news. Since I saw you in the
morning I have seen the Mortons, and by the advice of-their solicitor they are
going to give a meeting to Elk to-morrow at twelve o'clock, in Abel Morton's
chambers in the Albany."
Ah, at twelve."
1em ! Oh, well, perhaps I may be there."
--I will take you with me if you like. For the good feeling you have shown
to Abel they will all be glad to see you."

" We will talk of  atanother time. Let us now devote our wholeenergies
to what we have to  to-night."
No one could be very well more anxious than was Captain Lorrinetfto devote
his whole energies to the work that was then in hand, and he left the palace
along with Jobus, determined that nothing should stand in the way ofhs res.
cuing her-whom he delighted to call Louisa Morton, nowinsteadof Dora;*fom
her fearful situation in the-house of Colonel Elk.
The reader will now recollect that Dora would, of her ownaccoird; ham Iong
since left the spurious protection of, the Elks, if it-had-not :been that sueh a
story was told her as, no doubt, lives in the recollection of those Who have
attentively perused this. narrative concerning-the kind of connexion 'that had
subsisted between her and the Morton family at one time.
That artfully concocted tale had had the effect of horrifying Dora,-and of
effectually, for the time being, causing her to hate the very name ofiMorton,
and to associate it'withr anepoch in her life-which-she dreaded to thinkof.
It was this prejudice that Captain Lorrinet would, ofcourse, haven
over ; but the astounding -intelligence that she was the daughter of Sir ii
Morton must surely go far to put an end to it at once.
The night happened to be a very dark one, for although-the moou was neh
at its4ull, a bank of heavy clouds had come up from the south, and hadge'du-
ally spread all over the sky, so that nothing of the pale but heautifultrays of
the moo-conld be-visible.
' Jobus considereithis state of things-as all the more favorable for the entrs
prise in which he was associated with the young officer of the Guard&amp;
11,-

,- " , k i -w .r ,,. .  _ M  o  *  ms    .s  . r,~  o  -  , _ - .

_  -'i   _ _- _  L  t.  _   I+ _

AV

168tIFA-S AD  J~AlT  Of,                   MY  CfOTR1,  O. T iL.

168

"'
. .


170

HEADS AND HEARTS ; ,OR

Once during their progress to Elk's house, Captain Lorrinet made an effort'
to extract from Jobus some information concerning himself; but Jobus stop-
ped him at once by saying--
"Not now-not now. When all is settled, as I hope it will be settled, as
regards our friends the Mortons, then we may say something about a worm ;.
but not now, young man-not now."
For some time Captain Lnrrinet, in his impatience, walked rather too quickly
for Jobus, although the latter tried all he could-to keep up with him; but
finally, losing one of his shoes in the process, he was compelled to stop, say-
ing-
" Dear me, the worm has lost his shoe."
"Lost what ?" said Lorrinet.
"A shoe. It was always a trifle too large: Oh, here it is. The worm has
got his shoe again,"
At any other time Captain Lorrinet would have laughed aloud at the curious
antics and phraseology of Jobus ; but now his heart and brain. were much too
full of what he had set himself to do, to indulge in any such feeling towards
the man who was assisting him might and main to do it.
"I go too quickly for you, my friend," said Lorrinet, "do you go first, and I
will adapt my pace to yours."
"Very good," said Jobus.
In that way, then, they approached Elk's house; but as the shoe became
refractory again, Jobus carried it in his hand, despite the remonstrance of Cap-
tain Lorrinet.
In this way they reached the corner of the street in which Colonel Elk
resided ; and then Jobus paused, and in a whispered voice, as though he feared
that even there his dreaded foe might hear him, said--
" There is an empty house next door. I have the confidence of the poor
woman who is taking care of it. It has been in my power to perform some
acts of charity to her., She had a child who was very ill only a fortnight since,
and she told me that the doctor had ordered wine for it. Ah-oh dear, where
was she to get wine ?"
"Where indeed, Jobus?-
"Well, the worm got it, though, out of the colonel's cellar."
"It is not possible to commend you, Jobus, for taking even the superfluities
of another ; but still the circumstance forms something- like an excuse if not
a justification."
"Just so; and the effect has been. that the woman is willing to oblige me
to the utmost of her ability, and we shall get into the empty house. After
that, I know well how to proceed.".-
" Well, Jobus, I will be guided by you entirely in this matter, for I see that
you have made all your arrangements to carry it out with success."
"I have tried to do so," said Jobus ; "and here we are."
The speed and dexterity with which Jobus suddenly opened the area gate
of the residence next door to Colonel Elk, and dived down rather a precipitous
flight of stone steps, surprised Lorrinet ; but he did not, for a moment, hesitate
to follow him.
"Have you shut the gate ?" said Jobus.
"Yes."
"Come along, then. The first danger is over. We are here without being
observed by any one, to the best of my belief."
"Is that you, Mr. Jobus ?" said a voice.
"Yes, maa, said Jobus.
"In the airy ?" said the voice again.
"Oh, I-Godness, gracious !"
A woman made her appearance at the kitchen door with a light, which
Johs,eas the shortest way of dispensing with, had at once blown out.
"We don't want a light ma'am."

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

eOh.! to be sure, Mr. Jobus. Ah ! dear me, this is a mortial spear as we
resides in. Mr. Jobus''                               aserasw
"It is, ma'am."
"As my poor husband as is dead and gone used to say--When you-
k"Yes, ma'am, that is correct of the deceased," interrupted Jobu as he
By this Ct t kitchen "Come along, Mr. Smith."
Be ths Cadain Lorrinet found that he was to be Mr. Smith to the good
dame who had charge of the empty house; and, as he was quite willing to be
Mr. anything provided he could rescue Dora from Colonel Elk, he answered
to the name at once, as though he had been.
"In a manner born to it."
."Now, ma'am, said Johns, "about the colonel ?"
."hoe, n hou ago s, ad te clone. "sa in airy, on a cane-botton,
ne very one you see here, Mr. J., for a matter of two hours and a quarter
" That will do.Nw
"a  t will d. Now, na 'are, all you have to do, is to let us have the
candle you have just now lighted again, and then sit down here, and hear
nothing and see nothing.,                                     dha
"Oh, very good, sir."
"Don't expect us at any particular time, and then you won't be impatient."
Expect you here, sir 7"
Yistenin, eand 'We shall come back as soon as we can. But don't be
hapened jumpingg up every moment, and thinking that something has
happened; do you understand? Expect nobody and nothing, and you won't
be disappointed, ma'am."
"Just so, sir. Living there in this kitchen
black beetles, and in them  there ain't  , I never expects nothing but
mome indro, a  dinthe  thre  m'snever a disappointment; for the
-comes in droves and flocks, so as you may walk on their backs easy. Soe
of 'em goes crunch, but others on 'em don't."i            asy.Some
"That's what I should have expected ma'am," said Jobus.
Should you really, sir 7"
"Yes, ma'm, with the noise above of a worm now and then."
Jobs left the kitchen, closely followed by Captain Lorrinet, who despite
all the iep anxieties that were pressing upon him, could not help being
much amused at the the little odd bit of conversatio between Jobus and the
lady of the empty house.
"Now young man," said Jobus whenthe h        reached the top of the
kitchen stairs, "we have got to reach the to of e house. I will get there
as soon as I can; but if you are at all impatint, you can run up first and
wat for me."'
"Oh, no, I will go with you," said Lorrinet.
"Very good."
Their footsteps echoed strangely and startlingly in, that empty house as
they ascended the creaking staircase, and awakened many an echo as they
went,.                                            aya     coate
CHAPTER XLVI.
CAPTAIN LdnRINE, as yet, was but dimly acquainted with the pla
Jous had elaborated in his politicbrain for the rescue of Dora from the
clutches of Colonel Elk; but he was quite prepared to carry i out;,f let the
danger and the difficulty attending it be what the mi ry it out, let
"Jobs" he said, "It is better that you should tell me all, for then I shall
be better able to aid you."
"Stop !" said Johns.
ItHappears that we must stop; for if I mistake not, here we are at the top
"Yes, that is true-that is very true. Look up."

-  - - ._J~  ,- 1_lILL

171

tl


172

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

Jobus held the light near to the ceiling on the landing of the attic stairs ;
and when Captain Lorrinet did look up, he saw one of those mysterious look-
ing little square trapdoors, which are in that situation in the roofs of most
houses, and which go by the name-given to them, no doubt by the facetious
inventor-of fire-escapes.
The idea of any persons not ordinarily accustomed to gymnastic exercises
pushing or pulling themselves through such an orifice, even in broad daylight,
and with nothing to distract them but the difficulty of the navigation of the
little hole in the wall, looks desperate ; but for some substantial citizen and
his family, awakened with the dread sound of "Fire !" in the dead and mid-
dle of the night, and bewildered by the horrid gleam of flames-half choked
by volumes of dense smoke, and driven nearly mad by the shrieks of his chil-
dren, to wriggle through such a contrivance, is about as hopeless a proposition
as was ever heard of.
But no matter. There was the fire-escape-there was the nearly impracti-
cable little square hole in the roof which was to be the refuge of an English
family, in case they should be pushed to such an a#ful extremity.
"You see it ?" said Jobus.
"I do."
"Well, that's the way out of this house. In the roof of the next one
there is just such another opening, and that will be the way in.
"I understand you, Jobus. We are to drop into the colonel's house by the
aid of this kind of affair. Well, be it so. I have no doubt but that you
have considered the matter well, Jobus, and that this is the most eligible
mode of action ; but yet, for my own part, how I should have preferred break-
ing down his street door-defying him, and taking the young lady away in
spite of him !"
""Ah! and then he would have been quite satisfied to take his revenge out
of the family ; for he would have gone to the nearest police-station with the
bill !"
"He might."
"I say he would. I know him. He has teeth, and he will bite when he
can ; but I am going to draw them. and then he can but howl. Ha ! I-oh,
dear ! I nearly laughed. But young man, you must get through that trap-
door, though I don't know how you are to do it."
Captain Lorrinet was tall and active. He looked at the trap-door for a
moment or two, and saw that if he could only get the little cover to it unbolted,
he might easily draw himself through it; but it was just a foot beyond his
reach.
" Jobus," he said, "if it were open I could make a spring at it and clutch
by the sides, and where once I get a hold I am not likely to let go again; but
I must reach it to unbolt it, and so must have something to stand upon."
"To be sure," said Jobus. "I thought of that."
"Yes, but there is nothing here."
"Oh, yes, there is-I brought something. Here you are."
Jobus dropped upon his hands and knees, and there he was, ready for the
young captain to stand upon his back, and so reach the bolt of the trap-door.
"I'm afraid my weight will hurt you, Jobus."
"So am I, but it don't matter. I beg that you will be quick about it, for
the colonel may come home, and then there will be more difficulty still, and
Dora--"
Johns had no occasion to say more. At the mere mention of the name of
Dora, Captain Lorrinet felt that anything was better than not to succeed in
rescuing her, so he stood as gently and as lightly as he could upon Jobus's
back, and in a moment had got the couple of bolts withdrawn that held the
little trap-door in its place.
By a push, then, he sent the trap-door aside from the opening in the roof,
and by a muscular effort, that to him was as easy as it seemed to bj he drew
himself up through the opening.

MY BROTHER, THE COLQEL.                     '73
"Oh," said Jobus, as he looked up. "It's all right?"
cc Yes," said Lorrinet. "Here I am."
"But how is a worm to get up?"
"Make a spring at it," said Lorrinet, "and when you get hold of the edge,
draw yourself bodily up."
"You don't say so ? It's rather a long time since I made a spring, young.
man; aid as for drawing myself bodily up, it is one of those things that I
dn't think is at all likely to come to pass."
"Stop a bit; then," said Lorrinet. "Hand me the light up here,"
"It's of no use ; it will be blown out when we get to the top of the house.
I will put it out now. Puff!"
" We shall want a light, though, in the next house."
"Oh, yes, I have provided against that. I have put the candle in one pocket
and the candlestick in the other, and in my hat I have a box of matches; so
the worn, is quite well provided, you see."
" Stretch up your arms," said Lorrinet, "and let me get hold Qf you, I
will soon draw you up. Now for it, Jnbus. All's right. Here you are, old
friend. How do you feel now?"
"All the skin off my knees," said Johns.
Lorrinet had stooped down, and by sheer strength lifted Jobus up through
the trap-door by the arms; but Jobus had made such a scuffling against the
edge of the opening in the roof when he was high enough to do so, that the
result he had mentioned had ensued.
"Never mind ; that is the fortune of war." said the captain.
"Oh, is it? Very good."
They were now between the ceiling and the roof of the house. Immedi-
ately opposite to the fire-escape was a door among the tiles, which opened intp
the night air. Lorrinet soon found that it was not fastened at all, andawing.-
ing it open, he stepped out into a kind of gutter that run between two ridges
of roof.
We need not now pursue minutely the passage of Jobus and the young off-
eer over the roof of one house and on that of the other; suffice it to my, that
after some dangers, and poor Jobus being twice or thrice indebted to the
strength and presence of mind of Captain Lorrinet for his life, they got through
the trap-doors in the roof of Colonel Elk's house, and dropped on the landing.
Jobus had-taken care that there should be no fastenings to those trap-doors
to delay their proceedings.
The most profound darkness was in the colonel's house ; and now than
Johns was there, a fit of trembling came over him, and he thought that the
expedition he had come upon was surely one of the most fearful and hazard.
ons that it was possible for the mind of man to conceive.
It was probably the danger and excitement that he had gone through in his
perilous passage across the roofs of the two houses that had affected Johus's
nerves, and produced this kind of emotion.
Captain Lorrinet, on the contrary, by what he had already had to do was
only all the better nerved to further exertion in the matter, and he whispered
to Jobus--
"Now, my friend, the light."
"Ye-e--es," said Johns.
4 what's the matter ?"
"Oh, nothing-I.-I, you see, don't feel very well, that's all. Worms havy
not very strong constitutions, that's all. Oh, dear!"
My dear friend, do not give way, now, I beg of you. If you have any fears,
place a firm reliance upon me. I am well armed, and not one who is likel
to allow either you or myself to come to any hurt that can be avoided. Much
yet depends upon you, and I beg that you will rouse yourself for immediate
. action."
"I will-I will.. I am better,"

-               r,.-...-.-.win--,.,+-. ..    ,
-                    -     r             .-                                    -                   -        -      --

s                         i

n       4.,.     -
'_      Y           -...
_     r..    x          ..r                  -'a "        .ter              A   ''#   " V +rcG
'                                   ._           t                    _       w                               _                                                  '"aNh+m^v5=          ._2 ',4t1-tiar ^w++t w..w....   ...


174

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

"We are on the top landing here, of course. I can dimly see several doors.
Here is one."
"No-no ! -Oh, God-no !"
"What is it ?"
"Don't open any door. There is a sight in one of those rooms that--that
-Oh, don't look into one of them! It will be too terrible-much too tern-
ble."
"Mr. Jobus, in the relation you gave me of affairs here, you candidly
admitted that you kept back some information, which you said must come out
in time. What is it 7",
"Oh, nothing-nothing ! Murder -"
"Murder, did you say ?"
"No, I didn't. It is too soon. Let me save Abel first-let me save Dora
-let me deprive Colonel Elk of the power of avenging himself, beforewe
think of carrying'him to circumstances which would let him see that revenge
and death were all that fate had left to him."
"You are right, Jobus-I won't ask you any more. You can   teed in
your own way. I feel that you are right. We are in the dark, t ; I
suppose there is no objection to our having a light?"
"Oh, no-no. I-that is, the worm will soon light the candle athin hi
that is, captain, go a little way down the stairs and listen;
is any one stirring in the house."
"You may depend there is not," said Lorrinet.  "My-earis are till tt
acute, and if there were, I should be sure to hear them. All  quitetill
the place."                                        L     e    ndae
Jobus was reassured by this statement on the part of Lorrinet; and a e
considerable difficulty, for he had smashed the candle quite fiat, he succeeded
in setting it up in the stick, in a very dilapidated condition, indeed; and then
placing it upon the floor, he got his matches, and soon set it alight.
" Here we are," said Jobus. "Here we are. It will soon burn up. Oh,
gracious ! where are you ?"to
Captain Lorrinet had gone a few steps down the attic stairs to listen, while
Jobus was lighting the candle, so that Johns for the moment missed him.
"I am here," said Lorrinet. "You may be quite at ease, for the house is,
I assure you, as still as the grave."
Jobus held the light up about the height of his head, and suddenly le
began shaking so, that Captain Lorrinet was quite alarmed to see him, and
thought some fearful form of indisposition had come over him. Jons made
several efforts to speak, but could not. He pointed to the floor, and his hag-
gard lips parted, and his eyes seemed starting from their sockets; and at last
he managed to say-.
" There ! there ! Oh, look!I"
Captain Lorrinet did look, and he saw a broad stream of dark colored
liquid upon the landing. It had crept out of one of the attics, under the ill-
fitting door, and had made its way right along the landing, and was dropping
in coagulated masses down the stairs.
"It is blood !" said Lorrinet.                            The blood
"Blood !" shrieked Jobus, as he dropped the light  "Blood!  T blo
of the murdered man ! Yes, it is blood ; and so murder, you see, will out ."
"Hush !" cried Lorrinet. "Hush! for Heaven's sake ! You will ruin all
by these exclamations. Hush ! I implore you !"

BROTHER, THE~'OLONEL.                    17b
CHAPTER XLVII.
Tu terrible sight that had come upon the senses of Captain Lorrinet and
Jobus, upon the attic landing of'Colonel Elk's house, had the effect for a few
moments of completely petrifying them, as it were, and preventing them. from
either moving or speaking, after the utterance of the first natural exclamations
of surprise and alarm.
Jobus had an idea of what had occasioned the appearance; but the young
officer could not possibly know anything of the special cause-of such a sicken-
ing effect. It was Captain Lorrinet, though, who first broke the freezing
silence that had ensued.
"Why, Jobus," he said. " Jobus !-what---what-----
"Oh, dear !" said Jobus.
"What is the meaning of this, my friend? It is blood !"
" I-I-think it is."
"I know it is. What fearful deed has been done here that could give rise
to such a spectacle? Jobus, I say, there are secrets in this house that neither
you nor I ought to deal with. Tb proper authorities alone are the people to
come to this man, and.--."
"Dora," said Johns in a whisper'close to the-ear of Captain Lorrinet.
The young officer started.
"Dora," said Jobus, and he took up the light and held it in his trembling
hands. "One thing at a time if you please, captain. It may be true-oh dear
yes, although perhaps it is a great presumption upon the part of a worm to say
so much, that there are things in this house only to be dealt with by thepro-
per authorities; ebut just now we have something else to do."
p " But, my good friend, admitting-all that, and my feeling the magic of the
appeal you make to me in the nameof Dora-a most dear and sacred name to
me-yet some one may be in such danger and such trouble here, that- "
" Stop," said Jobus. "I beg to state that no one is in trouble here in con-
nexion with that ensanguined stream that has so affected you, and which you
recoil from with a loathing horror.' But I may say that somebody's troubles
are over."
"Over ?"
"To be sure. Who do you think could bestow so much of life's current
upon these old attic stairs and live ?"
"That is true."
"Of course it is ; and so the time, you see, runs on, and she whom you came
to rescue suffers in each passing moment an hour of misery and doubt. Young
man, come with me. There are secrets in this house-secrets that I will pro-
claim trumpet-tongued ; but it is not yet time-not yet time !"
It is always time to proclaim the truth, and to confound villany and
murder !"
"No. The innocent must first'be rescued from the insatiate rage of the
defeated villain. Let him feel that there is no innocent heart upon which he
can, in the first moments of his wild passion at the failure of his great wicked-
ness, work his brutal vengeance."
"I understand you, Jobus ; you are my better angel."
"Oh dear, no. An earth worm-a here earth worm, that happens to be
gifted with the power of speech. Follow me-follow me."
"I will, Jobus."
No one could doubt the courage of Captain Lorrinet; but that thick and
slimy stream of blood, that like some hideous snake was winding its way down
the attic stairs, made him shudder again, and had for-a time robbed his cheek
of its color. He followed Jobus to the foot of the attic stairs without a word;
and then Jobus turned and looked at him, and said with a sigh-
"You tremble yet."
g I do, Jobus. It is-that !"

I

J

x_                                      .

smannem


.

fIEADS  ND HE.lrTS; 0Rs

The young officer pointed to the stairs.
To be sure it is," said Johus.  I know what it is well enough; but it'
will not be wise to say anything to Dora of it."
'.Ohs no-no !"
fIt is not well to drag such a'delicate rose bud through a slaughter house
of horrors.".
" Peace-peace ! Tell me, man, where I may find her-tell me only where
she is. and I will essay what eloquence I am master of to get her from this
place."~
Johns pointed to a door, and placed .the light in the captain's hands.
"Behold," he said, "that is the door of the young maid's chamber. Remem-
ber that she is Abel Morton's sister."
"Where are you going, Jobus ?"
"About afihirs of my on. You will meet me on the staircase ; but should
he come home unexpectedly-mind y ou I do not think that it is at all likely
that he will-but should he do so, I shall rely upon you, for I feel that a worm
will not be able to cope with such as he isa"
'-Come here in an instant if you have any idea that lk is in the house,"
said Lorrinet, "and I will protect you."
"Good. ' Now, young man, I think that w'hen you tell Dora that she is
who she is, there will be no hesitation upon her part in leaving this house.
Try it."
"I wJobus disappeared down the stairs in the darkness in a moment, leaving
the young officer in what he, each moment, felt to be one of the most awk-
ward of situations.
How should he begin his address to Dora?' How, in the first instance,
should he win her confidence sufficiently to induce her to believe that his
appearance in that house, at such an hour, was for a good and innocent pur-
pose?
Captain Lorrinet did not quite know what an advocate he would have in the
breast of the young girl herself, and how readily one so pure and innocent as
she, would give credence to the loved object. ie did not know, although it
was a dear and blessed hope to him, at tunes, t~o think that such might be the
case, that to Dora he was the one blessed object that she clothed in all the
glowing colors of a youthful f icy, and believed to he something, in purity, and
in goodness more than all oth  She loved him!'h he had be   told was
He paused at the door of that ch mber within   hed    ben olents
all that he loved ; and with an irre solution that wasted precious moments: he
forbore. to tap upon the panel.
A clock struck !
It was in the hall of the house that the ock was placed ; but the clear bell-
like tone amid the silence of the night, en eup the staircase to the startled
ears of Captain Lorrinet.
It was as if some voice had whispered to  -    -  ,
"Lorrinet, time flies, and you linger here doi g nothian.t edgentlyop
With a start he stepped forward close to the  or,and ppegey
the panel.
A faint cry from within replied to the summons.
Lorrinet tapped again, and then ho heard a move nt i the room, nd
placing his lips close to thekeyhole l:e said- n
"Dora ! Dora! fear nothing.  ,t is a friend-one who  mild be to you
the dearest of all friends-who speaks to you."mudden
"   He thought that there was some faint reply made to him; . but a sude
crashing noise in the floor below drowned at that moment all other sounds.
" Dora! Speak again! Oh, speak again! It is --Lorrinet. Oh, doy
not know my voice ?"
"It's only the worm," said a hollow voice from the landing below. "Don't
be alarmed."

M2Y A1~TE ~, TAE PA ONEL.

17 7(

176

..             ;

captain Lorrinet was aware that Jobus was apprehensive he had construed
the sound that had echoed through the house into an alarm, and so had come-
to assure him that all was tight. He ought to have been grateful to poor
Jobus ; but at that moment he was not, for he thought that the sound of
Jobs' voice again drowned some-few words that were spoken from within
the room by Dora.atwr                             pknfowiiv
"1 hear you," said Lorrinet.. "All's right."
-Oh !" said Jobus, and then all was still below,
' Dora-Dora !" said Lorrinet, "I come to rescue you from danger-from
erha s dea th itself, or from perhaps worse than death. Do you hear me,
The door was suddenly opened, and pale and agitated, Dora appeared fully
dressed upon the threshold of it.
"I do know your voice," she said, "and I have but to implore of you if you
bme Ise, to kill me, for it is only in death that I can know peace. Oh, kill
"Kill you?"
"Yes ; you have told me that you love me, and yet I find you here the guest
of a man who loves no one who loves not virtue, but who takes to his bosom
hate and crime as dear companions. Oh, why are you here?  Why, of all
men are youi here ?"
"To rescue you. Dora. You cannot suppose for one moment that I could
have another object in coming to this house?  Oh, do not wrong me so far as
to fancy that 1 am the guest of Colonel Elk. No, Dora, I am here in his
absence-.-I have made my way here to rescue you from him and from there
vile machinations of his odious plans. Dora, I ask you to trust me and to fly
with me,"
" ,Heaven ! I dare not 1'"
es  Let    explain all. I will take you at once to the home of my aunt,
who is a lady of respectable reputation, and who will for my sake now, and
for your own when she comes to look upon you and to know you, afford you
an asylum Oh, do not hesitate ! Moments are precious-I know not what
obstruction in the way of your escape, Colonel Elk, were he to return, might
-not place against me."
"Oh, God, direct me now !'"
"Come, dear one, come with me. Trust to the heart that beats only for
you. It seems providential that in the dead hour of the night, I should have
found you up."
"I have not dared to retire to rest in this house since-since  "
She burst into tears at the recollection of the brutal insult from Lord Car.
lin to which she had been subjected.
"You shall tell me all that at another and a more fitting time," said Cap-
tain Lorrinet. "I believe, now, that Jobus waits for us."
"The worm does !" said a voice from the landing below. "He-he! Oh,
did a worm really laugh ? Come-come !"
"Oh, Dora, do not say aught to danger this plan of escape. Feeling now
that you have nothing in the shape of relationship to tie you to this must
boldly criminal man-"
"Re is my uncle."
" No?  How say you that ?"
Captain Lorrinet pressed his hand upon his head, as he said-
Oh, how foolish of me. In my confusion I have omitted to tell yQu Dorm,
who and what you really are."'
"Who and what I really am? Explain the mystery."
Let the worm!" said Jobus from below, and then advancing about half a
dozen steps up to the second floor, he said-" Dora is not Dora, Louisa Mor-
ton is her name. She is the daughter of Sir John Mortoni a worthy worm

K
4           4
T

"_   r_
_

.
'
..  ;_


g
t --
- , -, , :
f
h   . "  ''  r

178

HEADS AND HEARTS;  OR,

-I mean gentleman. Oh, dear me ! The colonel, with the aid of two mst
abandoned characters, stole her when a child from the arms of her fond, doting
father. She has no tie to Colonel Elk."
Dora uttered a cry of joy, and advanced two steps towards Lorrinet; but
when she found that he caught her in his arms, she shrunk back from him
again, and tremblingly clung to the balustrade of the staircase, as she said in
a faint voice-
"I am told a different story. Oh, where is the proof-the proof?"
'The confession," said Jobus, "of one of the abandoned characters."
"Ah ! who is he!"
"Here he is, Miss Dora-I mean Louisa. I am that man. You can give me
to a policeman as soon as you like."
' Oh, listen to me, I implore you." said Lorrinet. "I have inquired into
all the particulars of the story, and I find this true. You are the daughter of
Sir John Morton, who for so many years as he has lost you, has but lingered
out a nearly broken-hearted existence. Believe it---oh, believe it, for if there
be truth in Heaven it is true !"
"The air and tone of sincerity in which Captain Lorrinet spoke, was not
to be questioned. It was quite out of question, too, that, feeling with regard
to him as she, Dora, felt, she could longer doubt him. She turned to-
wards him with so soft and sweet a smile, that it was to him enchantment
to look at her ; and while the silent tears still coursed each other down her
cheeks, she said-
"I do believe all that you have told me-indeed, I do, and am very, very
happy.
She did not now resist the young officer as he folded her in his arms, and
gently kissed her cheek, and whispered to her-
-"By this kiss I ask you to be mine, dear Dora.
"Yours, and yours only !"
"Oh, joy ."
' Hem !" said Jobus.1
Lorrinet started.
"Oh, we waste precious moments, dear Loo-for that shall be the name,
now, by which I will call you. It is time that we should fly from the house
at once."
"But what power can such a man as Elk now have over me or you. Why
should we fear him ?"
' Thus spoke the courageous spirit of innocence," said Captain Lorrinet.
"But Abel Morton is your brother, and my dearest friend, and it is necessary
that, as yet, truth and innocence should do things secretly, even as falshood
and guilt would do them, to save him."
" Ah, I-understand. I will go."     ,
"At once-at once, dear one-at once. Lean upon my arm. Ah ! now you
tremble. Do not so ! You are safe-oh, so safe with me. Think you that
it is possible that all the world could injure you while you are by my side?
Ah, no ! My own, my beautiful, I feel a giant's strength with you to defend.
Come--come, my Loo, do not tremble."
"Quick !-oh, quick !" said Jobus. Follow me."
Trembling, despite all the assurances of safety that her lover could breathe
into her ear, and despite the conviction at her own heart that they were all
true, poor Loo-for we now feel that that is the name we ought to give
her-was led by Lorrinet to the landing-place of the floor below.
Jobus was there.
-"Well, Miss Loo," he said, "this is an escape. I have a long story to tell
you, but there will be a better time to-Ah ".
The cry that Johus uttered was such as might have come from him if
some one had suddenly planted a dagger in his heart.
'What is it ?" eagerly inquired Lorrinet.
"Oh. God! what has happened ?" said Loo.

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

179

H ish! hush ! hish !" said Jobus, as he crept up the staircase backwards
again, and his very hair seemed to bristle upon his head with fright. "lHe,
he is coming. I thought that it would have been better to end all to-mor-
row, but fate says no, no. It must be now-now."       *
"What mean you ?"
"Silence !".
They did listen, and they heard the rattle of a key in the lock of the street
door, and then they knew what Jobus meant.
Colonel Elk had come home !
"Loo," said Captain Lorrinet, quite calmly, "leave all to me. Go into the
room, dear one. I will be with you in a moment--Jobus ?"
"Y-e-es ?"
"We must confront Colonel Elk."
" Oh---oh ! He don't think I am here. He thinks I am up stairs, and that
it is my blood-Stop;--an idea ! Hush ! Go into that room both of you.
Go at once, I say-oh, go. Now-now--take the light with you-no, blow
it out-that will do.'
Bang went the street door shut, and a footstep was heard in the passage.
" He comes," added Jobus in a whisper. "He has only paused to light a
match. Ah,'he has a night-light with him. Hish ! hish ! He-he comes."
Captain Lorrinet clasped Loo round the waist, and carried her into the draw-
ing room, but he placed her in the first chair he came to'that was out of the
way of the door, and then with a pistol in his hand he stood half on the land-
ing, with the object of supporting Jobus in what he was about to do, and of
protecting him from Elk if he should fail.
The young officer had gathered from the disjointed expressions of Jobus,
pretty well what was his meaning in wishing to face Colonel Elk upon that
occasion alone.
CHAPTER       XLVIII.
Tnrs return of Elk to his house at such an hour was a very uncommon
thing; but the fact was, that his mind was in a state of great distraction, and
the thought of what the morrow might produce, although all seemed to be
going well with his plans, much disturbed him.
The possibility of something very much amiss taking place had come over
him so strongly, that he had thought it 'advisable to repair to his house, and
there make such disposition as to enable him to meet every inquiry.' He was
anxious and terrified, he knew not why.
There was one thin too, that he felt ought to be done in case of accident,
and that was, to get r of the dead body of Johns, which he supposed to be
lying in its gore in the attic where the guilty Lord Carlin had paid the penalty
of his social offences.
It had been the intention of Elk to get a large sum from the Mortons and
then leave England at once, taking Loo with him;- but if anything should hap-
pen to cause him to remain in England, it was but a matter of ordinary security
to him that he should put his house in order.
Such reasons and such anxieties had brought Colonel Elk home upon that
eventful night, so -contrary to his habit ; for when he left as he had done that
-evening, it was seldom that he crossed his own threshold again till the dawn
of morning.
One may imagine now, the state of agitation and alarm that poor Dora was
'n as she felt that in some shape or way there must now ensue a collision'
between her friends and that man whom she had so much reason to hold in
detestation.
The colonel slowly ascended the stairs,
Jobus stood upon the very verge of the topmost stair, with his arms out-
stretched before him, and his face pale from excitement and terror, lest that

I

i

t ,_


p

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

180

which he was striving to do might not have all the effect upon Elk that he
wished ; so that he presented an appearance such as the most consummate actor
could not have put on, with all the wish to do so.
The night-light that Colonel Elk carried was one that was by his orders
always placed upon a marble slab in the hall, so that he could have no diffi-
culty, let him come in when he would, in lighting it by the aid of the box of
matches by its side. As yet the little lamp had not had time fully to send
forth its utmost power of' illumination ; moreover, the draught of cold air upon
the staircase diminished the flame somewhat, and it was only in a dreamy sort
of twilight that the colonel slowly ascended, with his mind full of dark resolves
and bantering fears.
Jobus did not move nor speak, but still as death itself, he preserved that
fixed attitude at the head of the stairs.
On. on, came the colonel!  -
"Oh, Lorrinet," whispered Dora, "what will happen ?"
"Nothing to harm thee, darling."
" But-but---'"
"Hush, I implore you. All is well."
Dora covered her fair face with her hands, and waited in agonised expecta-
tion of some dreadful scene.,
Every nerve in the body of young Lorrinet was, in a manner of speaking,
screwed up to its utmost state of tension, and he was prepared at a moment's
notice, to rush out upon Colonel Elk to the rescue of Jobus.
On came the colonel !
There was a something in the air, or some slight wavy alteration in the
light, contingent upon the presence of Johns; but the colonel, who all the
way up to within two steps of where Jobus stood had kept his eyes fixed
upon the floor, suddenly raised them, and encountered the fixed and terrified
gaze of the man whom he had so much reason to suppose a corpse in the attic
above, and whose dead body was then, in its cumbrous troublesomeness to
get rid of, occupying his thoughts._
The look of the colonel for the space of time during which you might have
counted slowly five or six, was truly dreadful ; and not more strange and
terrifying was the gaze of Johns, for fear-fear of that man who had for
years held his very soul in thraldom--had taken possession of the poor shrink-
ing spirit.
Elk was not superstitious ; but such a sight as that, and at such an hour,
too, when he was not looking for anything so terrible to startle his imagina-'
tion from real, tangible troubles, appalled him.
The colonel uttered a shriek, and fell backwards with the light, and rolled
to the foot of the stairs, where he lay upon his face perfectly insensible, partly
from the mental shock he had sustained, and partly from the effects of that
fearful fall.
Jobus still preserved the same attitude which he had assumed almost
unconsciously, and which had so much aided him in - terrifying the colonel.
When Dora heard the shriek, she echoed it, and dropped upon her knees,
clasping her hands in prayer; but Lorrinet sprang to the landing, crying-
"Jobus !-Jobus ! How is it with you?  Speak Jobs !"
Jobs was silent.       t
"A light-a light ! Oh, what would I not give for a light !" .
Jobus uttered a groan.
There came a faint illumination from the hall, and young Lorrinet ran
down the staircase, and, without meaning to do so, trod upon the colonel's
back. By some accident the little lamp that. Elk had carried, although the
glass of it was shivered to atoms, and although it lay upon its side, had not
gone out.-
Lorrinet seized it in a moment,- and ascended the stairs again, calling out-
"Loo-Loo, my darling, all is well ! There is no danger. Why-why,
Tobus-J obus, I say !"    -

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

181

There was Jobus on the top stair, with his arms still stretched out, as they
had been when the colonel ascended.
" Jobus !" again cried Lorrinet, "do you not know me, or are you too much
terrified to move? My good friend, speak to me. Loo !-Loo, dear ! Come
here !"
"Yes, Arthur."
That was the first time she had called him by his christian name of Arthur.
How the sound from her lips thrilled through the heart of the young lover !
"I am here, Arthur."
"Look at Jobus ! Oh, speak to him. He is transfixed with terror ! Look
at him, Loo, dear !"
 Loo approached Jobus, and touched him upon the breast, as she spoke to
him-
" Jobus, my dear friend!"
With a deep sigh, Jobus dropped his arms, and then there came a gush of
tears from his eyes, and tottering back, he sank upon a seat that was there.
upon the landing of the stairs.
"Why, what is this ?" said Loo, as she placed her hand upon his arm, and
looked in his face. "What is it that has so much affected you? We'are
safe now. You have saved me, and we are safe. Cheer up, old friend, to
whom I owe so much."
"Oh, Heaven'!" said Jobus-" oh, Heaven ! lie is coming !-he is com-
ing1"
"No," said Lorrinet, "you have terrified him, and he lies at the foot of the
staircase in a trance. Let us leave this house now at once. It is an ill-
omened one for all of us. Come, Jobus-come."
"Yes-yes, I-oh, dear-I will come. But if there is any dark place that
a worm might- creep into-oh, dear !-I had better go. Hish !-hush! I
thought I heard him again !    r       ng
"No-no; that is but your disordered fancy, Jobus. Come along with
me ; I will find you an asylum, be assured ; and all will yet be well.. Our
object is achieved, and Loo is saved."
"Our object ?" said Jobus.  "One of our objects-one! We had two
objects. Oh, yes !-God, no i-yes-yes!    He !-he!   It is-it is-he!
No, the worm did not laugh. But our object is achieved-he !"
Jobus had thrust his hand into a breast-pocket of his apparel; and then
he clutched something that seemed at once to convince him that all was well,
for his countenance brightened, and he looked much as he had looked of late
when most hopeful.
"You are ready, then, Jobus ?"
"Oh-he !-yes, I am."
"Come, then, after me at once."
Lorrinet took the arm of the gentle and confiding girl, and placed it within
his own, and descended the staircase with her. Jobusfollowed, saying, "lie
-he !" at intervals, and then answering nobody, for Lorrinet paid no atten-
tion to him, as he was looking into the sweet eyes of his Loo, thatphe had-not
laughed.
In this way they reached the hall, and the young captain and Loo stepped
over the prostrate form of the colonel ; but when Johns came to it, owing to.
being in the shadow, he did not see it, but trod right upon his old:master's
back, and feeling a sudden alarm at what it could possibly be that was under
his feet, he stumbled, and rolled over him in the hall in a very ludicrous man-
ner.
"Murder !" said Jobus, "oh, murder ! I knew we should never get out
of the house so quietly as this. Oh, dear !"
"Why, Jobus, I could never have believed that you were so timid."
"Timid? Oh-oh, worms are naturally. Oh, dear, what's that?  What's
that lying on the mat at the foot of the stairs."

r
..
s
v                               + '                           r                                                             .w
}                                                                                  .                                           .  w
a                                                                                                                    1
-                                                                                          p
r
i                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -          i

- -
-- ; _ __ .
_       -                          -
-         _   :-
,-                ' _         -


b

MY BROTHER, TH-E COLONEL.

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

"Why, that," repeated Lorrinet, "is your late master, and the devil's ser-
vant. I think."
"Eh?   The colonel ?"
"The same."
"Oh, gracious! lie's only pretending to be dead. You can't kill him. Oh
-oh--oh !"
Johns made a wild rush along the passage and opened the street door in a
moment, and ran out into the street before Lorrinet could interfere to stop
him. To be sure, the young captain was not veryslow in following the exam-.
ple of Jobus, and he was right glad when the fresh breath of the early morn-
ing air fanned the cheek of his darling Loo. They closed the outer door of
Colonel Elk's house, and then they stood looking up and down the street for
Jobus, but no Jobus could they see.
"He is gone," said Loo, gently.
"Yes, dear one."
"And left me to--to-"
"To me. But then you trust me ?
" Ah, yes, I do !"
"With all your heart ?"
"' With all my heart, Arthur. With all my heart, I-"
She sobbed and clung to him. There was more eloquence in the action
than there could have been in any words. He felt that that young, and beau-
tiful, and innocent creature relied upon him for her happiness in this world ;
and at that moment, with the canopy of Heaven over him, and the soft morn-
ing light just peeping through the shadows of the night, he vowed that no ill
should approach her that was possible for him to ward off from her heart.
"Dear-dear, Loo," he said, and his voice shook as he spoke to her, "I
will now take you at once to my aunt's house in Burlington street. We will
walk that little distance, and the fresh air will revive you. That lady already
knows from me who and what you are, so far as I can tell her ; but it was
not possible that I should find words in which to tell her all."
"Not all?  Arthur, Arthur, you should have told her all."
"Nay, my darling, how could I find words in which to tell her how dear
and good and beautiful you are
" Ah, Arthur, is that what you left untold? I fear you flatter the poor
heart that you would make so proud with your love."
"No, oh, no. It is so rich a treasure that I cannot flatter it. Flattery
only lives but by comparison, and to what can I compare you, my Loo ?"
It came like a flash now across the sky, that faint hue of early morning
light; and as Loo looked up, it fell upon her face, and it fell, too, upon the
young officer who was with her. They were both cast in as fine a mould as
nature could create for her children ; and when their gaze now met, the smile
that they exchanged was really beautiful. She crept a little closer to him,
and he placed his arm around her trembling form.
"Henceforth, dearest and best, we live but for each other."
"But for each other," she responded. faintly. "But for each other, my
Arthur. I never yet-"
"Yet what, dear Loo ?"
"Felt half so happy."
"And I, my heart's treasure, I, too-"
"Move on !" cried a watchman, "will you?  Move on !"

CHAPTER XLIX.
IT is half-past eleven o'clock, and we introduce the reader to that large and
handsome apartment in the Albany, which to poor benighted Abel Morton has
been the scene of many delirious excitements and so much misery, but of not"
one pure pleasure that he could look back upon and say-
"That-was sinless, and worth the remembering."
But of all the terrors-of all the frightful feelings of remorse that had from
time to time visited the brain of poor Abel, his present feelings were the most
agonising, and the most acute..
While he was pursuing that sad and fatal career, which separated him in
affection and in confidence from all those towards whom he ought to have felt
the warmest attachment, he had tried to calm some'-of the transports of his
grief by telling himself that they would cast him off and cease to love him; but
now when he had found father-mother-loving and gentle Emma-friends
-ay, all clinging to him in the wreck of his fortunes, uttering no word of
reproach to him--cheering his drooping spirits, when it was.theirs that wanted
most cheering-consulting with him upon the best route out of the sea of'
troubles that encompassed him, and into which they had plunged but to keep
him gracious company, as though no voluntary acts of his had entailed upon
him and them ad much misery; when he saw and felt that, Abel sunk indeed,
and felt how unworthy he was of the rich gifts of affection which only a little
time before then he had thrust aside for the meretricious ornaments of false.
friendship, false love, and feverish delight..
It was half-past eleven.
A carriage arrives at the entrance of the Albany, and from it alights Sir
John. Morton, how pale and agitated l-Lady Morton, too, she has come to
town to see her darling boy. poor soul !-Emma, the much loved and heroic
who in hours of sunshine and happiness would not tell her love, but
boldly avowed it when the storm-clouda were upon the loved one's destiny--
qMrs. ennet who seemed, by the odd snuffling she kept up, to have the worst
of all bad colds in her head.
And lastly, there came Abel Morton. What a shadow Abel looked' We must
pity him--we cannot choose but pity him now, because after all, Abel was not
intentionally and with malice aforethought, wicked.
These then were the parties that made their way to the outer door of Abel's
chamber ; and the old man tried to smile as he took the arm of his son, and
said--
"My dear. I see we are in good time."
There was no need to knock for admittance, for Rowley was standing at the
door gazing out; and when he sat Sir John and the ladies, he gave utterance
to his agitated feelings in his own true vernacular, for he said-
"Oh, my eye !"
We must not conclude from this that there was anything the matter with
Rowley's eye; but simply that he felt constrained to give utterance to some
exclamatory sentence, and that that was the mildest expletive, if we may call
it such, in his vocabulary.
Nobody took any notice of the ejaculation.
Rowley held the outer door wide open; and the visitors, together withAbel,
all passed into the chamber, and took their seats in that fine room, the gaudy
decorations of which had given such supreme delight to the imagination of
Abel, when first he called them his own. How faded and stage-like he thought
they looked now !
And now Abel would make his mother sit in his arm-chair, and upon the
grand dressing-gown, which lay there nicely folded up by Rowley ; and Lady
Morton held her son's hand in hers, and strove to look cheerful and' happy,
while her heart was all but broken. Poor lady !

182

.,..4. .,.. .. ...,. _ _....,.... .. . .

s
...,..'.
"
. $r .


I4

MY BROTHER THE COLONEL.

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

It was a strange. and yet a heart-rending sight to see the looksof that family
-to see how they all, with the exception of poor Abel, tried to smile. What
a watery kind of sunshine those smiles were !
"Father," said Abel, "you are not so well."
"Oh yes, my boy, I am quite well."
"Quite," said his mother. "We-we all feel so well; don't we, Emma ?"
"To be sure, dear aunt ; and if Abel would only look cheerful and happy, I
am sure we would all be-be--very--"-
A choking sensation prevented her from completing the sentence ; but Lady
Morton held up her finger in a warning attitude to her, and she controlled the
burst of feeling that was upon the point of putting to flight all her previous
tolerably well acted equanimity.
Abel saw this, and it nearly killed him. Perhaps his father observed the
blank, despairing look upon his face, for he said-
"Abel, my boy, we are allfrightening ourselves about a shadow, and there
is one very foolish thing that we are all doing, besides."
"What is that, father?  Alas ! I thought that I only did both the foolish
and the wicked things."
" Hush-hush ! Not wicked. But I was going to say that we were all a
set of cowards, for here we are, with our minds full of one subject, and yet we
dread to mention it. Let us take courage. We came here by the force of
circumstances to make such terms as we can with a scoundrel, that is all;
and when the interview is over, we will all return with-light hearts to Hamp-
stead."
"Oh, father-father, I--
A sharp knock at the outer door prevented Abel from finishing what he was
about to say and Mr. Carnac was announced.
The attorney entered, looking calm and confident, and bowed to all present.
"In good time," he said. "Our man will be punctual, I dare say ; but it's
ten minutes to twelve yet."
"We are glad to see you, old friend," said Sir John. "Do you still think
that-that-"
" Thit what, Sir John ?"
"We shall be able to make terms with Elk ?"
"Of course," said the attorney, as he drew off his glove. "Of course, I hope v
none of you are vexing yourselves with the idea that anything will turn out
amiss?  Pho-pho ! It will be all right."
What a thrill of joy crept over their hearts as they heard this ! Lady Mor-
ton almost screamed with delight, and Emma had, to go and pretend to look
out at the window at nothing, to conceal her emotion.
Dab !
Yes-that was a knock at the door. There was an arrival of some sort; but
it surely could not be Elk coming in such humble guise?  They all waited
with some anxiety to know who this could be, and at length Rowley opened
the room door, and said-
"Please, sir, he won't say who he is, but he wants you, sir."
A head and face appeared thrust forward under Rowley's arm, and the voice
of Jobus said-
"It's only the worm, ladies and gentlemen. Pray excuse such a reptile for
wriggling into good company, but-he-he !-oh !-dear, if we come to con-
sider, we are all worms, all-all. Oh; dear, what am I saying ?"
"Come in, Jobus," said Mr. Carnac. "We are all glad to see you-very
glad to see you."
"Thank you. All well?   Dear me, what a-world this is to be sure. Oh
dear-oh, dear. Nobody need wish to---"
"Why, Mr. Jobus, where on earth are you getting to?  Come out of there,
do, I beg of you."
"Eh 1" said Jobus, who had taken but two steps from the door, and then
suddenly popped under the table, the rich tapestry covering of which swept

the flooi with its bullion fringe. "Eh l Oh, excuse me, Pd rather be here,
indeed I would. It's a nice shady sort of place, and if you will all be so good
as to say nothing to the colonel about such a worm as I am being here at all,
but leave me to take my own course in this business, why-oh 'dear me, it
will be much better."
" Well, but-"
"Nay, Mr. Lawyer, let me be the judge in this case. Elk will say things,
not knowing that I am here, that he would not say if he saw me."
"There is something in that."
"Murder !" said Mrs. Bennet, "somebody has got hold of my ankle."
"It's only me, mum." said Jobus. "I thought it was the leg of the table."
"Drat the man, what a hymna he is, to be sure."
"Captain Lorrinet !" announced Rowley ; and the young officer made his
appearance in the room, and going directly up to Sir John, shook him by both
hands, saying-
"My dear sir, let me hope you are well and hopeful."
"I am-I am. My dear," (to Lady Morton,) "this is Captain Lorrinet,
whom next to my own son, Abel, I hold dear. Emma, you will be great friend
with Captain Lorrinet, and Abel will not be jealous."
"Not a whit," said Abel.
"This is very kind of you all," said Lorrinet, "very kind and good ; but tell
me, has that strange mixture of goodness and weakness-of courage and tim-
idity-poor Jobus, appeared yet ?"
"The worm," said Jobus, "will come to the surface when he is wanted."
12

184

185

,
aF;


I.

186

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

"Oh !"
Bang, bang, bang !-Rat, tat, tat, tat !-Bang!"
They all started as this tremendous knock came at the outer door of the
chambers; but Mr. Carnac held up his hand, saying-
" Calm-calm ! Be calm, I pray you all. This is no doubt the enemy. Be
calm. Leave hin to me."
"Colonel Elk !" announced Rowley, "and Mr. Mouldy."
"Mr. who ?" said Lorrinet.
"A Bow street office" whispered Mr. Carnac, to the young captain. " He
thinks to frighten us with his presence."
"You can walk to and fro in the Albany, Mouldy," said Elk, in a calm,
assured voice. "If I want you I will call for you. You understand me
"Yes, sir," said the man, as ifhis head were in a quart pot.
"Very good. Well, Rowley, how are you by this time?   Fine morning,
but a little chilly or so. Are our friends here? Is Abel at home, you dog, eh
-eh?    Oh, he is here, all's right. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honor
to bid you good morning. Pray be seated-I hate all ceremony. Ah, a snug,
charming set of chambers, these. I suppose they will be to let ?"
The colonel was attired in the very height of fashion ; but there was a piece
of sticking-plaster across his nose, and extending to one cheek, which showed
that his fall down stairs some hours before had not taken place entirely with-
out doing him some injury. The cool insolence of the ruffian was such that,
for a few moments, even Mr. Carnac, who was profoundly cool and collected,
could not find words in which to address him.
Abel stepped forward, and confronted Elk, who stared him steadily in the
face ; and taking out his gold snuff box, regaled himself with a pinch of the
contents, and then, with matchless effrontery, said-
"I believe you don't do anything this way, Abel ?"
"cFiend !"
"Hold !" said Mr. Carnac. "This is not right. Mr. Abel Morton, you will
oblige me by taking a seat, and being silent. Colonel Elk, I believe we meet
here upon business,?"
"Very good, sir."
"Then, sir, any levity or any irrational affectation of calmness, however well
acted, is out of place." -
"Indeed ?"
"Yes, sir. Having thus made that remark, allow me at once to proceed to
business. You have a bill of exchange, accepted by Sir John Morton, and for
the sum of one thousand pounds. Produce it, and we will pay it with in-
terest."
"Very good. That is the fact ; I have such a bill of exchange, purporting
to be accepted by Sir John Morton, but in reality forged by Abel Morton. It
is here."
Thercolonel struck his breasts he spoke.
"It is here, and I am well armed, and an officer of Bow street is within my
call. You understand all that, sir? Well, the bill is for one thousand pounds,
this is a clear sum. The only quarrel is about the interest. I charge for that,
twenty-nine thousand pounds more. Give me a cheque for thirty thousand
pounds, and the bill is yours."                     ;
"Impossible !"
"Not at all, except the will to do, it is wanting."
"We refuse."
"Very well, I care not. I came here to oblige you all ; but upon your
refusal, then, to treat with. me, I will give Abel Morton in charge for the
felony."
"While you are rendering yourself liable to criminal proceedings, Colonel
Elk, by trying to compromise for the sum you have named ?" said Mr.
Carnac-
"Exactly so, my dear sir. I compliment you upon your judgment, But--

Sail

ry                                                                                                                                                                                                                I                                           ..wwwxwv w.a.w              't  _ ,_       M
KI .  -                                                 ,                     _          , F

; :
t                                                                      --

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.                      18T
but, you see, let me have compromised ever so much, that don't save Abel !
Ha ! ha ! What says sir John ?"
Sir John Morton stepped foward, and looked at Elk for a few moments in
silence, and then he said-
"Sir, if I were to give you the sum you mention,.it would leave me and
mine destitute ; but you-you cannot-you do not mean to say that----"
"Go on, sir."
"7 mean, that you really cannot be such a devil as to wish to take all from
me? Reduce your demand to some reasonable compass, and with the hope
of never looking upon your face again, you-shall have it."
"No. Abel, my old friend, didn't you say the old man had thirty
thousand pounds in the three per cents?
"'Peace, Abel, peace !" said his father, as Abel sprang to his feet, and in
another moment, but that he had been stayed, would have- grappled with
Elk, and held him by the throat. "Peace, boy ! I must settle with this
man."
"Very good, Sir John. I give you credit for a desire to settle. You have
heard the terms, all of you. Now listen to me. If Abel be but once given
into custody his death is certain. His death I say-."
"Oh, God, no !" shrieked Emma, as she sprang forward and knelt at the
feet of Elk. "Spare him ! spare him !"
" Emma," cried Abel, as he rushed forward and raised her, "kneel not to
that fiend in hurhan shape. Disgrace not yourself and all of us. Disgrace
not the majesty of woman by supplicating, him P"
"Listen all !" said Mr. Carnac.  " Listen ! This is-absurd, as Colonel Elk
well knows. The sum he has named is monstrous. I was justified in
offering him on behalf of Sir John Morton the sum of three thousand pounds,
and that is the extent we will give for the bill."
" Ha! ha !" laughed Elk, as he indulged himself with another pinch of
snuff from his gold snuff -box and leant back against the table. " Ha ! ha!'
Three thousand pounds ! A mere bagatelle. My dear sir, you must think
me crazed to dream of accepting such a sum for the neck of the scion of the
house of Morton. Why, you only put a tenth part of the value upon our
friend Morten that I do. Ha-! ha ! This must trouble him dreadfully."
"Father !" cried Abel, "let me put an end to all this by, at once and for
all, declaring that I will not allow you to yield to this base wretch's demands.
I will not, cannot stand by and hear him speak to you in such a strain. By
my own acts I must now stand or fall. Those whom I love and reverence
more than ever I did shall not be sacrificed for me. The disgrace of the
death that this villain, who God knows is more guilty than I. inasmuch as he
played the part of my evil genius and tempter, shall not fall upon me or upon
you. I can by my death, expiate the past; but it is in the power of all who
live to throw themselves upon the memory of this circumstance in their own
way.
".Abel ! Abel !" shrieked his mother.
"Oh, hush! mother, do not speak to me ; I am very unworthy, I know
and feel that I am so, and that in all this affair I play a selfish part. Ti I,
and I alone who peril 1l you possess, father. ILam the sole obstacle to the
continuance of that life of gentlemanly ease,. the right to the enjoyment of
* which you have nobly won of your country. Elk, I defy you!"
, "No, Abel, no !" cried Sir John.
"Yes father, I will to his face defy this man, and dare him to do his
worst. It is possible-I do not know yet but that it is possible-he may
destroy me; he may kill me, for let the end be what it may, this man is my
actual murderer; but I do know that I will pull him down with me."
"Ha! ha !" said Elk.
"No, wretch, you shall not escape !"
"Indeed! Ha! Well done, Abel; upon my life you haye quite mistaken
your vocation, Abel. It was not the law that you ought to have come from

i
x
a
t
i
r
s t'
.i
F
i
S
t
Y
5{
f
T
r
r
E
Y
F
l
q
2
i
F
k
s
a
i
Y
_E
d
s
I
r
s
a
i
f
,t
I,

(

f             _

f
= ,
.  


If-

188                 hEADS AND HEARTS ; OR,
the paternal roost at Hampstead to pretend to study, but the stage that you
are fitted for. Now, upon my life, those last speeches would quite take with
the gallery ."
"Colonel Elk," said Mr. Carnac."
"Sir, I attend to you. You are the most sane person, I do think, here
present."
CHAPTER        L.
Ir Colonel Elk's compliment, or implied compliment, to the sanity of Mr.
Carnac, depended upon that gentleman preserving a coolness, which he strug-
gled hard to preserve, but failed in so doing, it was a hollow enough piece of
flattery, for the agitation of mind that the attorney was in now, exhibited
itself in his countenance tolerably plainly.
Mr. Carnac, though. managed to say what he wished to say with some
degree of calmness and precision.
"Colonel Elk," he said, "no doubt, the family of the Mortons would do
much for the purpose of avoiding the public scandal of judicial proceedings in
this matter ; and therefore they will pay you handsomely."
"Justo           -
"Hear me out, sir. I say, they will pay you handsomely, but not
ruinously ; and therefore you are wrong in your calculations, if you imagine,
for one moment, that the terms you have this day dictated can be agreed to.
We will take our chance, sir."
"Very good. Rowley."
"Stop, sir; you have pretty intelligibly told us what you mean to do.
Now, we will tell you what our intentions are."
"Thank you; this candor is delicious."
"We will have you indicted as a party concerned in the forgery ; and, upon
the evidence of the Jew money-lender who discounted the bill for you, I
think we can prove pretty well that you had quite as much to do with the
forging, if not a great deal more, than Abel Morton. At all events, you will
be committed as well as he, and probably the royal clemency may be excited
in his favor and not in yours."
"Oh, indeed !""
"Yes, colonel, I have taken the advice of counsel, who is of opinion that
such will be the best mode of proceeding."
"Oh, indeed ! But it won't do. My dear, sir, I have provided against all
that. But it is quite needless, at this stage of the proceedings, to tell you how
I have done so; suffice it that I have."
"What is your ultimatum, then ?"
"Thirty thousand pounds."
Lady Morton advanced with a tottering step towards the colonel, in spite
of Mr. Carnac's efforts to keep her back.
Sir," she said, "it is my son-my only son-indeed, my only child, who
is in peril; I, his mother, implore you to be merciful."
"Madam, I am your most humble and very obedient servant."
"You-you will-be--lenient ?"
"Very, madam. I consent actually to sell my conscience, for I feel that I
ought to give dear Abel into custody at once ; but I consent, solely on your
account, madam, to sell my conscience, as I say, and to actually barter my
sense of public justice for the really insignificant-in comparison with the
sacrifice-sum of thirty thousand pounds !"
Lady Morton tottered back with a deep sigh.
"Colonel Elk," said Captain Lorrinet, stepping forward.
"Ah, Lorrinet, my boy, how are you ?"
"Forbear, sir. Do not provoke me to chastise you on the spot for your

189

-~ -----                 .f

MrY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

insolent familiarity. I am no acquaintance of yours, sir. Do not presume
too far upon my temper, Colonel Elk."
There was that in the tone and in the expression of the young officer's face
that made even Colonel Elk feel that it would not do to provoke an adversary
with whom, in a personal struggle, he would have but a poor chance; so he
merely bowed.
"You seek another gratification than that which the mere acquisition of
money will give you in this affair,"'added Lorrinet. "Now, Elk, I warn you.
You stand upon a precipice."
"Do I?"
"You do. Safe and sure as you fancy yourself, and fenced in as you think
you are by the devilish cunning of hideous crimes; I tell you you stand upon
a mine. Beware ! It is possible that much that has been said to you this
day, has been said for the purpose of allowing you-to escape-of avoiding the
public scandal that would ensue from yo*r prosecution. I think, by your
changing color, that you understand me."
"You threaten, then
"I do, Colonel Elk. I, of all here present, rise to threaten, and you will
find that Lean keep my word."
" Rap ! rap came upon the outer door of the chambers,.and then a kind
of scuffle was heard, and who should rush into the room, making his way be-
tween the legs df Rowley, who in vain tried to stop him, but the Dandoloski's
tiger, in the very tops and smalls that had excited Rowley's admiration on
the former visit of that precocious individual to the chambers.
Placing his hand by the side of his mouth, and standing upon tiptoes, to
give greater vehemence to his voice, the tiger'shouted-
"Madame la Fiorenalla de Dandoloski."
"Who ?" said Mr. Carnac.
"The devil !" said the colonel.
"No, no," said Abel, as he glanced at his mother and at Emma, "not hera
Tell her that--"
" Ah, mon cher Abel," said the Dandoloski, as she appeared at the door
of the room. How was you to do, eh ?"
"I implore you," said Abel, in English ; and then he said rapidly in French,.
"Madame, si vous me regardez-"
"Stop," said the Dandoloski, in good English. "I do not come here, Mr.
Abel Morton, to fret or to annoy you. It is to expose the villany of that
man !"
She pointed to Elk.
"Yes, I learned from his accidental expressions that he was about to come
here this morning to destroy you, Abel. From time to time he has, in his
moments of incaution and exultation at the success, as he thought, of his
villanous schemes, let out sufficient of the plot by which he was compassing
your destruction to enable me to understand it."
"Peace, Helen !" cried Elk.
"No, John Elk, I will not obey you ; but I have come freely to proffer my
advice to those persons whom you would destroy-and to tell them that you
admitted to me that--"
"I will have your life 1"
"No," said Lorrinet, stepping between Elk and the Dandoloski. "Touch
her if you dare, Elk '"
"That," continued Dandoloski, "you yourself concocted a forgery that you
tempted young Abel Morton into the commission of, in order that you might
destroy him and his."
" False !" cried Elk. '"Who will believe the assertions of such a thing as
thou art-an abandoned strumpet 7"
"What I am, John Elk; you made me. God forgive me, I am wicked; I
have been very,.very wicked; but I am not quite-dead to 'all feeling as youare.
Henceforth, we never meet again ; and as for the innocent persons here, and.

i


1;

190

HEADS AND HEARTS ; OR

this boy whom you would have murdered, they can easily find me when they
want me ; and despite all your threats and all you can do, I will appear, and
upon my oath confirm what I have now said."
" Ha-ha !" laughed Elk. "Quite dramatic !"
"You are English, then?".said Lorrinet.
The Dandoloski made him a low bow, as she replied-
"I am. My name is Helen Bros'n. But do you think they would listen
to any one who bore such a name, and spoke in their own tongue, at the Opera?
Oh, no. lam there the Dandoloski. Keep my secret, sir; for though I should
sing like a nightingale, or act like an angel, if it was not foreign, they would
say I was getting money under false pretences, I assure you."
"I believe it. Mr. Carnac, what effect will this lady's evidence have in the
case ?"
"It helps to materially damage that gentleman," pointing to Elk.
"That gentleman does not think so," said Elk.
" Chipps !" said the Dandoloski.
"Here again," said the tiger.
"To the carriage. En avant !"
"I is a-going !"
The Dandoloski left the room; but, oh ! what an awful glance that was
that Elk bent upon her as she did leave it. It spoke of murder ! They all
saw it.
"Now, sir," said Mr. Carnac to the villain. "Now, I presume you feel the
propriety of altering your terms a little ?"
"No, sir.".
"Indeed! Can you be so obstinate ?"
"I can. I repeat again and again: damage me how you may, and to the
utmost extent of your professional ability, yet the case as against our friend
Abel remains in all its cold integrity. He did forge the bill ! Neither in law
nor in morals, Mr. Carnac, do two blacks make a white, I presume. The gov-
ernment will prosecute. My evidence is nothing. It is Sir John Morton who
would commit Abel."
"No-no !" cried Sir John Morton.
"Very good, sir. We shall see."
"Yes," said Lorrinet. "we shall see. Once more, Colonel Elk, I tell you that
we would much rather compromise this affair and get rid of you, than have to
prosecute you. If you will leave this country within twenty four hours, making
your escape from the hands of justice, you shall have the means to do so."
"Thank you. Capital !"
"It is a fair offer."S
"Oh, very, very fair indeed. Ha ! ha! But while I have the bill-the forged
bill, I do not see why I need be in quite such a hurry to bid farewell to Eng-
land. You all talk of damaging me ; but in that you may fail, while my power
to damage you is clear and undoubted. I make my claim. It is now half-
past twelve o'clock. I give you ten minutes longer to accept. or reject my
offer."
"Take ten thousand pounds, and go ?" said Sir John.
"Take fifteen thousand pounds? That is the one half of all that I am worth.
I share with you the proceeds of a life of toil; and I only do so in order that
the name even of Morton shall be held sacred from public gossip or reproach."
Sir John sank back in his chair.
"Take all-all! My boy-my Abel! we will live and die together ! Your
poor old father will yet work for you ; but he will have the joy of holding you
to his heart, and of knowing that you are safe !"
"No-no !" cried Abel in a voice of agony. "Away with scruples ! I have
a duty to perform, and I will do it."
Abel sprang forward to the window. and threw it up.

"Hilloa !" he cried. "officer !"
"Hold !" cried Mr. Carnac; "not yet."
"You are mad, Abel," said Lorrinet ; "this must not be."
"Well," said Elk, "it does look like suicide ; but I will call Mr. Mouldy, if
you really want him. Perhaps, after all, it will be the best way. We can
all adjourn to the police-office, and there settle the remainder of this morning's
work."
These words so alarmed Lady Morton and Emma, that they both sprang for-
ward and- laid hold of Abel, as if by so doing they could save him from the
consequences of the act of criminality he had committed, and which was the
subject of all the misery that had been produced.
"My son-my son !" cried Lady Morton, "my own dear Abel ! Oh fly-
fly from this place ! Surely there is yet time for fight !"
"Mother !" said Abel, "I-oh God, if I were but dead !"
"No-no !"
Emma sobbed bitterly.
"Ladies," said the colonel, "we had much better call in Mr. Mouldy. I
assure you he is a very experienced man in his particular line of business, and
no doubt will manage matters in the most scientific manner possible. There is
no occasion to make a noise by calling out at the open window. The thing
can be done more quietly. Rowley-Rowley !"
"Here !"
"You will see a gentleman with one eye, outside, of the name of Mouldy.
Tell him to walk in, if you please."
"Yes," said Captain Lorrinet, quite calmly. "Tell him to walk in, as Iin-
tend bo give this man Elk into his custody for murder !"
Elk started.
"Indeed, captain? Ha ! That is a good jest."
"To me it is not the worst of all pleasantries, but to your victim it was no
jest. Go, Rowley !"
"No ! Stop ! Listen to me, all of you. You need not mind, Rowley. It
is quite clear to me that we do not quite understand each other yet, and it is
time that we should do so. You all think that I want the life of Abel ; but
such.is. not the case. You think, too, that failing that, I want to leave you in
such poverty as will embitter your existence, but that is a mistake altogether."
"In the name of Heaven, then, what is it," cried Sir John, " that you do
wish ?"
"I will take twenty thousand pounds and go."
"You will ?"
"I will upon my honor, and give you up the bill. It is here."
Colonel Elk took a large black pocket book from his breast-coat-pocket, and
struck it with the flat of his hand.
"You shall have the money."
"No-no !" cried Abel.
"My dear Abel," said the colonel, as he replaced his pocket book and took
out his snuff-box, "you don't know what you say, really. Come, my old
friend, take a pinch, only one, for old acquaintance sake."
"Ha-ha ! certainly," said a voice behind the colonel, and Jobus, who had
crawled from under the table on the opposite side, and got on the top of it,
suddenly dived his finger and thumb into the gold snuff-box, and indulged
himself with a copious pinch !
Colonel Elk turned sharply, and-met Johns face to face !

I

y l      a                                                                                                                     .  g            y                         ..

,.                 ,,,                                                                               __- -  .  .                          _. .,,_........ , .                                               _ ___ N._... ..,_. ._-_- --     - - -   ._          -        _

{

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

191


F

192

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,
CHAPTER LI.

No language could possibly describe the look of Colonel Elk, as, with his
head turned round, he gazed in the face of Jobus. That Jobus, whom he
thought dead-that Jobus, whom he considered to be only lying in his blood
at the house which had been the scene of his murder-that Jobus, whom he
had found to be for so long a very slave, but whom he at last suspected to be
a lion in his path. There he was, face to face with him!
"Oh, dear," said Jobus, "he seems surprised."
The sound of. Jobus's voice broke the spell that was upon the faculties of
Colonel Elk, and, wth a start, he turned round and grappled with Jobus.
"Fiend !-monster !" he shoutel. "You live! I will not be the slave of
any more horrible suppositions ! You live ; but now I will have my revenge !
Now-ha! ha !-now !"
Poor Jobus would, no doubt, there and then have ended his career had
there not been so many present who were both able and willing to take his
part. Young Lorrinet sprang forward and clutched the colonel with such an
iron grip, that he was compelled to let Jobus go, who then fell upon the
floor, looking of a dull blue color in the face.
"Would you murder the man before our faces " said Lorrinet, as he flung
the colonel from him to the farther end of the apartment, where he only saved
himself from falling by catching at the back of a large arm-chair.
"He is killed !" said Sir John Morton.
"No-oh, no," said Lorrinet, as he raised Jobus, and placed him in a seat.
"Oh, no. All is well. The colonel has given him a good clutch by the
throat; but the effects of that will pass away."
"How are you, Jobus ?" said Mr. Carnac.
"The-the-worm-breathes again in a small way.       Oh, dear 1-oh I
Where is-the colonel ?"
"There !"
"Elk?   Oh, dear, no. Worms and colonels don't agree. A little drop of
water, I think. Ah !"
Jobus's countenance began to assume its ordinary color ; and Emmabrought
him a glass of water from some that was upon a side-table, which he drank
with great eagerness ; and then looking towards the colonel, he raised his
right hand and pointed at him, saying as he did so-
" Man, your time has come ! The long and wicked career that you have
gone through is at an end, and the curtain that separates this world from
eternity will soon drop upon you and your doings. I am he whom you
meant to murder, but who has been preserved by that Providence yo9. ever
slighted, and am destined to be your accuser ! I say, your accuser ! They say
that stones will rise against a murderer, b  it is quite clear that worms
can."    E
Colonel Elk stamped upon the floor, as though to steady his nerves, and
then he cried out-
"I don't understand all this. What does it mean?  If Abel Morton is to
be cleared from the commission of a great crime because this man is a thief
and a murderer, then justice has departed from the land."
"I am no murderer !" said Jobus, "I was a-a----"
"Hush !" said Mr. Carnac, "all that is arranged. Colonel Elk, I say, as
I said to you before, we are all prepared to proceed with you before a magis-
trate."
The colonel was staggered. He had thought that his hasty accusation of
poor Jobus would, at least, be as good a tale as Jobus's accusation of him
and he had in reality jumped to the conclusion that it was Lord Carlin who
lay dead in the attic from various little circumstances that had occurred since
the event ; and from one in particular, which was, that Carlin's valet had called
and confessed that it had been his master's intent to secrete himself in Elk's

MY OTHER, THE COLONEL. ~9
house. The truth had flashed upon Elk at once, then, that he had plunged
the dagger into the heart of Carlin instead of that of Jobus. But still there
was the lingering idea that he might accuse Jobus of that deed, if the worst
came to the worst, and that just held him up a little.
By such an effort as few men in his position would have been able to make
Colonel Elk now roused himself, and confronting the party, among whom he
had not one frieud, he said, with all the calmness he-could command'-
" I defy you all yet. The proofs of the crime that Abel Morton has com-
nutted are here !" He struck the pocket that contained the black pocket-book
as he spoke. "Take your own course, one and all of you, and I will take
mine. You spoke of going before a magistrate, Mr. Qarnac. I am ready;
and the first act I shall do there will be to give Abel Morton in charge fog
forgery, and to state the reason that induced me to think Jobus guilty of mur-
ker. His previous bad character will aid the accusation.
Tap ! tap ! came at the outer door of the chamber.
Colonel Elk moved a little nearer to the window, and the whole party
started ; but Mr. Carnac called out-
"Rowley, admit the gentlemen."
Two gentlemen entered the apartment, followed by a man in a rough great,-
coat. One of the gentlemen stepped forward. and said-
"Mr. Carnac, we have searched within the last half hour the house of Colo-
nel Elk, and taken into custody everybody whom we found there."
" That is right."
"In the attic was a dead body, and upon the wall close to the bed on which
it lay,.the dying man had traced with his finger dipped in his own blood, the
words-
"'aElk has murdered me!'
"A little bit of evidence to corroborate the worm," said Jobus, rubbing his
hands slowly together.
Mr. Carnac turned towards the colonel, and said in a low, solemn voice-
"There stands the murderer!"
"Hold !" said Elk, as he dexterously twisted a table round, so that-it was
between him and his enemies. " Hold ! I say. You are all mad. Sir John
Morton yon have been trying to disarm me by bringing me into danger ; but
that will not do. I am a man, who don't mind paying a price for his revenge,
even, although that price be my own life. I tell you to beware of what you
are about. I hold the peace and happiness of your future life in my hands."
"Villain h'
"Oh, hear him," said Mr. Carnac, "I beg that you will hear him. Sir
John. It is quite as well that you should do so. Do doubt:he has some
other revelation to make to you. It is quite as well we should know all that
he now has to say. Go on, Colonel Elk-go on "
"I have-ha ! ha !-I have !" cried Elk, growing red and boisterous with
passion. I have more to say yet, and I will say it. There he is-that son
whom you fondly looked upon as the successor to your name and honor, the
heir of your baronetcy of your wealth, and of the soldierly repute of his fath-
er. Well, Sir John Morton-ha ! ha !-that son, brought up, as he now is,
to man's estate, through all the troubles and the turmoils of early life, that
son will die a convicted felon !-ha l-ha l-a convicted felon, even if I fall !"
"I do not see," said Mr. Cariac, "that this has anything to do with the
matter in hand, sir. I thought that you were about to throw some new
light upon your nefarious transactions."
"I am !"
"Then we listen to you."
'Ha! ha ! You may listen, and I will speak-ha ! It is good sport this.
Sir John Morton, your hair is white: it is not with age. There are deep fur-
rows on your cheeks ; and when men see you, they say, 'There is a break-
ing heart. There are the marks of premature old age. induced by sorrow.
Look at that man,' they will say. 'There lies at the bottom of his heart

-
_
i-
_ 1
t
,y
t
t
S
_
'n
e
-1
L
t'

I

i

I  - LLL_

G

'. . ....e....


194

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR,

some secret cause for woe, that he never forgets.' Ha! ha! Never ! sleep-
mg or waking. Am I right, Sir John Morton-am I right, sir ?"
"You are. My-my long-lost daughter !"
"Oh'!" said Jobus.
"Yes, Sir John Morton, it is of your long-lost daughter, Louisa, of whom I
speak."
"Man or devil ! if you can tell me aught of her I will let you have my heart's
blood, if you desire it, as a fee. If but for one brief minute you can let me
know that she lives-let me clasp her to my arrhs-let me hold her to my
heart, I'd think the joy so cheap if it cost me all the gold the world ever saw,
that I would add my life to make up the price ! But no-no, that is too much
to expect. She is dead-dead !"
Elk drew himself up with a triumphant look, and scowled upon those who
were around him.
"Ha-ha! Sojve understand each other better now, Sir John ?"
"For a little while," said Jobus. "Oh dear !"
"  Peace." ,
"Mr. Abel, and you Mr. Soldier Lorrinet-oh dear ! be so good as to stand
between me and the Elk while I make a little-ah !-oh !-just a little state-
ment. Oh! don't look so, colonel, I beg !"
"Wretch !"
"Yes I am, and a worm too; but as I have come to the surface of the
world it is highly proper I should say why. Sir John Morton your daughter
lives'!"
"Lives! Oh,  od !"
"Yes. He kno s much."
"I do," said El     t I say she lives upon my fiat only. A word-a look
from me in the p      quarter, and she dies ! Come, Sir John, I hold my
bargain with you; o you hold yours with me. The fate of both your chil-
dren is in my hands. One will die by the knife of the assassin, the other
by the cord of the hangman, if it be my pleasure. Will you redeem them
both ?"
"I will ! oh, Heaven, Itwill ! I ask you.all-you who look upon me with
such strange faces. I ask you, which of you would barter your dear children
for gold?  Would mountains of the rich ore pay you for the loss of one smile
-one blessing?   Why, no ! I shall be poor-they will be poor ; but I can
work for them. Already the warm blood courses through my veins, even as
it was wont to do in early life, and I feel that for this lam still capable. Be-
sides, a grateful country, whose battles I have fought, still owes me something,
and it will not see an old soldier, who can show his honorable scars, cast
adrift upon the world. Oh, no ! Look up, Abel my son-my darling, I ran-
som you from this'enemy, and all will yet be well, for he will give me back
my daughter."
"Then," said Elk, "perhaps after all we shall not want Mr. Mouldy, and
this little affair will end as amicably as a wedding party."
"'Yes, oh yes ! My daughter-my child-my Loo-my own dear little child
--oh, give her to me !
"Your cheque for thirty thousand pounds, Sir John Morton, and time to
send a messenger for the gold-I will have it all in gold, which will be the
only delay-and then you shall have your daughter, and I will place in Abel's
hand the bill !"
"Stop !" said Jobus. "Oh dear, it's rather a large sum. Couldn't you say
a trifle less, colonel?"
"Peace, hound !"
"lie, h, he! Oh dear, I did laugh then. Mr. Carnac-he, he !-don't you,
sir, in your professional experience, think that is dear? Oh dear, a very high
price that Sir John is paying ?"
"~Colonel Elk," said Mr. Carnac, with admirable gravity, I think that

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.

before my client, Sir John, parts with so much money, there ought to be some
greater assurance upon our parts that you can keep your word."
S"As how, sir ?
"As regards the young lady, Miss Louisa Morton.
"Well, sir, you shall have one witness. Open the outer door of the cham-
S.in, and he will confirm the fact that it is possible and easy foi me to bring her
tyo   Open te door and question for yourselves. He is 'faithful."

CHA
IT was Captain Lorrinet who
moment he opened it, Frogs, Jo
caprices of Colonel Elk, entered t
ness.,enedt
"Well, Frogs !" cried Elk. "1
" What now ?"-
"You took the young lady from
cross road to Kensington, and th
placed her in the coaca, and the i
" No  .!"           a     e
Colon el Elk stagee  ?c    a 
Captain Lorrinet stepped forwa r
said--ppdfra
" Bold-and wicked asyuae     o
have gloried in fancying you had ox
loosened. Louisa Morton is safe f1
" Safe and crel Sir John as he clu
"Safe and well, sir."
Lorrinet rushed from the chai
Loo Morton and Captain Lorrinet's
with his face flushed by joy and ex
"My Loo, there is your father !"
With a shriek of joy Loo sprang 
then Lady Morton, too, held her i
and sobbed and shrieked wthe
Abel stood looking so pale and wan
kissed his cheek.
" My brother-m    ow-  rohr
He.burst into tearsown Captain
and Jobus executed a wild kind ofd
him that, although he made several
to do so.
With his face pale and haggard na
advanced towards the window a litt
he said-d
"Loast! boast ! of your half triun
Loo Morton, for such is your name,
your arms around him, for you will
Ha ! to the hangman. The bill---th
" Did it not aid Jobus, "that did,
Come"     ,arplot?   Ha!ha !
"Yes. He ! I didn't laugh--dot
and gentlemen-my humble wormlike
was such a document."
"What document ?" roared Elk.

T ER   L II.                                           i
went to the door of the chambers, and the
bus's fellow slave to the crimes and the4
he chambers with an air of dogged sullen-
Well, my good fellow, Frogs ?"
my house, and you conducted her by the
en you met a man with a coach, and you
an then drove off-eh ? Frogs-eh ?"
ice or two.
d, and looked Elk calmly in the face, as he
u may now despair. One of the holds you
n the heart of the bereaved father has been
rom you."
ng to Lorrinet's arm; "safe and well ?"
bears. In a sedan chair in the Albany was
aunt. He returned with them both, and.
citement, he pointed to Sir John, saying.-.-
forward and clung to her father's neck, and
her arms and kissed her eyes, her hair.
pure ecstasy of that moment ; and poor
, till Loo folded her arms about him and
Lorrinet kept shaking him by both hands,
lance round Colonel Elk, which so baffled
efforts to lay hold of him, he was not able            #
ow, and a strange look about his eyes, Elk
e closer, and then in-a high cracked voice
ph, boast ! It is but half a one. Ha ! ha !
make much of your brother Abel; twine
have soon to give place to the hangman !
e forged bill-I have that still !"
n't strike me."
Perhaps not ; but my triumph is yet to
n't say I did; but in my opinion, ladies
e opinion, I don't think that, there ever

IIjI-

-                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w :    ,
-                                  ..   -     _       .  N.               ,,

s F
,

195


Mt BROTHER' TIE COL'ONEL.19

196

"As the forged bill. I don't believe it. It is a delusion-a dream-a mere
ignis fatuus--there is nodsuch thing."
"Then I am mad! mad "
Well, that is like enough."
"Is it likeaenough?  Ha! ha! not so like as the stern reality-not like as
the damning fact. It is here-here "' The colonel, with violent gestures, tore
the large black pocket book from his breast pocket. "It is here ! Here is thu
dream! the ignis-fatius that will destroy you all ! Here is the delusion !
So tangible-ha! ha !-so much to the purpose that, that judge and jury will
be deluded by it, and the hangman will be the last ignisfatuus that flashes
on the sight of Abel Morton ! It is here-ha! ha !-here! here !"
The colonel took a slip of paper from his pocket book. It was folded twice
and he carefully unfolded it, and then as he held it before his eyes he glanced
at it as though it had been a basilisk. Jobus crept behind him and looked
over his arm at it.'
"Good gracious !" said Jobus. "I'm afraid that looks like a plain piece of
paper, with no writing at all upon it,'and not even a stamp ! He! he! I did
laugh I own it. A worm laughed:"
Elk staggered to the window-sill, and the paper dropped from his hands, as
he glared about him with an awful.look.
"What is this'?" he aid. "What-what does all this mean'? Juggled?
-tricked at last ! No-no! A dream! Whatelse-! The bill! It was here
safe-in the iron box! The key-the key! All safe-that is here. Some
wretch-It is-it is"-surely here."  He ransacked the pocket-book and then
dropped it at his feet. "No-no ! Gone-gone! There is no such thing-
no such thing !"
"But there was," said Jobus. "Oh, dear, there was. I will produce the
bill."
"No !" said Mr. Carnac. "No -"
"Oh, yes. It is quite harmless. I will now return it to the colonel."
Jobus took from his waistcoat-pocket a small pill-box, and carefully opened
the lid, and then with a puff of breath, he blew from the interior about the
magnitude that would make up a pinch of snuff of white ash from burnt paper.
"There," added Jobus. "There is Abel Morton's ransom . Colonel, the
worm paid you a visit last night, and this is the rest. That is to say, this is
one of the results, you see. Oh dear, that is the other."
Jobus pointed to Loo Morton.
Elk drew a long breath as he gasped out-
"I saw him and thought it was a vision ! Yes, I saw him t"
"Yes," said Jobus, "and you fell down stairs, and I, and the bill, and the
young captain, and MissLoo Morton-who will soon be Mrs. Captain Lorrinet,
if I don't very much mistake-had the pleasure of walking over your illustri-
ous back, as you lay in the hall of your own house. Oh dear, that a worm
should have to say such, things !"
"Abel. you are saved !" cried his mother.
"My boy is saved !" sobbed Sir John.
"Brother-brother !" wept Loo, as she still clung to him.
Some few spots of blood trickled down the chin of Colonel Elk, for he had
bitten his lower lip in his agitation and anger ; but with an air of sarcastic
politeness, he now bowed to them all as he said-
"I suppose I am foiled. Ah !-Well! Where there is a victory, there must
be a defeat somewhere. Treachery has sapped my plans, and I am beaten. I
wish you all joy of your victory ; much joy. I--I-go now."
"Stop !" said Jobus. "Sir John Morton, have you no recollection of this
man 7"
"There have been moments," said Sir John, "when his tones and his expres-
sions were both familiar to me; but I know not where."
"He was an officer under your command in India. He committed a mur-
der-he-robbed the military chest and then trafficked with the enemy."

e

"Ah'! I know him !"
"Y"; and in India you disgraced him, and had the epaulets torn from his
shoulders. You saved him from the death he merited, and for that mercy you
have endured much. He is now again defeated. He is a murderer and must
not be let loose upop society more."
"Seize him ! cried Lorrinet.
"Mouldy-Mouldy !" shouted Jobus at the door of the chambers. But the
ough-looking man who had already arrived, stepped forward, saying-
"I'll take him."
"Oh, will you?" said Elk. "I bid you beware. sii'."
-All right. It's all in the way of business. You are wanted, sir; you had
better let this table be got out of the way, and so give up quietly."
"One word first. I am, as you see, one man to many. Well, of course,
my capture is easy. Try it !"'                                   -:
With a bound Elk dashed through the window into the Albany, and strik-
ing insensible an officer, who tried to stop him, he disappeared from before
their astonished gaze.
 CHAPTER      LIII.
THE sudden and 'unlooked for manner in which Colonel Elk had made his
escape from the chambers of Abel Morton in the Albany so petrified everybody
that he had really got the start of all pursuit so far that it seemed a doubtful
matter if he could be caught at all,
With the wonderful audacity and resources of such a man, a chance of
escape was almost converted into a certainty, and poor Jobus, as he clasped
his hands in despair, cried out---.
" Gone-gone ! He is gone, and our lives are not worth twenty-four hours
purchase. He will have his revenge yet."
"Stop a bit," said Mr. Carnac, "this won't do. We must follow him. This
way. As I stood I saw which way he turned after he got out of the window.
He went to the left."
"Then le has gone home," said Lorrinet. "Come on then who can and
who will. We will unearth this monster."
They made a rush from the chamber--that is to say, the police-officers,
Captain Lorrinet, Mr. Carnac, Jobus, and Frogs, and young Morton, for he felt
that if it were interesting and important to any one to catch the fugitiveit
was especially so to him.t
Just as they got within sight of the entrance to tlge Albany, they saw Col-
onel Elk's cab dash off at a terrible rate.
"There he goes," said Jobus. "There he goes-oh, there he goes ! The
cab-the cab."
It was out of the questi nat they could keep the vehicle in sight, but
by bounding on as quickly as he could, Jobus saw that-upon reaching Bond
street the cab turned to the left, and that convinced him that the colonel was
not going home.
"Lost-lost !" he cried. "We shall miss him now."
"Which way has he gone ?" asked everybody.
"To the left."
"Then it is to his brother Josiah's," said Frogs. with a wink at Jobus;
"Ah !" cried Jobus, clapping his hands together, "it is so, my good friend.
He ! he ! The worm recovers its equanimity sufficiently to smile again, and
to state to its friends and connexions that there is no hurry."
"No hurry !" cried Captaiin Lorrinet. "Excuse me, but there is much
hurry, old friend."
"Oh dear, no-not at all. He ! Oh, well, it's better not tp laugh just yet,
so I won't; but if you will all come to the house of Mr. Josiah Elk, we shall,
perhaps, get some news from him of his brother, the colonel."

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR1

.
a
/                                                          1                                       _
ii
I+
!                                                                              r                                 I
as                                                                                                                                           ,                                    i
FFr, 6
'
r

I

0

y.                                                 _                         ,                                                                                        _                 _      J                                                         _               ..1

197


198

HEADS AND HEARTS; OR

"Come on, then," said Lorrinet. "I will not lose a moment. Come on;
the house is close at hand."
They all made speed now to Josiah Elk's house, and when they bus stop-
every thing looked quiet and orderly. No cab was to be seen; but Jo p
ped i woman who was vending lavender, and said-     door and then go
" My good female, did you see a cab come  yonder    , andthenngo
away again ?".h                               o   etmuqiosad
"Oh, yes ; and a gentleman got out with a pair of great musquitendled
then the cab went away againlike I don't know what-only a penny a gentle-
"Elh ?-oh, the lavender? , 'There is sixpence. Elhank ysall fin gemat
men." said Jobus, " let us call upqn Mr. Josiah Elk.
home. Oh dear yes, we shall find him at home."
Captain Lorrinet knocked and rang, and the quiet footman of Josiah Elk
opened the door.
"Is your master at home ?",,
"No sir; he is out of town for a few days."
"Oh, indeed. Has Mr. Elk's brother been here lately ?"
"The colonel is here now, sir, and in master's dressing-room-
" Oh, very well, we will see the colonel."
"Yes sir, walk in, sir. Oh dear !"
The rest of the party had kept back, so that the footman was rathercsur-
prised at the strong force that took possession of the haol; but before he could
say a word, there cane the sharp tingle of a bell in the house, and the foot
man, after looking surprised for a moment, said-
"Oh, it's the drawing-room bell. It's the colonel, I suppose."
"But the colonel is not your master," saids t when his brother the col-
onel, comes here, he is to be treated as though he were our master."
"Oh, yes.",
"Very much yes," said Jobus.
"Ha! ha !" laughed Frogs, " I  .      ,
"hold your row," said Jobus, "will you ?"     in the ribs in that way,
"Oh well, that will do. You needn't poke a fellow
old chap. Be quiet.".
" You will say to the colonel," said Lorrinet, "that some gentlemen wish to
speak with him."
"Stop a bit," said the officer. "I will say so to him myself. In the draw-
ing-room do you say he is ?"
"Yes sir, I suppose so-it was the drawing-room bell."
pedThe officer had gone about three steps u  h stairs, when aome neoa-
pered at the top of them, and a bald head immensely whitened by hair pow-
der, was put over the balustrades, while a weak voice said-
" What is the matter, Thomas? My good Thomas, what is it ?"
" ''hy-why," said the footman, "there's master !"
"He! he !" said Jobus ";oh !'
The officer paused, and looked back at the gentlemen who were with him,
doubtfully.
"Whatis it ?" said Mr. Josiah Elk, appearing a little further in sight. "Is
it the kitchen flue again, Thomas ?"
" Lor no, sir ; but-I thought-we all thought, sir, if you please, that you
were out of town."'I
"Yes Thomas, but I let myself in about half an hour ago with my key. I
knew it was your dinner hour in the kitchen, you see, Thomas, and I would
not disturb you. I am very ill indeed. Do these gentlemen want me
"Yes sir, if you please."
"Show them up, Thomas."
Mr. Josiah Elk disappeared slowly and deliberately.
"It's a pity to trouble him," said Abel, "but the colonel must be in the

MY BROTHER, THE COLONEL.
house, and even the consideration we may feel for his brother must not pre-
vent us from securing that man."
"Certainly not," said Lorrinet.
"We are worms all,'' said Jobus. "Come on, gentlemen."
They all followed Thomas, the footman, to the drawing-room which was
much darkened, and there sat Mr. Josiah Elk in a dressing-gown, and his feet
in list slippers, and his bald, respectable-looking head, and very white well-kept
face, looking the very pattern of gentlemanly propriety.
"Pi'ay. gentlemen," he said "pardon me if I appear unpolite to you; but I
have just had such a shock. My brother the colonel--"
"It is of him, sir," said Lorrinet, "we come to speak."
"Oh, you don't say so ? He has just been here like a madman. Ho rushed
in and demanded of me a hundred pounds--I gave him my purse; and then
cryig out, 'Josiah, look out of the window if you want to see the last of me,
for     6 am off!' he dashed out of the room again, and left the house. The shock
has nearly killed me, for Igrieve to say it of my own brother, that I am afraid
he has not been carrying on either a prudent or a virtuous career. Pray be
seated, gentlemen, if you please."
The party looked at each other with doubt and perplexity, and then the
officer said-
"Sir, I am, a police-officer."
"Are you, sir?  I respect your calling."
"Perhaps then, sir, you will not feel offended if, in the discharge of my duty,
I search the house."
"Not in the least. I will give orders to my servants to show you every
accommodation and facility ; and perhaps you gentlemen will take a glass of
wine and tell me particularly what this bold. and I must add bad, brother of
mine, his done."9
Mr. Elk with difficulty walked to the bell-pull and rang it, and as he did
so, Frogs stole behind him and clasped him round the waist, crying out in a
loud, yelling voice as he did so-  .
"I have him--I have him ! This is the colonel ! There is but one of them
There is no Josiah Elk ! This is the colonel, I tell you! He wears a wig and
false mustaches, and colors his face when he plays the colonel; but this is our
man ! Ha, ha ! I know him !'Jobus knows all about it !'This is our man !"
Elk--and it was the veritable Elk, the same Elk who played the parts of
both-colonel and Josiah-drew his right hand quickly from his pocket, and
placing the muzzle of a pistol against the head-of Frogs, he pulled the trigger.
There was a terrific explosion, and the brains of Frogs were spattered over
the superb mirror that-was by the chimney-piece. The room was full of smoke,
and in the confusion Colonel Elk rushed from it, and up the staircase to the
upper part. of the house.
The officer, and Captain Lorrinet, and Abel Morton were after him in a
moment. They heard doors opened and dashed shut; and at length they
reached an attic, and just over a bed that was in it they saw a trap-door
which Elk was closing.
"There he goes," said the officer. "I'll have him, gentlemen. One ofyou
go down info the street, and get a constable to watch him. I'll have him.
Easy does it, gents. Easy does it."
Abel went down stairs to give'the alarm; and the constable and Lorrinet
followed Colonel Elk on to the roof of the house. There was a mews at the
back of the whole row of houses in one of which the very respectable Josiah
Elk had resided ; and it seemed to be the object of Colonel Elk to get to that
place, where it was possible enough he had some sort of confederate who might
have succored him in that extremity of his fortunes. It was quite clear that
he had provided for such an emergency as now occurred ; for round a chim-
ney-pot there was twined some forty or fifty feet of rope, which with great
dexterity Elk unwound ; and before the officer could reach him down the
sloping roof, he had clung to it and was commencing his descent.

P                                                                                                   -

--

1_

_
:1
a,

s
c
a
Y
7

f,
.
-_  .


200                   t HEADS AND H ARTS.
"Stop him !" shouted the officer.
"Ha-ha !" cried Elk, "not caught yet. Oh, God'! Gone !"
The chimney pot creaked, and then fell over with Elk's weight. He saw it
coming, and made a desperate effort to cling to some stakes and save himself;
but it was in vain: down he went, a height of about forty feet. They heard
the dull crash with whichhe fell upon the jagged stones in the mews !
*             a   *      *      *     '   a      *      *
With the death of Elk our tale concludes.
It will be recollected how Josiah and the colonel never appeared together
upon any scene of action, and how many little circumstances might have led to
the belief that they were one and the same person, as indeed they were. In
Josiah's house were found the wig, the false mustache, and the clothing which
the villain had just had time to throw off' before the arrival of his foes. We
need say nothing further of Elk. All that remained of him was a crushed
and mangled body lying in a pool of blood !
Abel was married to his dear cousin the following week. Need we say that
they were very, very happy?
The joy that she saw now in her happy home weaned Lady Morton from
that seclusion of the soul which had so long oppressed her, and she looked in
a short time quite a different being. Sir John too, shook off the appearance
of premature old age that had come over him, and smiled as of old.
Captain Lorrinet was married to Loo on the same day that united Abel to
his cousin. Oh, what a throng there was at St. James's Church to see the
two handsome couples !
-Jobus was taken into the service of Sir John Morton, and.remained in the
family many years in peace and contentment. He scarcely ever called himself
a worm; ,.but his great joy was to amuse Abel's children, and to follow them
about on the old heath at Hampstead, with a potent joy in the fact that he
was trusted with them. Poor Jobus !
Rowley found service with a fast young nobleman, who just suited him.
The Dandoloski discharged the little tiger, notwithstanding it was found
that he grew no bigger; but a showman took him in hand and exhibited him
as Tom Thumb, and more fools=and their money-were parted to go to see him
than we really like to credit.
Lord Rokeley broke his neck riding a steeple chase.
And now having disposed of all our dramatis persona, as far as we have
been able to discover their fate, we conclude by inviting the reader to think
how a man's heart may be very right, and his head very wrong; for, after
all, Abel Morton had a good heart, but rather a weak head-that is to say,
he wanted the courage which all young people should study to attain, to
say no in the right place and under the right circumstances. It is that duc-
tility of disposition in the young which prevents them from negativing the
suggestions of others, while they know and feel those suggestions to be wrong
that entertain the triumph of heads over Hearts.
Let the heart, then, control its impulses by the quieter suggestions of the
head. Think as well as feel. If Abel had done so, he would have spared
himself, and those who loved him, much misery ; for, after all, his rescue from
the meshes of the net that Elk had drawn around him, was more accidental
than otherwise. He might have been destroyed, and how many hearts would
have fallen with him!

THE END

N

3
'h
Y
i
t


                                                                                                                                                                                                  
             
         
       
   
