
    ----CITATION----
        Hazel, Harry, (1814-1889). The Doomed Ship, or, The Wreck of the Arctic Regions .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6927
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE DOOMED SHIP: 
               OR, THE WRECK OF THE ARCTIC REGIONS. 
             
            BY HARRY HAZEL. AUTHOR OF THE FLYING DUTCHMAN, YANKEE JACK, &c. 
            
               Philadelphia: 
               T. B. PETERSON AND BROTHERS,  
                     306 CHESTNUT STREET. 
                  
               
             
          
       
      
         
            The doomed ship, or, The wreck of the Arctic regions 
             
            THE DOOMED SHIP. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE BARQUE-DEATH OF JAMES LENTON-UNLUCKY FRIDAY-BLACKBIRD JIM. 
               SEVENTH day of July, Friday, was appointed for the sailing of the good barque 'Lady Emily.' She was a large, bluff bowed, square sterned, old fashioned craft of 389 tons, very heavily timbered, as she had originally been a Baffin's Bay whaler. Although a mere tea wagon as regarded her sailing qualities, she was in high repute as a remarkably fortunate craft, (a reputation of great weight with sailors,) for in all the voyages she had made during the twenty years she had been afloat, no accident of any consequence had befallen her. The present crew consisted of captain, two mates, carpenter, cook, steward, fourteen men before the mast-in all twenty two men. 
               A singular and melancholy occurrence attended our clearing out, and the superstitious among us might well regard it as an evil augury. 
               We had taken in our cargo in the dock, and thence warped out into the basin. After clearing the end of the south pier, which was crowded with spectators, we sent a boat off to fasten a hawser to the great pile head at the pier point, to drop the ship gently out whilst her sails were being set. One of the hands remained in the boat, and the other a sailor named James Lenton, secured the hawser. The tide was running strongly, and as soon as the ship swung out the hawser tightened, and kept snapping and jerking till it smoked again, as the hands on board payed it out. It was a six inch rope, quite new, and capable of bearing an immense strain; but Lenton, foreseeing that an accident might happen, loudly warned the spectators to stand back, as it is not unusual for legs to be broken by the snapping of a hawser and the recoil of its broken end. They took the hint, but he himself stood by, ready to cast off when the signal was given from the ship. 
               The latter had dropped some fifty to sixty yards when the hawser fouled on board owing to its excessive stiffness, (for it never had been used before,) and ere the men could clear its kinks, the ship was brought up with a heavy jerk. For an instant the hawser stretched out straight and stiff as a bar of steel, and then with a report like a small cannon it parted, a fathom from the pier post, and the fragment whirled round in the air and struck poor James Lenton full on the head. He fell like an ox in a butcher's shambles, and never uttered moan nor any cry, nor ever stirred more. 
               We perceived the accident from the ship, and the captain instantly ordered an anchor to be let go, and sent me to the pier in a shore boat that was holding on by our mizen chains. When I landed I found poor Lenton quite dead. His skull was fairly beaten in by the terrible blow. Loud were the exclamations of the crowd, and I especially remember the remark of one old gruff mariner. 
               'Aye,' said he, 'that poor fellow'll never stand his watch any more, God forgive him! But what better could be expected from a ship's sailing on a Friday? Did any of ye ever know such a v'yage to turn out good, mateys? No-there's a power aloft as won't be joked with anyhow.' 
               A murmur of assent run through the nautical members of the crowd, but one man boldly and emphatically laughed the superstition to scorn. 
               'Sawdust!' growled he. 'What's Friday more nor any other day? D'ye mean to tell me, old Grampus, that if this here hawser had parted on a Monday, and had struck a fellow on the head as it wouldn't have stopt his grog? Gammon, old chaw quid.' 
               'But it wouldn't ha' parted on Monday,' obstinately retorted the dogmatic old tar, setting his arms akimbo, and looking fiercely at his sceptical brother blue jacket. 'Them only laughs at sailing on Fridays as knows no better. Live and larn, says I; but there's some as never'll larn, and waint tek a warning. And I say that this here mischanter is a God's judgment warning of what'll befal that theer ship on the v'yage. Theer she is,' and he held out his brawny arm in the direction of the Lady Emily, which had now swung round to her anchor, with her bowsprit pointed to the pier, 'and ye may look at her, for she'll never come back again to port. I wouldn't swing my hammock aboard on her if ye would give me my chest full of Spanish doubloons.' 
               'Then I would,' answered the unbeliever in the popular superstition; 'and if the captain will give me a berth in the room o' this poor fellow I'm ready and willing to ship this blessed moment'. 
               'And so you shall, my man,' exclaimed I, 'for we shall not sail short handed. What name d'ye hail by?' 
                
               'Blackbird Jim, sir,' replied the man, who was a deeply bronzed and thorough looking seaman. 
               The soubriquet of 'Blackbird Jim,' as I subsequently learned, had been bestowed on him because he had for many years been engaged in the respectable and lucrative profession of 'blackbird catching, 'that is, aboard a slaver; and under this name he had been repeatedly entered on ships' books, for sailors frequently sign articles, and sail under the most extraordinary nicknames imaginable. 
               The departure of the Lady Emily was delayed twenty-four hours by the accident, as a portion of the crew and officers were compelled to give evidence at the inquest held on the body of the ill fated sailor. I introduced Mr. Blackbird Jim to the captain, who immediately shipped him in the room of the deceased, well knowing that Jim's enlightened opinions and bold offer to 'step into a dead man's shoes,' would have a very powerful effect in removing the gloomy forebodings the crew would certainly indulge in. 
               But we were fated to proceed on our voyage short handed after all-for when we had got into the open sea the crew were mustered to be divided into watches, and one man was missing. As he had assuredly been doing duty whilst we were in port, we thought he must have fallen overboard unnoticed, or else have deserted in the pilot boat or in a fishing smack that had been alongside and sold us fish. All doubt was settled by one of the crew producing a letter which he stated he had found lying on the lid of the missing man's chest in the forecastle. This epistle was directed to the captain, and its strange contents were to the effect that the writer was so awfully impressed by the accident on the pier at Hull, together with a dream he had had as we lay at anchor that night, (and which he declared distinctly revealed to him that the ship and all on board were certain to be lost on the voyage,) that he had resolved to desert and save his life by concealing himself on board the fishing boat which was coming alongside at the time he wrote the letter in his berth. He concluded by begging pardon of the captain for this meditated crime, and added a wild kind of rhapsody about his sinful messmates doomed to perish in their benighted condition. 
               The captain read the letter aloud to the deeply attentive crew, and sternly but judiciously commented on the act of their infatuated shipmate, forcibly pointing out its folly and criminality. But still the men only listened in gloomy silence; and it was very obvious that a profound superstitions idea-that we were indeed doomed to destruction-was fast gaining an ascendancy over them, when Blackbird Jim most opportunely requested permission to 'say his say,' as he expressed it; and that being granted he boldly addressed them off hand, with considerable acuteness and tact, in precisely such language as was calculated to make the deepest impression on foremast Jacks; and as he wound up with facetious allusions to the creed and some of the former doings of the deserter (who had once sailed in the same ship as himself when engaged in the impious trade of( blackbird catching,') he not only brought the crew into temporary good humor, but set most of them on the broad grin. The captain politically clenched the matter by ordering the stewart to serve out a stiff caulker of grog to all hands to drink success to the voyage. 
               A fine steady wind set in that night, and after a tolerable quick and prosperous run we safely cast anchor in the harbor of Tromso on the 23d day of July. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               CAPTAIN LARPENT-HIS STEWARD SMUTTA-THE ITALIAN CABIN BOY-THE FLOGGING. 
               WE were nearly a month discharging our cargo; and after we had shipped a heavy ballast and warped out midway between the island on which Tromso stands and the mainland of Finmark, we yet remained another week at anchor. 
               During this interval an event happened, which although apparently trivial in itself, and of ordinary occurrence on board large vessels, must be narrated, as the reader will eventually find that its result exercised a tremendous influence over the fate of every soul on board. 
               First let me introduce my uncle, Captain Larpent, and his black stewart, Smutta, personally to the reader. The former was a native of the West Indies, where he and his sister (my mother) were born, being children of a small planter, whose wife died in giving birth to my uncle, who was reared at the breast of a young negro woman, a slave on the estate. This negress had a little boy only a few weeks older than my uncle, and a very particular affection existed between him and his black foster brother-an affection they seemed to have imbibed with the milk they in turns sucked from one generous bosom. As the children grew up from infancy to boyhood the little black slave was the humble but inseparable companion and friend of his young master; and when the latter chose the sea as a profession, poor Smutta was permitted to ship with him. 
               Time wore on, and in his twenty-fourth year my uncle became commander of a large West Indian privateer, and Smutta, who had never parted from him, became as a matter of course, his steward. After several successful cruises the privateer unfortunately fell in with a French frigate, and after a desperate defence was captured. 
               This blow ruined my grandfather, whose whole estate had been mortgaged to fit her out. As to my uncle, he spent three years in a French prison, with his devoted foster brother. After this he commanded merchant vessels in every quarter of the globe, and three years before the epoch of this story he became master of the Lady Emily-Smutta still being his steward; and the glory of the faithful followers was to boast that, from my uncle's birth they bad never been separated more than three days at a time. 
               My uncle was now in his fiftieth year-a short, square built, powerful man, with a very dark complexion, and a resolute cast of countenance. He was a most excellent navigator, a strict disciplinarian, but a kind hearted man. He had never married, and when the decease of my parents left me a poor friendless orphan of fourteen he adopted me, and taking me to sea with him made, as he himself used emphatically to say, 'a sailor and a man of me.' 
               Smutta was a gigantic fellow with a skin as black and shining as polished ebony. So vast was his physical power that he could lift a bower anchor, weighing ten hundred weight, and hold it on a level with his breast; and I have seen him take a piece of pew half inch rope, of the strongest make, and, wrapping each end round his mighty hands, snap it asunder with a single jerk, as easily as I could a bit of packthread. He would have been not a bad match for 'Big Dick,' the famous negro boxer of Boston. His height was six feet nine inches, but his bulk was so remarkable that at a little distance he by no means looked so tall as he really was. His arm was as thick as an ordinary man's thigh, and the span of his hand was fifteen inches. His features were of the true Congo type, and certainly poor Smutta was anything but a beauty even for a negro When he opened his mouth to the full extent, and displayed the cavity with rows of huge teeth, white as the purest ivory, the effect was quite startling to a stranger. He always dressed very smartly-his invariable costume being white duck trowsers, with a broad black belt, of varnished leather, confined by a bright brass clasp; a white shirt, and a blue jacket of fine cloth, jauntily braided and frogged. He used to turn down the broad collar of his shirt, and leave his bull like neck exposed to all seasons and in all weathers. He never wore hat nor cap-and indeed his great head was thatched with such a dense mass of frizzled wool that any artificial covering would, to say the least, have been superfluous. For ornament he wore large gold ear-rings, richly chased. He was, in his way, a nautical dandy, and had the rare merit, in a negro, of being scrupupulously clean, both in his dress and person. Every morning, at eight bells, he went on the forecastle, and stripping to the waist made one of the boys scrub him heartily, and finish off by dashing over him a couple of buckets of salt water. 
               Such was Smutta the great; but although he had a giant's strength he never used it tyrannically like a giant, but was a gentle and kind hearted creature. The only thing that ever gave him personal offence was when the men called him Snowball. He would reply 'I not Snowball-I Smutta; dat you know berry well.' And if they teased him too much he would occasionally be so far roused as to coolly stretch forth one arm, and seizing the offender by the nape of the neck, lift him up and give him a shake in the air just as one might do a naughty child. But if ever the crew had any little favor to beg of the captain they always made Smutta (he was Mister Smutta then, not Snowball) the intercessor, and never in vain. 
               Smutta's love and devotion to his foster brother and captain was really quite affecting. Whatever Captain Larpent said or did was in Smutta's opinion necessarily right.-He would go through fire and water at the slightest hint from the captain; and once, when the latter was laid up in his berth dangerously ill, I thought Smutta would have gone altogether distracted. 
               He would sit moaning to himself at the captain's bedside, tending and watching him as a fond mother does a sick child, and would permit no living being but himself to administer anything. At times his agony and despair was such that he would run sobbing on deck, and wring his hands, crying, 'Oh de cappen! he die, Smutta die too!' And I verily think that if the captain had died, Smutta would not long have survived him. One peculiar act of this simple but noble hearted creature affected me to tears. 
               One night when the captain's disorder reached its crisis I went on deck. We were then in the latitude of the Azores, and it was almost a dead calm. I was astonished to see all hands congregated on the forecastle in a close group. Stepping up I found them surrounding Smutta, whilst one of the boys, by the light of a lantern, was reading aloud the prayers for a sick person from the Book of Common Prayer. The reader stopped at my presence, and the crew made a movement to separate, but I said 'go on,' and the lad read to the end, amid a silence broken only by the convulsive sobs of Smutta, and the pattering of his heavy tears, as they trickled down his sable cheeks and fell on deck. 
               It seems that this devoted fellow had taken the captain's large prayer book from the cabin, and as he could not read himself he had made one of the boys his chaplain, and had actually roused up the watch below, and induced all hands to assemble to pray for his beloved captain. Heaven surely listened to those prayers. 
               Thrice had Smutta saved the captain's life-on two occasions, from drowning, and once when in action with the French. The bonds which united them were altogether extraordinary. On his part the captain reciprocated his foster brother's affection with almost equal intensity. Next to the captain Smutta loved and reverenced me. I was near akin to his idol, and looked upon as the great captain's son, and from my boyhood had been constantly with them both. 
               And now for the incident I alluded to.-One of the ship's apprentices, who chiefly acted as cabin boy, was a lad of about fifteen years of age, named Claude Chepini, born in England, but of Italian ian parents. He was a tall, active fellow, with strongly marked Italian features, large black eyes, and long black hair. 
               Three days before we left Tromso the captain ordered the boy to clean his favorite telescope. In doing this on deck Chipini very carelessly laid the pieces of the telescope on the top of the bulwark, and one of the largest rolled overboard. The captain was so vexed that at the moment he snatched up a rope's end and gave the boy three or four blows, but not very severe ones. 
               Nothing more was thought of this at the time; but the next morning the boat which had been lying along side was missing, and Chipini also. He had run the ship. 
               Inquiries were immediately made, and the boat was soon found drifting along the shore of the opposite mainland. A party was sent in search of the deserter, and in a few hours they captured him hiding among the brushwood of Tromsdale, a ravine near the shore, and brought back to the ship. He was forthwith marched to the quarter deck before the captain, who was naturally very angry. 
               'Now, Chipini, what made you run the ship?' said he. 
               The lad never spoke but turned deathly pale, and hung down his head. 
               'Have I not always been a good and kind captain to you?' 
               My uncle had really been quite a father to the boy, having paid for his outfit, a year before, out of his own pocket, and ever had treated him most kindly, and had even recently begun to teach him navigation. 
               Still Chipini made no reply. 
               'Do you hear me, boy?' repeated the captain, with increased irritation. 
               This time Chipini raised his head, and I shall never forget the startling glance of malignancy which shot from his flashing black eyes as he hissed, rather than said- 
               'You struck me yesterday!' 
               'Struck you! and hadn't I a right? Who are you? It is high time, I find, to teach you your station. Will you beg pardon for running the ship?' 
               The boy clenched his teeth, and again hanging down his head muttered something inaudible. 
               'What do you say? Once more, will you beg pardon?' 
               Not a syllable did the culprit reply. The captain's brow grew black with passion, and turning round to the steward, who as usual was at his elbow, following him like a dog, he quickly said- 
               'Smutta, strip that lad and swing him up!' 
               No sooner said than done. The gigantic black handled Chipini precisely as if he were an infant, and stripping him naked to the waist lashed him fast by the wrists to the mizen shrouds. 
               'Now, Chipini,' said the captain, biting his lips to restrain his anger, 'any other captain but me would flog you within an inch of your life, but I will yet forgive you if you will only say you are sorry for what you have done, and beg my pardon.' 
               No reply. 
               Without wasting another word the captain seized a coil or two of the log line, (a hard twisted cord, about the thickness of a lady's little finger,) and doubling the bight took a turn round his right hand, and inflicted half-a dozen smart lashes on the boys bare back. Then he paused, and again asked the obstinate offender if he would beg pardon, but no reply could be elicited. Incensed by this the captain lashed him till his shoulders and back were covered with wales, and began to bleed. He had, for a boy, received a very sound flogging. But not a single expression of pain, not a murmur of deprecation escaped his firmly closed lips. 
               'Take him down, and lock him up in the store-room till the ship sails,' said the captain. 
               As Chipini was led away he lifted his head for a moment, and fixed his glaring eyes on the captain with a look that almost made me shudder. One read there the untamed ferocity of the tiger, combined with the deadly malignancy of the rattle snake. Italian eyes alone could shoot forth such a horrible expression. 
               The opinion of the crew on the matter was tolerably well indicated by some remarks I overheard. 
               'If that fellow grows up he'll take his six dozen at the gangway without so much as winking,' said one. 
               'Aye,' replied another, 'but if I'd been the captain I'm not blessed if I wouldn't have cut his back to ribbons till I made him squeak for pardon. He is an ungrateful Italian whelp.' 
               'So he is, messmate, and a mischief making son of a gun to boot.' 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               ORIANA AND OUR HERO-A DANISH DANCE-SMUTTA, THE DARKEY. 
               THE evening before the day appointed for sailing Captain Larpent told me that we were to take a passenger with us and land her at Copenhagen, on our way to St. Petersburg. This passenger was a young Danish lady, named Oriana Neilsen, who had been staying a year with an uncle of hers, a merchant of Tromso, and who would now take advantage of the rare opportunity to return direct to her home at Copenhagen.-The captain ordered me to go to her uncle's house and inform him that she must be prepared to embark the next morning, as we should positively sail at noon. 
               On arriving at the merchant's residence I found that the young lady's friends, in anticipation of her departure, had assembled a large party of guests to bid her farewell. My message being delivered, her uncle warmly insisted on my passing the evening with them, and he forthwith introduced me to Jomfrue Oriana Neilsen herself. 
               She was a young lady of twenty years of age, and a fair type of her countrywomen. She was middle sized, well shaped, and of very ladylike demeanor. Her long, light auburn hair floated over her shoulders, and her pure white brow rose above a set of features which, although certainly not beautiful, were so pleasing and charming in their general effect that I felt delighted to gaze on them. 
               As soon as her uncle had told her who I was her fine blue eyes sparkled, and she extended her hand to me with winning frankness, and in somewhat broken but very tolerable English, and with a voice peculiarly sweet, said- 
               'How kind for you to come. I am very much glad, and you shall be very welcome to-night, with us all.' 
               I said something or other, and she smilingly added- 
               'Come with me, and let me give you to eat.' 
               So saying she led me to the end of the spacious room, in which about fifty people of all ages were assembled, and seated me at a table covered with every delicacy this far northern region could furnish. 
               'Your ship, it really will set the sail to-morrow?' 
               I assured her that it would. 
               'Well, I am ready to go, and you see how many good, dear friend come to say 'Farvel Oriana!'' 
               Her eyes filled with tears as she glanced round, but hastily subduing her emotion she added, with a smile- 
               'But we must all be-what is the English word?-merry, dat is, to-night. Why not for your uncle, the good captain, to come. O, he must, I am so sure.' 
               She here called her own uncle to her side, and suggested to him that a message should be sent to the ship to that effect. He most heartily acquiesced, and at their request I wrote a note inviting him to come and join the party, and to bring his chief mate with him. This was immediately dispatched by our boat. 
               Oriana-henceforth and forever let me drop the surname, as she herself speedily taught me to do-then gracefully introduced me to several of her friends, and, as dances were going on with much animation, she said to me with charming naivete- 
               'Will you have one little dance with me?' 
               I blushed to the very temples, and stammered- 
               'I-I am very sorry, but I cannot dance.' 
               'Cannot dance!' and she opened her bright eyes widely with surprise. 
               'No, indeed, I cannot, I never was taught, I never danced in all my life.' 
                
               This was quite true; and never before had I felt my deficiency so acutely. Indeed, poor fellow as I was, I had not mixed in polished society half a dozen times in my life, and although well enough educated, I was as bashful and out of my element in a large mixed company as any foremast Jack could possibly be. 
               Oriana instantly divined my feelings with true womanly tact, and lightly laying her hand on my arm she said, in a soft winning tone, and with a look of gentle sympathy- 
               'Never mind dat. You can do many better things than dancing. But I wish I had known you when your beautiful ship first came here, for I would have taught you to dance. You would let me teach you, I am so sure?' questioned she with an arch look. 
               I was about to reply when a young Norwegian came up to ask her hand for a national dance, but as she left my side I saw her whisper a word or two to her uncle, the import of which I rightly enough guessed, for the next moment he joined me, and very delicately expressing his wish to make me feel at home led me by the arm to a group of friends, who knew a little English, and in a few minutes set me at my ease, talking and chatting with them. 
               When the dance was concluded in which Oriana was engaged she came back to me, and was in the act of exchanging a few kind words when my uncle entered in full togs. He had answered the invitation even more promptly than I expected, and he had not only brought our first mate with him, but also no less a personage than Mr.Smutta. 
               'I must beg pardon,' said my uncle,' for the liberty I have taken of bringing a third party with me, but this faithful fellow is my foster brother; I owe my life to him; and in fact he follows me like my shadow-a very black shadow he is too, as you may see.' 
               Herr Duhrendahl, our host, laughed, and said that if Captain Larpent had brought all his crew with him they should have been heartily welcome. As to Oriana she went to poor Smutta, who stood bolt upright, donned in his smartest attire, his face shining like burnished mahogany, while his great eyes rolled all round, and taking one of his immense black paws between both her own little white palms, she looked smilingly up to him and said- 
               'You are very much welcome here. We are very glad to see you, and you must make yourself comfortable and happy.' 
               Blacks don't blush, so it is said, but I am certain that Smutta felt the blood tingling all over him. Never before in his life had a real lady taken him by the hand and spoken such honeyed words. I saw that Oriana had won the giant's simple heart in a moment and that he was henceforth her slave. He looked down at her very genial countenance, and involuntarily the words broke from him- 
               'O, berry lubly lady! O, berry kind, berry good, yah!' 
               Without more ado she led him to the refreshment table, and did not leave him till he had, at her repeated invitation, commenced a terrible onslaught on the good things placed before him. This trait of her unaffectedly amiable disposition increased the already deep sentiment of respect and admiration I entertained for her. 
               My uncle was quite at home at once. He danced with Oriana and half the ladies in the room, and joked, sang, drank and enjoyed himself thoroughly. 
               As the night drew on the mirth and fun waxed fast and furious. My uncle suddenly proposed that Smutta should give us a fashionable Congo dance-and Smutta, nothing loth, forth with took the floor, and, to the vociferous delight of the Northlanders, executed a series of flings and capers, the like of which had never been seen 'in gamle Norge' before, and never will again. I really thought he would have brought down the house about our ears, for every leap he shook it like an earthquake; and he accompanied his performance with a song in his native Congo dialect, which was, doubtless, very elegant and sentimental, but after a few syllables became a stunning, supernatural yell. 
               It was three o'clock in the morning ere the party broke up, and we strangers all slept at the house, and when we departed conveyed Oriana on board with us, and set sail at noon, September 2d. 
               The first ten days after leaving port we had a light wind dead ahead, and did not make fifty miles of our southward course all the time. 
               One morning I said to Smutta- 
               'How do you like our lady passenger?' 
               'Oh, Massa Sharl, (my name was Charles Meredith) I like her berry much. She got good kind heart,' and he had his black paw over that part of his body where he imagined his own heart to beat, that is to say, some eleven inches below its actual locality. 'It good to hear her'peak she so berry sweet leetle tongue dat I lub much to listen. Tree time she hab gibben me her lily little hand to shake, and she nebber call me Snowball like the blackguard peoples, but she look at me wid, O, so nice a smile! and she say 'Massa Smutta,' she always call me massa, 'you be so good to do dis or dat.' O, she good lubly lady, yah.' 
               'You are very right, Smutt!' emphatically said I. 
               'Massa Sharl, I tell you what I tink.' 
               'Well what is that?' 
               'I tink what a nice darling little wife she make you, and den when Smutta grow too old to go to sea wid you he stay ashore and play wid your little picaninnies, yah!' and he grinned from ear to ear at the conceit. 
               Get along with you for a great ugly black porpoise!' exclaimed I, giving him a hearty push, which moved him no more than if he were a rock. 
               Somehow, when I lay in my berth that night, I couldn't help smiling complacently over his honest suggestion. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               WHISTLING FOR WIND-A GALE-SOMETHING BREWING. 
               SAILORS have a pleasant superstition that the presence of a woman or child on shipboard is decidedly lucky. Oriana was consequently welcomed heartily by the crew. Just after she came on board at Tromso, Blackbird Jim (who already considered himself a privileged person) doffed his tarpaulin, and making his best bow and scrape of the feet exclaimed- 
               'Bless your smiling face, ma'am! A lady like you is sunshine on shipboard, and always brings fair winds and fine weather.' 
               'What's that you say, my man?' cried my uncle, who happened to overhear him. 'I fancied that you didn't believe in salt water superstitions?' 
               The gallant Blackbird was taken a little aback, but twirling his tarpaulin round his fist he replied, with a roguish twinkle of his large gray eyes- 
               'Oh, yes, captain, I believe in fortinit notions, but not in them as promises ill luck.-And if this here pretty young lady doesn't bring us a capful o' wind, and that of the right sort, I aint no prophet.-The boys o' Copenhagen, ma'am,' continued be, in an explanatory way, 'they'll get hold o' the tow rope and haul us to the Sound hand over fist. That shall be true, as Charley Baxter said when he hung his wife's head agen the bed post.' 
               Unfortunately for Mr. Blackbird Jim's prophetical reputation the first ten days, as already mentioned, the wind was chock ahead, but he took an opportunity of explaining to the laughing Danish girl that the reason of this was that the Copenhagen boys were getting an extra strong tow rope expressly manufactured. 
               The cabin of the Lady Emily was large and well furnished, and the state-room being devoted to Oriana she was very comfortable. Every evening Captain Larpent had a game of chess with her, as the baffling wind was so light that the ship was generally steady enough. My uncle prided himself on his skill at chess, but he had met his match now. 
               Mr. Smutta on one occasion watched the progress of a protracted game with intense admiration, and in the fulness of his heart he exclaimed- 
               'O, de lubly lady play 'mazing, but it nebber possible to beat Cappen Larpen!' 
               At that moment Oriana demurely gave check-mate-a practical lesson for Smutta that even his 'cappen' was not invincible. 
               Poor Smutta constantly studied how to pay every convenient attention to promote the comfort of the 'lubly lady,' and his manifestations of affection and respect were at times droll enough. 
               One night I heard him soundly rating a seaman for having carelessly lessly flung a heavy chain tie down on the deck just over Oriana's head, for Smutta fancied the crash would awaken and frighten her. He led the wooden-legged cook a sad life, owing to his anxiety that everything intended for the cabin table should be served up in the most perfect style-and to do Smutta justice, few ships' stewards could excel him in his vocation. 
               Oriana had with her a beautiful little silken haired dog, and Smutta used to pamper this unfortunate animal with delicate tit-bits to such a degree that the dog's mistress found it necessary to check the steward's well meant kindness, else the creature would have died of absolute repletion. 
               Chepini, the cabin boy, was liberated from confinement the day after we left Tromso. I expected that he would have been sullen and obstinate, but he was the reverse; he set about his usual duties with surprising alacrity, and answered the captain promptly and in the most respectful manner when spoken to. 
               His countenance bore no trace of lingering irritation, and to all outward appearance he had already forgotten his punishment. Come, thought I, the whipping and the two or three days of solitude have had a beneficial effect on you, my fine fellow. But somehow I could not help remembering the fearful display of revengeful passion he had previously manifested; and singularly enough, the young Danish lady, although ignorant that the boy had grossly misbehaved, entertained an involuntary feeling of repulsion towards him. I noticed her gazing strangely at him whenever he was occupied in the cabin, and once she fairly shuddered when he suddenly met her look. I hinted to her that she did not seem to like the lad, and the reply she made struck me deeply:- 
               'No, I am very much sorry, but dat boy I cannot like. He has the evil eye.' 
               'The evil eye! What do you mean?' 
               'O, I am so sure he has. I have seen him look at the captain, oh, so dreadful a look, I will never forget. Pray,' added she, in an earnest and frightened tone, 'do not you do anything to make dat boy hate you.' 
               This opinion of hers, joined to my own secret misgivings, induced me to henceforth watch Chepini pretty closely, but there was nothing whatever in his actions or words to enable me to judge whether he was hypocritically acting a part, with revenge gnawing his soul. 
               Something even worse than head winds befel us after the teens were ended, for a dead calm ensued, which lasted an entire week-a very unusual circumstance in that latitude, where a wind of some kind or other is nearly always blowing, and a calm rarely lasts twelve hours. This certainly was a gloomy commencement of the voyage, and we were hard put to shifts to keep the men employed, for on shipboard it will not do to let a man be idle. Officers say, and very truly, 'if we don't find the men something to do the devil will. 
                
               This state of inaction was the more trying because the days were now rapidly shortening, and in the latitude we were in (a degree north of the Arctic Circle) we had now only a very few hours of daylight. 
               On the seventh day of the calm Oriana cheerfully chatted with me on deck, and I was astonished to find that she knew the names of almost every sail and rope in the ship, I told her she was quite a sailor, and she replied- 
               'So I ought; my forefathers were Vikings, dat is, Sea Kings, a thousand years ago.' 
               This, like all ladies' logic, was unanswerable. 
               Smutta was by, most industriously engaged in polishing one of the brass signal carronades for lack of better employment, but he paused and addressing her said- 
               'Spose now you be so good as to bring us good wind.' 
               'Ah, I wish I could, Mr. Smutta.' 
               'O berry easy. A lubly lady can make wind come as she like. All got to do look out in de right quarter, and whistle in de proper way, and de wind hear and come, yah.' 
               'But I do-not know the right way to whistle.' 
               'O, for dat,' grinned the sable rascal, 'Massa Sharl dere, him know berry well, he tell you.' 
               I explained the way to her, and she forthwith pursed her rosy mouth, and to Smutta's glee, invoked the unseen Spirit of Air by the most silvery coaxing little whistle ever heard on shipboard. 
               'O, dat is 'mazing good!' cried the delighted black; 'noting could be betterer. Ah you sall see, we sall hab de good big wind come down before eight bells.' 
               For once in his life Smutta proved a partially true prophet-for sure enough, just after sunset, a roaring gale suddenly sprung up, but as it happened to be as unfavorable as possible, the chief benefit to be derived from it was to give all hands plenty to do in tacking and reefing throughout the long hours of utter darkness. 
               What most materially aggravated our position was that we were very likely to run short of provisions. On leaving Tromso we had not more than thirty-five days' stock of provisions, but we hoped to reach Copenhagen in three, or at most four weeks, and therefore felt no inquietude at sailing; but the startling fact that seventeen days had already passed without taking us a degree on our voyage, made my uncle resolve to put the crew on half allowance. The gale which had set in after the calm moderated next day, but the wind continued ahead, and after a full allowance had once more been served out, the men were informed that they necessarily would be put on short allowance henceforward. They seemed taken by surprise, and some murmurs were heard, but taking the recent heavy exertions into consideration (all the hands having been up many hours) the captain ordered the steward to serve out a liberal allowance of grog, and the good humor of the crew (for the time being at any rate) was restored. Shall I confess the truth? I myself secretly felt rather glad than sorry that we were likely to have an exceedingly protracted voyage. Never before in life had I been accustomed to the society of an amiable and accomplished woman-and now to spend many hours in close contact with her daily-to listen to her inexpressibly melodious voice-to feast on her pleasant countenance-to exchange kindly little courtesies with her-was to me a new and delicious existence. Feelings which I had never known before, and which I as yet only half understood, swelled my bosom, and I even felt an increased affection for the old ship that had been my home for three years, because it was the medium of my happiness. Gentlemen who enjoy constant communion with refined circles graced by the female sex can little imagine what a wonderous charm a poor sailor like me found in the society of a young lady whom they perchance, would have thought very ordinary and commonplace. During the night of the gale I slipped down into the cabin and listened at the door of her state-room, fearful that she would be very ill and alarmed, but I heard not the slightest noise, and at daybreak she entered the cabin, fresh as a rose, and in answer to my inquiries she said she believed the storm had only made her sleep sounder than usual. 
               'But were you not frightened at the roar of the waves and the tossing of the ship?' 
               'O, no, why should I? Did I not tell you that I am the daughter of Vikings? Besides,' added she with her winning frankness and truthful innocent way of speaking, 'I knew dat I was in a good ship, and dat you and all the, brave men were keeping watch over me.' 
               How my heart beat as I mentally repeated 'and you were keeping watch over me.' To her I said aloud- 
               'Aye, and the angels in heaven were also keeping watch over you.' 
               'God's angels keep watch over us always, in the calm as well as in the storm,' responded she; adding in Danish, whilst a lovely expression of religious faith lit up her features-'Hans hellig Engles kare en Skanse om os Slade!' [His (God's) holy angel-host a fence around us places.] 
               'A strange visitor boarded us in the course of the night, and when the gale was at its worst,' said I, after a pause. 
               'Indeed! was it the ghost of a Viking?' 
               'Faith, your suggestion is not a bad one,' laughed I. 
               'Tell me its shape and I shall know whether it was one of my brave old practical ancestors.' 
               'That of a beautiful white bird. It fell suddenly on the quarter deck, and I have taken care of it for you. Here it is.' 
               I thereupon opened the locker and showed her the bird, which was of a species unknown to me. Its body was the size of a dove, but its tapering wings were of extraordinary length. Its feet and long beak were of a bright red color, and the former were partially webbed. All it feathers were spotless white. 
               'Ah,' exclaimed she, with a cry of pleasure, 'it is a himmelsfughl, dat is, heaven's bird! O, I am so glad you have given it to me! I will feed it till it is strong enough to fly.' 
               She tenderly released it from its prison, and pressing its head to her lips began to caress and smooth its tempest ruffled plumage. The bird, which had previously struggled much in my rough grasp, seemed instinctively to know that it had nothing to fear now, for it gave a little twirling cry or two, and then hiding its head in Oriana's bosom spread forth its wings and remained quite motionless. I left her fondling her himmelsfugl, and thought that she herself was equally a 'heaven's bird.' 
               A day and night more of head wind and then it changed to a light but favorable breeze. On the twentieth day after leaving Tromso we got an observation at noon, and found our latitude to be 65 39 62 N., and our longitude 6 3 19 E. We were consequently only seven or eight miles north of the Arctic Circle-Calliskaal, on the coast of Norway, bearing about a hundred miles distant. We had given the coast a wide berth to be thoroughly clear of the numerous dangerous rocks which rise far out at sea. I mention our exact position, because this actually proved the very last observation ever taken on board the Lady Emily. 
               Just as I had marked off our position and laid down my quadrant Oriana came on deck, with her himmelsfugl pressed to her bosom. 
               'It is quite strong now,' said she, 'and I will let it fly, for it would be cruel to keep the poor bird a captive. Farevel, dear pretty himmelsfugl!' cried she, holding forth her arm, with the bird perched on her wrist. 
               But it did not at all seem so desirous of quitting so kind a protector, for after giving two or three flutters with its wings, it folded them closely, and nestled very composedly where it was. 
               'The bird loves you too well already to wish to leave you,' cried I. 
               'Vent lidt! It will go soon,' replied she. 
               And she was right, as, after a minute of inaction, the himmelsfugl gave a powerful swoop with its snowy pinions and launched into the air, rising in a spiral direction till it remained, to all appearance, quite stationary, a mere speck directly overheard. Then it rapidly descended, and hovered in narrow circles round our mizen topgallantmast head, and finally settled on the truck. Throughout the afternoon it remained there-sometimes quitting its perch for a few minutes, during which it resumed its rial circlings, and then settled again. Towards nightfall, after a longer rest than usual, it gave a prolonged shrill, wild cry, as though to say, 'Farewell forever!' and disappeared with astonishing swiftness, flying due north a horizontal line. 
               'Who will feed and cherish the poor himmelsfugl to-night?' said I. 
                
               'It is God's own bird, and he will do that,' repsonded Oriana, with devout simplicity. 
               The sailors had watched the manuvres of the bird with much curiosity, and drew their own omens from its visit and mysterious departure. Could any of us have foreseen what would befal us we should indeed have been justified in regarding the himmelsfugl as a mystic messenger from God. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               A SUSPICIOUS CIRCUMSTANCE-STORY OF A YANKEE. 
               AS I entered up our day's reckoning in the log book that evening Oriana peeped over my shoulder a long while; at length, she said- 
               'What use for so many columns?' 
               'The daughter of the Vikings,' replied I, somewhat maliciously, 'ought to know that intuitively.' 
               'Det er muligt, min ven,' responded she, good humoredly; 'but you know the Vikings were so good sailors they never kept any reckoning at all.' 
               'Very true, I dare say, but unfortunately they forgot to bequeath their wonderful skill to us poor timid modern mariners. Now I will tell you what these columns are for. The entries, you perceive, are made every hour of the day and night, and show the knots run, the courses, and winds, the leeway, latitude and longitude, and the last column is for remarks. These other entries give the compass, course, the tack, the points of leeway, the points of variation, and finally the true course.' 
               'Thank you, all very good, but I think your ship makes very much more leeway than you write here.' 
               The demure way in which she spoke, added to my high opinion of the degree of nautical knowledge she had evidently some way acquired, completely deceived me, and I hastily replied- 
               'No, indeed, it does not. We have had a light wind all day, and yet I have allowed a full point for leeway. My uncle, a first rate navigator, often allows only one point when there is a strong breeze, and he never allows more than three points, or at most three and a half even when under close reefed topsails.' 
               'Ah, you don't understand me,' laughed she. 'I am very sure that you and Captain Larpent are brave good sailors, but the ship is bewitched. Yes, dat is it, I am so sure. She sails like a crab sideways. Oh, pray do not bite your lip and be angry with me.' 
               'It is natural,' I replied, with a heavy sigh, 'that you should be weary of our poor old ship, and we certainly have been very unfortunate this voyage so far, but- 
                
               'Who told you I am weary of it?' promptly but soothingly interrupted she. 
               'I-I feared so. There is nothing whatever to amuse you, and you doubtless long to embrace you parents at Copenhagen.' 
               'My parents are in heaven!' solemnly answered she, and her eyes filled with tears. 
               'O, pray forgive me; I knew not that. I, also, have been an orphan from childhood.' 
               'You an orphan like me?' and as though she were impelled by an irresistible impulse of sympathy she offered me her hand. 
               I pressed it warmly; and not withdrawing it, she continued- 
               'Have you broders and sisters?' 
               'No, I have neither. Have you?' 
               'Yes, one broder and one sister.' 
               'Ah, how often have I yearned for a sister's love. How often have I intensely wished that God had given me a sister.' 
               'Well, you must let me be your sister,' responded she in an affectionate tone, and with a look of the most innocent endearment, 'and you shall be my brother.' 
               I raised her hand to my trembling lips and turned away to hide my emotion. 
               That night I had the middle watch on deck, and two bells had just been struck, when a cry of agony arose from the companion way-a cry so fearful, so thrilling, so unearthly that I felt my heart give one convulsive bound and then momentarily cease to beat. 
               'Gracious heaven! what is that?' ejaculated I, gazing at the pallid face of the steersman, who in his alarm had let the wheel slip half round. 
               A moment of confused irresolution, and then I rushed headlong down into the cabin, which, as usual, was obscurely lighted by a large night lamp swinging from a beam overhead. 
               Startling and incomprehensible was the sight that I beheld. Captain Larpent, whose berth was on the larboard side of the cabin, was half out of bed, supported in the arms of Smutta, who had sprung from his own berth at the foot of the stairs on being aroused by the dreadful cry. The captain's features were agonisingly distorted; his glaring eyeballs vacantly wandered round; great drops of sweat trickled down his forehead; his naturally dark bronzed complexion was pallid as a corpse; and his entire body shook as though he were in a violent ague fit. 
               'O cappen! O my broder!' moaned the terrified steward. 
               'Uncle, dear uncle,' exclaimed I, 'in the name of goodness what is the matter?' 
               He clenched my hand in an iron grip, and his eyes settled on me at the sound of my voice, and a great groan burst from him, but he did not speak. The first mate, Mr. Shields, a plain, honest, warm hearted fellow, who had a particular affection for my uncle, hurried in. 
                
               'Good gracious! what is it? Is the captain in a fit?' 
               'No, Shields, I-I'm better now;' and he stretched forth a hand that trembled like an aspen leaf. 
               'Thank God!' we both responded. 
               Poor Smutta burst into tears, crying- 
               'Oh, de cappen' peak again! Me nebber tink me hear him 'peak more!' 
               'Don't leave me, Smutta. You won't desert me now,' tremulously exclaimed the captain. 
               Had my uncle been himself he never would have uttered such a request as this. Smutta leave him. Why, if the ship were sinking, or on fire, Smutta would not stir an inch from his captain's side for the universe. 
               'Oh,' groaned my uncle, reclining heavily on Smutta's breast, and covering his face with his hands, 'horrible, most horrible!' 
               Shields and myself exchanged a glance, and I said- 
               'Dear uncle, what was most horrible?' 
               'Yes, it will, it must come to pass. God have mercy on all our souls! But Charles,' and suddenly he withdrew his hands from his face and grasped my right hand between both his, 'there is that poor dear Danish girl on board. Promise me, boy, that you will defend and save her with your life.' 
               'Before God I do promise it, uncle.' 
               'His mind is wandering-he does not know what he says,' whispered Shields in my ear. 
               But I myself was far from thinking that his mind wandered now. 
               'Cappen Larpen knows me-know Smutta-know him broder?' blubbered the devoted black, bending over his shattered idol with mingled despair and hope. 
               'Oh, yes,' faintly murmured the foster brother, and shall know you when we meet aloft. We have lived together, and we shall die together.' 
               All this while the captain trembled so that the berth shook, but the appalling distortion of his features was gradually passing away. His brow and hands were cold as ice, and clammy with sweat, but he was becoming calmer and better. 
               'How did this illness seize you?' 
               'Illness,' murmured he with a ghastly smile. 'I'm not seized with illness, but it is, it was-don't ask me, boy.' 
               What was it or is it, thought I. What could have caused this inexplicable attack?-Captain Larpent was as brave a seaman as ever tred a deck; a man of undaunted resolution and iron nerve. He had retired to his berth two hours before in perfect health, and now his body and mind seemed alike awfully stricken. Had some tremendous vision of impending calamity appeared to him in his sleep? Or could it be that, long years ago, he had committed some dark deed of sin, and the spirit of his victim had now stood before him in the silent watches of the night to warn him that he must prepare to soon meet his Judge on high? All was a mystery. 
               'Mr. Meredith, go to your duty sir!' all at once exclaimed the captain, in such a tone of stern, prompt command, that I started in renewed amazement. 'An officer should not quit his watch on deck for a moment.' 
               'I did not know what had happened, sir,' replied I 'The cry was so terrible that I-' 
               'Captain Larpent,' kindly interrupted the first mate, 'let me take charge of the deck that Mr. Meredith may stay with you.' 
               'You are a good fellow,' replied the captain, in a softened tone, 'and you may. But he shall relieve you soon, for I am better; I shall be myself in the morning.' 
               As the mate turned away I happened to look towards the cabin stair, and there I beheld the face of Chepini, who was stretching forward as far as he dare, to see and hear all that was going on. The instant he perceived himself observed he disappeared, but the glimpse of his features struck a fresh chill to my heart, for I thought of all that had passed, and the vague suspicions and dread entertained of him. There was no mistaking the feeling that animated his soul on the present occasion. His flashing eyes and every lineament of his features were expressive of savage triumph. He regarded the prostration of the captain as the first sweet morsel of his anticipated feast of revenge. So I interrupted it at the time. 
               'You had better lie down,' said I. 
               'Ay, I will, for I shiver like a sail in the blast,' replied the captain; and he did so. 
               At this moment, to my astonishment, Oriana noiselessly entered the cabin. I had forgotten her in my agitation-although the captain himself had made an unaccountable allusion to her. She had heard the cry, and had hurriedly risen and dressed herself. She appeared to understand at a glance what had occurred-at any rate as well as I did myself-and though very pale was quite composed. Captain Larpent saw her, and after muttering something to himself, he said aloud- 
               'My dear young lady, I am very sorry indeed that you have been disturbed.' 
               'O, never mind dat,' cheerfully cried she, coming close up to the side of his berth-'You have been taken ill?' 
               'Yes-that is-I-a sudden attack-a-better now,' confusedly answered the captain, and he pressed one hand tightly over his eyes as though to shut out some horrid sight, whilst I distinctly heard the words 'God have mercy!' involuntarily burst from his quivering white lips. 
               'Oh, de cappen hab been a most die! I nebber seen in so way afore,' cried Smutta, whose eyes glistened with pleasure at the presence of Oriana, as though she actually possessed some heavenly power to charm away the evil demon from the captain's soul. 
                
               His remark that he had never seen the latter afflicted in the same way before was a satisfaction to me, for I had felt doubtful on that head. Even as Smutta spoke the strong shivering again seized the captain, and Oriana laid her hands on his cold wet temples with the grave air of a physician. I trust I shall have such an one if ever I fall sick, thought I, at the time. 
               'Dear Captain Larpent,' said she in her sweet winning voice, 'I see you are indeed very ill, but if you will let me be your nurse you shall be quite well to-morrow.' 
               I gave her an eager, grateful look, and she smiled gently, saying- 
               'Yes, I know what to do. The captain shall be a strong man again on the morrow, but he must obey me to-night.' 
               My uncle removed his hand from his eyes and then cried- 
               'You are very good, but go back to your room at once, my dear young lady-this is no place for you.' 
               'I will not leave you till you are better, and you must and shall obey me this one night,' answered she, very quietly, but with an air of firmness that evinced her determination to have her will. 
               The captain looked again at this extraordinary girl and sighed, while some inaudible utterance trembled on his lips, and his head sank backward on the pillow. I nodded an approval of what Oriana said, for I loved my uncle dearly, and I knew not myself what to do to relieve him, but I felt an instinctive reliance on Oriana. Smutta, however settled the matter. 
               'Cappen,' said he with great solemnity, 'you must do what do lubly lady tink good-yah.' 
               'Get some water boiled directly, and bring me some brandy and sugar,' said Oriana to the steward-who jumped up with such precipitation to obey her that he struck his wooly head against the beams with a loud crash. 
               In a very few minutes the ingredients were set down on the locker lid by the side of the berth, and Oriana mixed a large tumbler full of half and half, or nearly so. All this while the captain had never uttered a word, but occasionally groaned, and shivered as much as ever. 
               'Now, captain,' said she, 'here is your medicine. You know dat I have mixed your grog several times before, and you praised my, skill very much.' 
               'Yah,' eagerly cried Smutta, and without ceremony he lifted the captain and sustained him with his mighty arm. 
               'Drink dat-every little drop,' exclaimed the physician. 
               My uncle looked at all of us with a queer puzzled air, and tried to grasp the glass, but his hand shook like that of one in the palsy. 
               'I shall give you to drink,' said Oriana; and she held the tumbler to his lips, from time to time, until he had drained it. 'Now lie down,' said she; and he obeyed as submissively as a child; and then Oriana wiped his brow and drew the covering well up to his throat. 
               How I could have hugged her to my heart at that moment. 
               After a few minutes spent in silent watching she again laid her hand on the captain's brow and withdrew it smilingly. 
               'Feel,' said she to me. 
               I did so, and found that it was now warm. 
               'Mr.Smutta, some more water,' cheerfully cried she, 'and keep up a good fire.' 
               Mr.Smutta sprung about like a harlequin at her bidding, and she mixed a tumbler equally potent as the first. 
               'Now another dose of my medicine-you do not dislike it I am so sure.' 
               The way in which she pronounced her frequent phrase of 'I am so sure,' had an inexpressible charm for me. 
               The captain made no demur this time. 
               'You are much better now.' 
               'Thank heaven, yes!' 
               It was evident that the simple remedy of brandy and water, combined with, as I suspect, some marvelous faith in Oriana, on the part of the patient, had already worked wonders. 
               'Yes,' continued the fair physician, 'you will be quite yourself after a sound sleep, and you will play a little game of chess with me the next night.' 
               'God Almighty bless you, lady!' ejaculated my uncle, and for the first time in my life I beheld him burst into tears. 
               'Amen!' responded I, from the depth of my soul; and then I felt choked with emotions of thankfulness and love. 
               'Oh,' exclaimed Smutta, blubbering and rubbing his hands for joy, 'de cappen's himself-de lubly lady hab cure him, yah!' 
               'There are no lubly ladies here, Mr. Smutta,' cried Oriana, laughing; and she playfully gave a hearty lug at the wool of the enraptured steward, who was quite ready to fall down and worship her. 
               In a few minutes after this the captain sank into a sound sleep, and as Oriana refused to quit him at present, I left her and Smutta and went on deck, anxious to relieve the first mate. I found him leaning pensively over the bulwarks. 
               'How is the captain?' inquired he, anxiously. 
               I told him all that had occurred, and he exclaimed- 
               'Bless my soul! what a wonderful girl that is. He will be quite himself at daybreak.' 
               'She says he will,' returned I, 'and I have faith in her.' 
               'But what could be the cause of the captain's queer illness?' whispered Shields. 
               'Heaven only knows.' 
               'I wonder whether it was a dream?' continued he. 
               'Phoo!' said I, desirous of turning the conversation; 'dreams are nothing to such a man as the captain-he is not very likely to be shaken by a dream.' 
               'I don't know that,' replied Shields seriously; 'your grand philosophers may sneer at dreams, but when a man has sailed the blue waters as long as I have, he knows better than to laugh at 'em.' 
               'Laugh at what? philosophers or dreams?' 
               'Why, dreams.' 
               'You don't mean to say that any dream of yours was ever realized?' 
               'Yes, I do,' stoutly answered Shields, 'and I'll show how. When I was a young fellow, serving before the mast in a Yankee ship called the Diana, I was one day ordered on the lookout at the fore topmast crosstrees.-We were then under the tropics, and the heat was such that it gave me a notion more lively than pleasant of what crabs must feel while they are being slowly boiled alive. I hadn't been long perched upon the crosstrees before I began to nod, and in half-a-bell I was as fast as a church. How long I slept I never knew, but I had a horrible dream. I fancied I was dozing on the summit of the North Cape of Lapland, when suddenly a serpent twisted his tail round my body, just below the arm pits, and hauled me along till I was at the brink of the precipice which overhangs the sea at the height of a thousand feet, and is almost sheer perpendicular. Then I imagined myself hurled forth, I felt my body cleaving the air-I felt my body plunge into the water with the momentum of a cannon ball-I felt a tremendous sense of suffocation and awoke with a bubbling yell. And where d'ye think I found myself? Not on the crosstrees, but overboard, as I am a sinner. And the serpent's tail I dreamt about, was nothing else than a spare halyard tightly jammed round me. It seems that I slept so soundly, that our old man, Zebulun Salter, hailed me two or three times without rousing me, and finding how matters were, what did the old grampus do, but order three or four hands to run aloft and reeve a halyard through the starboard fore topsail yard arm, one end being dropped on deck for'all hands to tail on to, and the other end turned into a noose, with a bowline know, and slipped over my shoulders while I snored. Then the hands aloft slid me to the yard arm so softly that I didn't wake, and when the old man gave the word-'Let fall by the run!'-sink me if they didn't let me drop souse into the sea. A dozen times they hauled me chock-a-block and let me drop again by the run; and at length, when I was more dead than alive, Zebulun let me be swayed on deck, and as I lay vomiting out the salt water I had swallowed by the bucketful, he laughed in his dry, cackling fashion, and cried- 
               'Wal younker, I rayther calkilate that arter this ye'll never again shut both eyes at a time when Zebulen Salter sends ye aloft to keep a bright lookout.' 
               'And so my dream was fulfilled.' 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               SINGULAR CONDUCT OF THE CAPTAIN-SMUTTA'S VIEW OF THE MATTER. 
               WHEN morning again dawned, Captain Larpent was again on deck, and to one who knew not how he had been prostrated a few hours before, there was nothing in his manner to indicate what had recently befallen him. He had enjoyed an unbroken sleep of nine hours and although his complexion was pallid, his eye was steady and piercing as usual, his features composed, and his bearing quite grave, and rather subdued than excited. He enquired the ship's course, and what knots she had run in the night, and expressed his satisfaction to find that we had made very good way and that a very strong and highly favorable wind was now blowing, although the weather was obscure. What was yet more extraordinary he did not make the slightest allusion to his illness, and appeared unconscious that it had occurred. When Oriana reminded him at dinner, that he was to play a game of chess with her that evening, he slightly started, and a sickening smile swept over his features as he simply bowed assent. During the day he gave his orders in his usual prompt and able manner, and seemed anxious to pack sail on to the ship to the utmost. Ere turning in for the night, he repeated his instructions that all safe sail should be kept on the ship, and the log should be regularly hove, and a careful reckoning kept. 
               Some hours after dark I was much surprised to see Oriana come on deck and step close up to me, as I stood on the windward quarter, for the weather was very cold, and a drizzling rain fell. 
               'I want to speak,' whispered she. 'What for has Captain Larpent made the steward load all the guns and pistols in the cabin this afternoon?' 
               'Load the firearms!' exclaimed I, in amazement; 'you surely must be mistaken I supposed the steward was only cleaning out the barrels with a ramrod and cotton.' 
               'Oh, no,' replied she, in an earnest, positive tone, 'I was in my state room after dinner, and I heard the captain order Mr. Smutta to get them all out of their racks and charge them. And I opened my door a little bit and could see the steward load four guns and two great pistols, and the captain stood by and said something to the steward dat I could not hear.' 
               'But what did he load them with?' 
               'With bullets.' 
               'Impossible.' 
               'But it is true. Two bullets in every gun and pistol. And then the steward put them altogether in dat cupboard just over the captain's berth, and took three cutlasses out of a locker, and put them in the cupboard also, and locked it, and gave the key to the captain.-Do tell me what Captain Larpent is going to shoot?' 
               My astonisnment was now so great that I answered not a word. 
               'You need not fear to tell me, I am so sure,' said she, coaxingly. 
               'I declare I have no idea. I never knew my uncle to keep fire arms loaded with ball, in his cabin before.' 
               'Ah, I see dat you really not know,' continued the shrewd girl; and after a pause, she added 'I thought it so very strange dat I ought to tell you; but pray do not let the captain know, for he would be very angry with me for being a naughty little spy.' 
               'You may depend I will not. But don't be frightened-the guns will not go off in the cupboard.' 
               'Frightened at guns! O Himlen! you don't know me. I have charged guns for my uncle when shooting ptarmigans in Nordland, and I have fired them more than once myself.' 
               'Bless my heart! you are quite a heroine, Oriana.' 
               'No; dat I am not. But I am a Danish girl, and daughter of the Vikings,' and she laughed archly. 'But I do very much wonder why the captain has loaded all his guns with two bullets.' 
               'So do I. Is Smutta in the cabin?' 
               'I think so.' 
               'Well, pray go below, for it is very cold, and just whisper to him that I wish to speak to him on deck, will you?' 
               'She nodded understandingly, and without another word descended to the cabin, and in a few minutes the steward was by my side. 
               'You want to 'peak to me, Massa Sharl?' 
               'Ay, I do, Smutta. What have you been doing in the cabin after dinner?' 
               'Oh, berry many ting. Why do you ask?' 
               'Because I want to know why you have loaded all the firearms-why you have charged them with double balls-why you have put them in the captain's private locker, and the cutlasses also?' 
               'Gorra! de somebody must hab tell you all dis, Massa Sharl,' exclaimed astonished Smutta. 'Not a body was in the cabin to see.' 
               'Never mind who told me-I know, and that's enough. Why did you load them with ball?' 
               'Cappen Larpen order me.' 
               'And he told you the reason?' 
               'I not know.' 
               'Come, Smutta, I'm aware that my uncle tells you his mind more freely than he does to me, and I'm very sure you know what the guns are loaded for, so it's no use trying to deceive me.' 
               'Massa Sharl, I neber hab tell you a lie in all my life,' said the poor fellow, reproachfully. 
               'Then you really don't know?' 
               'No, Massa Sharl, dat I don't. De cappen order me to load. Gorra! I do it; and I tink it like the old time when I wid him in de privateer. De cappen used to say I de best hand to load musket he ebber hab see-but plenty practice den. He nebber tell me today why I load, but he order me to put in two balls; and he order me not to tell anybody what I done. De cappen himself most hab tell you.' 
               'No, Smutta, he didn't. But did he ever before order you to load the guns in the cabin with ball since the war was over?' 
               'Nebber.' 
               'It is very strange.' 
               'I tink so my own self. But what Cappen Larpen order dat must be right, and we no business ask why.' 
               'Very true, but Smutta I wish you would take good care to be near the captain while this voyage lasts, and attend well to him.' 
               'Eigh, no need tell Smutta dat,' answered he. 
               And indeed there was not. 
               After the steward left me I reflected whether the mysterious attack of illness had not disordered the captain's intellect, for it seemed otherwise quite incomprehensible why he had done such a thing as the Danish girl had so singularly revealed to me. It was very evident that he wished the affair to be kept a secret even from me. Can this, thought I, be the cunning of a madman preparing to carry out some insane freak? But the captain's demeanor all day showed him to be perfectly rational in word and deed, so far as related to the ship's management. In fine, I was bewildered, and knew not what to conclude I resolved, however, to watch him closely, and the result was, that during the several succeeding days I perceived nothing whatever in his conduct but what indicated him to be in perfect possession of his faculties, although he grew more and more grave and reserved-and that might reasonably be attributed to the unsatisfactory nature of the voyage. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               MISCHIEF AT WORK-FALSE COURSE-CHEPINI'S REVENGE. 
               DURING the four following days the same powerful wind blew with occassional lulls, and we averaged for the whole time about six knots an hour-a good rate of sailing for such a slow craft as the Lady Emily. All this time the sun was constantly obscured, and at night fogs prevented our getting any observation from heavenly bodies, so that we had no other means of judging our position than the reckoning kept by careful and frequent heaving of the log, and I need hardly say that this mode of estimating a ship's way is, for many reasons, far from being accurate and reliable. The consequent anxiety of Capt. Larpent, and indeed of all of us, grew hourly greater, for according to the best calculations we could make we must be about longitude 59 N., Stavenger in Norway, bearing probably fifty miles distant. What we deemed especially unaccountable was the fact that the days, which ought to have materially lengthened, seemed to grow shorter-but the foggy weather prevented us from coming to any clear understanding on the subject. 
               On the evening of the 27th of September Captain Larpent appeared particularly uneasy about our uncertain latitude, and for the first time in his life he held a formal consultation with his officers on such a subject. We all three went over the reckonings since our last solar observation, and our united opinions were, that the ship's course had been so carefully kept by the log, that unless we had met with unknown currrents-and it happened that none of us had sailed these seas before-we must be somewhere about the position above named. The determination of the captain finally was that in case we got no observation by noon the next day we should bear up for the Skaggerrack, for we reckoned that if the wind held the same we should certainly be abreast of it by that time. We could not help thinking it very remarkable not only that we had experienced such foul weather, but also that we met with no vessels, although the last two or three days we must have crossed the track of such as were bound to and from Trondhjem, Christiansund, Bergen, &c. 
               All that night the wind blew a gale, and we rushed along at the rate of eight or nine knots, under close reefed topsails. All hands were up the greater part of the night, and Captain Larpent himself never quitted the deck. We had large lanterns forward and aft, and triced in the rigging to guard against the danger of collisions with other vessels, but the lookout we kept was necessarily of small avail, for snow, hail and sleet pelted us without cessation, and the cold grew intense. Grog was served to all hands every two hours. It was indeed dismal weather, and we anxiously prayed for daybreak. But day did not dawn preceptibly till considerably after ten o'clock in the forenoon, a circumstance utterly inexplicable for such a latitude as we presumed we were in. Not long after this came the awful and thrilling cry of- 
               'Hard a port! Rocks ahead!' 
               The helm was ported instantly, and we swept close by an enormous rock, as we thought at the moment, but immediately after the first mate exclaimed- 
               'An iceberg, by heaven!' 
               The ship tore by the berg, amidst the oaths and exclamations of the excited crew, and a minute later came the cry- 
               'Starboard-hard a starboard! Another iceberg!' 
               'A fleet of them, by-!'echoed the man at the wheel. 
               And indeed it was so, for several more loomed in sight. 
               'O God, the hour has come!' ejaculated Captain Larpent, in a tone of piercing anguish and despair. 
                
               For a brief space nothing but horror and consternation prevailed fore and aft. 
               Where were we? No man knew, and the sense of impending destruction, imminent and appalling as it was, made the seamen rage and tear about like madmen. But the captain, after the first shock, was himself again. Seizing his speaking trumpet he sprang on the bulwarks, and passing his left arm round the mizen backstay to hold on by, he cried- 
               'Silence in the ship!' 
               The instinct of obedience prevailed, and then the captain rapidly issued energetic orders for working the ship in this astounding and inexplicable emergency. The fog suddenly lifted, and without being able to conceive by what accursed means we had been brought hither, the youngest boy in the ship now knew we were on the coast of the Arctic Regions. 
               The horror of this discovery blanched the heart of the bravest man on board. An Arctic winter close at hand-few days' provisions left-hourly in danger of being crushed to pieces by icebergs, or fast frozen up-no knowledge of our locality-what could be more appalling and hopeless? But the imminency of the danger from the nearest bergs did not permit any present pause, and the crew were kept in constant exertion for half an hour. 
               'Stand clear of the binnacle!' cried the man at the wheel to somebody who obstructed his view of the compass. 
               The captain turned sharply round at the words, and a withering expression of savage contempt distorted his features as he thundered- 
               'Leave the compass! Steer as I order, sir! Don't look at the-thing!' 
               Shields exchanged a glance with me, but neither of us then understood the motives of the captain, who continued to work the ship, motioning with his hand the way in which the wheel was to be turned, at times sternly giving his order aloud. At length he got the barque so clear of the numerous icebergs that there was sufficient room to lay to, and this was immediately done in the captain's usual admirable style. 
               No sooner was the vessel stationary than Captain Larpent ordered Smutta to bring up a spare compass instantly-and when it was brought he compared its bearing with that of the binnacle compass, and it was then seen that the needles of the two compasses were almost diametrically at variance. Loud cries burst from all around at the sight, and the captain hoarsely exclaimed- 
               'Here is the mystery of our false course! All hands aft!' 
               There was little necessity for this order, as every man crowded aft the moment the compass had been brought from the cabin. 
               'Men,' continued the captain, 'treachery has been at work. There is a fiendish villain among ye.' 
                
               The crew were now silent as death, but each man looked ferociously at the test, as though to detect signs of guilt. 
               'Take that compass out of the binnacle,' was the next stern order. 
               It was done-and on being removed and examined all saw, to their horror and unspeakable rage, that several bits of iron had been dexterously fixed in such a way between the outer and inner box that although the compass needle would apparently revolve well enough it was nevertheless attracted altogether in a false direction. So great is the precaution taken on shipboard to guard against iron attracting the compass, that not a nail is used in constructing the binnacle, and the 'gimbals' on which the compass box swings are made of brass. But what avails every human precaution when subtle villany is abroad? 
               The crew began to fiercely question each other, but the captain cried- 
               'Silence, all. Who attends to the lights in the binnacle?' 
               'Chepini,' responded a dozen voices. 
               My heart now turned sick, for I now understood all. 
               'Where is he?' 
               In a moment the Italian lad was dragged before the binnacle. 
               'Hold him, Smutta.' 
               The steward instantly grasped Chepini by one arm, and a steel vice would not have held him more securely. I fixed my gaze on that boy's face and beheld it positively radiant with triumphant revenge. His black eyes glowed like balls of fire, and the conscious peril of his position seemed not to appal him in the least. The demon who possessed the dark soul of that young lad must have been very strong. 
               'Chepini,' slowly said the captain, in a deep, distinct voice, amid the breathless silence of the crew, 'has it been your duty to attend to the binnacle light ever since we left Tromso?' 
               'Yes,' responded the boy. 
               'Look there,' and the captain pointed to the damning evidences. 'Did you do it?' 
               Chepini glanced round at the terribly menacing faces of the exasperated crew, and then meeting the captain's eye he unflinchingly answered- 
               'I did.' 
               A roar of rage burst from the men, but the captain silenced them. 
               'Wretch!' exclaimed he. 'Why have you done this deed?' 
               'Because you flogged me like a dog. I'd do it again a thousand times if I could. Kill me-I don't care, I'm revenged. If I go below you'll all soon follow.' 
               Again did the entire crew burst forth in imprecations, and many cried 'Kill him!' and rushed forward to rend him in pieces. 
               Once more the captain silenced them, and then with fearful calmness he spoke as follows- 
               'Officers and crew of this ship, Claude Chepini, by his own confession fession, which you have just heard, declares he has committed an infernal act that has now brought us all into dreadful jeopardy of our lives. I ask you what punishment ought at once to be inflicted on him.' 
               'Death!' cried the crew. 
               'Officers and crew,' resumed the captain, 'if there is one among you says that this boy ought to be permitted to live, let him now speak, or for ever hold his peace.' 
               Not a voice among us all was raised for mercy-an awful silence prevailed for the space of a minute. The captain uncovered his head, and as if actuated by the same impulse his example was followed by every one of us. We were now judges of life, and our captain was about to pronounce in our names a judgement which would render us murderers by the laws of our country. 
               'Officers and crew,' solemnly cried the captain, amid a brooding stillness, 'for the doom I now pronounce in my name and yours I hold us justified in the sight of God. We condemn Claude Chepini to be forthwith hanged by the neck from the fore topsail yard arm till he be dead.' 
               A perfect silence of a second ensued, and then the crew, as one man, gave a tremendous cheer in testimony of their approval of the sentence. Next they tumultuously hurried forward and began to reeve a rope through the yard arm on the starboard side. 
               'Officers,' said Captain Larpent, addressing the first mate and myself, 'remain on the quarter deck with me. Steward, lead Chepini to his doom. 
               In a, very few minutes the rope was rove and secured round the neck of the condemned, whose arms were pinioned behind him, and several fathoms of chain were lashed to his legs. The crew then tailed on to the fall of the rope, and everything being prepared with one accord they looked towards the quarter deck for a signal. 
               'All ready, for'ard?' demanded Captain Larpent, with as much self-possession as though he was about to issue an ordinary command. 
               'All ready, sir.' 
               The captain once more uncovered, and instantly afterwards the fatal words issued from his lips in firm, sonorous tones- 
               'Run him up!' 
               In a moment the fiendish boy (who had never quailed in his demeanor, nor uttered one word after quitting the quarter deck) was swinging between sea and sky. Notwithstanding the heavy weight at his feet he convulsively jerked up his knees till they almost touched his breast-writhed and quivered for a moment or two-and then swang to and fro a corpse. After being suspended ten minutes the rope was severed, and the body cleaved the dark waters, to rise no more till the day of judgment. 
                
               
                   
                     THE GALLANT BARK BEACHED. 
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               MORE DANGERS THREATEN. 
               HARDLY had the bubbles ceased to rise from the spot where Chepini was entombed ere we were recalled from our rapt excitement regarding his execution to attend to the pressing danger by which we were menaced by the approach of five or six icebergs, brought down upon us by the wind. These floating mountains rolled heavily in the water, and one or two loomed high upon our trucks. 
               Captain Larpent took a rapid survey of our position, and in a couple of minutes the ship was put about before the wind, and bore up what we soon perceived to be either an estuary or a strait-perceived too late. The bergs closed astern and forbade all hope of beating back, and scores of small floes of ice threatened us on every side. There was nothing left but the desperate expedient of steering onward-whither we knew not. 
               The strait narrowed the further we advanced, and the quantity of smaller bergs and floes increased to a fearful degree. We tacked every minute to avoid them, but it was speedily evident that a powerful current, or the tide, or both combined was aiding the wind to urge us on at a rapid rate. At length we were driven shorewards, and three several times the ship missed stays. The noise caused by the masses of ice grinding over each other was appalling. Great fragments would suddenly be forced out of the conglomerating heaps, and rise perpendicularly from twenty to fifty feet in the air-then fall with a horrible crash, and splinter to atoms. 
               'God have mercy upon us!' groaned Shields, fast losing his presence of mind, and yielding to the despair which now filled every soul. 
               As to the crew, they executed every manuvre with less alacrity, and too evidently looked upon our fate as sealed, and even were beginning to be desperate and reckless of what might next befall. And when one considers all they had undergone and the frightful prospect before them there was some excuse for this. The hour of doom was nigh at hand. 
               For the fourth time we were in the act of attempting to wear, when a sudden and heavy squall caught us, and at the same moment a huge submerged iceberg rose under our stern and shattered our rudder to pieces. The barque was now unmanageable, and filling away before the wind she plunged wildly ahead, and in five minutes her bows struck smash against a berg, and another rolled simultaneously against her starboard quarter and heeled her over almost on her beam ends. The shock carried away the foremast short off by the deck, and the main and mizen topmasts were both dragged over with it, and the bowsprit was torn clean out of the bitts. Had it not been that the Lady Emily was an exceedingly strong vessel, and also in ballast, she must have gone down in a moment-but the brave old barkey righted, and her bows remained imbedded in the iceberg on which she struck, her head being bodily lifted three feet out of water, and thus held immoveable. 
               The catastrophe precipitated the unfortunate first mate, carpenter and boy into the sea, where they miserably perished without the possibility of our saving them. 
               Would to God that I could blot out of my memory the scenes that ensued! The crew had by this time become stimulated to madness-and when the captain, whose stern self possession did not waver even at this dread moment, issued his orders to clear away the wreck of the masts and to man the pumps, &c the crew refused to obey, and clustered together in violent and rapid consultation. Again and again did the captain reiterate his orders, and I seconded them, but open mutiny now prevailed. The crew were aware of the fact that we had only a few days provisions left for all hands, and conceiving themselves certainly doomed to destruction happen what might, or do what they would, they, with the reckless desperation seamen have too often evinced when similarly circumstanced, resolved to die in a state of drunkenness and blasphemy. 
               The captain well understanding their intention, advanced to the break of the quarter deck and attempted to reason with them, but they were excited to a pitch of madness, and drowned his voice with yells and mocks, openly expressing their determination to break into the steerage and cabin to get at the spirits, &c. 
               May God forgive me if I wrong them-but I certainly thought then, and think now that the worst among them were tempted by the hope of subjecting our helpless passenger to their brutal lusts. It was my uncle's opinion also. 
               This day was Friday. Oh, that ever fatal day! On Friday we commenced our disastrous voyage-on a Friday Chepini received the punishment which awoke his fiendish spirit of revenge-on a Friday our doom was to be consummated. 
               Finding all efforts to regain his ascendancy over the crew hopeless, Captain Larpent strode aft, and seizing my hand gripped it till the blood almost started to the finger ends, while he hoarsely exclaimed- 
               'Hell's broke loose! Boy, let us die doing our duty before God and man.' 
               'We will, uncle.' 
               'Go,' said he with terrible significance; 'lose not a moment-Go and speak to her. Take her below till all is over. Tell her we will defend her to the last gasp.' 
               He alluded to Oriana, who had witnessed the whole of the recent horrible scenes, standing close to the companion way, and never uttering word nor cry from first to last. She now resembled a statue, her features rigid and colorless, her eyes expanded and fixed on us, her arms hanging down full length before her, with the hands clutched together. I sprang to her side, but for the life of me I could not utter a word. I threw my arms around her and hurried her below without the least resistance. Soon as we were in the cabin I found broken utterance. 
               'Oriana,' said I, 'you must stay here-the ship is not sinking, but a worse danger threatens. I-we-will die for you.' 
               Her lips parted, quivered, and closed again. But she placed both hands in mine, and turned her eyes upward with a look of sublime resignation which could not be misunderstood. 
               'Yes,' replied I, 'God can strengthen us-and God can save you if we perish.' 
               At this moment the steward rushed into the cabin, and opening the locker over the captain's berth, handed out the arms. Oriana and myself exchanged a glance, for we now fully understood the captain's reason for having ordered them to be loaded. But how was it possible that he had had the prescience to foresee such a use for them as this? 
               'Here is Smutta-worth a dozen men himself,' said I. 
               The steward turned around and made a step to our side. 
               'Hab no fear, cried he; 'Smutta hab often fought side o' Cappen Larpen', and Smutta will die for de lubly lady-yah.' 
               She gave him her hand in a moment, and he pressed it very hard against his honest faithful breast, then turned away, saying- 
               'Come a-deck, Massa Sharl-come dis minute,' and he gathered the whole of the weapons and sprang up stairs with them. 
               The gaze which Oriana and myself now exchanged revealed our souls more than if we had spoken for hours. I strained her convulsively to my breast, and pressed her lips to mine. 'Twas our first kiss-Heaven only knew if 'twere our last; and 'twas the first time I had ever pressed the lips of woman since my childhood. 
               'God save my-my broder!' murmured the heroic Danish girl. 
               As I released her from my embrace, she fell on her knees, and bowed her head, and clasped her hands in an attitude of prayer. So I left her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE MUTINY-THE FIGHT-DESTRUCTION OF THE MUTINEERS. 
               THE first thing of which I became conscious as I emerged on deck was the appalling yells, oaths and threats of the mutineers, who had by this time armed themselves with handspikes, the axes kept on deck, and the axes out of the carpenter's chest, which they had broken open. They were tumultuously gathering together for an attack upon us, and evidently were resolved to take the ship and carry out their diabolical designs. The captain had already girded on a cutless, and held a musket in his hands. The two pistols and the other cutlasses laid upon the top of the binnacle, and two muskets reared against the companion, the other being in the grasp of Smutta. My uncle silently pointed to the arms, and I lost not an instant in thrusting a pistol in my bosom, and seizing a musket,-We all three stood in the companion-way, the entrances to which I closed. I glanced at my uncle, and read nothing in his features but the most stern and merciless expression. His lips were tightly compressed; his nostrils distended; his eyes sparkling. It seemed as though his old battle spirit animated him once more. Smutta stood immoveable on his right hand, I was on his left, and the proportions of the black were more gigantic than ever with suppressed excitement; his mighty hand clutched the musket as though he would flatten in its barrel; his thick projecting lips were wide open, revealing the broad white teeth, clenched and slowly grinding over each other; and his great black eyes seemed to emit a lurid glow as they were mutely fixed on the face of his beloved captain. I thought even at that moment of the words of my uncle during his mysterious illness-'Yes, Smutta, I know you-and I shall know you when we meet aloft. We have lived together, and we shall die together.' Was the hour now come for them to die together? I only knew one thing, and that was, Smutta would die rather than a hair of his foster brother's head should be injured. 
               What was our prospect in the deadly, unnatural conflict now in evitable? We were three men-three determined and powerful men, well armed, opposed to fourteen desperate mutineers. We might kill or disable half a dozen at the first discharge, but if this did not daunt and repel the survivors, they would be upon us in a instant, and then the odds would be fearful. There would be no time to reload our arms, and mighty as was Smutta's strength, one mortal blow could despatch him, in which event what hope remained for my uncle and myself? My blood turned icy in my veins as I thought of the certain fate of Oriana after such a catastrophe.-Instinctively I grasped my musket as the mutineers moved aft from the forecastle, where they had armed themselves, and apparently made up their minds for the mode of assault. The captain now said to us in a low, quick voice- 
               'When I give the word 'Fire!' be sure of your men.' 
               The mutineers saw how we were prepared for them, yet this did not check nor alter their desperate resolve. But when they came in a body, brandishing their weapons, as far as the mainmast, they clustered together, and a scuffle and altercation gave us hope they were divided among themselves, and that all were not quite the villains they appeared. Nor were we deceived, for after a severe contention, Blackbird Jim suddenly sprang from their midst, and hurling his handspike with a crash against the bulwarks he thundered- 
               'No, I'm-if I join in any bloody mutiny! Now I know what you mean to do I tell you to your face you are a crew of bloodhounds. Who'll follow me to stand and die by our captain?' 
               Two men, and two only responded to this appeal; and before the mutineers could intercept them the three faithful fellows all reached the quarter deck, and were ranged by our side, after sharing our remaining arms among them. 
               'Hurrah!' shouted Blackbird Jim, flourishing a cutlass at his late associates. 'Hurra!' repeated his two messmates. 'Hurra!' echoed I-for I couldn't help it in the joy of my heart; and I thanked God for thus sending us unlooked for help in the hour of need. 
               My uncle merely gave the three men a grim look of thanks, and stamping his foot on deck, said- 
               'Silence all! Stand to your arms!' 
               Then he advanced a step, and in a loud determined voice addressed these words to the mutineers- 
               'The first man among ye who sets foot on the quarter deck dies that moment. Throw down your weapons and yield, or by the living God ye shall be shot!' 
               'Ay, ay,' hoarsely muttered Blackbird Jim, who stood by my side, 'they'll get their bread buttered on both sides now, as Charley Baxter said when Spanking Tom and Bob Cummins kissed the gunner's daughter three days hand running.' 
               The mutineers answered the captain with a roar such as the tiger vents when about to spring on its prey, and spreading out in line they were upon us as soon as we could raise muskets to our shoulders-led on by a ferocious fellow nicknamed Corporal Jack, but whose real name was George Martin. He had been the most conspicuous ringleader throughout, and I was determined that he, at any rate, should not live to boast of the results of his villainy. 
               We met them with a simultaneous discharge. I knew not how many fell, and I have only a dim, confused recollection of the horrible butchery which ensued on the quarter deck. I hardly knew what I did at the time, but was afterwards assured that I fought like a lion. For a minute or two there was naught but the clash of steel-for the arms of the mutineers were fearful weapons at close quarters-and I beheld my uncle fall bathed in blood. A fellow stood over him with uplifted hatchet, and it was in the act of descending when Smutta gave a yell that rung loud above all the din, and struck the murderer with a but end of a musket, and smashed his head to atoms. Then I saw the red blood spout in torrents out of the gashed side and limbs of the black himself, and I gave and received blows with the rapidity of thought. Another moment and of all the late raging foes only one was yet on his feet, fighting with Blackbird Jim. I then saw Smutta, collecting the remains of his fast ebbing strength, seize this mutineer around the body and hurl him sheer over the bulwarks into the sea. This done the devoted black gave one bubbling cry and fell flat on his face by the side of his insensible captain. Two or three of the mutineers, yet alive and shrieking in agony, were mercilessly despatched by the three men who had so nobly fought on our side, and without whose aid all had been lost. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               DEATH OF CAPTAIN LARPENT AND THE FAITHFUL SMUTTA. 
               SOON as my recollection returned I tore open the companion way and bounded into the cabin. Oriana met me, and flung herself into my arms. 'Saved!' was all that I could ejaculate-and after straining her to my bursting heart I again sprang on deck. 
               Blackbird Jim and his two messmates, who were all slightly wounded, had already thrown overboard all the bodies only of the mutineers; and side by side, on the bloody deck, lay my poor uncle and his steward.-The former was flat on his back, his teeth clenched, his eyes closed, his features distorted, and his iron gray hair drenched in blood. I did not immediately perceive where he was wounded, but felt over his heart, and to my unutterably joy it yet beat, though very faintly. I next hurriedly turned Smutta's face upward from the pool of gore in which he lay, and he also was yet alive, but insensible like his foster brother. 
               With much difficulty the men and myself carried the captain and steward into the cabin-having previously ascertained that the ship was in no immediate danger of sinking-and cut away their blood clotted garments, to discover their wounds. 
               I was ordering the men to move the body of Smutta, who had just died, when my uncle motioned imperatively for us not to do so, murmuring- 
               'Let him be. Let us die side by side as we have lived.' 
               I accordingly closed the eyes of the steward, and spread a sheet over him, just as he had expired. 
                
               My uncle now swallowed some brandy, held to his lips by Oriana, and then asked for water, of which he drank eagerly. He revived considerably, and I was beginning to hope that his hurts were not mortal after all, when he turned towards me, and with an intonation that thrilled my heart said- 
               'Men,'-and here he turned towards the silent and attentive survivors of the crew-'you have acted nobly, and your dying captain thanks you. If you don't get rewarded on earth you will in heaven.' 
               'We've only done our duty, captain,' answered Blackbird Jim. 
               'You have done it well, and you will so continue to do it to the last I am sure,' quickly and anxiously continued the captain. 'I shall soon be gone, but Mr. Meredith will take my place, and you must obey him as you have me. If you do this there is every likelihood that you will escape; but if you do not stand by him and obey him, the fate of you all will soon be sealed. Swear to me, men, that you will do whatever he orders, and never desert him.' 
               The men one and all called God to witness that they would obey me to their last gasp. 
               A faint smile of satisfaction flitted over my uncle's lineaments as he murmured- 
               'Now I shall die easier. God bless you my lads! Give me your hands.' 
               The men each shook their dying captain by the hand with considerable emotion, and I shook their hands in turn. Thus we at once felt we understood and could rely on one another in the appalling struggle for life which we too well knew awaited us. 
               The captain now spoke to Oriana with evident and increasing agitation. 
               'You will now,' he said, 'have to undergo hardships and dangers which might appal even a brave man, but God will be your supporter and helper. Here is my nephew, trust in him fearlessly. He will do all for you that brother could do for sister, and he-' 
               'Oh, yes, he is my broder; I know dat very well,' eagerly cried Oriana; and she gave me her hand with a look of affection and perfect reliance. 
               My uncle, with the quick apprehension which is frequently evidenced by dying men, caught our glance of mutual intelligence, and a smile of grateful confidence played around his white and quivering lips. 
               'It is well,' cried he. 'May God Almighty bless and save you both!' 
               Hardly had he thus spoken when a violent convulsion seized him, and although he desperately strove to tell me something, he expired in my arms without being able to articulate a single word. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               PREPARATIONS FOR LEAVING THE SHIP-DESTRUCTION OF THE LADY EMILY. 
               THE dissolution of my uncle was so very sudden that I was quite stupified by the blow, and could hardly believe he was really dead. A cry and exclamation from Oriana attested the fact, but I hardly heeded her at the moment. Long did I press his senseless clay to my breast, and bitterly did I sob and moan. 
               On deck I found that the men had already cleared the long boat, and fixed tackles for hoisting her out, and had also gathered a variety of things which they judged might be needful ashore. They had worked well; and cold as it was they were stripped to their shirts, trying to heave up the long boat, one end at a time. I bore a hand with them, but our united strength was insufficient to move her an inch. As I knew that the very first thing to be done in our precarious position was to get out this boat to be ready for any emergency, I cast about for the means to effect it. By doubling the purchases and carrying the fall through snatch blocks we succeeded in multiplying our motive power so much that we got her clear over the bulwarks, but we dare not lower her into the water at present lest she should be stove in by some of the floes of ice which yet occasionally brushed the ship's side. 
               Having seen that the oars of the long boat were deposited in her and her rudder shipped, our next care was to get the provisions on deck. 
               Three hours or more were spent in preparing for the event which we knew must sooner or later happen; and finding that the tackles were strong enough to lower the long boat even when laden, we filled her with provisions, spirits, bedding, clothing, arms, &c. In the stern sheets I made a sort of a little tent with the blankets stretched over some broken studdingsail booms to protect Oriana from the inclemency of the weather, for no one knew how long we might drift about in the boat ere we could land. 
               Two things more were added at her suggestion-fuel and water. 
               I secured the ship's papers and logbook, with various mementoes of my poor uncle, and such things as were valuable and useful, but of small bulk, not forgetting compasses, quadrant, &c. 
               I was just about to order the men to get a meal when we felt a heavy shock through the ship, as though the iceberg which had hitherto towed her along had struck against another berg or a rock-and directly afterwards it split open with a crack like the report of a cannon, and the bows of the barque being released her head at once went down five or six feet, and we could hear the water rushing into the forecastle and thence into the hold. 
                
               The crisis had arrived-there was not a moment to lose. I lifted Oriana into the long boat and we lowered it safely on the water. 
               The men called upon me to embark, for the barque was sinking much faster than we had anticipated, and her water ways were already within a couple of feet of the sea's. I ordered them into the boat, and I-as became the officer-was the last to quit the deck. We pushed off to a safe distance, and in five minutes we saw the illfated Lady Emily give one downward lurch head foremost and then disappear forever, a fitting coffin for the remains of her late gallant commander. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               A NIGHT IN THE LONG BOAT-DISCOVERY OF LAND-ALL ASHORE. 
               BY the light of a lantern the fragments of cooked provisions found in the larder of the poor steward were overhauled. I had no difficulty in persuading Oriana to eat. 
               The sea was now very calm, although a stiff breeze blew, and this induced me to suppose that we could not be far from the shore, and that in all probability we had drifted up an inlet, and were in a bight towards its extremity. The weather was so thick that we could not see two boat-lengths ahead, and as we knew that ice was floating in every direction, it would have been exceedingly dangerous and foolish to have rowed in the dark.-I therefore resolved to lie-to till day-break, and ordered the men to stow themselves away in the fore part of the boat, whilst I kept watch by myself. They accordingly coiled themselves up, beneath the blankets and spare clothes, and were, like true seamen, in the magical 'Land of Nod,' almost immediately, and slept as soundly, and snored as loudly, 'as a Dutchman between two feather beds.' 
               For many dreary hours did I keep my truly melancholy watch. At length I felt myself growing drowsy, and awaking one of the men, I bade him keep a watch, and in case danger threatened from ice, to arouse me instantly. I then laid down, and the man covered me well up with blankets. Hardly had I uttered a brief prayer, and closed my eyes, ere I fell sound asleep. 
               I was awakened from my prolonged slumber, by the blanket being drawn from my head, and on opening my eyes I beheld the smiling face of Oriana bending over me. 
               'It is just day-break,' said she, 'and we can see the shore.' 
               I cast aside the coverings, and leaped to my feet. There was land sure enough about a mile distant, but unfortunately the sea was frozen for at least a quarter of a mile round its edge, and how we were to land our cargo without immense labor, I knew not. I carefully swept the shore with a telescope, and at length saw what I conceived to be an opening through the ice, leading to a bluff headland. Ordering the men to give way, I steered towards it, and to our great satisfaction we found the ice so thin, that we easily broke through it till we were enabled to force the boats close up to a protecting rock. The shore was everywhere covered with snow a foot or more in depth, and was very rocky. A sheltered hollow, or ravine, close to where we landed, seemed to be the best site I could at present select, and as there was no time to be lost, we swallowed a hasty meal, and then set to work unloading the long boat. Having got everything out of her, we fixed her two masts upright, to form the centre poles of two tents, and lashed to them the oars and some light ricker spars which we had brought with this object in view. These frameworks we quickly covered with sails, and then spread tarpaulins over them, and pegged the lower portions in the ground. The exteriors of the tents being thus rudely but efficiently constructed, we brought everything under their shelter except the fuel with which the small boat was loaded Then we worked away to fit up the interiors. One tent was exclusively for the men, and the other for Oriana, and myself. Whilst they arranged their own to their liking, we did the same with ours, and, strange as it may appear, we caught ourselves laughing heartily more than once at our odd contrivances to render the tent comfortable. We had a superabundance of blankets, &c., and by fixing ropes across the tent, it was divided into two portions, blankets being hung as a partition between them. The smaller of these divisions was to be Oriana's sleeping room, and I had the satisfaction to behold how expertly the cheerful girl set about rendering it a most cosy berth. The larger division (which was to be common to us by day, and my sleeping room by night) was lumbered with the arms, provisions, and all the spirits, &c., for I dared not trust any of the latter in the men's tent, well knowing that the temptation would be irresistible. 
               It was about ten o'clock that night, (Saturday, September 29th,) ere our arrangements were completed, 'protem.' I ought to mention that a small brass stove had been brought from the ship's cabin, and this we set up, and with some difficulty fixed it so that the smoke cleared away pretty well through a slit in the tent side. I then served out a good supper to the men, and gave them a bottle of rum, for they behaved so well, and worked so hard, that they really deserved encouragement. Oriana and myself, of course supped together, and I now ate with a very fair appetite, for she searched about the tent till she found some of the culinary utensils we had taken the precaution to bring from the ship, and then cutting a few slices from one of her dried rein-breasts, and adding condiments, she speedily produced such a savory stew, or whatever it might be called, that I began to deem her as wise in the art of cookery as in everything else. We talked long and seriously about our prospects, and although we could not yet form any very tangible idea of the future which awaited us, we at any rate both agreed in thanking God for so mercifully preserving us hitherto. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               THE SABBATH-A STRANGE VISITOR. 
               THE next day was Sunday, and I was fully determined that it should be religiously kept as a day of rest and thanksgiving. I read the prayers, lessons, and psalms of the day from my uncle's prayer book, and the crew listened with attention, although I did not think they evinced the least feeling on the occasion-but a sailor often feels more than he shows. No kind of work was performed all day, but towards nightfall, one of the men came to tell me that he had seen the footmarks of some large beast which had been prowling in our vicinity. I examined them, and at once understood that we had a bear for our neighbor-not a very agreeable discovery, for the white polar bear is a most daring and ferocious animal, and I felt by no means sure that the one in question would not pay a visit of exploration to the tents in the course of the night. I therefore cautioned the men to lay the axes and cutlasses ready at hand when they went to rest, in case the stranger should disturb their innocent slumbers; and for my own part, I loaded three of the guns with balls. 
               Not long after midnight, I was awakened by a smothered sort of cry from Oriana, but as it was not repeated, I fancied she had only cried out in a dream. A minute or two afterwards, however, I distinctly, heard her call 'Broder!' and she pushed aside the suspended blankets, and stood beside me with a lighted lamp in her hand. I had laid down in my clothes and now sprang up to inquire what was the matter, for she was very pale, although her aspect was resolute enough. 
               'Bring your guns, and you shall see,' was her mysterious reply. Do not fire yet! Wait and you will see his head.' 
               She was right. In a moment or two the animal grew impatient, and emitting a low growl, attempted to shove his head through the opening made by his paws. I clapped the gun to his muzzle, and drew the trigger. The report was deafening, and we could see nothing for smoke, but a tremendous roar from the wounded beast apprized us at any rate that he was not killed. Grasping my two loaded guns, I rushed out of the tent into the open air, and was met by the crew, who had turned out in great alarm, armed with hatchets. It was fortunately a brilliant night, and we could see objects with great distinctness. Not many yards off, we beheld an immense white bear seated on his haunches, with one paw raised to his wounded head, from which blood was trickling freely. The creature evinced no disposition to retreat, but continually growled in a menacing undertone, and snapped his horrible jaws together with a noise anything but pleasant. I again fired, and he instantly made towards us in an erect attitude, but was met by a point blank discharge from my remaining gun. The next instant the mighty brute wrenched the weapon from my hands, and struck me to his feet with one blow from his paw. My situation was critical, but the men bravely attacked him, and at the moment I regained my feet, Blackbird Jim drove his hatchet smash into the bear's skull, with a polite remark,- 
               'That's one for luck, my skilligalee!' A few convulsive struggles, and our truly formidable enemy had expired. 
               We soon succeeded in getting off the remarkable fine coat of Mr. Bruin, but not till all of us were more than once out of breath, for as the body stiffened, it became as much as we could do by our united strength to rip off the skin inch by inch. 
               We now perceived that the first time I fired, although the muzzle of the gun touched the animal's head, the ball glanced along the hard skull, merely inflicting a deep scalp wound. The second and third balls were both lodged in the chest, but as they had touched no vital parts, the terrible beast might have been the death of some of us, but for the coup de grace from Jim's hatchet, or rather axe, for it was one of the carpenter's which the mutineers had used with murderous effect. 
               I carried the skin to our tent and stretched it out to dry. Then I made the men arrange some empty chests and cases around the outside of Oriana's division of the tent, that in case a second bear should fall in love with her she would hear something to her advantage in the rattle they would make ere the animal could get to the canvass. 
               The whole time occupied from the death of the bear and disposal of its body was no less than two hours, and Mr, Blackbird Jim and his messmates made merry for another hour with the residue of Oriana's bounty. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               TAKING AN ACCOUNT OF STOCK-DISCOVERY OF A VESSEL. 
               ON Monday I took an account of all our 'goods, chattels, and eating timber,' as Blackbird Jim called them. I found that the provisions from the ship (salted beef and pork, and biscuits) were sufficient for six weeks' full allowance, not to reckon half a sack of flour, a small bag of oatmeal, two large cheeses, several pounds of raisins, figs, and prunes, some lemons and oranges, and a few jars of preserves, pickles, spices, &c. Of coffee in the berry there might be eight pounds, and there was a large canister of excellent black tea. Of sugar, both loaf and powdered, there was an ample supply.-Moreover, there was dried rein flesh, and the carcase of the bear; so that altogether we had nothing to apprehend on the score of immediate starvation. Very fortunately also we had secured the whole stock of candles and lamp oil on board the barque; the former were of all sorts and sizes, and might amount to a dozen pounds, and the latter was a gallon and a half in a store bottle. Another item was three parcels of leaf tobacco, and very pleased I was to find them, for I felt so long as the tobacco lasted I possessed a powerful spell to keep the crew in good humor by occasionally distributing it, and to tell the truth, I highly relished a little tobacco myself. What sailor does not? The spirits were, three quart bottles of brandy, thirteen pint bottles, and one runlet of rum, and a case bottle of Hollands. Of wine there were, five bottles of Madeira, six of Sherry, and seven or eight of port. Of porter there was one dozen, and a dozen and a half of Burton ale (the strongest in the world). 
               I have already mentioned that we had brought away an abundant stock of bedding, &c. There was also a small variety of miscellaneous articles, which we had hastily cast pell mell into a sack, and these I left unexamined till a future day. The arms consisted of four guns, my uncle's two large boarding pistols (which he had used in the privateer in his youth), and three cutlasses. There were ten pounds of powder in two tin cases, and a large brass flask half full. A bag containing a good stock of bullets, and lead for casting, with a mould. There was also a very beautiful light doublebarrelled fowling piece, made by Lapagt of Paris, but it was absolutely useless, being fitted with percussion locks (then newly invented), and we had no percussion caps for it. It also had been intended for a present to a merchant at St. Petersburgh. 
               One very sad loss I discovered, viz., the quadrant and some other nautical instruments were irretrievably broken, having been crushed in the hurry of pushing off from the sinking ship. I was thus deprived of the ability of ascertaining our latitude and longitude, as my uncle had strongly recommended. 
               Having completed my temporary survey, I called the men into their own tent, and briefly but seriously addressed them. I told them that I would do all that man could do to extricate us from our calamity, but that I could never achieve this unless they implicitly obeyed me, as they had sworn to do in the dying presence of our commander. They at once repeated our pledge, and I then told them I had looked over our stock, and should always serve out to them as much of everything as I thought could prudently be allowed. I added, that we should be many long months ere we could get away, but that with God's blessing I had no fear of our ultimate deliverance. They cheerfully assented to all I said, and assured me in their own rough but emphatic way, that I might indeed depend on them to their last breath. I then spoke to them on another subject I had much at heart. 
               I slept very late the next day, for I was thoroughly worn out, and I was only aroused by the voice of Blackbird Jim, who stuck his grizzled head through the opening in the tent, about an hour after daybreak, and vociferated with all his might and main, 'captain-a sail! a sail!' 
               I brought a telescope and surveyed her myself after the first motion was over. She was a full rigged ship, and some of her sails were hanging loosely from the yards. At the gaff appeared a flag, or a remnant of one, though I could not well make out what it was, but from her rig, I concluded she was either English or Danish, but whatever country she belonged to, I felt certain we should at once he hospitably received on board. I therefore determined first to despatch a letter addressed to her commander, informing him briefly of our position, and requesting he would send a party of men to help us to remove our effects to the vessel. After writing the letter. Oriana added a postscript in Danish, that in case the vessel was a Dane, they would equally understand us. This I immediately sent off by Blackbird Jim, and whilst he was gone the rest of us were busily engaged in packing up for our anticipated removal. 
               At the expiration of three hours my messenger returned all alone, and instead of the happy care-for-nothing fellow I expected to see, he slunk up to me with his head hanging down, and his eyes starting half out of their sockets, and without speaking a word, he handed me a letter. I gazed at him in amazement, and on glancing at the letter perceived it was my own, unopened. 
               'What on earth does this mean?' 
               'It's horrid shocking, sir.' 
               'What! are you drunk or mad?' 
               'I've seen enough to make me, captain! You ship is worse than Vanderdecken's, the Flying Dutchman!' 
               He then told his story more intelligibly, and a very marvellous story it was. He said that he had gone straight to the ship, and on nearing her felt somewhat surprised at the slovenly way in which her sails and rigging were dangling, and especially he saw no people on deck, and no trace of them on shore, although the ship was fast frozen. When he came alongside he hailed her repeatedly loud as he could, but not an echo replied-This seemed so unaccountable that he grew frightened, and, sailor like, thought her a ship bewitched. Perceiving that a port hole between the main and mizen chins was opened, he climbed up to it and peeped in. He saw a man sitting at a table, and shouted to him, but the man never spoke nor stirred, and this completed his own terror to such a degree that, although ordinarily as brave a fellow ever trod a plank, he confessed that he jumped down on the ice and ran all the way back to us, without once turning his head to look again at the 'bewitched ship,' as he persisted in calling her. 
               What to make of this astounding narrative I knew not, I was quite sure that poor Jim was telling the truth as far as he knew. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               VISIT TO THE STRANGE SHIP-HER OFFICERS AND CREW. 
               ERE the morrow's dawn I was up and called the reluctant men. 
               The reader is already acquainted with Mr. Blackbird Jim, but I have not hitherto described his two messmates. One of the latter was a Scotchman, and the other an Irishman and consequently they were respectively known on shipboard as 'Sawny' and 'Paddy.' So I must continue to call them, for I really do not know what names they had shipped under in the 'Lady Emily.' The Scotchman was the oldest of us all, and must have been fifty summers at least, being quite a veteran for a seaman, (for sailors very rarely live beyond that age if permanently engaged on the wear-and-tear calling). He was a little wiry fellow, but tough as whalebone, or, to use his own expression, 'tench as pin-wire.' The Irishman was a Kilkenny boy, a big rollicking fellow, full of fun and frolic as an egg is full of meat, and although a very good seaman, he was in all respects without exception the most stupid ignoramus I ever met with. But he, like the Scotchman, was very good natured, and therefore I had nothing to complain of. 
               When we came within a hundred yards of the ship, I indeed saw enough to amaze me. All the ropes and stays were bleached white and evidently rotten, many were broken or missing, and the fore-shrouds on the starboard side had fallen on deck, having rotted off at the mast-head. The flag at the gaff was now a mere bundle of rags. On our near approach I perceived that the ship's hull was battered or rather weather-beaten, to a most extraordinary degree. Her seams gaped wide open, and her planking was warped and twisted, long strips of the caulking having slipped out and now hung dangling down. Her counter-stern had a figure of Neptune in relief, and some nautical devices were painted and gilded, but there was no ship's name nor port's name. 
               My men hung back from me when I climbed up to the open porthole and looked in. There, sure enough, was a man sitting at the table just as Jim asserted. His back was towards me, but the light was so feeble that I could not well perceive more than that he appeared to be in the act of writing. I spoke to him but he stirred not, and my voice echoed with a marvellously startling sound through the cabin. I now began to suspect the awful truth, and gun in hand I climbed up to the mizen chains, calling on my crew to do so, but not one of them had the courage to do so. I cared little for this, and bade them stay where they were till I returned. 
               On gaining the deck I found it thickly covered with snow, but not a trace was there of footsteps-neither of man, beast or bird-with difficulty I descended by the companion-way into a sort of steerage, communicating with the main or after cabin. It was in this steerage that the man I had seen through the open porthole was seated. My heart sank within me as I stepped close up to him, for I perceived that he was a corpse. There was a log book one on the table before him, and his hand rested on it, with a pen yet grasped between the fingers. A slimy greenish mould, encrusted his face and eyes, which were wide open. The under-jaw had fallen, exposing the teeth and mouth; and a bristly beard covered the chin and throat. He was doubtless the mate of the ship. The last entry in the log book-the one he had evidently written just before he expired-was in a tremulous but distinct hand, and I here subjoin it, word for word- 
               'Nov, 14th, 1803.-We have now been enclosed in the ice seventeen days. The fire went out yesterday, and our master has been trying ever since to kindle it again, but without success. His wife died this morning. There is no relief.' 
               Heart sick I turned away and entered the main cabin. The first object was a woman lying on a bed on the floor, her body reclining half upright, supported by one arm, her chin resting on its palm. Her countenance was quite fresh, (owing probably to the non admission of air, as there was no porthole here,) but her limbs were contracted and withered. Her eyes were open, and she appeared to have died in the act of intensely gazing at a man about thirty years of age who was seated on the floor, with a piece of steel in his left hand and a flint in his right, uplifted in the act of striking a light on the tinder. A stove was in the cabin, filled with broken wood and a few partially charred chips at the bottom-evincing that a light had been applied to them without their fairly igniting. At the foot of the stairs was the body of a boy in a crouching atitude. 
               I did not stay to examine particularly the half open lockers of the cabin, but after peeping into the state-room adjoining I returned to the deck, and thence proceeded to the forecastle. Here I found a number of the crew dead in their berths and on the floor, in every variety of atitude. One figure especially struck me. I knew he was a carpenter by the pocket-rule in his trowsers. He was a remarkably large man, and sat on a chest with his back resting against the bulkhead, and his arms were stretched straight upwards, with his hands locked together in an attitude of agonized supplication. His head was also thrown back, with the face uplifted and the lips apart. He had died invoking the help of Heaven. At his feet another sailor, a negro, was huddled in a ball like a figure-his knees being drawn up to his breast, and his head partially sunk between them, while his long arms were tightly clasped round his legs. A third had evidently died in a state of rigid conclusion, for he was flat on his back, with his legs screwed, as it were, around each other; one arm was flung out at full length with the fist clenched, and the other was bent with the hand clutching in hair of his head. His features were frightfully contorted, his lips wide apart, and the grinning teeth seemed yet in the act of grinding over each other.-It was a dreadful sight. 
               All the bodies I could count amounted only to nineteen-and as the original crew of so large a whaleship must have been thrice that number I could only account for the deficiency by supposing that the residue had deserted in hope of relief on shore, and had there doubtless miserably perished. 
               When I emerged on deck again the men greeted me with a cheer, for they had been mortally apprehensive they would never see me more. I called them to come on deck, and they now obeyed. 
               I then told them what had proved the destruction of the crew of this ship might prove our own salvation, for I intended that we should take up our quarters in her forthwith. 
               I ordered them at once to remove the bodies from the cabin and convey them on deck, and this they promptly performed.-The flesh of these unhappy victims was hard and perfectly dry, and when lifted up they rigidly retained the positions in which they had died. 
               When the captain's body was removed from the floor I perceved his silver watch lying by his side, face uppermost. The silver was quite black, but on opening the case I found the works in perfect order. The watch had stopped at twelve precisely. There was a faded silk ribband attached to it, with a key, and on applying the latter I easily wound up the works, and the watch had began to tick again as though it had stopped a minute before. I hung up the watch on a nail in the beam overhead, and in doing this, perceived a bunch of keys, belonging to the private lockers and cupboards. I put them in my pocket and followed the men on deck. 
               Under my directions they placed the bodies temporarily on the forecastle deck, and to give them heart to go through the remainder of their melancholy task, I gave them a dram each from a bottle I had brought with me. They then got all the bodies out of the forecastle, and also the one sitting at the table in the steerage with the log book before him. They were all dried as thoroughly as though they had been placed in a lime klin. This painful duty occupied a considerable time, and when it was completed the night had set in. 
               Nothing more could be done now, so I gave the welcome order to return to our tents, being very anxious to rejoin Oriana. Guided by our previous tracks through the snow we safely arrived, and the dear girl welcomed us to a capital dinner she had prepared in anticipation of our return. I could eat nothing after the awful spectacles I had beheld, but the three hungry sailors made a perfect feast. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               DISPOSAL OF THE CREW-REMOVAL TO THE STRANGE VESSEL. 
               I COMMUNICATED all that had occurred to Oriana, and she entirely agreed with me that it was a providential thing for us that we had been east ashore near to the frozen ship-for we both felt that had we no better shelter than our tents through the winter we should probably perish with cold. She eagerly insisted on going with us the next day, and although I wished her to remain that she might be spared the sight of the dead bodies, she carried her point. 
               We all set off the next morning before daybreak, taking some provisions with us, and axes and tools-but we might have spared ourselves the trouble, as we subsequently found the carpenter's chest in the forecastle. 
               On arriving at the ship we cut a spare boom in two and nailed boards across it so as to form a rude sledge. On to this sledge we placed the bodies four at a time, and dragged them a distance of three hundred yards behind a low range of rocks, and there we placed them in a natural hollow, and piled upon them all the loose stones we could collect so that the wild beasts should not disturb their bones. This was all we could do, for it was impossible to dig a pit in the frozen ground. 
               Oriana was left behind in the ship, and the fearless girl set to work during our temporary absence, and to our great astonishment we beheld on our return smoke issuing from the long disused chimney of the cabin stove, for she had struck a light with materials she had brought with her, and had somehow managed to ignite the very fuel which the unfortunate captain had died in attempting to set fire to. The first thing we did was to overhaul the lockers-excepting the private ones of which I had the keys-and empty them of all their contents, except what would be immediately useful. We found the usual miscellany, and the greater portion we cast into the steerage for the present, to be out of the way. For six hours we all worked away, and then we had really got the cabin in habitable condition.-All the bedding in the berths and state rooms we threw in a heap into the steerage, having plenty of excellent bedding of our own in the tents. The whole of the place was swept out clean and rubbed dry with cloths, and we kept a roaring fire in the stove, having split up an empty blubber cask for that purpose. 
               When we quit the ship for the night, we made up a great fire in the stove and closed the door leading into the steerage and also the companion way, in order that the cabin should get a thorough warming. 
                
               The ensuring morning we were up long before daylight, and constructed a temporary sledge of the pieces of boom we had brought from the Lady Emily. This we heavily loaded with clothing, bedding, and various necessaries, and after a hasty breakfast set off, dragging it by ropes to the frozen ship.-Oriana this day remained behind to pack up whatever she thought most suitable and necessary for the next day's sledge load. 
               As soon as we reached the ship we got the merchandize down into the cabin. We then stowed a portion of it away in the lockers, and the residue we hung up in the cabin to give it a thorough airing, having made a fire in the stove. 
               The general arrangements for living on board the ship had been most cordially agreed upon between Oriana and myself on the previous night. There were three state-rooms leading from the cabin, all of them perfectly snug and dry, with tightly fitting doors, and very neatly furnished sleeping berths. One of these was to be Oriana's sleeping room, and the adjoining one was her private room for dressing or whatever she pleased; and their utility and convenience was greatly enhanced by the fact that a door opened between them. These rooms were on the larboard side, and the third state room was on the starboard, and that I should occupy. Adjoining the latter room was the steward's pantry, which contained abundance of culinary utensils in very good order and quite fit for immediate use. The main cabin was to be common to us both, for meals and to spend our leisure time in. The forecastle was assigned to the men for their domain; and as it was a large place and could soon be rendered very comfortable, they were eager to take possession of it, Mr. Blackbird Jim asserting that they should be as happy as three grunters in a stye-a dubious but characteristic simile. 
               Having nothing more to do in the cabin at present, we proceeded to the forecastle, and after clearing out all the bedding in the berths and hammocks, swept the place clean, and then we inspected the contents of the seamen's chests. 
               For the present the chests were stowed away in spare berths, the men having previously selected three of the latter to sleep in. They had plenty of choice, for the forecastle contained not less than twenty-two sleeping berths and about as many hammocks.-Judging by this I should say that the entire crew of the ship must have been fifty or sixty hands, for whalers carry very large crews. Our day's work completed, we returned to the tents. 
               Ere daybreak we were fully prepared for another overland expedition, and, by the way, I have not as yet explained the precise position of the frozen ship. She was, as nearly as I could estimate, five miles from the spot where we pitched our tents.-She was frozen up in a very narrow inlet, not above two hundred yards in width, and how she got there was a mystery. Probably she was driven by a storm up the same channel as the Lady Emily, and frozen fast, as the latter unfortunate vessel would have been had she not struck the iceberg and sunk. We could walk on solid ground to within forty yards of the ship, and the inlet was clearly defined by its dead level, which was considerably lower than the shores. 
               This day we loaded the sledge with the whole stock of spirits, wines, ales, and as large a quantity of provisions as it would carry in addition. The day proved raw and foggy. I consequently wished Oriana to remain behind, but she resolutely would go, asserting that she wished to put the cabin in order, that we might, as we had previously arranged, take possession of it on the ensuing day. 
               On account of the thick weather, we were a long time in reaching the ship, and should have lost our way had not the previous tracks in the snow guided us. It seemed that we had loaded the sledge too heavily, for it was as much as we all four could do to haul it along at a respectable pace. 
               The first thing we did was to get the fire grate out of the caboose on deck, and this we lowered into the forecastle, and raised it on logs of wood till the smokepipe was more than long enough to pass through the deck overhead. We then set up the pipe in a permanent position and caulked round the interstices between it and the deck. A fire was then lighted, and we found it to answer admirably. 
               My next act was to set to work to cut out a doorway in the bulkhead that separated the forecastle from the hold-for I rightly reckoned that were the entrance to the forecastle to continue to be by the ordinary hatchway, it would never be kept warm for any length of time, as the hatch must necessarily be frequently removed for egress and ingress, and the cold air would rush in like a tempest. 
               After finishing the job of the stove, we entered the hold, and found it lumbered with piles of huge oil casks, tanks for blubber, and all the oufit of a whaleman. It appeared that not more than one small fish had been taken by the unfortunate crew, for we found its jaw bone, and the blubber had evidently been boiled down in the coppers in the ship's waist, and filled two casks with oil. All the rest were empty, as well as the tanks. I was thankful to discover this oil, as it would furnish us with an ample supply for our lamps. We set to work clearing away the casks and lumber, so as to form a gangway the length of the hold, and this we laid with loose planks all the way, from the steerage to the forecastle. 
               We left the ship with our empty sledge, intending that this should be the last night passed by us in the tents. Happily the fog cleared away, and it was a clear starlight night, but bitter cold, and minute frozen particles of snow occasionally drifted cuttingly in our faces. 
               The next day we loaded the sledge with a large cargo of provisions, bedding, and clothing, but there yet remained several sledge loads of different articles.-The day was fine but yet colder than before, and I had the good fortune to shoot a very fine fat duck on our way. We arrived at the ship about noon, and unloaded our sledge in high glee, for we were henceforward to have our home here. 
               We had worked very hard for several days, and the men deserved all the encouragement I could afford them. After they had stowed away their bedding and made some little arrangements in the forecastle they were put under the command of Oriana, and it was difficult to tell which was proudest, Oriana to give orders, or the sailors to execute them. She seemed as happy as could be chatting, laughing, singing, bustling about, without a moment's pause. She went to the forecastle, and after Blackbird Jim had got up a roaring fire there, she appointed him the assistant cook, giving him beef and pork, and instructing him how to melt snow for water to boil them in, and then she returned to the cabin to commence her own labors. 
               'We are quite ready now, the duck is nicely roasted, and you may go and tell them to bring in the beef and pork.' 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               THE DINNER-OUR PLANS FOR THE FUTURE. 
               IT was now after six P. M., quite a fashionable dinner hour! and I went to the forecastle. The men were all busy 'rigging' themselves out. The beef and pork were well boiled, and I myself carried it to the cabin, ordering them to follow me as soon as possible. By the time the four solid dishes of beef, pork, duck and rashers of bear and rein-deer flesh, with condiments, and a basket of biscuit were properly placed, a tap came at the door and our three guests sailed in. The poor fellows had put on clean check shirts, and their very smartest white ducks and blue jackets, with red silk bandanas, in their pockets. They doffed their tarpaulins, and stood quite confused and abashed in the presence of Oriana, who now looked, as indeed she was, every inch the perfect lady; but she at once set them at ease by placing them at the table, with kindly words of welcome. The great pair of polished lamps were suspended and lighted, in addition to two candles on the table, so that the cabin was quite illuminated, and was warm and comfortable in every respect. Oriana occupied the chair at the head of the table, and I sat on her right hand, and Blackbird Jim on her left, his two messmates being opposite each other, the Irishman next to me, and the Scotchman next to Jim. 
               The great business of the day now commenced. I cut hearty slices of beef and pork for the men, and Oriana helped them to rashers of the bear and rein-flesh, just as they preferred, and it was amusing to observe the very awkward way in which they used their knives and forks-as sailors are accustomed to nothing but their own broad-bladed clasp-knives, as they sit round a mess of junk in the kit. 
               Oriana surveyed her voracious guests with delight, and I am sure she enjoyed seeing them eat quite as much as they enjoyed the ac of eating itself. I now commenced carving the duck, as Oriana sai she would like a slice of the breast. To my astonishment I foun she had stuffed it full of-preserved plums. When I expressed surprise, she said that in Denmark that was the invariable stuffing, and I have since known it to be so, but to this hour I do not relish it. The duck proved delicious, and when I had helped her and myself, I turned it over to the men, and they picked its very bones. 
               The joy of the delighted Oriana was unbounded when they were helped all round to mighty slices, for the pudding indeed was most excellent. I asked her how it was that she had learnt to make such a genuine English plum-pudding, and she replied that an old Yorkshire lady, resident at Copenhagen, had taught her. In a very few minutes there was not a morsel of the pudding nor a drop of brandy sauce left. 
               'Well,' said Blackbird Jim, 'if this here's the living we get in these latitudes, I shan't wish to get home just yet!' 
               A bottle or two of strong Burton ale and porter had been allowed to dinner, and after a pause the desert was served up to the fresh amazement of the men. 
               Oriana next gave us a song in her native Danish-a dialogue song between a girl and her betrothed. She said it was a 'Sunday song' of the, island of Amager, near Copenhagen. Of course she had to sustain both parts, and this she did with astonishing spirit and address; and her peculiarly sweet voice absolutely entranced us all although we understood not a word. Nor shall I forget the indescribably arch look she gave me as she sung the lines:- 
                      
                        'Lisbet! Lisbet! o; hvor er Du fod og net, 
                        See paa mig ret.' 
                     
                   With songs and talk, our evening flew away happily. The sailors felt themselves on good behavior, and they really behaved with the utmost propriety, for Oriana's presence seemed to refine them unconsciously. 
               At eleven o'clock, she gaily cried, 'Now I must give you a nightcap each. You will sleep well in my nightcaps, I am so sure.' 
               'Now, my lads,' said I, 'you have got your nightcaps, so you know what next to do.' 
               They took the hint and withdrew, brimful of gratitude and good humor 
               'Dear Oriana,' said I, when we were alone, 'how happy have you made us all this day!' 
               'O, broder, I like to make everybody happy! I only wish I could make all the world happy-dat I do. But our little feast came off well.' 
               'Indeed it has. You worked marvels. But were you satisfied with me as your 'stupid, clumsy' assistant?' 
               'Oh, yes, very much so, and you will improve with practice.' 
               'Then I suppose I may claim my reward.' 
               'Reward.' 
               'O, you know very well that you promised me 'a reward' if I behaved well.' 
               'Ah, what a terrible memory you have, broder. I will never make rash promises any more. I'm so sure I didn't mean it, and, I'm so sure I wont pay the reward-to-night-no, dat I won't, and she screwed up her rosy little mouth most obstinately. 
               'Well, then, if you won't pay it I must make myself content with mere thanks.' 
               We then sat together and consulted seriously about the future. 
               This matter discussed, Oriana remarked that as this was our first night in our new home, we ought not to retire to rest without thanking God for all his goodness in providing it, and to pray to him to support us through the trails in store. She wished me to read something from my poor uncle's prayer book, and I gladly assented. 
               And in this frame of mind we parted for the night. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               WORKING AT HOME-OUR FIRST HUNTING EXPEDITION. 
               THE remainder of the week the men were occupied in transporting the residue of the articles from the tents to the ship, and Oriana and myself were busily engaged in completing our domestic arrangements. 
               The first Sunday, of our sojourn in the ship was kept in the same way as all succeeding ones. After breakfast, the men, having dressed themselves in their best, came to the cabin to hear me read the lessons and psalms of the day. They then did what they pleased till two P. M., when they returned to partake of dinner and pass the rest of the day with us. Oriana always provided the best she could, and it was sure to be accompanied by some little delicacy or other, Conversation and appropriate reading occupied the residue of the evening till eight o'clock, when supper was served, and after it was over I read the evening prayers, and any passages of Scripture which either Oriana or myself had selected as being appropriate to our condition. Oriana also generally sung some devotional hymns in the Danish language, two of which were especial favorites with us all, viz., 'Sandags Morgenslutning, and Sondags Aftenslutning, Sunday morning and evening songs). 
                
               Henceforward I settled the allowance of food, &c., to the men which although not so ample as I wished, was as much as I could prudently assign. They cooked their own food, and one day in the week they were allowed a gill of rum each, and occasionally I varied this by giving them a bottle of the ale or porter instead. On Sundays they had just the same fare as ourselves, with grog or a glass of wine. A fresh allowance of coffee and sugar was given them each morning, for had I served out the whole week's allowance at once, sailors are such improvident creatures that they would assuredly have used it in a day or two. 
               The second and third weeks we were entirely occupied by completing the arrangements of the forecastle, and making the various doorways and entrances snugger, for we could not hope that the present comparatively mild weather would last long. During this period we also prepared a great stock of fuel by sending on the deck the whole of the topmasts and topgallants, and also all the yards, booms, and blocks of the rigging, &c. These we cut into short lengths, and split them up with iron wedges and axes. The wood was very little decayed, the turpentine in it, and the coats of oil and paint, having preserved it; but all the rigging was blanched white, and even when thick backstays were cut in two, they did not exhibit a trace of tar.-This surprised me much. The men seemed to enjoy their rough heavy work, for they continnally kept up a running fire of jokes and sea-slang, one Charley Baxter being appealed to as indisputable authority.-When the spars were all cut up and split, the fuel (which was very excellent as such) was conveyed to the hold, and piled conveniently for the use of both cabin and forecastle.-There was an immense quantity, so that we had no fear of keeping up capital fires both fore and aft, for even when this stock was expended there were many great blubber-casks and loose planks in the hold, not to mention the ship's lower masts, bulwarks and whale-boats, of which there were seven on deck and suspended over the bulwarks.-These boats were fitted up with oars, long whalelines beautifully coiled in a tub in the bows, and harpoons and lances. The latter weapons we subsequently found very useful for spearing seals. I did not cut up a stern-sail boom or two and some of the light spare spars, as I thought they might eventually prove of some service, and so they did, but in a way I little anticipated. We quickly found that the fuel must be broken into much smaller pieces for use, and so the men had employment from time to time in doing that in the hold, as occasion required, or opportunity served. 
               We had hitherto worked double tides, but after completing the arrangements above alluded to, we had an easier time, and began to lay plans for our projected hunting operations. 
               After breakfast, Oriana said, 'Now, broder, I have a little present for you which you will find very useful.' 
               'What is it?' said I, and I felt rather curious to know, for I had seen her working very busily the past few days, and she would not tell me what she was making. 
               To my surprise and amusement she now produced,-what does the reader think?-Why, a huge wig, or hood, made of a piece of new blanketing. She said it would save me from being frost bitten, and insisted on my putting it on forthwith, that she might see how it fitted. I complied, and found that it covered my neck behind, and drew down in front nearly to my eyes, and had two flaps which entirely protected the ears and cheeks, and fastened under the chin. When Oriana had arranged it to her own satisfaction, she danced around me, clapping her hands and screaming with glee, and finally led me up to the cabin mirror, that I might see what an Adonis I looked. I burst into a roar of laughter myself, when I beheld my comical appearance, but I felt deeply grateful to her for her thoughtful kindness, as the hood was exceedingly comfortable, and would undoubtedly save me from the risk of being seriously frost bitten in the open air, which was now piercingly keen. 
               On emerging to the deck to join the men, they saluted me with broad grins, as well as they might, but Oriana promptly told them that she intended to 'transmogrify' them in the same fashion in a few days. 
               Off the four of us set (leaving Oriana in command of the ship), well provided with ammunition, including bullets, as we might happen to meet with bears or wolves. Blackbird Jim and the Scotchman were armed with a gun each, like myself, for they were both expert at firearms (having acquired their skill in not a very credible way in former years); but as to the big Irishman, he was such a reckless loon of a fellow, that I dared not trust him with a gun, lest he should either shoot himself or one of us; so his duty was to look out for game, and carry any or all that we might have the good fortune to kill. 
               I heard Jim mutter, 'I have you my skillagallee!' and immediately he fired at a fox which was peeping incautiously out of its burrow in the snow. The animal was killed in the hole, and dragged out with the exulting remark, 'That's number one. A blue fox with red blood.' 
               I reproved Jim for killing it, because I thought its flesh could not be eaten; but the Scotchman asserted that he had heard whalemen say that fox flesh was very good. I strongly doubted this, and at any rate I forbade that any more foxes should be shot, until we knew whether they were eatable.-We then separated fifty yards apart, and all of us were successful in bringing down different birds and animals, so that at length Paddy presented a perfectly ludicrous appearance, being hung round with game, (which he had tied together with rope-yarns, and slung over his shoulders and round his belt) till he had as much as he could stagger under. We were highly delighted with our extraordinary success-far greater by the bye than ever happened again-and reached the ship after five hour's absence. The game was forthwith deposited at the feet of Oriana in the cabin, and she examined them with the eager glee of a child. We found the fruits of our united skill, consisted of five white hares, one blue fox, one ermine, two ducks, four plump snow white ptarmigans, one gannet, and three sheerwaters-seventeen head of all kinds. After she had selected what she thought proper for the cabin table, the residue of animals and birds were given to the men to cook for themselves. I need only add that this supply not only was highly welcome and an agreeable variety of food, but also materially saved our preserved provisions. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               THE SNOW STORM-LOOKING OVER THE LETTERS OF THE LOST CREW. 
               WE had only made our foray just in the nick of time, for the very next day commenced a dense snow storm, which lasted with little intermission for nearly a fortnight. This dismal period-for it was quite dark, even for the one hour or so, when it should have been daylight-I set the men to little jobs of all sorts, and kept them in tolerable employment, and their leisure hours were spent in singing, dancing the cobler's hornpipe, spinning yarns, and argufying, (thanks to the controversal spirit instilled by the old Scotchman), in the forecastle. As to Oriana and myself, we were chiefly employed together in overhauling the books, letters, &c., previously brought from the seamen's chests; and also in examining the contents of the private lockers in the cabin, which I had not previously opened. We first looked over the books, and in all there were at least one hundred volumes. 
               Our next week was to overhaul the mass of letters-at least one hundred and fifty in all. From one chest alone there were a bundle of twenty-nine letters, the dates of which ranged from 1789 to 1809-the poor fellow to whom they were addressed having hoarded them, and tied up the letters of each year separately with a piece of twine! the majority of all the letters were from fathers, mothers, wives and sisters, and a score or two were love letters. They were written in every style-some in excellent handwriting, and others in little better than hieroglyphics.-What a curious insight into the human heart did these letters unfold. The deep feelings of parents, sisters, wives, and sweethearts were often sublime in their artless eloquence; and both Oriana and myself shed tears over numerous passages. Were this a mere book of ordinary fiction, I might give copies of some of the letters, but as it is, I do not feel justified in doing so. Such records of love and sorrow are sacred things, and ought not to be subjected to the glare of publicity. Finally, we opened the captain's private lockers, and as we expected, found them full of articles personally belonging to himself and wife. Some of these were intrinsically valuable, and others were very useful to us in our present situation, and all were affecting mementoes of the deceased. 
               There were a few standard works, and several books of navigation, but what I wanted most of all-viz: a quadrant and other nautical instruments, to ascertain our latitude and longitude-were not to be found. Probably the men who deserted the ship took them away. I may here add, that I regulary kept the log of the 'Lady Emily' from the day of her wreck, but of course all I had to enter in the book was a brief statement of our every day life. Who would read that log? Would it really meet the eye of some subsequent discoverer of our frozen bodies? 
               After the fortnight, or so, of tempest was over, we had several weeks of calm but intensely cold weather. Every night there was a glorious aurora borealis, and I never wearied in gazing mutely on the sublime sight, and could read the smallest print by its light. One of our first acts was to pile up a solid mass of snow in a sloping direction from the ice to a level with the ship's bulwarks, and then cut out steps in this, so that the act of ascending and descending from the ship was greatly facilitated. Next we resumed our hunting operations, but although for the first few days we had a fair degree of success yet the various creatures became by rapid degrees so shy at the sight and sound of our guns, that we at length rarely shot more than two or three head of game in a day. This would never do, and then we thought of setting traps, but how to make them was the question. Oriana came to the rescue and showed us all the plan adopted in Norland; this we imitated, and set traps, in a semicircle, about a couple of miles from the ship. On the average, I think, we caught a dozen of hares, foxes, &c., in a week-sometimes more but oftener less; and occasionally we shot a variety of birds, including ducks, geese, ptarmigans, sandlarks, snipes, sheerwaters, ivory gulls, grouse, buntings, mollemokes, boatswains, divers, &c. We also shot a few ermines, and a huge raven, that looked at least two centuries old. Jim also, once when alone, had the good fortune to kill a glutton, and its remarkably fine skin furnished Oriana with a tippet to wear in the open air. The men now each wore a hood similar to mine, and of course made by the same industrious little fingers. At the end of November the ptarmigans migrated southward, and at this time sun totally disappeared, and did not shine above the horizon again for nearly two months. 
               We kept Christmas-tide and the New Year in the best style we could, and I particularly remember at the Christmas-day dinner one delicious dish, which Oriana had concocted of the bear's paws. 
               One day we found distinct traces of a bear's footmarks, and the old Scotchman on one occassion got a shot at the creature, but without avail. I then pondered on the possibility of entrapping him, and at first thought of digging a pitfall, but the ground was hard as iron and we had no pickaxes or other proper tools. The scheme I finally adopted was to firmly set up three pieces of studding sail booms, each about twelve feet long, in the form of a triangle, and lashed together at the top. From the apex we suspended a strong rope with a well greased running noose, in the centre of which was placed a tempting lump of boiled beef. The first night the bait was unmolested, but on the ensuing morning we found to our delight a small white bear fast secured round the neck by the noose. He had made desperate efforts to drag down the apparatus, but it was too strong for him, and he now was quite helpless and stupified, the rope jammed so tightly, that but for his thick felt of hair it would have hanged him outright. A blow from Jim's axe gave him the coup de grace, and we dragged his carcass in triumph to the ship. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               LIFE IN THE ARCTIC. 
               SO our solitary life passed on, and we were contented and enjoyed unutterable happiness in each other's society. Perhaps never has a courtship been carried on under more peculiar circumstances than ours-and I should question whether I should ever had the courage to declare how I loved her, had we met in the ordinary intercourse of society.-Thus it is that God orders all things for the best. 
               Our ill-success with the traps the last week or two in March, once more threw us back on our reserved store, and of course we stinted ourselves on very small allowance. The men received their portion without a murmur, as they knew it could not be helped at present, but when many days passed in this way, and the weather continued so tempestuous that the wild creatures never came near the ship, then my little crew one and all, began to express by their eager famished looks that they suffered much, although in silence. I have already explained that their mess-room was in the forecastle of the ship, a good distance from the cabin occupied by Oriana and myself, and as we sat together one evening, I happened to slightly open the door communicating with the hold to get some article lying beyond, when a savory unmistakable odor from the men's room penetrated the cabin. 
               'Those rascals must have lied about not finding any animals in the traps to-day!' exclaimed I, 'for they are feasting at this very moment.' 
               'O pray don't swear, and don't be angry with the poor people,' soothingly cried Oriana, 'They have suffered much, and have been very good and obedient, and they are only eating some little bird or creature they picked up, I am so sure.' 
                
               'If it's only a mouse, they ought to have brought it here for-for you!' muttered I more angry still, and hastily passing into the hold, guided by the light which streamed from the chink in their bulk-head, I reached the door; and opening it stood in a moment before the astonished crew, who were detected at the very commencement of their guilty feast. 
               On the lid of a chest stood their wooden kit, filled with a smoking hash, just poured from a tin saucepan, and the three voracious fellows were in the act of fishing out pieces with their fingers. Blackbird Jim gave a dismal groan and almost choked himself by desperately gulping down a fragment he had in his mouth. 
               'Good evening, gentlemen,' said I, with bitter irony. 'I hope I do not disturb you in the least. I am very glad to find that although we are on short commons in the cabin, you gallant fellows can have nice little hot suppers for'ard.' 
               'Mother o' mine,' growled the Irishman, 'I tould yer he'd smell it.' 
               The old Scotchman looked glumly at Paddy, and Paddy vacantly at Blackbird Jim, who in turn looked like a culprit going to Tyburn. Meanwhile I stirred the hash with a spoon, and it really smelt delicious, but was so minced up that I could not discover whether it was fish, flesh or fowl-or all three. But I burst into a passion, upbraiding them with their selfish duplicity, and asking how they could sit feasting there, well knowing that the young lady had nothing to eat but a little insipid dry flesh. 
               Even as I spoke I felt something soft underfoot, and stooping down, I picked up the skin of the 'wee beastie.' What thinks the reader was it? The skin of Oriana's little dog Nem! A regular groan burst from the delinquents at this discovery, and for a moment I was speechless with rage. Not an hour before I had seen the Danish girl fondling her beautiful little pet, and now his remains were hashed up and partially devoured, and his silken coat which I had seen her press thousands of times, was in my hand. A lover dearly loves his mistress's dog. 
               'Ye gormandizing brutes!' at length roared I, 'ye are worse than cannibals. The only living creature she had to love and cherish, ye have stolen and butchered to satisfy your gluttonous cravings. Shame on ye, men! Little did I think when I last saw the poor little thing, that-' 
               I could bear no more, so turning round banged the door after me, not feeling very charitable towards them, and well knowing that their repentance would not prevent them from devouring the last morsel of the unfortunate Nem, the moment I was gone. 
               How to face Oriana and reveal to her the scandalous fate of her pretty little pet, I knew not; but concealing the skin under my jacket, I entered the cabin. Oriana instantly perceived that something had highly enraged me, and a few questions from her elicited the truth. She turned very pale, but said not a word till I gave her the skin, then she sat down with it in her lap and burst into tears. 
               Ere we had finished breakfast the next morning, a timid tap came at the cabin door. I was too much enraged against the men to take any notice of it whatever, but Oriana bade the visitor enter, and when the bronzed visage of Blackbird Jim showed itself, she saluted him, bidding him good morrow in her usual cheerful warm hearted manner, without a shade of reproach discernable in her tone.-Jim, himself-delinquent as he was-seemed as utterly dumfounded and abashed at the moment, as it was possible for such a being to be, but I roared out- 
               'You brutal rascal! how dare you show your face here after what you have done?' 
               'Broder, dear broder!' exclaimed Oriana hastily interposing, and forgetting her usual demure custom of calling me Captain Meredith in presence of the men; 'pray do not-for my sake do not speak so.' 
               'Why, you sees, ma'am,' cried the guilty Blackbird, in a rueful penitent tone, 'you knows as how we've been and done a-a sort-a-oh, split me! we was down right savages last night, and we repents, ma'am, and is all on us afear'd to look on your sweet kind face again. But what's done can't be undone, as Charley Bax-hum! well, ma'am, we turned out this here blessed morning long afore you was up, and goes a' exploring, and we shoots four nice ptarmigans, two mollemokes, and a bos'n, the which I here brings you-'and he thereupon deposited them all at her feet, 'and we finds in one of the traps a young fox, not a bit hurt, and says we, this here will do for ma'am to bring up tame-for, d'ye see, ma'am, we knows you can tame anything whatsomdever, as all things love you, 'cause why? they can't help it-and here the creeter is ma'am, all alive and kicking.' 
               Saying this, he drew aside his jacket, and displayed a very pretty little fox-cub, perfectly white, and not in the least injured by being caught in a trap, constructed on what he called 'the humane' principle-though what the said 'humanity' consisted of I am at a loss to conceive, as all the difference between an ordinary trap and a 'humane' one was, that the former put its victims out of their misery at once, whilst the latter kept them alive only to be killed a few hours later. 
               Oriana eagerly accepted the peace offering, saying, 'tween a tear and a smile, 'thank you very much, it is good of you to have thought of me; I will try and tame the little creature, dat I will!' and she at once took it from his hand, and began to untie the ropeyarns with which the captors had bound its legs rather tightly together. 
               Jim was highly gratified at being so well received, and mattering something or other, he very hastily withdrew, being evidently afraid of my angry looks. When he was gone, Oriana temporarily placed her new pet into an empty locker, and then turning to me, with all the winning persuasiveness she could so well evince said,- 
                
               
                   
                     THE RESCUE FROM DEATH. 
                  
                
                
               'Dear broder, you know dat I much loved my poor little Nem, but after all, he was only a dog, and what is a dog compared to our fellow beings? I would rather lose a million dogs than the least accident should happen to you my broder! dat I would. Now, do please forgive the men their one fault. They are very sorry for what they did, I knew they would! and you see they have been out this morning to get something to bring me amends. I forgive them with all my heart, and will not you, dear broder?' 
               But in spite of all she could say, I nourished what I now feel were wicked and revengeful thoughts, and sullenly refused to forgive them. Oriana, thereupon, without saying another word, took a roll of tobacco and a little rum out of the store, and selecting two ptarmigans and a mollemoke, she herself-God bless her! carried all to the forecastle to the penitent crew, who as I subsequently learnt, were so overcome by her heavenly goodness, that they actually shed tears, and in their own rude way, emphatically invoked blessings on her. And so she had her reward on earth. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               LOSS OF THE SCOTCHMAN AND IRISHMAN-MEETING OF BLACKBIRD JIM. 
               I HAVE not hitherto particularly alluded to the appearance of the locality to which we were necessarily confined, and I need only say that the general impression it conveyed was one of unspeakable desolation-There were immense ranges of rocks many miles distant inland; but in our immediate vicinity all was nearly level, except the low range before mentioned, a few hundred yards from the ship; The heavens overhead were sometimes sublime, but the prevailing feeling one experienced was a dread sense of horrible isolation, and this made us turn more eagerly and fondly to each other's society, for not a sound ever broke the awful brooding stillness of nature, except the occasional scream of a bird, or the savage howl of a beast. I do not intend to weary the reader with minute descriptions of Arctic scenery and climate, for many books have been written by intelligent officers of recent expeditions-although I have not myself read any of them, except Sir John Ross's deeply affecting narrative of his sojourn in 1826 and the three following years. 
               We continued to entrap foxes (the hares having all migrated), and occasionally shot a few birds; and as the days were lengthening a little, we were able to take wider circuits for the chase, but our success nevertheless was far inferior to what it had been in former months. The reason doubtless was partially attributable to our having thinned the game, but yet more so to the fact that they had grown very shy and wary. At first the hares and even the cunning foxes would complacently gaze at the deadly tube levelled for their destruction; but now they sped away as swift as the wind at a mere glimpse of a gun barrel. We made holes in the ice to catch seals; and after many experiments, at length captured a few by transfixing them with the whale harpoons and lanced of the frozen ship, when they came up to breathe. But the only portion of the seal's flesh which we could bring our yet dainty, stomachs to relish was the head and neck and also the broad tail. The rest we boiled for oil, and the skins were very useful for a variety of purposes. The blundering Irishman one day tumbled head-foremost into one of the seal-holes, and it was a miracle that he ever came to the surface again, but happily Blackbird Jim heard the splash, and running to the spot, twisted his harpoon into the man's jacket, and so hauled him out, half-drowned. We were then two miles at least, from the ship, and at once hurried poor hapless Paddy towards it; but before he had gone half the distance, his clothes were as stiff as sheet iron, so that he could not put one foot before the other, and we had to lay him across our guns, just as though he were a corpse being carried from a battle field, and thus conveyed him (dismally groaning,) to the ship.-When there we had to cut his clothes off, and then placed him in his berth between two hot blankets, and gave him a couple of stiff glasses of hot brandy and water. The result was, he suffered dreadfully for several days from being frostbitten, and he could not quit the forecastle for upwards of a fortnight. 
               About this period (the middle of March), we, for the first time, caught sight of a small herd of rein-deer, and gave instant and eager chase. They fled with the swiftness of the wind at the first fire, but we killed a very fine one, and also shot two foxes on our return to the ship with the prize. This reminds me to mention that the little fox-cub which Jim presented to Oriana, became thoroughly domesticated within a very few days. How she possessed the skill to charm it, I could not conceive (for it was mortally afraid of me and of all the men,) but it is a fact, that not twenty-four hours after its capture, it laid contentedly in Oriana's lap, and ate out of her hand. A day or two later it played with her like a kitten, and before the end of the week actually ran to her side when she called it by name. It was at perfect liberty, but made no attempt to escape from the cabin. Its favorite food was biscuit steeped in water, and mixed with morsels of cheese, but it ate very little at a time. On the 16th day of March a most afflicting calamity befel us.-The Scotchman and the Irishman went out together after breakfast to examine the traps and shoot any game they might meet with, myself and Jim remaining in the ship, having something to occupy us there. When five or six hours sped and they did not return, I grew alarmed, and sent Jim to seek for them. He, in turn, was full three hours away, and the news he brought was anything thing but assuring. He said that he had first gone round to all the traps, and that he was quite sure they had also visited them, for they were re-baited; but although he had gone a good distance further, he had not seen his absent messmates. This was indeed startling and inexplicable, and I immediately got two large lanthorns and suspended them at mast top, and fired several guns, in hope that if the men were within moderate distance, they would either hear the latter or see the lights.-Nothing resulted from this, and next we kindled a bonfire on deck, and kept it blazing several hours, for the night was intensely dark and murky, so that it would have been madness to have gone in search of them again. 
               A night of distressing anxiety passed, and the men were yet missing. At day-dawn we both set out in search, thinking we could certainly track them by footsteps, and should at least have the melancholy satisfaction of recovering their bodies, for we concluded they were frozen to death; but snow had fallen during the night to the depth of several inches, and we could not trace them anywhere except in the immediate vicinity of the traps, where the snow was much trodden down by our former frequent visits. 
               What fate had befallen them? Had they wandered in a wrong direction and lost themselves? Or had bears and wolves killed and devoured them? Or had they fallen into seal holes? The latter seemed the most probable, and I fancied myself that the reckless Irishman had perhaps first tumbled in, and that his messmate in endeavoring to rescue him had shared the same fate. We therefore examined every hole, but new ice now covered them all, and although we broke this and felt with our lances underneath the solid ice we found them not. 
               For days and weeks we sought far and near, and with the same sad result. Alas! what a blow was this! And not the least painful thing about it was, the utter uncertainty as to their actual fate: for if they had really perished in a seal hole, it was hardly likely that both fell in together; and if one first made a false step, and the other was drawn in by endeavoring to rescue him, it was natural to suppose that either the gun of the Scotchman, or the harpoon the Irishman always carried with him, would have been left on the snow, but such was not the case. And had bears carried them off, it could hardly have happened without leaving some trace of the combat, yet we could find none. All was a frightful mystery: but we knew that our poor messmates were lost to us forever. 
               About a fortnight after the mysterious disappearance of the two men, Blackbird Jim came to the cabin one evening, at eight P. M., and tapped at the door. I happened to be doing something in my state-room at the time, so he addressed Oriana, saying that he had just thought that as it was a brilliant night, he would take a stroll out to visit the traps, and re-set any that were sprung. 
               'Oh, no,' said she, 'do not go to night-better wait till morning.' 
               But he persisted, saying he should certainly be back in an hour or two at latest, and hoped to bring her a hare, or some kind of animal, for supper. She then gave him a small glass of rum; and, after thanking her kindly, the poor fellow set off in better spirits than he had evinced since the loss of his two jovial messmates. When I returned to the cabin, Oriana told me that he had gone to examine the traps, and I remarked that it was a foolish and useless thing, for I did not think it likely that any creature would be found in them so early, and he might get frost-bitten or lose his way. 
               'It is a strange whim too,' added I, 'for Jim always before seemed greatly to prefer staying in the forecastle on an evening.' 
               'Yes, but you know, broder, dat the poor man must feel very lonely, now his messmates are gone, and he cannot read to amuse himself. I think you ought in future to invite him every evening to the cabin, to sit and take supper with us. Please do, broder, and I am so sure dat he will be grateful, and behave very well.' 
               'That I will, since you wish it,' I replied, and I may here mention that since the two sailors were gone, that I had occasionally invited Jim to the cabin of an evening, as well as to spend all day with us Sundays, and he conducted himself with such propriety that I now felt perfectly willing to extend the privilege-for a privilege and favor he evidently felt it. His conversation on these occasions, though highly characteristic of the man was often very amusing to Oriana and myself. He never spoke, however, when he saw that I wished either to read to myself or aloud, and he would then sit as quiet as a mouse, platting rope-yarn mats for the cabin passage, and was ever delighted when Oriana said a kind word to him, or set him to do any little job that she thought within his capacity. We both, in fact, liked him more the longer we knew him, and he was proud of our esteem, and did his very utmost to further deserve it. His behavior towards Oriana, especially, was profoundly respectful and devoted. 
               The evening wore away as usual, but when ten o'clock came, we felt surprised that he had not returned, and I went on deck to see if he was in sight. It was a glorious night, the heavens being in a blaze with auroras, and I could see to a great distance, except in the direction where the range of rocks (behind which we had buried the crew of the frozen ship), intervened. All was silent as death, and not a living creature was to be seen. I therefore returned to the cabin somewhat vexed, and also uneasy. 
               'He promised to bring me some animal for supper,' said Oriana, 'but I think we better sup on what we have, or we shall have to go hungry to bed.' 
               'You are quite right, min pige. He has gone on some foolish errand, and I only hope he has not lost his way-though I hardly think that likely, for he is a real sailor, and would therefore be sure to notice the bearings of objects. Besides, he knows every foot of ground by this time.' 
               We supped and chatted together, but as time sped, our uneasiness ness about Jim's absence gradually changed to downright alarm. We repeatedly went on deck, and looked out for him in vain. At midnight I resolved to go forth in search of him, for we both now felt too certain that some serious calamity had occurred. 
               'He must have fallen in a seal-hole or perhaps some bear has met him,'said I. 'Did he have arms with him?' 
               'Yes, he had what he calls his 'Old Trusty, hanging to his belt. 
               'This 'Old Trusty' was the axe with which he had killed the monster that visited us at the tents, and Jim had ever since carried it with him whenever he went from the ship. 
               'I am glad of that,' returned I, 'for if he really has had a battle with a bear, he would use 'Old Trusty' manfully, depend upon it! But I fear the poor fellow is wounded, or disabled at any rate, and perhaps frozen to death ere this.' 
               'God forbid!' ejaculated Oriana, turning very pale. 'But let us go at once, broder!' 
               'Us go! Why surely you are not going, Oriana? The night is bitterly cold, and-' 
               'But I am!' resolutely replied she. 'Dat poor man saved us both at the mutiny, and-and I will go.' 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               THE ENCOUNTER WITH THE BEAR-DEATH OF BLACKBIRD JIM. 
               WHEN she said, 'I will,' in her present tone, I knew well it was useless opposing her. She hastily wrapped herself up, whilst I drew on my overcoat, and then she put a small flask of brandy in her pocket. I loaded a gun with a double ball, and also buckled on a cutlass, for there was no telling what use I might find for them. After quitting the ship, we paused to consider in what direction to search. There were footprints in the snow which we knew to be Jim's heavy rolling tread, but as no snow had fallen during several days past, we could not tell whether they were made by him this night or on a previous occasion, so it was useless tracking them. Oriana suggested that we should first go towards the rocks and look in their vicinity. We did so; and hardly had turned the first angle ere all our fears and hopes were at an end. On the snow was stretched the lifeless form of Blackbird Jim, and within half a dozen paces of him lay a great white bear, quite dead, and the Trusty axe yet fast in his skull, whither it had been driven by the last desperate exertions of Jim's ebbing power. 
               Oriana screamed at the sight, and then instantly knelt by the side of the body, to ascertain whether life had really fled. Fastened by a rope-yarn to Jim's belt was a fine white hare, and we at once comprehended prehended that the poor fellow had taken it from one of the traps, and was bringing it, doubtless in high glee, for our supper, but was attacked when within three hundred yards of the ship. 
               Much icy blood was caked on his dress, and his body was quite stiffened with the frost, yet Oriana declared her belief that he yet lived, as she asserted she saw his lips quiver. She promptly poured brandy down his throat, and without waiting for its effect I got him on my back and staggered as fast as I could-for he was a heavy man-towards the ship; Oriana preceding me with the gun. Assisted by her I managed to get him on board, and conveyed him to the forecastle, where we placed him on blankets spread on two chests. He at once gave unequivocal signs of returning animation by gasping and moaning, and in less than an hour was restored to sensibility. He was awfully mangled, and as soon as he recovered speech, he explained how the fearful rencontre with the ferocious beast came to pass. He had as we surmised, taken the hare from a trap, and was approaching the ship with it after about two hours' absence, when he was seized in an instant by a large white bear which had crouched behind a piece of rock, so he did not see it till he was within his terrible embrace. Being an exceedingly powerful man he fought desperately for life, but he could not release himself from the beast, which hugged him till he felt and even heard his ribs crack, one after the other, and the blood began to spurt from his ears, nose and mouth. The bear never attempted to bite him but merely to squeeze him to death. When it first attacked him it did so by rearing upright on his bind feet, and he thought the struggle must have lasted full five minutes ere he fell to the ground and the bear a top of him without releasing its hold. By the fall he managed to disengage his right arm, and tried to untackle the axe from his belt, but could not do so in the position in which he lay. He now felt his arm break in two places, and the hind claws of the brute were rending his thighs. Recollecting his clasp-knife he got it out of his pocket, and opening it with his teeth he stabbed the creature in both eyes, and the agony caused it to instantly let go its hold, and roll over with hideous howls. He sprang to his feet, seized his axe, and with an expiring blow drove into the skull of his blinded foe. This done he staggered backwards, and falling on the snow became at once insensible, and continued so until brought to the forecastle. 
               On examination I found his wounds truly frightful. Every rib on the left side was smashed. The four lower ribs on the right side were also fractured, and so was the left arm in two places. The muscular parts of his thighs were literally ploughed by the beast's hinder claws. I was certain he could not survive, and he knew it perfectly well.-All that we could do for him was done; but even had a first rate surgeon, with every medical appliance, been on the spot, his life could not have been saved. The only marvel was that he had not died on the field of conflict. He breathed with great difficulty, and I have no doubt, that his left ribs were pressed hard upon his lungs on that side.-He bore his horrible sufferings with amazing fortitude-sternly repressing his groans, and even uttering some of his quaint jokes. 
               Oriana wept over him as she supported his head and wiped the froth from his lips, for he was a great favorite of hers, and she justly deemed him one of the chief instruments, under God, of preserving her during the mutiny. Had he not acted as he did on that occasion I must have perished like my uncle, and she would have met a fate a thousand fold worse than death. My grief at beholding him expiring thus was as intense as hers. He asked for some rum, and drank it. Then he could speak more distinctly, and addressing Oriana cried- 
               'Ma'am, I can't go aloft, d'ye see, till you forgive me.' 
               'Forgive you! I have nothing to forgive.' 
               'Yes, you have, ma'am, split me. You're an angel, and I was a wicked, ungrateful brute, for I killed your little dog and-' 
               'Don't talk of dat-I don't care for a thousand dogs,' sobbed she. 
               'Then you forgive me, ma'am?' 
               'Yes, dear Jim, yes.' 
               'God bless you ma'am, and-and God forgive me all my misdoings! Captain, I've tried to do my duty by you, as I swore I would, and I hopes you are satisfied with me in the long run?' 
               'Oh, yes, my dear fellow-my poor, dear messmate,' cried I, wringing his horny hand, 'you've acted nobly throughout-we owe our lives and everything to you.' 
               'Them's comfortable words to ring in a feller's ears as he trips his last anchor here below,' responded he, with a flash of satisfaction lighting up his features; 'and mayhap they'll help me to gain a snug berth in the port of Heaven.' 
               After a pause he muttered these characteristic expressions- 
               'Split me! ain't it hard that a feller like me, as has gone through the mill ever since I was the hight of a biscuit, should live to be grappled and brought to by a horrid ugly brute of a bear. I'd sooner the black neegurs in Guinea had captivated me-sink me if I wouldn't. But it aint shipshape, nor creditable, nor Christian like to die grumbling like a heathen lubber, seeing as how every bullet's got its commission, and we must all weigh when the signal's given-but it is hard that a Greenland bear should unreeve my life lines.' 
               A few minutes later he was obviously near his end. The fatal rattle betokened the last struggle between the strong man and death, and just at the parting moment he became delirious, and in broken accents gasped- 
               'Ay, ay, I know'd it, and I said it, sink me. It's a lubberly thing to shorten sail-for'ard first-should allers begin to clew up aft, d'ye see?-no'th east by no'th, sir-ease her handsomely, Jack, when she pitches, or you'll have her sticks out-fore topsail halyards foul-never was in a prettier bit of wood and iron than-the Lively Nancy-a catching blackbirds-ay, turned turtle, at last, split me-eight bells, my hearties, d'y e hear the news?-turn in for a long caulk-for ever and ever-O Lord Jesus, have mercy!-I've been a wicked sinner.' 
               Here the soul of Blackbird passed to its account, with words of prayer unfinished on his lips. 
               Both Oriana and myself bitterly mourned his loss, and after decently composing his limbs retired to our cabin, the only living human beings perchance within hundreds of miles. All that miserable night we sat up; at noon the next day I went to the forecastle and put the body in one of the hammocks. My melancholy task performed I left him in the forecastle, and the next day I carried him on deck and lowered him on to a sledge, which I dragged to the spot where he had helped to pay the last duties to the remains of the ship's crew a few months before. Oriana accompanied me, and we both shed tears over the humble mound of stones I piled above him. On our return we passed the body of the bear that had so cruelly deprived us of our last earthly friend, and I wrenched poor Jim's trusty axe out of its skull and took it with me to the ship. 
               To my dying day I shall not forget the look that Oriana fixed on me that evening as we sat together in our solitary cabin. At length she stretched forth her hand and laid it on my arm, and gazing with her expressive eyes full upon me, she said in a low, thrilling voice, to which her foreign accent and broken English lent a peculiarly touching charm- 
               'We now all alone, all gone to heaven but us two.' 
               'It is God's will, and God's will be done,' responded I. 
               'Yes, dat true. But God not forget us, he remembers us, he sees us, he hears all we any. I want to speak.' 
               There was something in her manner that startled me. I involuntarily returned her piercing gaze. A flush mantled her cheeks and forehead, and she momentarily lowered her eyes, but the next instant fixed them on me more firmly than ever. 
               'You have been good, very good and dear to me,' said she, 'and the God in Heaven will you reward. But we are now alone, only us two young Christian people living here-we are by ourselves.-You very good, you will not be angry at my words. There is only God with us here, only God sees us, only God hears us, but you will never do wrong to the poor Danish girl that loves you so dearly?' 
               I started, for I now understood her meaning, and it was not without an intonation of reproach that I responded- 
               'Oriana, my mother is in heaven, and how do you think I could ever hope to meet her there if I wronged you? I swear before God that sooner than do that I would die ten thousand deaths. You are my sister, and-' 
                
               'Yes, yes,' eagerly interrupted she, 'I am your sister, and you are my broder dat I love very much. 
               She released my arm, and pressed my right hand between both of hers, whilst her eyes swam with tears. 
               'You forgive me what I said?' continued she. 'It's right for me to speak once so, but I never will make my broder grieve by speaking so again. God will reward my broder for all his goodness, and if we die God will receive us both in heaven.' 
               'Ay, Oriana,' cried I, my emotion almost choking me, 'so long as we live here together you are my sister, but if it please God ever to rescue us from, this misery then I shall hope to be something nearer and dearer to you than a brother.' 
               'Best not speak of dat now,' hastily replied she; 'it not right now. Only talk of us now as broder and sister, dat love very much.' 
               My head sank on my breast, and bowing it between my knees I sobbed as though my heart would break. 
               'My broder,' ejaculated the noble Danish girl, 'my broder must not weep. He must be brave and strong, else he never will save Oriana.' 
               Her divinely inspired words pierced my very soul, and lifting up my head I saw she had kneeled down. I knelt beside her, and committed the care of both of us to Him who is an ever present help in trouble. We then parted early to rest, for we were wearied as much by grief as by the vigil of the preceding night; but it was with a sweet feeling of repose, for we felt that the God of heaven, our only friend, our only witness, our only hope, looked down approvingly from his throne on high. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               THE QUARREL-THE ESQUIMAUX VISITORS. 
               FOR several weeks after this, nothing occurred worthy of particular mention. The weather continued bitterly cold in general, but at times it was quite mild, at least it seemed so to us, and then I used to go out hunting, and Oriana frequently accompanied me. On the whole our success was pretty fair, as I got a fresh supply of game of some sort every few days. Our leisure time in the cabin was spent much as usual. I did anything I could, or amused myself with reading and keeping the log, and Oriana never was idle, for even when conversing or relating one of her interesting old Danish legends, she invariably had work of some kind in her hands, and her tame fox would lie in her lap, or play with her just like a kitten or dog. By the way, she bestowed on him the name of her deceased pet, Nem, and he really deserved it as much as his predecessor, for he not merely followed Oriana like a dog on board the ship, but he would accompany her miles over the snow, never attempting to leave her. Like the little dog, he never failed to follow her to her state-room at night, and would doubtless have defended her from any intrusion to his last gasp. 
               Oriana also spent much time in giving me lessons in Danish. I am naturally a poor linguist, but I certainly learnt Danish very fast under her sweet tuition. Well I might, for I hung on every silvery sound that passed her lips. 
               But we had much very serious and harrassing discussion on our prospects at this period. The winter was passing away, and none of the natives had visited us, so that our once firm hope of being relieved by them, and guided to a settlement of civilized men, seemed unlikely ever to be realized. But one other chance of escape remained, that is, when the summer came-would it ever come?-and the snow and ice melted, we must rig out the long boat of the Lady Emily, and taking all the provisions which might then be left, sail out of the estuary, and, committing ourselves to the mercy of the winds and waves, endeavor to reach Norway or Scotland, which ever seemed the most easily attained coast. 
               But there would be fearful and inevitable risk in this, and yet what other course remained? Alas! none whatever; and if we did not get off this first summer, how could we hope ever to do so? Our scanty preserve stores would be totally exhausted in a few months, and now I had only about three pounds of powder left. How, also, could I navigate the boat on a voyage which perhaps would last, even with fair winds and a moderate sea, for several weeks? 
               Had poor Blackbird Jim been spared to me-alas! everything reminded us of our loss in him!-I should not have feared much, for he was a most excellent seaman, and had seen ten-fold more boat service than myself. As it was, had it not been that Oriana constantly cheered me with sanguine hopes, I should have sunk into a state of apathy and despair. I was also perpetually tormenting myself with thinking what would become of her if anything happened to me. 
               On what proved to be the last evening of this epoch in our lives, occurred my first-and thank God my last-little quarrel with Oriana. I had been rather despondent and irritable all day, and a question arising between us on a very trifling matter, we entertained different opinions, and by degrees we quarreled. It is true, and I only record it because the sequel will show Oriana in her own true nobility of soul. I have hitherto faithfully delineated her character, nothing extenuating, and nothing exaggerating, and I am certain the fact that she once gave way to passion, and afterwards so characteristically made amends for it, will raise her in the reader's estimation as much as it did in mine. 
                
               We quarrelled, and for hours sat at the same table, and at the same fire without speaking a word. There was not, to our knowledge, a human being within hundreds of miles of us; and yet, we, two young, mutually dependant people, who loved each other more than life, we quarrelled. Let those foolish philosophers, who would fain explain away the Scripture doctrine of the natural depravity of man, explain this. God knows that in all my life I never passed such hours of agony as these. 
               I had a book open before me, and I pretended to read. Oriana had some linen in her hands, and pretended to sew. We were each perfectly conscious that we both were simulating, yet neither of us spoke. I would have given worlds to have heard her say one single word, and she subsequently confessed, she felt the same as regarded me. Repeatedly did I open my lips, but no sound issued. I did not even raise my eyes from the, to me, blank pages of the book, but doggedly rested my head between the palms of my hands-idiot that I was. 
               Thus the time passed; and at the usual hour Oriana, as was her wont, laid a cloth on the table, and arranged the supper. I acted the hypocrite by vigorously attacking the viands, but I thought every mouthful would have choked me. My supper over-for Oriana did not touch a mouthful-I again had recourse to my book, and she to her sewing, but neither of us had yet spoken a syllable. Another hour-an age of torment to us both-and Oriana arose to retire. 
               'Good night, Mr. Meredith,' said she. 
               I started, and gazed at her retiring form like a man in a fearful dream, and heard her go to her little state-room and shut the door, ere I could recollect myself. I thought I should have died with mortification and remorse. I struck the table passionately with my fist, and hurled the book away from me. No kind word from her this night; only chilling 'Mr. Meredith!' The words rung through my brain-they were traced in fire wherever I turned my eyes. In agony I bowed my head to the table, and buried it between my hands. 
               How long I thus sat, I know not, but was aroused by a voice-the music of the spheres to me-crying- 
               'Broder, broder!' 
               At first I thought my imagination deceived: but again 'broder, broder!' sounded so palpably, that I started up, and lo! Oriana herself stood before me, pale as death. 
               'Broder, dear broder, forgive me! O, broder, I could not pray to my God to-night till I had been reconciled to you. I have been very wicked. I was wrong-I know now dat I was wrong-forgive me, my broder!' 
               'Forgive thee! O, Oriana my beloved-my soul!' 
               O, broder, I thought I should have died this night, I did.' 
                
               We embraced, and then she ran back to her state room, sobbin with joy. I wonder which of us was happiest that night? 
               The very next morning, just after we had risen from breakfast, Oriana happened to glance through one of the cabin windows in the ship's stern, and immediately gave a loud cry of amazement and delight; I was by her side in a moment, and looking forth in the direction of her finger, beheld the Esquimaux! What emotions swelled our souls at the sight. When hope was getting to the lowest ebb, God sent us a sign that he had not forgotten us, and that our best chance of preservation was probably on the eve of realization. How incoherent were our ejaculations-how wild our gratitude and joy! 
               The natives were five in number, and were very leisurely approaching the ship in a line with its hull. They were at present about fifty yards distant, and without pausing to reflect what I was about, I snatched up a gun, and rushed on deck, and thence bounded to the ice to meet them. When I appeared in sight they gave a simultaneous shout of astonishment and alarm, and stopping short, began to brandish the spears with which they were armed. 
               I was too excited to comprehend the danger and impolicy of my rash conduct, and instead of pausing to make signs of amity, I still ran onward toward them gun in hand. When I came within twenty, yards, they gave a savage whoop, or war-cry, and poised their spears, the weapons being held in the right hand, and levelled between the thumb and fore finger of the left, to steady the aim in launching them. Another moment and I probably should have paid the forfeit of my folly with my life, had not my foot providentially slipped, throwing me violently on my back. 
               The shock recalled me to my senses, and I immediately cast aside my gun and opened my arms widely in token of peace and friendship. The poor natives replied by crying 'Teema! Haja! Teema! and they at once threw aside their spears, and even drew the knives suspended in sheaths at their belts, and cant them also on the snow. 
               Perceiving that they did not seem inclined to advance towards me I walked to them, and when I came within a couple of yards, one, who appeared to be the principal man, stepped up to me, and again crying, 'Haja! Teema!' formally stroked my dress with both his open hands, commencing at my shoulders and ending at my boots. 
               Conceiving this to be the Esquimaux etiquette, I gravely imitated him by performing the same ceremony on himself, at which both he and his friends were highly delighted, and repeated their cries of 'Teema.' The same operations were then gone through with the others, and we ware then all 'hail fellows well met,' as seamen call it. Oriana now joined us, advancing with smiling face and extended hands. They seemed utterly astounded at her apparition, and at first, I am inclined to think, they deemed her some celestial being. 
               It was a couple of minutes ere their leader mustered courage to reverentially stroke her dress, and as she had watched from the ship the same species of ceremony performed between myself and them, she failed not to return the compliment. On this they all vociferated their shouts of salutations louder than ever; and the four others in turn, made her acquaintance in the orthodox Esquimaux fashion. 
               Hitherto no attempt at conversation had been made; but Oriana, fancying they perhaps had had some communication with one of the Danish settlements, and might therefore know a little of that language, addressed them, saying- 
               'Taler de Dansk?' (do you speak Danish?) 
               Four of them only stared in dumb surprise, but the fifth, pricked up his ears at the sound, and a gleam of intelligence lighted up his features, as he gazed at the speaker, and pointing at her with his finger repeated the word 'Dansk,' in an interrogative tone. 
               'Ja!' eagerly said Oriana, 'Jeg er Dansk, min ven,' (yes, I am a Dane, my friend.) 
               But the Esquimaux only reiterated the word 'Dansk,' and nodded his head, to show that he at any rate understood that she was a Dane. She thereupon again questioned him, whether he spoke her language, and he with much apparent difficulty and stretch of memory, replied, 'Nei taler nei, (no-speak-no,) intimating that he only knew just a word or two of Danish, but could not converse in it. 
               I now looked around the horizon, expecting to see more natives or their huts, but nothing was in sight. On mentioning this to Oriana, she contrived partly by speech, and partly by a series of ingenious signs, to question them on the subject, and they gave us to understand that their encampment was a long way off, and that they themselves had wandered in our vicinity in search of game, and that seeing the ship, they walked towards it. 
               'Broder,' said Oriana, in a quick, anxious tone, 'we must ask them into the cabin and treat them well.' 
               'Yes, but will it be safe?' 
               'O, I will answer for dat! All we have to do is to let them see we mean well, and that we have faith in them, and they will give us no reason to repent our confidence.' 
               'But it will not do to admit them all at one time?' 
               'Yes, all,' replied she, in a decisive tone: and as I had much reason to estimate her judgment more highly than my own, I acquiesced, and told her to act in all respects as she deemed fit. She then turned to the natives, who had listened to our little colloquy with great attention, as though they well knew it related to their reception, and pointing to the ship, she invited them to go on board with us. 
               They all expressed, both by words and gestures, great delight at this, but cast longing and expressive glances, first at their weapons, and then at myself. We well comprehended that they wished to be permitted to carry their arms with them, but Oriana promptly and explicitly refused to allow it, and very rightly, too, as I thought. Their countenances darkened suspiciously at this, and they hastily conferred together for a while. Then the spokesman, the man who had held some intercourse at one time or other with the Danes, pointed to the spears, and expressed their willingness to leave them, but wished to be allowed to have their knives with them. 
               'I think we may grant that-what is your opinion?' said I; for to tell the truth, the knives did not appear very formidable weapons. 
               'No, broder, we must be firm, for if we once permit them to come on board with their knives, they will ever afterwards expect the same privilege, and next they will want to bring their spears also.' 
               The knives in question were those they had drawn from their belts; and after some demur they ceded the point, but to our surprise drew from their bosoms another and much smaller knife each, and asked whether they might retain it. At any rate it was very honest and open of them to ask permission, for we had no idea they possessed a third weapon till they voluntarily showed it. One glance at the knives alluded to quite satisfied Oriana, and she smilingly assured the Esquimaux that they had full permission to carry them on board, and she would give them something wherewith to put their 'bosom friends' to use: for they showed us by expressive signs that the only use of their knives was to cut their food, and we fully believed them. 
               All obstacles being thus removed, and an amicable understanding at length come to by the aid of Oriana's diplomacy, our guests gleefully accompanied us, I leaving my gun on the snow to add to their confidence. As we ascended the staircase of snow which led up to the deck, the Esquimaux made signs of approval, for it was something in their own style of work, and a thing they could very well understand. On reaching the deck, Oriana descended first, to make a little preparation in the cabin, and I led our friends from end to end of the ship, but they did not manifest much surprise or emotion at the sight of the boats, nor anything else on deck. We then descended to the cabin, and Oriana gave them a smiling welcome, and seated them in a semi-circle around the stove. 
               Now it was that they began to exhibit intense interest and amazement, uttering voluble exclamations, and pointing out different objects of novelty to one another. The spokesman, or chief man among them, did not seem quite so impressed with what he beheld, having doubtless seen similar objects before; but all the others now evidently saw the inventions of civilized men for the very first time. Nothing delighted them more than the stove, for its utility was patent to their senses. They for a while seemed to fancy it a living creature, and admired its front of polished brass. One of them incautiously laid his naked hand on a very hot portion of it, probably with the intention of stroking it to make acquaintance, and the sudden yell he gave not a little startled and frightened his companions but when they understood the reason, on my opening the door and showing them the blazing fire within, they all laughed most heartily, and ridiculed their unfortunate companion instead of pitying him. 
               Human nature is the same all the world over, only it is modified by the influence of climate, and the degree of civilization attained. English schoolboys invariably laugh at one of their number who brings punishment upon himself by his folly or stupidity, and Esquimaux evince the same sense of the ludicrous in their own special way. 
               Here I must pause to describe our guests personally. They were very short and exceedingly thick-set men, and in this respect reminded me strongly of the Laplanders whom I had seen when our ship was at Tromoso; but their features were decidedly more prepossessing, being a regular oval, and good-natured in expression. Their cheeks were plump, eyes small, of a dark hazel color, and rather near together: nose small and flat; complexion tawny, or to speak more precisely, of a yellowish copper hue. Their hair was black, and hung in elfin masses low down, and was very coarse in quality. One of them, however, had his hair cropped short all round, but I cannot say that I thought his appearance improved thereby. Another of them had ornamented his hair by stringing the teeth of bears and foxes in two circles around it. The same individual had his forehead and his left cheek tattooed all over with parallel lines. They had every appearance of being well fed and contented animals. 
               Their names, as they informed us, were respectively Lakgalu, Nelcoora, Auguack, Hinkpanu, and Ohalampi, the first being the one who had known the Danes. Their dress was substantial, and doubtless comfortable, consisting of double upper garments made of deer skin, sewed with sinews, and fitted closely round the neck, whence it depended almost to the knees. The hair of the inner skin was next the body, and that of the upper was worn outwards. These tunics had wide sleeves reaching to the finger ends when the arms hung downwards. The back portion of the tunics was ingeniously fashioned so as to form a cap or hood which could be drawn over the head at pleasure; and the skirts reached down almost to the ancles. Three of them had trousers made of deer skin, and two of seal's skin, the hair inwards. They all had two pair of boots of deer or seal's skin, the hair inwards, and one had a species of light shoes or slippers, drawn over his boots. 
               Their tunics were ornamented with singular fringes of fish bones, bears' teeth, birds' legs, and beaks, &c. Two of them had pendants at their breasts, composed of fox's tails, ermine skins, and bird's heads. Neleoora was lame of a leg, from the bite of a wolf, as we understood; Hinkpanu had lost an eye; and Ohalampi showed us that his left hand was quite withered and paralysed, from what cause I do not know but probably from being frost-bitten. 
                
               Such were our guests outwardly; and I need only add here that their language sounded very guttural, but soft and plaintive; and although Oriana averred that it was quite different from the Lapponio, I fancied myself that I should not have been able to distinguish one from the other. 
               The first rite of hospitality which Oriana thought proper to exercise, was to present a cup of coffee to each of the Esquimaux. They regarded the coffee itself with curiosity, but when they tasted the beverage, they made comical wry faces, and bestowed on it some depreciatory name, which we of course did not comprehend at the time, but subsequently learnt that it meant 'muddy water.' Coffee being a failure, she successively presented them with ale and porter, but they relished neither. She seemed bent on experimenting on their tastes with a view to future profit, for she next offered them three different kinds of wine, and as wine was yet less liked than either coffee, ale, or porter, she tried Hollands, rum and brandy; but the spirits were liked least of all, and very glad I was of it. 
               It thus being evident that nothing we could offer in the shape of liquids would be at all acceptable, she tried the solids, and with what success the reader shall hear. First she gave them a fragment of bread and a biscuit or two. They looked at the bread and smelt it, and tasted it very cautiously, and then shook their head, and uttered a general grunt of disapprobation. The biscuit was yet more summarily condemned.-Next she set before them the remains of our yesterday's dinner, consisting of boiled beef and pork, and some roasted willow partridges I had shot the previous morning.-They tasted the beef and pork, but not one of them cared to take a second mouthful.-The partridges, however, they devoured in an instant, bones and all! They understood that species of food at any rate. Oriana then tried them with cheese, but they could not swallow a morsel. After that she gave them in despair figs, prunes, preserves and sugar. Not one of these but what they rejected, with unequivocal contempt and loathing. What was to be done? A bright thought struck Oriana. 
               'Broder,' said she, 'didn't you kill two seals a few days ago?' 
               'Yes, and I brought you the skins, don't you recollect?' 
               'But what did you do with the bodies?' 
               'O, I left them in the forecastle to boil down for oil, some time.' 
               'Well, go and fetch them here directly.' 
               'What for?' 
               'Never you mind dat. Go at once, dear broder.' 
               I was now accustomed to obey her so implicitly, that I at once went, leaving her alone with the Esquimaux. In a few minutes I returned, dragging in the entire carcases of two white seals. The moment our guests beheld them, they uttered a simultaneous cry of delight, and with sparkling eyes mechanically drew forth their little knives. The latter were made of rein deers' horn, the haft and blade was about four inches long, and an inch wide. It had no point, being cut off square at the extremity, and the edges were very dull. 
               'Surely,' cried I, 'they are not going to eat this seal-blubber raw?' But they were. Seizing one of the seals, they held it on their knees, and with the aid of their clumsy knives contrived to rend it into long strips of flesh. These they divided fairly, and each man laid his share across his knee for conveniency. Their feast then commenced. They took up a strip of seal flesh, and rolled it between their hands, until it attained a rounded shape, and then they pushed it into their mouths as far as ever they could-This done, they sawed it off close to their lips with dull knives, and bolted the mouthful with little or no mastication. In this disgusting fashion the meal proceeded, and poor Oriana turned so sick at the eight, that she hastily swallowed a glass of wine, and retired awhile to her state room. They actually continued to eat until compelled to desist from sheer repletion, and that was only when they had gorged both the seals, except the tail of one, and the head and flappers of the other. They washed all down with repeated draughts of snow water, of which they drank a bucketful among them. Then they smiled with the complacent air of men who had dined entirely to their satisfaction, and tapped themselves to intimate to me that they were now quite comfortable in the unpoetical regions. 
               For my own part, I was so disgusted at their astounding voracity, that nothing but the imperative duty of hospitality kept me from following the example of Oriana by retiring from the scene. I mentally compared my amiable friends to sharks, boa-constrictors, and glutton-bears; but at the same time I was exceedingly thankful that they refused to eat civilized food, for had it been to their liking, I now perceived that they would have devoured as much at one meal as would have lasted Oriana and I two or three weeks; and had they repeated such an onslaughter in half-a-dozen successive visits, they would have completely emptied our lockers, and we might have been famished outright in consequence. 
               The banquet being concluded, and the remnants put aside, Oriana returned to the cabin, and we proceeded to entertain our guests in a more intellectual manner. Almost everything they saw excited childish curiosity and delight, and their eager exclamations and gestures were exceedingly amusing, for they had now lost all fear of our meaning ill to them, and were therefore quite at ease in our society. I happened to possess a microscope, and when I exhibited its marvellous powers to them, they absolutely screamed with glee. I next adjusted a telescope to the proper focus, and levelling it through the cabin window, caused them to take a look. They all were amazed, and even alarmed, and made sudden motions with their hands as though to repel objects, for they imagined that the distant mountains were actually drawn close up to them by the magical instrument. 
               Nothing, however, so deeply interested them as articles of utility which they could comprehend. The cabin lamps, the cooking utensils, files, needles, scissors, &c., were profoundly admired, but I think the brass, stove, after all, yet retained the first place in their estimation. I showed them my watch, and after they had seen the mysterious movements of its hands, and heard its ticking, when held to their ears, nothing could induce them to touch it, as they deemed it a living and 'uncanny' thing. 
               Their curiosity somewhat appeased, I thought it time to begin to turn their visit to profitable account, and produced a chart of the Arctic Regions, which I found in one of the lockers. I wished to know if they could recognize any location, so as to give me an idea of our position. They all gazed attentively at the chart, and seemed to admire it as a pretty toy, but by degrees Lakgalu turned it about, and began tracking the lines with his fingers. I watched him with great anxiety, and at length beheld his eyes glisten. The next moment he pointed decidedly to one particular spot, and looking up, nodded at Oriana with the exclamation 'Dansk!' I eagerly looked at the place indicated, and sure enough it was a Danish settlement in a very high Northern latitude.-This was a most important piece of information, and the next point to be learnt was our distance from it. Both Oriana and myself closely questioned Lakgalu, but although he perfectly understood what we required, he evidently was unable to recognize by the chart our present locality, and only vaguely drew his finger backwards and forwards, ending by giving us the disheartening impression that we were a very great distance from the settlement in question. We then tried to learn whether there was not a nearer settlement, but it was impossible to understand from his replies whether such was the case, and probably he really did not know, or at any rate could not explain. 
               Clearly nothing more could be gained by questioning further on this subject at present, but we hoped some of the natives of the encampment would prove more intelligent than our first visitors. The latter now intimated that they must take their departure. It was somewhat singular that they expressed no surprise at seeing only Oriana and myself in the ship. Perhaps they supposed that the crew were all in another part of the ship, or absent hunting, and certainly we had no desire to undeceive them. 
               As parting presents we gave each of them a large needle, some strong gloves, thread and a piece of iron hoop, well knowing how they value the latter material. They were in ecstacies at our generosity, and loudly proclaimed their intentions of revisiting us in two days. I fancy that Oriana had a notion that women are everywhere more intelligent than men, for she particularly desired them to bring one or two of her own sex the next time, and they very gladly promised that they would. 
               We then all descended to the ice together, and on coming to the spot where they had cast aside their weapons, they willingly permitted me to examine them. The large knives, worn in a sheath at the belt, were made in three instances of pieces of old iron hoop. A fourth was simply of bone, but very cleverly edged and pointed with iron. The fifth was the blade of a sailor's clasp knife, with the name of the maker distinctly impressed. The hafts to the knives were some of wood and others of bone. Their spears were exceedingly curious, and ingeniously constructed. Their shafts were composed of several pieces of wood and the bones of fish, fitted with great nicety together, and firmly secured. They were pointed with horn (in one instance with iron,) and at the other end of the shaft was a sort of ball or knob of bone or wood. 
               We bade each other adieu, with the same ceremonies as attended our introduction, and in a quarter of an hour the bulky figures of our new made friends grew dim in the distance. Oriana and myself had plenty to talk about that evening. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               NOTWITHSTANDING that our intercourse with the Esquimaux was highly cheering, not only relieving us from the depressing monotony of our solitary life, but also as being the means of furnishing us with a welcome variety of food, yet in respect to the great question we had at heart-our own final deliverance-we seemed as far off as ever. Lakgalu was the most intelligent man, and none of the others could give us any idea of our exact locality, but they told, us that they expected a visit from some other tribe in a few days, and asserted that one man whom they knew would come, could speak Danish, and knew all about the geography of these desolate regions. This was very important news, if true, and as the natives all persisted in the same statement when questioned separately, we saw no reason to doubt it. 
               On the 22nd of May, the Angelok paid us a visit, at such an early hour, that even Oriana was not up to receive him; and he commenced a furious drumming on the companion-top, till I sprang out of my berth, and let him in. His cunning old face was full of meaning, and I at once knew he had some novel and important news to impart. Nor was he slow to open his budget, for no sooner had he hastily stroked my dress, than he began to tell me something with astonishing volubility; but I could neither make 'fish, flesh, nor good red-herring' out of it. Oriana, however, speedily joined us, and he found a more intelligent hearer. 
               Instead of listening to him, I then watched that dear girl's countenance, and was delighted to observe that the news was of a good description. As soon as the Angelok paused, she briefly interpreted to me his speech, which was to the effect that the party of strange Esquimaux the tribe had long expected had at length arrived, and that the man who spoke Danish was of the number, and would come to the ship in a few hours' time. The Angelok had sufficient sagacity to know that the bearer of such intelligence would be highly welcome; and, therefore he himself assumed the duty, instead of sending a younger messenger. We at once gave him a reward that far exceeded his most sanguine expectations-viz: a small hatchet, a table knife, a good copper saucepan, and two files. The great Magician was wild with joy at these presents, and actually went down on his knees to stroke the hem of Oriana's garment. He said that he himself would bring the strangers as speedily as possible, and away he went with his treasures, as happy as a king on adding a new principality to his dominions. 
               Hardly had we swallowed a hasty breakfast, ere the Angelok returned with a strange Esquimaux, and the latter at once addressed us in very tolerable Danish. With what joy did we welcome him! He was a thorough-bred Esquimaux, and differed neither in dress nor person from the others, but he had lived many years in the neighborhood of the Danish settlements, and had consequently acquired a considerable degree of civilization, for he was naturally a very intelligent man, as we soon' perceived. He told us that his name in Esquimaux was Poukgleni, but he added, with evident pride that the Danish missionaries had christened him by the name of Bertel Lundsen; and we, therefore, invariably addressed him by the latter appellation, to his great satisfaction. He even affected to speak in profound contempt of the tribe of Esquimaux living near us, saying that they were one of the most degraded and barbarous of all the tribes of his countrymen. We thought afterwards that he greatly exaggerated in this respect, and the truth was, Bertel Lundsen was so proud of his own comparative civilization that he was ambitious to be regarded as a Dane, rather than an Esquimaux. 
               Of course we quickly put his knowledge to the test, and to our unutterable joy, his answers were prompt, straightforward, and of the most satisfactory description. He pointed out on the map our present locality, and also where the nearest Danish settlement was. 'Would he guide us to the latter?' He answered yes, but showed that he knew well how to drive a bargain. He said that as the season was so far advanced there was not an hour to be lost in preparing to depart, in order that we might travel in sledges ere the snow began to melt-which, he said, it would do with great rapidity when once the sun attained a certain power. We inquired how long a time it would probably take to reach the settlement. He replied, that if we had good dogs, and as light luggage as possible, we could go in from seven to ten days, provided the weather continued favorable; but if the snow melted prematurely, or tempestuous weather intervened, we might be weeks on the toilsome journey.-This astonished me, for the distance, in any thing like a good course, did not appear to exceed two or three hundred miles; Lundsen sen explained that he knew the way perfectly-adding that no other man but himself possessed the requisite knowledge and skill, and that it was quite possible for circumstances to compel him to make long circuits from the direct line-and that, moreover, the Esquimaux dogs were never driven more than three or four days at a time, and then must have a couple of days' rest ere they resumed their journey. He said that thirty to forty miles a day was considered very fair-but, under particularly favorable auspices, they would go even sixty miles in the twenty-four hours. We subsequently found this was all perfectly true. Finally it was arranged that by noon on the following day, our long and somewhat perilous journey should commence. 
               We told our Esquimaux friends that after our departure, the ship and all it contained should be their reward for the excellent behaviour they had manifested, and that it was our desire to at once see the whole tribe assembled. Anguack accordingly departed to the village, and in half an hour every soul attended alongside the ship. Oriana then addressed them, and added that we formally appointed Angelok, Anguack, and Neleoora our three administrators to impartially superintend the distribution and division of what would render them the wealthiest tribe in the Arctic regions. This announcement was hailed with rapturous demonstrations of joy-but we signalised that we wished now to be left alone, to prepare for our departure-and accordingly all took their leave, including Bertel Lundsen, who reiterated his anxious advice that we should burthen ourselves with the least possible quantity of luggage; and he promised to attend us at the ship by daybreak the next morning with the sledges and every thing necessary to start forthwith. 
               When we were fairly alone, we stood silently regarding one another, with hearts too full for utterance. Was it a mocking dream-or could it indeed be a reality, that we were at length on the eve of being saved from isolation and ultimate starvation? For nearly eight months had we been shut out from all intercourse with civilized men-and none can conceive what a fearful thing it is but those who have experienced it. It is true, we had been upheld in comparative happiness by our own strong mutual love-without the latter we must soon have sunk into a state of despair and madness. I have read in books written by men who certainly babbled about what they did not at all comprehend and never experienced, that there is a marvellous charm, a delicious feeling, in living quite alone in some wilderness, afar from communion with mankind. There may possibly exist some singularly constituted beings who enjoy this species of existence, but for my part, I do not envy them. God made man a social being, and few indeed ever lived who could truly say they preferred a solitary life for any length of time to living among kindred and friends. 
               And then we sprang to one another's embrace, and actuated by the same uncontrollable impulse, knelt down and sobbed forth a thanksgiving to our merciful Creator for all his past goodness, and the promise of early deliverance from the terrible ordeal we had been subjected to. God heard our prayers-his ears are ever open!-and we felt that his supporting hand would never fail us. 
               In making our little preparations we were compelled to have a strict regard to light weight and economy of space. We each selected our best and warmest clothing, and four new blankets and the great bear skin were packed up to serve for bedding. The money, watches, telescopes, &c., were of course included among the miscellaneous articles, and the log-book of the frozen ship and that of the 'Lady Emily' were not forgotten. When we had selected the most suitable souvenirs of our sojourn from the great variety that offered, we next proceeded to pack up the best of our now small stock of preserved provisions. Fortunately a couple of bottles of port wine, and a few of spirits and ale, yet remained; and these we rightly surmised would prove valuable stimulants on the toilsome and perhaps prolonged overland expedition. 
               With what feelings did we sit down to supper that night for the last time in the old cabin! How anxiously, and even sorrowfully, did we look around at every familiar object! When our glance rested on the stove, the chairs, the lockers, the lamps, it seemed as though we were taking farewell of the features of old friends. We thought of the happy feasts we had enjoyed here-alas! no more; we thought of the happy and the miserable hours we had spent side by side under the beamed deck; we wondered how the Esquimaux would use our 'household goods!' Sooth to say, we both felt grieved that we were about to did an eternal adieu to the ship that had sheltered us so well; oft had we said, that God must have specially provided it for us. 
               'If the reader thinks we talked much together this evening, he is wrong; our hearts were full; but we well understood what was passing in each other's mind. For the last time I took forth my uncle's Prayer-book, and silently handed it to Oriana, that she might read aloud the psalm for the day. Of late she always was the reader, for oh! how intensely did I love to hear her sweet accents. I absolutely gloated over every syllable that fell from her lips. 
               Midnight had long past ere we separated, and truly affectionate was the good-night kiss we then exchanged. We retired to our respective state-rooms, but not to sleep. I could not close an eyelid, and it was the same with dear Oriana, as she afterward told me. We both were up hours ere daybreak, and she prepared our last breakfast, but not a morsel could we eat. By-and-by, Bertel Lundsen came with the sledges, and all was bustle in packing them with our effects. Not long after day had fairly dawned, the Esquimaux of the village came trooping down to the ship, until I think every soul had assembled to bid us farewell. Numbers of them pressed gifts upon us, such as dresses, ermine skins, fur-gloves, etc., but we could not accept one-fourth they offered. We were deeply affected by this very amiable trait on their part, for we had already given them the ship and all it contained, therefore they knew they had no return to expect for their presents, which consequently were offered from pure gratitude and good-will. They had, according to promise, also assigned us their strongest sledges and very best dogs. The last things I placed on our sledge were a musket and my poor uncle's favorite pistols, with the remaining ammunition. All then was ready for our departure. 
               Oriana burst into tears and sobbed bitterly as I led her down the snow stairs from the old ship's deck. I seated her on the sledge and took my place by her side, while Lundsen assumed his office of driver. The poor Esquimaux then crowded around us, all-eager to stroke us for the last time. Anguack, Hinkpanu, Neleoora, and the Angelok accompanied us at starting in one of their own sledges, and did not quit us until the dear old ship had disappeared from our vision for ever. 
               The first dozen miles of our journey led over a level country, and the dogs barked cheerfully and drew us along at a rapid rate. This was the first time I had ever travelled in a sledge of any description, and the sensation was equally novel and delightful. Oriana said she had several times taken trips with the Laplanders in Norland, and once went a hundred miles in one day in a sledge drawn by their reindeer. Our own sledge was drawn by eight dogs, and each of the other sledges by six dogs. The drivers seemed to manage them with the greatest case. It was precisely twelve A. M. when we started, and after three hours of travel, we paused for about twenty minutes to give the dogs a rest. Then we proceeded until six o'clock, when Lundsen proposed to encamp for the night, as he said we had already gone, as he calculated, thirty miles, and the country over which we should have to travel the next day was much rougher, and therefore the dogs ought to have a good rest. We willingly assented, and the three Esquimaux instantly began to build a snow hut for the whole party. I insisted, however, that a small separate but should be built for the especial use of Oriana, and that was accordingly done. We removed the bear skin, and some blankets and clothing, and made her a good bed, and then prepared our supper. 
               We all of us suffered considerably from thirst, but as we had brought two good lamps and plenty of oil from the ship, I speedily melted abundance of snow in a tin saucepan, the great delight and admiration of the Esquimaux attendants. I supped with Oriana in her own little hut, and I well remember how we were both amused by the gambols of her little tame fox, Nem. The pretty creature, for it really was exceedingly pretty, and its fur was white as driven snow-was no longer afraid of me, but its mistress engrossed all its affections. 
               The Esquimaux supped together in their hut on salmon and seal-flesh, which they washed down with copious draughts of seal oil. 
                
               I thought that every meal these voracious animals made would materially lighten the loads of the sledges. But although such gormandizers themselves, and even Burtel Lundsen, notwithstanding his boasted civilization, was very little better in this respect than the others-they altogether neglected to feed the poor dogs, so I myself gave the latter a good meal. Thinking, however, that Lundsen might have acquired a taste for spirits from the Danes, I called him to Oriana's hut, and offered him a glass of rum. He was delighted, and drank it in a mouthful; after which he hinted the propriety of going to rest, as he meant, if the morning proved clear, to start at four A.M. Accordingly, I bade Oriana iraod night, and retired to sleep myself in the other hut with the Esquimaux. 
               We were all up at the appointed hour, and Oriana provided in a very few minutes some most acceptable coffee for ourselves. On starting, the stars shone in myriads with uncommon brilliancy, and away we whirled, and did not rest till sunrise. It would only weary the reader were I to detail every incident of our day's journey. The scenery was monotonous in the extreme. Snow-nothing but snow met the eye everywhere; and as to the physical aspect of the country, it were sometimes a dead level for miles, and in other parts were precipitous mountains of granite, upreared in every variety of fantastic forms. 
               May 25th, proved a very stormy day, and much fine snow drifted right in our teeth. I wrapped Oriana up in our noble bear-skin, in such a way that she suffered very little from cold or snow, but the fatigue and cramp arising from sitting in one position many hours, even for a strong man like myself. The dogs did their very utmost, even without urging; but at length they could hardly drag the sledges along at all, so that we guided them to leeward of a lofty comical rock, and prepared to encamp. Lundsen proposed to now give the dogs two entire day's rest. He calculated that we had travelled in all about one hundred miles in the two days and a-half. For my own part I marvelled how he knew the way to guide us at all, but he declared that he had hitherto gone as straight as the bird flies towards our destination, and he explained that he knew every mountain peak by its shape, and that at night the stars enabled him to go with sufficient accuracy. 
               The 26th and 27th, we spent at our temporary encampment. Fortunately, both days proved very fine, and the sun had now attained such power that when it shone clearly about the meridian, it was positively hot, and the surface of the rocks trickled with moisture. We were well employed these two days, for great flocks of brent geese and docekies (the first of the season) came in our vicinity, and I shot twenty-three of the former, and about thirty of the latter. We were thus enabled, not only to live well, and load our sledges with what was left of these birds, but also to feed the dogs plentifully with the seal flesh which the Esquinaux themselves would otherwise have required to satiate their monstrous appetite 
                
               We resumed our journey on the 28th, and it proved the best day's work yet. The 29th was a bitterly cold day, and much sleet fell without intermission. The dogs, however, most bravely tugged on, and at night we came to rest at a spot which Lundsen said he well knew, and that two more fair days' travel would bring us to our destination. He thought it best to rest here one day, which we accordingly did, and I succeeded in shooting five brace of very fine grouse. My Oriana-most truly! I yet feel a thrill of pride in calling her mine!-had throughout borne herself as I well knew she would. Nothing daunted her-nothing ever influenced her to murmur. If she suffered, 'twas in silence; and she ever was ready to utter some cheering word, and when we halted for the night nobody was so busy and so happy as her. God Almighty bless her! She has been, and is, all the world to me. Never do I gaze on her-without a heart-warm blessing involuntarily rising to my lips. If ever woman proved man's angel, Oriana is mine! 
               On the 31st, we set forth early, and made good progress Nothing occurred worthy of mention, except that when we rested for an hour at noon, one of the dogs managed to steal some of the salmon, and the Esquimaux were so enraged at the discovery, that they cruelly thrashed every one of the eighteen dogs without distinction. This reminded me of an old schoolmaster, who, when one of his pupils had committed a serious delinquency, and he could not discover the guilty party, regularly flogged every one of the boys, saying that he was then sure to punish the right one! In fact, the justice of the Esquimaux towards their invaluable, but most unfortunate dogs, is, in every shape, sheer injustice. This night, Lundsen made the highly satisfactory announcement that he hoped to deliver us safe and sound at the settlement ere nightfall the ensuing day. What joyful anticipations did we then indulge in! We were at length, with God's blessing, about to be restored to civilized society, and we felt certain that Oriana's countrymen would receive us with open arms. 
               We recommenced our 'overland expedition' very early the 1st of June, and not long after noon, our guide pointed to a range of rocks, immediately beyond which he asserted the Danish settlements to lie. He then ordered the loading of one sledge to be transferred to the others, and sent it on in advance to announce our coming to the Governor. About two hours later, we arrived at the settlement, and the Governor and his lady, and the clergyman, met us, and gave us a welcome as cordial as though we were dear, and long absent relatives. Henceforward, our pathway was clear-all was 'plain sailing,' as seamen say. We were instantly conducted to the Governor's house, where a feast was improvised, and till midnight we were engaged in relating our marvellous story. I leave the reader to imagine the joy and congratulations on that happy occasion. 
               The Danish settlement was situated on an arm of the sea, and only about twenty miles from the main ocean. It consisted of the Governor's house, the clergyman's house, two merchant houses, several store-houses, a church, and a score or two of Esquimaux habitations. The houses belonging to the Danes were all built of wood, and the church was of the same material, with a conical little spire, and an indescribable sort of weathercock. 
               The Governor's lady had a very handsome pianoforte and a guitar, on both of which she played well. Esquimaux women were their servants, and they seemed exceedingly obedient and attentive, and were taught habits of personal cleanliness, which I could not have thought them capable of, had I not seen the examples before me. The Governor said, that in general from one hundred to two hundred Esquimaux lived in the locality, and he gave them a very good character, but attributed it mainly to the indefatigable exertions of the excellent clergyman, who had Christianized most of the regular residents. 
               By the middle of June every particle of snow had melted except on the peaks of the mountains; and, as if by magic, every inch of soil, even the most barren, was covered with beautiful verdure. Varieties of plants also sprang up so fast that you might almost say you could 'see' them grow, and flowers-real wild flowers, of many bright colors, bloomed on every side. Who was it that said the name 'Greenland' is an absurd misnomer? It is not. The animals all got their summer furs, and the birds their summer's plumage. It seemed like a literal resurrection of nature after a death of nine months' duration. It is at this season that the residents gather the sorrel-grass, the angelica, the scurvey grass, the linchens, mosses, &c., (all of which possess anti-scorbutic qualities,) and preserve them for winter use. The sun was exceedingly hot, and shone almost every hour in the twenty-four. The great drawback to enjoyment, however, was the incredible swarms of pestilent mosquitoes. Never have I seen, neither in my own native West Indies, nor in any other part of the world, more mosquitoes than here. 
               One morning-it was the 29th of June-Oriana and myself were returning from an early ramble, and had just reached the base of the range of rocks to the north of the town, when we heard two loud reports of cannon from the harbor, immediately answered by a salute from the little fort adjoining the governor's house. We paused and both our hearts beat fast, for we well knew that this was the signal that the Danish ship had arrived, and the reader already knows what event was to take place the very next day after that. 
               'Dear Oriana,' whispered I, 'to-morrow you will lose your 'broder." 
               She blushed a little, and trembled a little, and shed a tear or two. Then she gave me her hand, and replied,- 
               'No, I shall not lose my broder-he will only change his name!' 
               The rest of that day, the devoted friends whom Heaven had given us, were busily engaged in completing their generous arrangement ments for our nuptials. The governor proclaimed that the next day was to be a grand holiday, in honor of the occasion, and the entire crew of the ship landed early to partake of the general rejoicings. The Europeans, without distinction, all breakfasted with us at the Residency, and when it was over, I was quite astounded and bewildered by the presents which everybody seemed determined to shower upon us. Even the poor Esquimaux brought us scores of things, such as their finest fur dresses, fur gloves, ermine and bear skins, &c., and would have been hurt and offended had we refused to accept them. The intrinsic value of all these presents was very considerable. 
               The procession them formed for the church, which was crowded to suffocation. 
               The governor gave away Oriana, and the amiable clergyman married us, according to the rites of the Lutheran Church, of which I have ever since continued a member. 
               Such a day of feasting and rejoicing as ensued, the settlements had never known before. The sailors had erected awnings in the open air, made of the sails of the ship, and we had dancing, and singing, and music and elements of happiness for every one of the five hundred souls assembled together. 
                
               YES, Oriana, thou didst become the wife of my bosom, and thou art the mother of my children, and thou hast been my guiding-star in life, and hast taught me to believe that our souls will rejoice together for ever in heaven. Never since the hour that thou enbarkedst in the 'Doomed Ship,' have we been parted for a single day, and fain would I pray that the Almighty will take us both to himself at the same moment. How could I survive thee? 
               Oriana! my Danish wife! but for thy gentle and wise heroism-for thou wert an heroine, and knew it not-I had died the death of a despairing coward in the awful Arctic Regions. Thou, under God, wert my saviour-to thee I owe my life, and happiness such as I once never conceived that man could enjoy. Whatever was evil in me thou hast gradually extirpated; whatever was good thou hast quickened into fruition. This narrative is a feeble tribute of thy husband's admiration, but I longed to tell the world something of thee. Thou art yet very lovely. Women who are so gentle and so good as thee, never grow old; and thy eyes are bright as when their pure glances first awoke emotion in my soul. Long may it be ere their dear light is quenched. 
               The story is finished, and thou art by my side, with thy arm fondly flung around my neck. Let me clasp thee to my heart, Oriana! 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
