
    ----CITATION----
        Durivage, Francis A. (1814-1881). Steel and Gold, or, The Heir of Glenville .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6358
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               STEEL AND GOLD: 
               OR, THE HEIR OF GLENVILLE. 
               A Story of Revolutionary Days. 
             
            
                
                  A MIDNIGHT ENCOUNTER-SEE CHAP. VI. 
               
             
            BY FRANCIS A. DURIVAGE.
             
            
               PUBLISHED BY SAMUEL FRENCH, 
               No. 121 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK. 
               WILLIAM V. SPENCER, 128 Washington Street Boston.-A. WINCH, 116 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.-J. A. ROYS, 43 Woodward Avenue, Detroit.-E. K. WOODWARD, corner of Fourth and Chesnut Streets, St. Louis.-HENRY TAYLOR, III Baltimore Street, Baltimore.-W. W. DANENHOWER, 123 Lake Street, Chicago, Illinois.-W. W. SHAW, Cleveland, Ohio.-C. P. KIMBALL, Long Wharf, San Francisco, California.
             
          
          
             
            CHEAPEST MAGAZINE IN THE WORLD. 
            BALLOU'S DOLLAR MONTHLY MAGAZINE. 
            THIS work, the cheapest which has ever been offered to the public, contains one hundred pages of reading matter in each number, forming two volumes each year of six hundred royal octavo pages, or twelve hundred pages of reading matter yearly, for ONE DOLLAR. 
            As the proprietor is resolved to furnish good and interesting reading for the million, at a price which all can afford, BALLOU'S DOLLAR MONTHLY is filled with entertaining and popular stories, by our best writers, with sketches, poems, scraps of wit and humor, and a miscellaneous compound of the notable events of the times in both hemispheres, forming an agreeable fireside companion. 
            Any person enclosing one dollar to the Proprietor, as below, shall receive the Magazine for one year. 
            For sale at all the principal depots throughout the country. 
            M. M. BALLOU, PUBLISHER AND PROPRIETOR. 
             
               BALLOU'S PICTORIAL DRAWING-ROOM COMPANION. 
               
                  A Record of the beautiful and useful in Art.
                
               The object of the paper is to present, in the most elegant and available form, a weekly literary melange of notable events of the day. Its columns are devoted to original tales, sketches and poems, by the BEST AMERICAN AUTHORS, and the cream of the domestic and foreign news; the whole well spiced with wit and humor. Each paper is BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED with numerous accurate engravings, by eminent artists, of notable objects, current events in all parts of the world, and of men and manners, altogether making a paper entirely original in its design, in this country. Its pages contain views of every populous city in the known world, of all buildings of note in the eastern or western hemisphere, of all the principal ships and steamers of the navy and merchant service, with fine and accurate portraits of every noted character in the world, both male and female. Sketches of beautiful scenery, taken from life, will also be given, with numerous specimens from the animal kingdom, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea. It is printed on fine satin surface paper, with new and beautiful type, presenting in its mechanical execution an elegant specimen of art. The whole forms a mammoth weekly paper of sixteen octavo pages. Each six months making a volume of 416 pages, with about one thousand splendid engravings. 
                
                  TERMS-INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE. 
                  1 subscriber, one year, $3 00 
                  4 subscribers, one year, 10 00 
                  10 subscribers, one year, 20 00 
                
               Any person sending us sixteen subscribers at the last rate shall receive the seventeenth copy gratis. 
               One copy of THE FLAG OF OUR UNION, and one copy of BALLOU'S PICTORIAL, when taken together by one person, one year, for $4 00. 
               No travelling agents are ever employed for this paper. 
               The PICTORIAL may be obtained at any of the periodical depots throughout the country, and of newsmen, at six cents per single copy. 
               Published every SATURDAY, by M. M. BALLOU, CORNER OF TREMONT AND BROMFIELD STS., BOSTON, MASS. 
             
             
               THE FLAG OF OUR UNION. 
               AN ELEGANT, MORAL AND REFINED MISCELLANEOUS FAMILY JOURNAL, 
               devoted to polite literature, wit and humor, prose and poetic gems, and original tales, written expressly for the paper. In politics, and on all sectarian questions, it is strictly neutral; therefore making it emphatically A PAPER POR THE MILLION, and a welcome visitor to the home circle. It contains the foreign and domestic news of the day, so condensed as to present the greatest possible amount of intelligence. No advertisements are admitted to the paper, thus offering the entire sheet, which is of THE MAMMOTH SIZE, for the instruction and amusement of the general reader. An unrivalled corps of contributors are regularly engaged, and every department is under the most finished and perfect system that experience can suggest, forming an ORIGINAL PAPER. 
               The FLAG is printed on fine white paper, with new and beautiful type, and contains 1240 square inches, being a large weekly paper of eight super-royal quarto pages. 
                
                  TERMS:-INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE. 
                  1 subscriber, one year, $2 00 
                  4 subscribers, one year, 7 00 
                  10 subscribers, one year, 15 00 
                
               One copy of THE FLAG OF OUR UNION, and one copy of BALLOU'S PICTORIAL, when taken together by one person, $4 00 per annum. 
               Travelling agents are not employed on this paper. 
               
                  The FLAG can be obtained at any of the newspaper depots in the United States, and of newspaper carriers, at FIVE cents per single copy. Published every SATURDAY, by M. M. BALLOU, CORNER OF TREMONT AND BROMFIELD STS., BOSTON, MASS. 
             
             
               BALLOU'S PICTORIAL BOUND. 
               We have the first seven volumes of the Pictorial, elegantly bound in cloth, and with gilt edges; forming superb and most attractive parlor ornaments in the shape of a series of books of 416 pages each, and each volume containing nearly 1000 engravings of men, manners, and current events all over the world; of scenery in all parts of the globe; of famous cities and instructive subjects, with title-pages and indexes complete. 
               Besides the many illustrations, they embrace in their pages a vast amount of original tales, sketches, poems, and novellettes from the best American authors, with a current news record of, the times; altogether forming an exceedingly novel and elegant series for future reference and present enjoyment, both in regard to reading matter and illustrations. 
               They can be sent by express to any part of the country, on the receipt of the money. 
               For sale at our office, and at all the periodical depots throughout the Union at $3 per volume. 
               M. M. BALLOU, PUBLISHER, Corner of Tremont and Bromfield Streets, Boston. Mass. 
               SAMUEL FRENCH, 121 Nassau Street, New York, is agent for all the above publications, and will receive subscriptions. 
             
          
          
             
             
               STEEL AND GOLD: 
               OR, THE HEIR OF GLENVILLE. 
               A DOMESTIC TALE OF REVOLUTIONARY DAYS. 
             
            BY FRANCIS A. DURIVAGE.
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               PUBLISHED BY SAMUEL FRENCH,  
                     121 NASSAU STREET. 
                  
               
             
          
       
      
         
            Steel and gold, or, The heir of Glenville 
             
                
                
               STEEL AND GOLD. 
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                  A. D. 1770.-THE BAPTISM OF BLOOD. 
                   
                      
                        
                           Remember March.
                         
                        -Shakspeare. 
                      
                   
                  THE early darkness of an evening in the first dreary month of a New England spring had set in, and candles were already lighted in the barroom of a small inn in the town of Charles-town, province of Massachusetts Bay. The date at which our story commences is not unimportant. It was the fifth of March, in the year 1770. 
                  The day had been blustering, but night had closed still and clear. A glance from the window showed the hills, streets and house-tops white with snow and reflecting the steady rays of a crescent moon. It was just such a night when the blaze of a good fire of hickory is peculiarly grateful, and when it thaws out not merely the frost from men's limbs, but that icy reserve of manner which is a bar to good fellowship, and promotes sociability within the wide circle of its influence. And mine host of the Black Bull-that was the name of the hostelrie-entertaining thesame philosophical opinion we have expressed of the virtues of a good fire, and wood being at that time both plentiful and cheap, faithfully obeyed, though he had probably never read it, the Horatian mandate: 
                         
                           Dissolve frigus, ligna super focos 
                           Large reponens, 
                        
                      which meaneth, liberally interpreted, "pile on the logs without regard to cost." Indeed, one Julius Csar ("to such base uses must we come at last!"), an involuntary exile from the warmer climate of Africa, had been employed diligently all the afternoon in accumulating material for the prodigious blaze that now roared up the yawning chimney, in the corner of which, with his curved shins almost charred by the intense heat, he now sat, "with short pipe ruminant," the picture of content-a true human salamander. 
                  But the ebony visage of honest Csar was the only happy one on which the firelight glanced that evening. There were perhaps a dozen men in the room, including the landlord and the black, most of them smoking, but all wearing moody brows under their slouched three-cornered hats, and muttering to each other in the low deep tones of indignation. It seemed as if a spell had fallen on the company, nor did Elnathan Strong, the landlord, a dry joker in his way, make an effort to dispel it. 
                   
                  As they sat in this manner, the jingle of bells was heard as a sleigh drove up to the door. Ordinarily, an arrival like this, though no uncommon event, would have drawn one or two curious people to the window and occasioned some bustle in the bar-room, but now the landlord even did not move-he merely motioned to Csar, and the black arose rather reluctantly and shuffled out of the room to look to the newcomer's horse. A moment afterwards two persons, muffled in buffalo coats, came in. The landlord nodded and the circle of moody smokers, after a keen glance or two, silently made room for the travellers to approach the fire. There was indeed nothing remarkable in their appearance to attract attention. One of them was a hale, ruddy looking man, whose vigorous frame betokened a laborious occupation, as the silvered hairs that streamed over his coat collar gave evidence of years. His companion was a handsome lad of sixteen, with blue eyes, a frank, fearless expression of countenance, and clustering curls of rich brown that relieved and set off the florid bloom of his complexion. 
                  "Cool night, I reckon, Capin Stanley," said the landlord. 
                  "Yes-sharp for the season," was the reply. 
                  "Drive down from Lexington this afternoon?" 
                  "Yes. I came down to learn the news, as much as for anything else. I s'pose we're all right here," he added, glancing round the room. 
                  "You can take your oath of that, cap'n," said the landlord. "There's no lobster back here-and the government spies never venture their noses inside the Black Bull." 
                  "Yah! yah!" said the negro, who had re-entered the room and assumed his accustomed corner. "Massa Strong keep two bar'ls ob tar in de sink-room, and dar's spar feather beds in de garret, Cap'n Stanley." 
                  "Csar!" said the landlord, solemnly. "How, often have I requested you to keep that ere box of dominoes shut when we're discussin' the affairs of the Province. But the nigger is right cap'n," he added, "I do keep a lot of tar and feathers-and-and-other groceries too," he said significantly. "There's good shootin' on the bay, you know-and you don't know how I've improved since I was out with you duckin' last. Why, cap'n, I can hit the bigness of a man with a single ball at two hundred yards off hand." 
                  "Good!" said the captain. "And now, neighbors-tell me what's going on? I've heard nothing for a week." 
                  Before any one else could reply, the loquacious negro had again taken up the word. 
                  "De pot's a bilin' massa-furiously. De red joats 'buse de people 'bominably. Dar was a big fight lass Friday dat ebber was ober in Massa Gray's rope-walk. De twenty-ninfh and de fourteenfh am gettin' so sarcy-O, lordy! De sogers an' de people can't exist prematurely in de same place wif dat harmonious co-operation dat is preferable-dat's my opinion." 
                  "Your opinion!" said the landlord, in huge disdain. "Have you been swallerin' a dictiontry?" 
                  "No, Massa Strong. I hab not been swallerin' a dictionary. But dem's de berry words I heard Mass Jim Otis say in old Funnel todder night. Golly! how we make de ole cradle rock when he say 'um." 
                  The black is right," said a deep, startling voice. "The town is in a ferment-and the insolence of the soldiers can no longer be borne. To submit to it were base and cowardly." 
                  "Father," whispered the lad to the old man the landlord had addressed as Captain Stanley, "isn't that Mr. Forrester, the strange man who lives all by himself in the lone house in the oak woods back of us." 
                  The old man nodded. 
                  "Where this is to end," continued the stranger, as if to himself, for his wild, dark eyes were fixed upon the floor, and he seemed to pursue his own train of thought, without reference to others, "God knows. But we have hoped and hoped for a pacific issue from the labyrinth in which we are involved, till hope has become a mockery. The king and his ministers have temporized-have receded-but it was only the recoil of the tiger that precedes his spring. They have not bated one iota of the tyrannous principle that lies at the bottom of our troubles. We are to be enslaved or crushed. We are treated already as rebels-let us deserve the name! Think ye that two or three regiments are all that will be quartered upon us? I tell you you will yet see the streets of Boston blazing with scarlet and bristling with bayonets-every height crowned with royal batteries. But a spirit is abroad that will shake the throne itself, if its guardians go too far. There was an array at the funeral of the murdered boy the other day that foreshadowed what the minions of tyranny must look for when the muster-roll of vengeance is read." 
                  "Were you in Boston, then?" asked, young Stanley, with breathless interest. 
                  "Ay-then and before," continued the speaker. "I was not further from young Snider than I am from you when the cowardly miscreant Richardson fired his musket on the unarmed crowd, and the first martyr to the cause of liberty fell, and his young blood bubbled forth on the pavement. It yet stains the stones, and cries aloud for vengeance. And be ye sure the innocent blood will be avenged-and redder stains yet crimson the streets of Boston." 
                  As he uttered these words, the stranger rose, and wrapping his cloak about him, strode towards the door. Captain Stanley rose at the same time and approached him as his hand touched the lock. 
                  "I beg your pardon, Mr. Forrester," said he. "But are you going over to town?" 
                  "I am," replied Forrester, in a low tone. "I have to meet some friends there on public business. Did you think of crossing?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Do so-and see for yourself the condition of things I have described." 
                  Captain Stanley called his son, and the three went together to the ferry. In a few minutes they landed, and passing through Prince's Street, struck into Middle Street, as a part of Hanover Street was then called, whence, through Union Street, they reached Dock Square. Though it was now getting late, there were many people abroad. But it was no holiday attraction that called out the mechanics of the North End-the men from the ship-yards, the caulkers, gravers, riggers and ship-builders-the bone and muscle of the town, on that chilly evening. A sort of inexplicable, feverish excitement-a premonition of something vague and startling-seemed to have driven men from their firesides. Groups collected talking over public matters in a wild, excited way. Now and then some one more angry or more eloquent than his fellows would gather quite an auditory about him, and give utterance to what in after years was called a stump speech. Popular sentiments and denunciations of tyranny were loudly applauded. The crowd, purposeless but excited, gradually increased. They were in that state when a man approached Forester, and hurriedly whispered something in his ear. 
                  "Again!" cried Forrester, starting. 
                  "I saw it myself," said the man. 
                  "Fellow-citizens," said Forrester, raising his voice, and addressing those around him. "The soldiers are again at their bloody work. Another citizen has been wounded by a butcher of the 29th in Boylston's Alley. Can you endure this?" 
                  "No! no!" shouted a dozen voices. 
                  "Beware! said Stanley, grasping his companion by the cloak. "They are excited enough already. If you do anything, seek to allay their fever." 
                  "It is too late," said Forrester, shaking off his hand. "I tell you the hour has arrived. Tell me!" he shouted to the crowd, "are these minions of the crown to trample us to earth, and are we to kiss the armed heels that destroy us?" 
                  "No! no!" shouted the infuriated crowd. "To the main guard! to the main guard!" And dividing into three streams, the people poured out of the square. 
                  Stanley, in his anxiety not to be separated from his boy, lost sight of the man who had accompanied them from Charlestown, and holding fast to his son's hand, was swept through Royal Exchange Lane into King Street. 
                  "Down with the red-coats!" shouted a stalwort fellow in a frieze coat. 
                  A single sentry at the custom house, alarmed at the demonstration, called for help. In a moment half a dozen men in scarlet, with fixed bayonets, accompanied by a sergeant and an officer in uniform, forced their way through the crowd, and joining their comrade, formed a line round the steps of the custom house, facing the infuriated populace. 
                  Young Stanley, fearless, though excited, clung to his father's hand, and gazed with intense interest on the scene passing before his eyes. The crowd thickened with astonishing rapidity. The bells rang a fire alarm, and people came pouring into King Street from all quarters. 
                  "Cowards! slaves!" shouted a gigantic negro, directly in front of the soldiers, and brandishing a club in their faces. "Why don't you fire?" 
                  "They dare not," cried another. "Redcoats are below par on 'Change." 
                  "Henry," said Captain Stanley, "let us go. That officer cannot control his men. We are in danger here." 
                  But it was easier to speak of retiring than to effect a retreat. The crowd was so dense in the rear that a retrograde movement was impossible ble. The father and son were tossed to and fro by the waves of the multitude like skiffs upon a stormy sea. Occasionally through openings in front they caught glimpses of the musket barrels in the hands of the soldiers, and the channeled bayonets gleaming cold in the moonlight. All of a sudden a flash and a stunning report-another! and another! and another! With wild cries the crowd surged away from the fatal spot. There lay on the trampled snow five men writhing in the agonies of death. 
                  "Now is our time," gasped Stanley, and he hurried down the Royal Exchange Lane with his darling boy. "Are you sure you are not hurt, Henry?" he asked, as they reached Hanover Street. "What would my poor wife say, if you went home with a death wound?" 
                  "I am unhurt, dear father. And you?" 
                  "Something-some one struck me in the crowd. I am faint. But push on-the streets are full of these men of blood." 
                  "O God, father-you are failing!" 
                  "A glass of water will revive me," said the old man, feebly. 
                  "Let us stop at this house," said the boy; and he knocked at a door opposite which they had halted-it bore the name of "Margaret Williams, Dressmaker," engraved on the brass plate. 
                  His knock was answered by a pale, middle-aged woman, decently attired, who came to the door with a candle, and inquired their business. 
                  "There has been a disturbance in King Street," said the lad. "The king's troops have fired on the people. My dear father is hurt-ho wor how badly I know not. O, dear madam-help me to get him in, and let him lie down till I procure a surgeon." 
                  The lady of the house set down her light and aided the distracted boy in bringing his now sinking father into the sitting-room that opened from the entry, where they laid him on a couch and propped up his head with pillows. The lady now informed the lad that a surgeon lived directly opposite. Young Stanley flew across the street and returned with the surgeon. As they entered the room he saw a beautiful girl of his own age, kneeling and supporting his father's head, while her mother, the person who had admitted them, was bathing his temples with water. The surgeon opened the sufferer's vest and shirt. A slight stain was on the latter. After a moment's examination he turned to the boy with tears in his eyes. 
                  "Your father wants to speak to you," he said. 
                  Young Stanley knelt down beside him. 
                  "My dear boy," said the old man, faintly, laying his hand upon the lad's shining curls, "you must go home without me. I am going. Bear my best love to your dear mother-be to her as you have been to me, darling, a blessing and a joy. Be true to her and-to your country!" 
                  The poor boy bowed his head in an agony of grief. But the hand he held in his grew colder and colder-till he grasped the fingers of a corpse. With a wild cry, as if his heartstrings snapped in the agony, he fell upon the body. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER II. 
                  THE RURAL HOMESTEAD. 
                  A LITTLE more than four years have elapsed since the tragic, scene depicted in our last chapter. It is now summer. The foliage of June, in all its plenitude of beauty, clothes the broad woodlands, here hanging over splintered precipices there skirting smooth pastures, where cattle and sheep are peacefully browsing. The young corn, refreshed by a recent rain, gives promise of a bountiful harvest. Over all bends one of those unrivalled skies, which not even Italy can parallel. 
                  A little removed from the pleasant village of Lexington, on the side of a private road that lost itself in the verdant depths of an ancestral forest, stood an old-fashioned one-story cottage, on the roof of which the green mosses had gathered, their bright patches contrasting with the dusky hue of the weather-beaten shingles. The little door-yard in front of the house, neatly enclosed by a paling, was appropriated to the culture of flowers, shrubs and sweet-scented herbs. A broad-leaved vine was trained over its rustic porch. A row of cherry-trees stood sentinel by the roadside. In the rear of the cottage was a large barn; and midway between the barn and house rose the gigantic sweep of a well, the "old oaken bucket" resting on the curb. To the right extended a noble orchard; to the left, a wide tract of mowing-land, now almost ready for the scythe. In a word, the little cottage and its surroundings wore an aspect of thrift and comfort, and were proofs that the inmates were far removed from the approach of want. 
                  Just inside the doorway sat a neatly-clad female, advanced in years, plying a spinning-wheel, while on the step a young man was reclining, his back resting on the door-frame. The aged lady was Widow Stanley; the vigorous and athletic young man at her feet, her son, the boy whom the fire of the British in King Street had deprived of a father. 
                  "Then, mother," said the young man, "you are not displeased that I have joined Captain Parker's company of minute-men." 
                  "Your father was a soldier," said the widow. "He did his duty nobly at Louisburg for that ungrateful king whose minions slew him." 
                  "Ay, mother; and his sword bears the legend-never draw me without cause, nor sheathe me with dishonor.'" 
                  "Would that every sword bore that motto!" said the widow; "or rather would that every sword were turned into a pruning-hook, and that war should utterly cease out of the earth. But alas! my son, when wicked men bear sway, when cruel men arm for oppression and spoliation, the good must gird on the weapons of the flesh, and smite even as they are smitten." 
                   
                  "Then," said the young man, "if, to defend our rights, the drum calls us to arms, I shall go forth with your blessing." 
                  "My son," said the widow, suspending her employment, and gazing earnestly on the handsome face of the youthful yeoman, "you are the last of seven children. One by one my blossoms were taken from me to bloom in a better world. He who was a kind and good husband, through good report and evil report, through sunshine and storm, has been taken. I have bowed my heart, and said, 'God's will be done! the Lord giveth and he taketh away!' Yon are the last of my earthly treasures: but in the good cause, I can see even you go forth to battle, yea, even to die for your country!" 
                  "God bless you, mother, for the word; it inspires me with new resolution." 
                  "But I pray to Heaven nightly," resumed the aged woman, "that I may be spared this last sacrifice. I pray that God will avert the storm that is brooding over the colony." 
                  "I fear there is little hope of that, mother," said the young man. "There must be war before there is peace. And we are prepared for it. What is the king doing? He is sending troops to Boston by the ship-load. They march through the streets with fixed bayonets, with drums beating and colors flying, like a besieging army into a conquered town. The ships are lying idle at the wharves; mechanics are out of employ; many of the merchants have closed their stores. On one side, mother, the king's friends are insolent and arrogant; on the other, the people silent, determined and united. There must be a collision, and a fearful one, soon." 
                  "I pity our poor friends in Boston," said the widow. "Here, with fertile fields, yielding liberal returns, we are beyond want, but commerce is the life-blood of a seaport." 
                  "I was thinking of that, mother; and, as I spoke, I thought of the widow lady and her daughter, in Hanover Street, they who were so kind to my poor father in his last moments. We are, as you say, comfortably off here, and probably safe, in this lonely spot, from annoyance, should matters come to the worst. I should like very much to offer Mrs. Williams and her daughter a shelter under our roof." 
                  "The very thing I was about suggesting," said Mrs. Stanley. "I highly approve the plan. The first time you go to town, I wish you would see them, and urge them to come here." 
                  "With your approval," said young Stanley, "I will go immediately, I have some purchases to make, and I will drive down to Charlestown in the wagon, and either bring them back with me, or appoint a day to do so." 
                  "Well, Henry; promise me that you will not expose yourself. I know your high spirit; but your life must not be endangered in a broil. Remember the fifth of March." 
                  "It is engraven too deeply on my memory for me to forget it. I never lose sight one moment of your great loss. You have my word, mother, that I will avoid contest with the enemies of nay country, at least till the hour arrives for an effective meeting. I will but speak a word with Csar, and make a call in the neighborhood, and shall then be ready to start." 
                  Julius Csar had resigned his post of ostler to the Black Bull, in Charlestown, and had engaged to work on the widow Stanley's farm in Lexington; he and young Stanley performing all the labor. His employer found him a vigorous and faithful coadjutor, though the black was somewhat advanced in years, for his age, like Adam Winterton's, and, for the same reason, was "frosty, though kindly." The only "small vice" Csar had was an inordinate love of tobacco, which he cherished through the medium of a pipe. 
                  As Stanley approached the cornfield, the view of which a short piece of board fence hid from him, he heard certain words in the deep voice of the black, very different from those required in any of the directions of field culture. 
                  "By de leff flank! leff face! file march! Halt! front face! Eyes right! shoulder firelock!" 
                  "Why Csar!" cried Stanley, opening the gate, "what are you doing here?" 
                  The black was standing solemnly erect, in his hat and blue frock, shouldering; his hoe with the precision of a veteran. 
                  "Present anus!" cried the black; and instantly suiting the action to the word, he brought his implement to a "present." 
                  "You haven't answered my question, Mr. Csar," said young Stanley, smiling. 
                  "'Tan' at ease," said the black, resting his chin on his hoe-handle, and standing in a most uneasy attitude. "Beg pardon, massa: but I'm studying military tictacks, on de Norfolk plan, as recommended by Dr. Warren, de first physician in de colony-de same gentleman dat proscribes blue pills for de scarlet fever." 
                  "And in the meantime the rag-weed and witch-grass is overrunning my cornfield." 
                   
                  "No, massa, no. I call de witch-grass de British light infantry, 'cause it runs so fast, and de ragweeds de grannydears-and den you ought to see what licks I fotch 'em." 
                  "Very well; you must work double tides today, for I'm going down to Boston." 
                  "Take me 'long, massa, take me 'long," cried the black, "I want to see de parade on de common. I don't 'zactly understand de employment from column into line." 
                  "You must remain here, Csar, like a good soldier, at your post. But tell me-think you I shall find Forrester up yonder, if I call; I don't wish to take the walk for nothing." 
                  "I tink you will, massa. I see 'um skulking along in dat direction not ober half an hour since." 
                  "Very well. See that you harness the horse to the wagon against I come back. And don't you leave home till I return from Boston." 
                  "Bery well, massa." 
                  Leaving the cornfield, Stanley struck into the wood-path, and a few minutes' walk through the oak trees brought him to a little clearing, where there stood a rude log hut, built partly against a ledge of rock that rose perpendicularly to the height of some forty feet. Hard by, a spring of water bubbled from the ledge, and after filling a rude trough, trickled down and was lost in the greensward. Through an opening in the trees there was a glimpse of a couple of acres of land planted with Indian corn, beans and potatoes. A knock at the rude door produced an invitation to enter, pronounced in a deep voice, and Stanley, availing himself of the permission, stood in the presence of the recluse, as Forrester was termed by the neighboring villagers. 
                  A few stools and benches, rudely fashioned, some shelves containing books, a rough pine bedstead and table, a dresser with a few of the most indispensable articles, composed the entire furniture of this rustic hut. 
                  Forrester, clad in a very coarse suit of gray, was employed in cleaning a rifle, the barrel of which he had removed from the stock. He silently motioned Stanley to take a seat, and then resumed his occupation. 
                  "You don't find much game in the woods now, I fancy," said Stanley. 
                  "It will be plentier by-and-by," said the recluse, significantly, "and we shall all be hunters then." 
                  "I should be dull if I did not take your allusion," said Stanley. "But is it your opinion that the signs of the time indicate-" 
                  "A deadly collision, and that before long." 
                  "Yet they tell me that the people of Boston were never more quiet than now." 
                  "They tell you no more than the truth. Just before the tornado of the tropics, the air is hushed: the broad leaves of the palm hang like idle flags; the dark sea is smooth as glass; there is a hush upon the face of nature. All of a sudden the hurricane springs up and carries destruction in its path. In the vineyards on the flank of Mt. Vesuvius, you might think you could dwell in peace forever; but the volcano is all the while gathering its might beneath your feet." 
                  "But surely, our friends cannot dream of successful resistance to the king's troops." 
                  "The king has scant three thousand men in Boston at this hour, nor will his reinforcements amount to half as many more. While the ministry believe that five thousand men can sweep the colonies from north to south, it is unlikely they will concentrate much more than two-thirds of that number, even in the very focus of the rebellion. Yet they are resolved to enforce their lawless acts; the patriots are equally resolved to oppose their execution. Will either party recede?" 
                  "Not our party, certainly. We stand, upon the inalienable rights of humanity." 
                  "And they are supported by pride and honor." 
                  "Then, Mr. Forrester, why do you not join our enrolled militia?" 
                  "Because I will not hamper myself-because I am a waif on the waters of existence-because my heart fails me at the thought of commerce with mankind." 
                  "These are the feelings of a misanthrope." 
                  "Pardon me, young man, but I am no misanthrope. I am simply one whom society-but to, not even to you, friendly, generous, candid as you seem, dare I unbosom myself. You, yes, even you, would shun me. There are those on whom society sets its mark and proscribes; and I-" he paused abruptly and was silent. 
                  "I am sorry to hear you speak in this strain, Mr. Forrester," said Stanley, "for I should infer hat in the coming strife you would hold yourself aloof from us." 
                  "Did I say aught that could authorize you to draw that inference?" said the strange man, quickly, raising his head, his falcon eyes flashing fire, as looked at Stanley, "Do you suppose this weapon is prepared for the harmless tenants of the wood? I eat no flesh of beast or bird. The labor of my hands affords me sustenance-the spring that bubbles from yon rock quenches my thirst. No. no," he added, more gently. "The man whom Hancock and the Adamses and Warren trust, is not the man to be idle in a contest like the one before us. I have suffered too much from the arrogance and perfidy of the great, to stand aside when they advance to the oppression of the poor and humble. Believe me, the provinces have not a truer friend among their sons than Mark Forrester, the British born. And in the hour of battle, if that hour come, as I firmly believe it will, wherever America needs an arm or a life, there will I be found." 
                  "I am glad to hear it, Mr. Forrester, for I believe you brave and true." 
                  "For my truth, you do me no more than justice: for my courage, let them put me to the proof." 
                  "Well," said Stanley, "I must now bid you good morning. I am going to Boston. Can I serve you there in any way?" 
                  "I thank you," said the recluse; "but I returned from town myself only this morning. I attended, last night, a meeting of the 'sons.' All is well. A spirit is abroad that will yet shake King George on his throne. Therefore, I say, be prepared for the hour. You are the only son of a widowed mother; but for that even I will not bid you keep back from the strife when the drum beats. I tell you the hour is approaching when the bride shall be forsaken at the altar, the mother at the fireside-yea, the dead in the coffin; when gray hairs, no more than young hearts, shall be withheld from the tide of battle. None shall be exempt-but woman in her weakness, and dotage in its palsy; and woe! woe! to the recreant who, in that hour, shall turn a deaf car to the summons, of his country." 
                  He grasped Stanley's hand as he uttered the last words, and while they thrilled in his ear, the young man left the lonely hut and thoughtfully wended his way to the homestead. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  A STARTLING REVELATION. 
                  YOUNG Stanley's ride to Boston, in spite of the fineness of the weather, and the elastic movement of the healthy blood in his young veins, was far from being an agreeable excursion. Every house, every garden by the roadside, reminded him of some remark of his father, with whom he had so often made the little journey, and recalled to him his loss. As he came within view of Boston, there were sights which diverted him from personal interests to those associated with his native land. He looked in vain for the spectacle of arriving and departing vessels. No white-winged barks, bearing the treasures of other lands, swept over the light ripples of the roadstead; no ships freighted with the produce of the province, stood out from the shore; only a few row-boats moved lazily along, while, riding at anchor, a huge man-of-war, bearing the blood-red cross of St. George, reared her massive bulk on high, her batteries frowning through the open ports. 
                  Crossing the ferry from Charleston, where he left his horse and wagon, he ascended, through the waste lands at the west part of the town, to the summit of Beacon Hill, and there, pausing at the foot of the beacon, he looked down on the Common. He had often, from that eminence, witnessed the parade of the governor's life-guard, the Independent Company of Cadets, under the command of Colonel Hancock, who lived in the fine mansion-house to the right of the beacon. But the company was now virtually disbanded, the colonel had thrown up his commission, and, instead of the movement of a body of colonial troops on their ancient training-field, the young provincial now saw a regiment of British grenadiers, parading for drill and inspection. Though they moved with the precision of veterans inured to war, though their arms shone like polished silver, sending back the rays of the sun, while their ranks blazed With scarlet and gold, and the band poured forth the finest strains of martial music, the yeoman derived no pleasure from the spectacle. He thought of the motive which brought those men together; of the fell purpose which the transfer of the troops from Castle William to town quarters indicated, and his heart swelled with indignation within him. The very air of the town seemed infected and stifling, and he hastened from the sound of the drum, resolved to accomplish his errand as speedily as possible, and return to the country, where at least the evidences of tyranny were not so apparent. 
                  He was soon in Hanover Street, seated in Mrs. Williams's little parlor. There was an air of extreme neatness in the room, though the furniture was very plain and indicated straitened circumstances, if not poverty. The only ornaments were a few pictures on the walls, the products of the gifted pencil of the widow's daughter. The young lady gave lessons in drawing, as well as some other feminine accomplishments, and though little known, and consequently receiving but little patronage, still her earnings were an important contribution to the support of the establishment. 
                  Since the fatal fifth of March, Stanley had called here whenever he came to Boston, and was always received on a friendly footing. Still both the mother and daughter treated him with a reserve, which did not certainly spring from haughtiness, for they were both very plain people, and which was somewhat strange, when his youth and station were taken into consideration. It appeared as if they were extremely reluctant to form acquaintances. They evidently lived in great isolation, though in the heart of the town, and Stanley never met any gossips at Mrs. Williams's fireside. 
                  Another peculiarity struck young Stanley-though not very curious in the matter of female dress: Mrs. Williams was always attired in deep black; and, though her language was at times cheerful, her features, when in repose, always wore an air of settled melancholy. 
                  After making and answering a few inquiries, young Stanley broached the object of his call, and tendered the widow, on behalf of his mother, an invitation to make them a visit. She thanked him for the offer, but declined, without a moment's hesitation. 
                  "We are poor," she said, "and we cannot afford to leave the place which yields us employment." 
                  "But," urged the young man, "if what I hear be true, the business of the town is declining so rapidly, retrenchment becomes so necessary to every family, that soon your modest resources will be cut off." 
                  "It is true," replied the lady. "But if the worst come to the worst, I can yet hold absolute want at defiance for a long time. Beside, I cannot consent to be a burthen on any one." 
                  "My mother is quite alone," said Stanley. "You and your daughter would confer an obligation by sharing our humble fare." 
                  "I thank you again, young man," said to widow, with an embarrassed air; "but I am getting old-am a person of very peculiar habits, and, in short, must have a house of my own-must live by myself." 
                  "You will be perfectly at liberty to do just as you like with us. But perhaps you do not like the country?" 
                  "Not like the country! Young man, the happiest days of my life were passed in the country. How well I remember the lovely spot I used to dwell in it was far away from here. The old park, with its aged oaks, the barn, with the antlered deer, the old ivygrown church-tower in the distance. My sweetest, saddest memories are of the country. But my lot is now cast here. I cannot keep ranging and changing; and with many, many thanks for the offer, and the kind motives which prompted you and your mother in making it, I decline positively." 
                  "Well, madam," said Stanley, rising and taking her hand, "remember that we shall be at all times happy to receive you. I am quite sure that you will have my mother here to argue the point with, for she is quite as tenacious as myself. Pray, give my respects to your daughter; I cannot wait for her return, for I have a long way to ride." 
                  Leaving the house, Stanley went towards the water, through Middle and North Streets, turning into Lynn Street, towards the ferry, pondering on the peculiarities of the old lady he had just left, and trying to conjecture why she gave so positive a refusal to his invitation. He was so wrapped up in his own thoughts, that, until he had nearly passed a lady and gentleman engaged in deep conversation and coming towards him from an opposite direction, he did not notice that the former was Eleanor Williams. He hastily raised his hat, and was about to address her; but the couple were so earnestly engaged, that he was suffered to pass by unnoticed. He could not help turning and looking after them as they slowly climbed the ascent to Copp's Hill. 
                  The gentleman, towards whom Miss Eleanor leaned so lovingly and confidingly, was young, strongly and lightly built, and had the unmistakable air and movement of a gentleman. 
                  "He is not at all ill-looking," thought Stanley. "Who can he be? I'm very glad I never turned my eyes in that direction, for I shouldn't like to have such a rival. I shouldn't wonder if he were a successful wooer, Perhaps that is the reason why the widow was so positive about not coming to our house: she knew that Eleanor would be loath to leave her suitor. I don't wonder; I'm sure I couldn't abide the idea of absenting myself from Lexington while Lucy Maywood lives there." 
                   
                  Fully satisfied that he had possessed himself of the key to the widow's mysterious conduct the young man hastened on board the ferry boat, which was just on the point of crossing to Charlestown, and was soon once more upon the road to Lexington. 
                  Let us follow the youthful couple we left ascending the slope of Copp's Hill. They halted when they reached the summit, and stood among the gravestones of that ancient cemetery. 
                  "I used to shun this spot," said the young woman; "but you have made it pleasant to me." 
                  "I sought it because it was retired, and I hat my reasons for avoiding prying eyes," replied the young man. "Beside, the sanctity of the place suited the purity and the depth of the sentiments with which you had inspired me. But tell me, dearest, have you never regretted the confidence you have reposed in me?" 
                  "Never for one moment, Clarence," replied the young woman, looking up in his face, with candor and sincerity beaming in hers. 
                  "Alas!" said the young man, "that such generous natures have not always the power of disarming evil purposes." 
                  "Is the world so very bad, Clarence?" 
                  "The young man shook his head, mournfully. "I have seen the brighter side of it, I am told, thus far; and yet, God knows, enough of evil. I might have encountered more, perhaps, if I had not met you-perhaps been a participator in acts, the memory of which would have haunted me at my dying day." 
                  "No, no!" cried Eleanor, earnestly. "You wrong yourself; you are all goodness." 
                  "We are all the creatures of circumstance, answered the young man; "and the circumstances which surrounded me were not of a nature to make, my path sure. But enough of that. You will one day, and before long, I hope, know all. Your curiosity will soon be satisfied." 
                  "I know that you love me, Clarence; and that is enough." 
                  "I fear that even in avowing that love I have done wrong. But I obeyed an uncontrollable impulse. We are not always masters of our words and acts. To see you was to love you; to love you was to confess it." 
                  "It was an hour of rapture," said the artless girl. 
                  "The custom of this province, where young girls are the sole arbiters of their destiny, emboldened me to address, you. But I shall soon be in a position to acquaint your mother with my hopes. Will she be disposed to give me her darling?" 
                  "I do not know, Clarence," answered Eleanor. "My mother is, in some respects, a strange, inscrutable person. The words of love and marriage, in reference to myself, never passed her lips. I have had no young companions, and till I met you I never looked forward, to anything beyond a life of toil." 
                  "That, I trust, will be spared you," replied Clarence Grey. "In the meantime you might sound her sentiments, and pave the way for my declaration. But see! the sun is declining. We have lingered together too long. I will walk part of the way with you, and then I must leave you." 
                  As they were descending from the hill, a soldier, in passing, scrutinized Clarence so closely as to attract his notice. Turning, when he had passed, he saw the fellow standing and gazing after him. A little irritated at this conduct, Grey turned back and addressed him: "Do you want anything of me?" 
                  "No, your honor," answered the man, saluting him. "I thought you were a gentleman I was acquainted with." 
                  "My name is Grey; does that satisfy you?" 
                  "I was mistaken, your honor. I humbly ask your pardon." 
                  "No offence, my man. Good afternoon to you." 
                  Mr. Grey hastened after his companion, and waited upon her as far as the corner of North Street, where they parted, the young man going towards Ship Street, and Eleanor hastening home. 
                  Mrs. Williams informed her daughter of Stanley's visit and her refusal to accept his invitation. 
                  "I am glad of it," said the daughter. "Our ways are not their ways; and besides, we could never think, in times like these, of trespassing on any one's hospitality." 
                  "And yet you are hard worked here, my child. You have no companions-" 
                  "And no beaux," said the young girl, archly. "Isn't if a shame, mother, when I know I'm not an absolute fright, that no young gentleman comes to see poor me? Heigho! 
                         
                           "'Nobody coming to marry me- 
                           Nobody coming to woo.'" 
                        
                     
                   
                  "Thank Heaven!" said the widow, "that trial is spared you." 
                   
                  "I really think I could bear it with becoming fortitude," replied Eleanor, gaily. 
                  "Do not jest, my poor, poor child," said the widow, trembling with emotion: "you wring my heart." 
                  "Dear mother," said the daughter, alarmed and surprised at the deep emotion manifested by her parent, "what can you mean? What is there so alarming in the idea of a young man's paying his addresses to me-even of my marrying him?" 
                  "O, dearest! banish such thoughts from your mind; frown upon them, or your peace is gone forever. This is the first time I have heard you breathe a word upon the subject. Yet, young, beautiful, loving-it is a hard fate to live and die alone. But I conjure you, shun every man who is more than polite to you-before your heart and happiness are involved." 
                  "I am prepared to obey you in everything, my dear mother. But surely you will not condemn me to what you yourself acknowledge to be a hard fate, without a reason. Why should I shun the addresses of a lover?" 
                  "Because you can never marry, Eleanor." 
                  "O, you think we are so poor that no one will contract an alliance with us." 
                  "Poorer girls than you have married well, darling." 
                  "Then what is it, mother, that should keep me single?" 
                  "Poverty is no disgrace; poverty is a remediable evil-but dishonor-" 
                  "Hush, mother! do not hint at that. I know that dishonor cannot live where you do." 
                  "But eternal grief may," said the mother, wringing her hands, "You know-you must know that I am wretched. You must know, Eleanor, that more than poverty-more than age-drew these deep lines on my face." 
                  "Yes, yes, dear mother-you have a secret grief that consumes your heart. I know it. Unbosom yourself to me, dear mother." 
                  "If you love me alone, my child-if you can promise to abandon all hopes of love and marriage, that secret may die with me." 
                  "I cannot promise," replied the daughter, hanging her head. "I have my hopes, like other girls." 
                  "Renounce them! renounce them!" cried the widow, clasping her daughter's hand. "For, when they know our story, every one will shun you." 
                  "You wring my very soul, mother," cried the agitated girl. "There must be some fatal secret in your heart. I must and will learn what it is. My father! I never knew him-you have never spoken to me of him. It must be something connected with him. 
                  "Your father, Eleanor," cried the widow, wildly, "your father-" 
                  "Speak, mother; I can bear all." 
                  "Your father died on the scaffold!" 
                  Eleanor uttered a despairing shriek that rang through the narrow room, and sank upon the floor. 
                  "My child! my child!" cried the widow. "Woe is me! I have killed her." 
                  And she raised her in her arms and strove to restore her to consciousness. At last Eleanor opened her eyes. 
                  "The scaffold! the scaffold!" were her first words. "O, mother, did I dream that my father died upon the scaffold" 
                  "They were my words," replied the widow, mournfully. "I repeat them. He was tried by a jury of his peers for murder-found guilty of murder-sentenced for murder-punished for the crime. But I believe him innocent. O, he was good, and kind, and true. He would not have harmed a living creature; he would not have committed murder for gold-we were not so poor as that. We were so happy in our English home-just married-" 
                  "Died on a scaffold, mother; and you live to tell me of it!" 
                  "I lived only for you. For a time it was a struggle between life and death. But I lived for you, and the hope that time and the righteousness of Heaven would vindicate his memory-would once more enable us to bear his name. Now my poor, unfortunate child, you know why a lover would shrink even from you." 
                  "The dream is over!" said Eleanor, with a deep sigh. "I was happy while it lasted. I can say, I, too, have been happy. Poor, murdered father! Yes, dear mother; no one could have been your partner and guilty of a crime of blood." 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                  AN UNEXPECTED CONFIDANT. 
                  WHEN Clarence Grey left his companion, he proceeded along the water side through Ship Street, Fish Street and Ann Street to Dock Square, whence, passing through Cornhill, he halted finally in Marlborough Street, nearly opposite the old South Church, yet sacred to religion and patriotism-not yet, though soon to be, prostituted to the uses of a foreign cavalry. 
                  Close before him rose the tall brick mass of the Province House, an imposing structure, crowned by a cupola, and surmounted by the golden figure of an Indian armed with a bow and arrow. A little formal garden-plot interposed between the building and the street, fenced with an iron railing. Through, the open windows of the large room on the right of the great entrance were seen the forms of several British staff officers in their rich scarlet and gold uniforms. The peal of the heavy carved brass knocker brought to the door a servant in rich livery, who admitted the visitor the moment he recognized his face. 
                  "The general is engaged just now, sir," said the servant. "Wont you walk into this room, if you please?" 
                  The young man nodded, and was shown into a room on the left, wainscotted with oak, and furnished in a rich but antique style. 
                  "Take my card to the general," said Clarence, "and tell him I will wait his leisure." 
                  The servant retired, leaving the door open behind him, for the evening was oppressively sultry, and little air was stirring. The young man threw himself into a high-backed arm-chair and patiently waited the return of the valet to usher him into the presence of General Gage. 
                  He had not long to wait. In a few minutes the officers whom he had seen through the windows from the street began to pass out through the hall, their spurs and sabres jingling as they strode down the free-stone steps into the courtyard. They were conversing earnestly together, but in so low a tone that the listener could not catch the purport of their discourse. 
                  The servant who had admitted him now reappeared and informed him that the general was at leisure to receive him. Clarence rose, and crossing the broad hall, entered the large reception room and found himself in the presence of the British commander. 
                  Gage was standing near the large empty fireplace, but advanced toward the door, with extended hand, as the servant left them. 
                  "Mr. Grey," said the general, "I am very-happy to see you. It is a long while since you have favored the Province House with your presence. I missed you from my entertainment last week, I assure you. Your name was mentioned often. Be seated. A glass of wine, Mr. Grey?" 
                   
                  Clarence made a suitable reply and took the proffered seat. 
                  "Well, Mr. Grey," said the general, drawing his chair closer to that of his guest, "I suppose you have been pretty busy, eh?" 
                  "I have been much occupied of late, general." 
                  "That is well. It is a time when every loyal subject of his majesty should be occupied. You have not remained in Boston all this time?" 
                  "No, sir; I have made numerous excursions into the surrounding country." 
                  "Well; and how do matters look?" 
                  "I confess that I am astonished, general, at the intelligence of the people. They are worthy of the stock they spring from." 
                  "I am glad to hear that. We may conclude, therefore, that the wild doctrines of Hancock and Adams and Dr. Warren will obtain no permanent control of their minds." 
                  "That does not follow, general." 
                  "How, sir? pray explain yourself." 
                  "The British constitution, general, has no firmer supporters than these provincials of the Massachusetts Bay. I said they were worthy of the stock they sprang from; and it is because they perfectly understand their constitutional rights, and knowing, have the courage to maintain them. They know that taxation without representation is a violation of the great charter of our liberties, and they will never submit to it." 
                  "What! have they infected you, too? On my honor, you hold the same language as the demagogues of Faneuil Hall." 
                  "It is the English language, general-the mother tongue of my own land." 
                  "Tut, tut! you are a young man," replied Gage, "But tell me, have you heard from Lord Ratcliff lately?" 
                  "Not for months. You are of course aware that I am deeply indebted to his lordship; that he gave me education, employment-all that I possess. I was for a long time his lordship's private secretary. Becoming acquainted with my longing to visit the new world, he gave me leave of absence for a year, with the understanding that I was at liberty to settle in this country if I found employment here, and a residence congenial to my tastes. In the meantime, he solicited, as a favor, that I would communicate to him whatever information I collected on the spot respecting these distant colonies, so interesting to a statesman. I have done so, and for a long time I was in the habit of receiving letters couched in the most friendly language. Latterly, however, the correspondence on his part has ceased. Perhaps he is too busy to find time to write to so humble an individual as myself." 
                  "Perhaps," replied Gage, smiling; "or perhaps your letters, tinged with the prevalent sentiments of the province, may have displeased so warm a partizan of the crown as his lordship." 
                  "I should be sorry to learn that the truth could be displeasing to any supporter of the British crown," replied Clarence, gravely. 
                  "The truth is not to be spoken at all times," said the general. 
                  "A dangerous axiom, general," replied the, young man, "and of limited application. But in times like these truth should be spoken fearlessly. Distortion or suppression of the truth would produce incalculable evils." 
                  "We will not discuss the point, Mr. Grey," said the general, carelessly. "Let us pass from general to personal matters. Do you like the country as well as you like the people?" 
                  "I am enchanted with the scenery." 
                  "And you could live here contentedly, far from London and the court circle?" 
                  "I have no other wish. But the times are not very propitious for the establishment of a stranger possessed of limited resources." 
                  "Perhaps a friend could aid you, Mr. Grey," said the general, smiling. "I have received today despatches and letters from home," and he pointed to a mass of envelopes lying on the table, with the huge seals broken. "Your name occurred more than once in them." 
                  "Indeed!" said Clarence, surprised and pleased. 
                  "Yes, my dear sir. Your letters to Lord Ratcliff have been read in a very elevated circle. I may tell you that even royalty itself is not unacquainted with, or unmindful of, the talents and energies of Mr. Clarence Grey. In a word, the road to fortune lies before you-a shorter one than that which a soldier like me must carve out with his sword." 
                  It would be idle to deny that Clarence Grey was flattered by the vague prospects thus skilfully indicated; visions of wealth, happiness, honor, floated before him. A flush of pleasure suffused his cheek, and his soft, dark eyes lighted up with animation. 
                  "If you aspire to military glory," pursued the general, "I can give you a commission and a place in my military family. You shake your head; well, you are wise. A laced hat does not shield the head it covers from a cannon ball, and there may be one eyelet-hole too many in a scarlet coat. You have talents for something better. The senate is your sphere. Well, do but aid us as you can, and I can assure you of civic honors." 
                  "I must first hear what you require of me," replied the young man, hesitatingly, though still under the influence of the hopes his companion had excited. 
                  "It is briefly this. I need not say to a gentleman like yourself that I address you in perfect confidence. It is well known that you have made many friends and acquaintances among the provincials, both here and in the country-that you are not suspected of being a warm supporter of the British ministry. Now what is easier than for you to secure the entire confidence of the so-called patriots? I know that they are mining beneath our very feet; that they are plotting in the dark; that they have their secret meetings. Now it is very easy for me to secure vulgar spies, but it is difficult to procure a man of intelligence, nerve and character, who will penetrate into the very heart of their mystery. I must know what are their plans; if they have arms and ammunition, where they are stored; what is the numerical strength they rely upon; what men in the colonies sustain them. In a word, I must be able to lay my hand on their entire programme. Hush-do not interrupt me; hear me out. This is a difficult task. I have pitched on you to perform it. One word. If republics be ungrateful, ingratitude is not the vice of monarchies. You shall have gold and honor for your services. Take time-and answer me." 
                  "I will answer you on the moment, General Gage," replied the young man," springing to his feet. 
                  "No," replied the general, rising also, "I insist on your deliberating. I will leave you alone to reflect on my offer. In ten minutes' time I will be here to receive your answer." 
                  Bowing as he spoke, the general passed out of the apartment, leaving Clarence Grey in, a paroxysm of excitement. The first feeding was that of indignation-for, though trained in the school of politics, his preceptor had been a high-minded nobleman, and all his views were generous and lofty. But Clarence was poor and a lover. The temptation to realize his hopes of bliss, to secure his happiness at once, to raise his beloved to the rank her beauty and intellect so well fitted her to adorn, was powerful indeed. Beside, might he not be the means of preventing a hopeless effusion of blood-a rebellion strange and unnatural? Was he quite sure that the Sons of Liberty were adopting the wisest and justest policy? Sophistry wooed self-interest witchingly. In an agony of perplexity he paced the room to and fro in its entire length. Looming out of the obscurity of the deepening twilight, the full-length portrait of some old colonial worthy of Puritan times, that hung upon the wall, seemed gazing at him with watchful vigilance, the stern eyes following him as he moved restlessly about. There seemed a singular spell in that glance that attracted and riveted his own, and chilled the fever of his blood. He sat down in the stately chair that the general had just vacated, and pondered. By-and-by the blood flowed more slowly through his veins; his pulses beat evenly and temperately. The fever flush of passion and excitement passed away. The film was removed from his mental vision. He saw objects in their true light. When the general returned, Clarence rose to meet him with dignity and firmness. 
                  "Have you reflected on my offer, Mr. Grey?" asked the general. 
                  "I have, sir. 
                  "And your answer?" 
                  "I reject your offer." 
                  "Have you weighed well my words?" 
                  "I have, sir. I understand you fully, and my mind is made up. You spoke without equivocation, and I thank you for your candor. Understand, in turn, the motive of my refusal. It is because I will not play the spy. You offered me gold for foul play, and I reject it." 
                  "Foul play, Mr. Grey!" 
                  "They are my words, sir." 
                  "Mr. Grey, I congratulate yon on your prospects; they must be very flattering, if you can afford to reject the fortune I placed at your disposal." 
                  "That fortune, General Gage, neither you nor your masters had a right to offer. That fortune would have been wrung out of burthens imposed on a suffering people. I am a poor man, sir, but the king is not rich enough to buy my honor." 
                  An angry flush crossed the brow of the British general. "Your answer is a reflection upon me, sir," said he. 
                  "Your zealous loyalty excuses the part you have played in this transaction, General Gage. But I cannot so readily pardon your employers." 
                  "Enough, sir," said Gage, stamping his foot impatiently, "I will detain you no longer. Pardon the error that made mo address you as a loyal subject of the king." 
                  "I am still loyal, general-though I confess that my confidence is shaken in the integrity of the king's advisers." 
                  "Go, sir-go to the first rebel meeting you can find, and tell the plotters in the dark how Thomas Gage tempted your immaculate honor." 
                  "I understand your insinuation, sir," replied Clarence, sternly, "and I scorn it. Were I not bound in honor to conceal what has passed between us, for the honor of human nature I would bury it forever." 
                  "Very well, sir," said the general. "But remember that from this moment you are a marked man. Who is not for us is against us. My faith in you is shaken; and I know that it will take but little to change the wavering loyalist into the confirmed rebel. But I shall watch you closely. I, at least, am faithful to my trust, as the king's enemies shall feel to their cost." 
                  "I hold your menaces as lightly as your bribes," replied Clarence, proudly; and with these words he left the presence of the British general. 
                  It was quite dark as he reached the street. Heavy clouds shut out the light of day, and the angry mutterings of the thunder presaged the outbreak of one of those sudden storms so common to the summer months. Clarence Grey heeded not these heralds of the tempest, as, completely occupied with reflections on the ordeal through which he had passed, he strode along through the gathering darkness towards the Neck. The imminence of a heavy rain had driven all the citizens to the shelter of their houses, and the street was entirely deserted. Glancing round, however, after a few minutes' walk, to ascertain his position, the young man perceived a tall figure moving in the same direction, and keeping close to the wall, and pausing when he halted. When he resumed his walk the man advanced; when he quickened his pace the stranger did the same; his own shadow could not have imitated his movements more closely. In this way they reached the Neck, where the houses rose at long intervals in the midst of gardens and waste patches of land. 
                  "Can it be," thought Clarence, "that Gage's threatened surveillance over me fans already commenced? If it be so, the skulking, hireling will hardly dare to confront me." 
                  Pursuant to this notion, Grey turned suddenly and retraced his steps. The unknown immediately halted and awaited his approach. When very near, Clarence attempted to scrutinize his person, but a cloak was thrown around it, and the flap of a beaver hat drawn down over his face would have effectually concealed it, if the darkness, becoming momently deeper, had not accomplished the same purpose. 
                  "Good evening, Mr. Clarence Grey," said the stranger. 
                  "You have the advantage of me, sir," replied Grey; "I do not recognize your voice, and your face is doubly hidden." 
                  "We cannot divine a speaker whose voice we have never heard, nor recognize a countenance we have never seen," answered the unknown. 
                  "You speak very oracularly, sir," said Clarence; "but you would seem to intimate that you are unknown to me, while my person is familiar to you." 
                  "Right, sir. I have not known you long-but yet long enough to respect you." 
                  "I am flattered even by the good opinion of a stranger," said Clarence. "But will you have the goodness to inform me how I have managed to secure your good graces?" 
                  "Manliness and honesty always command my respect. I pay that homage to integrity I have learned to refuse to rank." 
                  "I will thank you to explain yourself more clearly, sir." 
                  "Come nearer, then. Nay, there are no robbers or assassins here-those are luxuries reserved for the cities of the old world. Are there no eavesdroppers near? No, none. We are here man and man. Listen," continued the stranger: "'I am a poor man, sir, but the king is not rich enough to buy my honor.'" 
                  Clarence started back in amazement. They were the very words he had used to Gage. 
                  "In God's name-speak!" he exclaimed. "Is it you, general?" 
                  "You are liberal with your titles of honor," said the stranger. "General Gage is safe in the Province House, unless the thunder rattles down the old roof above his head. I am not even a friend of Gage; but I am the friend of every man who spurns British gold when it is offered as the price of his honor." 
                  "You have surprised a secret that belonged to me," said the young man; "I must know how you became the master of it." 
                  "Young man, I have my secrets, too. But ponder this-when tyrants plot the ruin of freemen, the very walls have ears." 
                  "I believe you." 
                  "Clarence Grey," said the stranger, "Gage did not over-estimate your qualities. He did well in seeking to secure you. He failed. Now answer me-are you for the ministry or the province?" 
                  "I came here a loyalist," replied Grey, "but my faith is sadly shaken. Yet I must learn more before I decide upon my course." 
                  "You shall learn more. To-night the Sons of Liberty hold a meeting. If you will follow the guidance of Mark Forrester, an honest man, he will lead you to their council. My pledge will secure your admission; and I know that I can trust you, and that whether you join us or not, you will never betray us." 
                  "Mr. Forrester, there is my hand on it. I thank you for your confidence, and embrace your offer gratefully." 
                  "Come on. The thunder is pealing already, as the guns will rattle before long in this fated province. Come on; the rain is falling; we shall soon reach shaker, Faster!" 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER V. 
                  THE WIDOW'S TALE. 
                  IT is not our purpose to follow Clarence Grey and his guide to the meeting of the Sons of Liberty, which was prolonged to a very late hour. He left the hall in company with Forrester, from whom he parted at the corner of Queen Street and Sudbury Street. Clarence lodging in the latter street. 
                  The young man passed a feverish night. The words he had heard rang through his slumbers, and he sprang from his bed at early dawn. While yet confused and not wholly awake, he was startled by the roar of cannon. Gun after gun pealed upon the ear, shaking the windows in their frames, and seeming to announce that the strife which some of the speakers of the preceding evening had predicted imminent, had already commenced. But mechanically counting the reports, which soon died away, Clarence was satisfied that it was only a salute, announcing the arrival of an expected ship of war from Halifax, with reinforcements for the garrison of Boston. 
                  He smiled bitterly. "Gage cannot be too strong," he thought, "for all his boasted confidence. I no longer doubt the power of the Sons of Liberty to resist the might of Britain. And I am almost satisfied of their right to do so. The result of this day's investigation will decide me." 
                  Hastily dressing himself, he sat down to the perusal of some manuscript and printed documents with which the table was loaded. Interrupting his labor only by a hasty meal, he resumed his study of the papers, which was continued till the afternoon. He often interrupted himself to rise and pace his room, in deep reflection. At last his brow cleared up, his eye lighted, an air of resolution dwelt upon his lips. 
                  "They are right!" he exclaimed aloud. "The cause rests upon the principles of eternal justice; and palsied be the arm that first draws the sword in contravention of those rights. Heart and soul I am with them, and ready to lay down my life, if need be, in their behalf. They shall know my determination this very night." 
                  It seemed as if a weight had been lifted from his heart. For a long time Clarence Grey had wavered in his opinions. Educated as a loyalist, taught to look for fortune and honor from the court circle, hearing from his childhood the maxim that the king could do no wrong, and that he was sovereign lord and master by divine right, it is probable that had he remained on the other side of the Atlantic, his heart and hand would still have remained faithful to the king and ministry, whatever course they had adopted. He would hare followed their lead blindly. But a new light broke upon him when lie landed in the province, and as he beheld the sun rising free from the fogs that dimmed its lustre in his native land, so did the light of truth, unobscured by the mists of prejudice, here pour its unshadowed beams into his candid soul. One by one, his political errors, like worn out garments, fell from him, and he stood untrammelled and regenerated. 
                  His love for a girl in humble life tended much to strengthen his sympathies with the people, and now, when he had fully shaken off aristocratic prejudices, he felt as if his heart were drawn yet closer to the object of his warm but respectful attachment. A day of study called for relaxation, and seizing his hat, he hastened to Hanover Street, and was soon in the widow's parlor. 
                  Eleanor was alone. She was seated in an armchair, in a listless attitude, and her work had fallen from her hands. She did not, as was her wont, rise to welcome his coming, but only smiled faintly and extended her hand. The fingers that Clarence grasped were as cold as ice, and, as startled by this circumstance, he gazed upon her earnestly, he was moved by the evident traces of illness and sorrow written on her countenance. 
                  "Good heaven! dearest Eleanor," he exclaimed; "you are ill. You exert yourself too much; you do not take exercise enough." 
                  "I have no bodily ailment, Mr. Grey," answered Eleanor, striving to speak calmly; "but there is an oppression here." She pressed her hand upon her heart, and, unable to control her feelings any longer, burst into tears. 
                  Clarence was inexpressibly shocked. 
                  "What has chanced since yesterday evening," he exclaimed, "when I left you so radiant and happy?" 
                  Eleanor continued sobbing. 
                  "Has any one whispered into your ear doubts of my affection?" 
                  "No, no, Clarence," said the poor girl, pressing his hand. "Alas! I know you to be good and true." 
                  "You say it in a tone of regret. And I came here to declare myself, and to ask your mother's consent." 
                  "It is unnecessary to see her. You must learn to forget me. O, that we had never met!" she added, wringing her hands. 
                  "Eleanor! your reason wanders. Never met! have not our hearts grown together? You bid me forget you. Know that my life is entwined with yours, and if you cast me from you, you doom me to a life of misery, you rob me of my energies, you destroy my prospects. I did not expect this of you." 
                  "Clarence Grey," said Eleanor, drying her tears, and speaking with assumed firmness, "I can never consent to be yours. Ask me not for my reasons, but accept that answer as irrevocable." 
                  "I cannot, Eleanor. You ask me to do more than mortal strength enables me to accomplish." 
                  "Believe me," said the afflicted girl, "that if you knew my secret, you yourself would spurn me from you, though I implored you on my bended knees to take me to your heart." 
                  "Now," exclaimed Grey, "I know that you are indeed ill and delirious. You know that nothing can alienate my love-not even your coldness or caprice. I will no longer press you for an explanation." 
                  "You do well, Mr. Grey," said Mrs. Williams, who had entered unobserved, while Clarence was speaking.-"Leave us, my poor child. If Mr. Grey insists upon an explanation, it is from my lips he must hear it." 
                  Eleanor rose mechanically at her mother's bidding. 
                  "Farewell, Mr. Grey," she said, extending her hand to the young man. "Forget this passing dream. If we ever meet again, it must be as strangers." 
                  Clarence raised the soft hand she proffered to his lips. A moment more and she was gone. 
                  The widow seated herself, and her guest drew a chair beside her. The conversation was commenced by the former. 
                  "Mr. Grey," she said, "I will not ask you if it were well done of you to engage the affections of my poor girl, without giving me, her mother, her only friend and adviser, the slightest warning. It is too late now to ask that question. Much misery might have been spared if your conduct had been different. I can anticipate your defence, sir; but I will spare you the trouble of attempting it." 
                  She paused a moment, as if to gather firmness, and then she continued: 
                  "Sorrow is no new guest, Mr. Grey, in my heart. The past has so nearly exhausted its means of affliction, that I knew of but one calamity in store for me. That shaft has been sped-it was keenly barbed, though sped by an unconscious hand. My daughter is now a sharer of my griefs." 
                   
                  "I have been told that sorrow is alleviated by being shared with those who love us." 
                  "There are sorrows that are doubled by participation," replied the widow. "And mine is one of those. Let us be the sole depositories of this secret sorrow. We are women-but fortitude is a woman's virtue. And we are not without arms to do it battle," she added, firmly, placing her hand reverently, as she spoke, upon an old family Bible, that lay before her on the table. "Mr. Grey," she resumed, "we are very poor; but Eleanor was happy till your shadow crossed her path." 
                  "Not a thought of mine has done her injury!" exclaimed Clarence, earnestly. "I would lay down my life to shield her from harm." 
                  "You have harmed her unwittingly," said the widow, "but the calamity is no less overwhelming. But God is my judge that I feel no anger towards you. The only hope of peace for Eleanor is your immediate renunciation of your addresses. Depart in peace, and leave us to our destiny. Seek not to know why you are urged to leave us." 
                  "You tax me beyond my strength," exclaimed Clarence. "By the love-the pure and faithful love I bear your daughter-conjure you to tell me why she refuses the hand she pledged me freely and fondly." 
                  "Listen, then," said the widow, sadly. "And may the confidence effect the cure. I only ask you to believe me, without seeking to learn the names of the parties I may have occasion to refer to. This is not my native country. I was born in England, of humble parents, it is true, but in circumstances that promised me a life of peace, if not of affluence. Twenty years ago, I was a happy wife. My husband, an honest, loving and gentle nature, was steward to a man of wealth and rank, whose entire confidence and favor he enjoyed. When his employer lost his wife, I was the only one to whom he would entrust the care of his infant child. We lived in a pleasant cottage, on the estate, near the manor-house. One night-one fatal night-I was absent from our happy little home, on a visit to my father, who lived at some distance. I left my husband to take care of the house and of the baronet's child. Nothing presaged evil. I was never in higher spirits than when, early the next morning, I passed the park gate, and came in sight of our pleasant, vine-embowered lodge. As I came near it, one of the female servants of the mansion rushed out and begged me not to enter. I saw that some calamity had befallen us, and breaking away from her, sprang into the cottage. It was filled with angry men. My husband, my dear husband, was in the hands of officers of the law. I learned the fatal truth too soon. A dreadful deed had been committed. Our master had been found murdered in his room in the old mansion. Footsteps had been traced to the lodge. A case of jewels, of inestimable value, was found hidden in my husband's room-and concealed there, also, the bloody knife, with which the deed had been accomplished. This was not all; the boy, the orphan boy was gone. My poor husband seemed overwhelmed; he was speechless and unresisting. But when he saw me, he struggled with those who held him, and strove to throw himself into my arms, protesting his innocence of the dreadful crime. They tore us asunder, and one of the peasants employee by the sheriff exclaimed that it was to decorate my person that my husband had first robbed and then murdered, his master. For my part, when my senses returned to me, and I could think about the matter, I fixed the crime upon a gang of gipsies, some of whom the lord of the manor had punished for theft, and who had been lurking about the neighborhood, muttering threats of vengeance, though the whole affair was shrouded, to my mind, in mystery. The loss of the child, and of some articles from our house, seemed to fix it, to my mind, on the gipsies. Be that how it may, my husband was committed to prison. An express was sent to Paris, where the younger brother of the murdered man resided. He was overwhelmed with horror at the news, and came post haste to the paternal mansion. He was a man of great benevolence and purity of life. He indignantly spurned the idea, in spite of the overwhelming evidence, that my husband could have committed the crime. At his instance and mine, some of the gipsy gang were arrested. Nothing was found against them, and they were discharged. My husband was brought to trial. He continued to protest his innocence. A crowd of witnesses testified to his previous good character. The younger brother of the deceased was among them. But the knife, the jewels, how could they be accounted for? Up to the very last dread hour in the court-room I was sustained by hope. The jury returned after a brief absence. Guilty! The fatal syllables rang upon my ear like the dying knell of life. Kind friends removed me, insensible, from the court-room When I recovered, I could not believe that my husband had been condemned and sentenced. Yet still I clung to life; nor did hope and reason utterly give way, till the eve of the fatal day, when, all effort at commutation and pardon had! foiled, and I knew that so surely as the sun would rise-upon the morrow, my husband would perish by an ignominious death. Then despair overwhelmed me. What passed from that moment, I cannot tell. Existence was a blank. When consciousness was restored to me, I found myself wandering in an unknown part of the country. I had escaped from my friends and tied from a scene henceforth accursed to my eyes. I was warmly clad. A weight in one of my pockets induced me to examine it. It was a large sum of gold. I saw a village near at hand, and bending my steps thither, entered a public house. The people were Scotch, and I saw that they regarded me with suspicion. I endeavored, therefore, with the cunning that supplies the place of reason to the disordered intellect, to disarm them by great moderation of manner and deportment. Au English newspaper, unopened, lay upon the table. My name, was the first word that attracted my attention. I found it was a description of my person, and a reward for my discovery. I immediately defaced the advertisement so as to render it illegible. My impulse was to fly from my friends-from England. After a hasty meal, I quietly stole from the house and wandered down to the shore-it was a seaport town of Scotland that I had entered. An emigrant ship, bound for Boston, was just ready to sail. I saw the captain, and assuming the name I now bear, and representing myself as a poor woman wishing to join her husband in America, and with money enough to pay my passage, was received aboard. Before night-fall the country of my birth had vanished in the distance. 
                  "On the passage, I became a mother. But for the birth of Eleanor I should long ago have been in my grave. But a new existence-a helpless being-the pledge of an affection so rudely blighted, recalled my scattered faculties and energies. For the first time since the awful calamity that had stricken me, I prayed; and God rewarded me by endowing me with that fortitude which has supplied the place of happiness. Mr. Grey, my dismal tale is ended. In return for my confidence, I will ask you one question. Do you believe my husband guilty?" 
                  Clarence hesitated to reply. The widow repeated the question. 
                  "God alone is the final judge of guilt or innocence," he answered, evasively. 
                  "Enough," said the widow, sadly, "Had you been on the jury his fate had been the same. But whatever our views, the law pronounced him guilty; and my poor child is the daughter of one whom the law has declared a murderer." 
                  "What of that?" cried Clarence. "Her hand is stainless; I am ready to clasp it at the altar." 
                  "You speak from the impulse of passion," said the widow. "Time would change your views. But be sure of this-until time shall wipe every stain from my husband's memory, my daughter lives unwedded." 
                  "Alas!" said Clarence sadly; "there are secrets which time never discloses-and this is one of them. I may shun your doors in obedience to your commands; my heart will still be with you, will still cling to its hope, till my resolution shall shake your scruples, and extort happiness from sorrow. In the meanwhile remember that in a strange land you have one friend who will think of you by night and day-whose arm, in the public troubles which are momently approaching, will be stretched froth to shield and defend you while a drop of blood is in its veins." 
                  The widow attempted a reply, but her voice failed her: and before she could master her emotions, Clarence Grey had left the house. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                  A SOLDIER IN DIFFICULTY.-A MIDNIGHT ENCOUNTER. 
                  AFTER, this interview, Clarence wandered about the town, scarcely conscious whither he was going, mentally reviewing the melancholy story he had just listened to. Hours passed in this manner. The distress of Eleanor and her mother deeply affected him, and for a time he generously forgot how closely his own happiness was linked with theirs. When, at last, he thought of his own interests, he could not persuade himself that he had been hopelessly rejected; he still hoped to renew his suit with better success, and to change what now appeared to be the rigid inflexibility of both mother and daughter. Still, it was evident that the intercourse must be for a time suspended. This was a bitter sentence, for he had hoped to derive encouragement in the efforts he now resolved to make for the country he had determined should be that of his adoption, from the generous sympathies and cultivated mind of his beloved. But with a sigh for illusions vanished, he dismissed them, and bent all his energies to the work before him. 
                  As he was passing a small house of entertainment, in Ship Street, loud outcries from within caused him to pause in his walk and enter the room on the ground floor from which the noise proceeded. 
                  The room was filled with men in citizens' dresses, with one exception. A British soldier, a hard-faced man of some forty-five years of age, whose flushed countenance gave evidence of deeppotations, was struggling and swearing in the grasp of two or three stalwort men, whose countenances expressed anger and excitement. 
                  The inn-keeper, a little bald-headed person, seemed endeavoring to restore order. 
                  "Help! sir! help!" said the soldier, addressing himself to Grey. "I'm in a fair way of being murdered here!" 
                  "And served you right, scoundrel!" said a stout young man, in a green baize jacket. 
                  The moment Grey set eyes upon the soldier, he recognized him as the man he had encountered on Copp's Hill, when walking with Eleanor Williams. 
                  "What is the trouble, my friends?" asked Clarence, "and why are you handling this man so roughly?" 
                  "Curse him!" said Green-jacket, "we haven't half done with him yet. Say, boys, shall we drench him in the mill-pond, of will it pay to take him to Clark's shipyard, and give him a coat of tar and feathers to remember the North-Enders by?" 
                  "Let me go, confound you!" cried the soldier. "If Gage could only heap of this, you wouldn't brag upon the North Enders long!" 
                   
                  "Treason!" shouted a fellow in a tarry shirt. 'The red-coat is talking treason agin the constituted authorities. Don't you know, you lobster-back, that we don't know Gage in these latitudes? It's my advice to you to gather in the slack of your jaw, if you don't want to be keelhauled as well as tarred and feathered!" 
                  "What has the man done," asked Grey, "to deserve the punishment you threaten him with?" 
                  "Why, you see, sir," said the landlord, "he was a sitting there-at yonder table-a drinkin' half-an-half as he calls it, and little Peter Pippin, the lame scissors-grinder, sitting opposite. This here soger proposes the king's health, and when Peter refuses to drink it, the soger calls him a rebel and catches him by the throat, and outs with an oath, and says he'll break his head or arry rebel's in the room that refuses to do honor to his majesty. The 'boys' happening in promiscuously while the altercation was going on, takes him in hand and has him at odds, as you see for yourself. Bein' a man of peace, I interfered, but Lord, sir! when blood's up-what's the use? The soger's a little mite disguised in liquor and sarcy-and the boys aint used to takin' sass from nobody. That's the long and short of it." 
                  "My friends," said Clarence, "it strikes me that this is no time for brawls like this. You are wasting your powder on small game. The fellow's conduct was contemptible, I allow-but you had better send him about his business, and have done with it." 
                  "God bless your honor!" said the soldier. 
                  "But he's got to apologize," said the man in the green jacket. "Look you, sirrah, are you willing to go down on your knees and ask Peter's pardon?" 
                  The soldier caught Clarence's eye, who made him a sign. 
                  "As there is no retreat, I suppose I must!" said the soldier. 
                  "Down then!" said Green-jacket, forcing him to his knees. "Come here, Peter." 
                  A little, shambling fellow advanced at the summons. 
                  "Now then, lobster!" said the master of ceremonies. 
                  "Comrade!" said the soldier, sullenly, "I ask your pardon. Now let me up, you-will you?" 
                  "Avast!" cried a sailor. "Don't let him slip his cable yet. Fetch us a stiff glass of grog, landlord, I'll pay the shot. Now, catch hold of this, lobster-back." 
                  The soldier took the proffered glass and was about to drink. 
                  "Avast!" cried the sailor, laying his hand upon the soldier's arm. "We drink healths in these latitudes, shipmate. Now-then-repeat after me-the good health of John Hancock!" 
                  "The good health of John Hancock!" muttered the soldier, and he swallowed the draught. 
                  "Hurrah! hurrah! for John Hancock!" cried the bystanders. The soldier was then permitted to rise, the North-End boys having been restored to good humor by the spectacle of his humiliation. 
                  "You have done well, my friends," said Grey. "Never injure a good cause by unnecessary violence." 
                  He left the house in company with the soldier. 
                  "Mr. Grey," said the man, "I shall never forget the good turn you have done me, and if ever the chance occurs, I'll repay it. If ever you're cornered as I was to-night, remember Paul Bolton." 
                  "And now take my advice," said Grey. "Go to your quarters without any delay. You have been drinking and you are far from sober. Any one can see it at a glance." 
                  "I'm sorry for that," said the man, "for I've got to mount guard at the Province House to night. Curse the uniform! and curse the life I lead!" 
                  "Rather blame your own habits of self-indulgence. Don't drink another drop to-night." 
                  "I'll try to keep from liquor. And if I can only get a wink or two of sleep, I'll be all right for guard duty." 
                  "Good night, then," said Grey, turning away from him. The soldier went towards his barracks with a step that grew steadier as he approached the termination of his walk. 
                  It Was quite late, and he had managed to get a little sleep, when he was posted at the Province House. But though his step was steady, his head was still in a very confused state, for he had drank deeply during the day. 
                  The night was fitful, with flying clouds and occasional showers. Sometimes objects could be distinctly seen-at others, all was obscure. The soldier paced his beat sullenly. Once, when his back was turned, he thought he heard a footstep on the freestone steps. Wheeling suddenly, he caught a glimpse of a tall figure gliding away in the darkness. 
                  "Who goes there?" he called out. 
                  There was no answer. 
                   
                  "Pshaw! it's no matter," he muttered. "This isn't war-time-and it's a farce to post a guard here-a humbug!" 
                  And he resumed his march, cursing the orders, the officer of the day, and the commander-in-chief. 
                  As he sullenly paced to and fro, a young officer, advancing from the street, came close up to him, and taking advantage of a momentary brightening of the sky, scrutinized him closely. The result of the examination may be gathered from the officer's words. 
                  "You are drunk, sentinel-give me your musket." 
                  "I'm not drunk!" retorted the soldier. "And I give up my musket to nobody. Stand back, there!" 
                  "I demand your musket, fellow," repeated the officer. 
                  "Never!" cried the sentinel. "No man gets my musket, and no man comes within my guard!" 
                  With these words the soldier dropped the barrel of his piece into the hollow of his hand and charged upon the officer. But the latter was on the watch. Quick as lightning he drew his rapier from the scabbard, and stepping aside, parried the bayonet thrust by a hanging guard. As the sentinel nearly lost his balance by the fury of his thrust, it would have been very easy for the officer to have changed his parade, and, lunging out, to have passed his weapon through his adversary's heart. But that was evidently not his design. He contented himself with parrying the repeated thrusts which the soldier, now losing all control of his reason, aimed at him. The noise of the encounter created no alarm, for the officer's light, flexible blade did not ring upon the bayonet it crossed, but rather hissed like a serpent as it played with the arm. A word also would have called out the guard-but it appeared as if the officer chose to show that he had the ability, without relying on other assistance than his own skill, to foil and vanquish any single assailant. The soldier perceived that all his antagonist's efforts were directed at unlocking his bayonet, a difficult achievement, and he did his best to prevent it. The struggle lasted several minutes, and then by a dexterous motion of the blade, the officer succeeded-and sent the unfixed bayonet whirling twenty feet through the air. At the same moment he sprang forward, seized the gun-barrel with his left hand, and tripping the soldier with his right foot, threw him heavily upon his back after disarming him. Planting his foot upon the breast of the fallen man, he put the point of his sword to his throat. 
                  "A single motion," he muttered, through his clenched teeth-"and you die like the dog you are." 
                  "I defended my post," growled the soldier. 
                  "And disobeyed an order." 
                  "My orders were to keep my post," muttered the sentinel. 
                  "You shall answer for this night's work in the morning," said the officer. 
                  The relief marched up, and Bolton was given to the guard. 
                  "If you appear against me, I am a dead man," whispered the soldier to the officer. 
                  "Not a word, villain!" said the young man, sheathing his sword and turning away. 
                  As Bolton was marched off, the party met an officer of rank, accompanied by a servant carrying a lantern. He halted a moment, and asked what was the matter. 
                  "Captain Carney ordered me to take this man to the guard-house," replied the corporal of the guard 
                  "That man!" said the officer, starting, as he looked upon the prisoner. "Paul Bolton!" 
                  "The same, Sir Ashley Glenville," said the prisoner. 
                  "I will see Carney to-night," said the officer, hastily. "Meanwhile, don't abuse the man." 
                  "I never abuse nobody, colonel," said the corporal, touching his cap. 
                  "Move on!" said the officer. 
                  "All right, corporal," said the prisoner, "Forward, march, boys!" 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VII. 
                  SIR ASHLEY GLENVILLE AND HIS FRIEND.-THE FORTUNE TELLER. 
                  IT was about noon on the day after the occurrences we have just described. The half drawn blinds admitted a sort of cold twilight into a sitting-room in a house in Tremont Street, whose luxurious sofa, thick Turkey carpet, oval mirror, rich hangings, pictures and other ornaments, showed it to be the abode of a wealthy individual. 
                  Reclining in a deep easy chair, sat an officer in the full dress of a British colonel. His hair was scrupulously powdered; his linen and ruffles were faultlessly clean; a diamond pin sparkled on his bosom, and rings of costly price upon his finger's. Beside his chair stood a powdered valet, in a livery of dark blue purple velvet trimmed with gold, whose face and shrewd expression were incontestable proofs of his Gallic origin. 
                  "Francois," said the colonel, languidly, "how are we looking to-day?" 
                  "My colonel is looking superbly," replied the valet, striking an attitude, and gazing upon the officer with his head aside, like a connoisseur examining a choice picture. "Monsieur le colonel has quite the air of a young man. If I did not know monsieur's age, and saw him thus equipped for conquest, I should think he had only twenty five years." 
                  "Pshaw! you flatter me, Francois," said Sir Ashley Glenville, yet glancing as he spoke at the mirror which hung opposite. "But do you think that art has actually concealed the ravages of time? There are no crows' feet visible, Francois?" 
                  "Not a line, my colonel." 
                  "And you think the touch of rouge beyond suspicion?" 
                  "It would bear every test but a kiss, my colonel. Has milor been destroying hearts this morning?" 
                  "No-I have been paying my respects to the commander-in-chief at the Province House. The duty was imperative, else I should have indulged in a longer repose after the fatigues of the voyage. Here, take my sward and hat, and bring me a liquor glass of parfait amour." 
                  With a low bow, the valet received the hat and sword of the Briton, and deposited them in an ante-chamber, whence he returned with a glass upon a silver salver. The colonel sipped the contents, drop by drop, and then motioned the valet to retire. Wheeling his chair to one of the windows, he drew aside the rich curtains and looked out. Beneath him lay the burying ground of the King's Chapel, whose sombre pile looked solemnly down upon the home of death; beyond were quaint old houses in the midst of large gardens. His look, after ranging over the distant prospect, returned to the sculptured monuments. 
                  "One could almost envy their quiet repose!" he thought. "What a lesson is the presence of these mute mementoes of death in the midst of the busiest scenes of life! But is it heeded? The skeleton at the Egyptian feast did not stop the circulation of the wine cup. No! it rather gave a spur to the revelry. While life holds the brimming beaker to the lips, we kiss the breaking bubbles, without a thought of the grim shadow that frowns in the background, though its hand be lifted in incessant menace." 
                  "Milor, a soldier is without and asks to see you. Shall I admit him?" said the valet, entering at the moment. 
                  "Why-yes," answered the colonel, hesitatingly. 
                  The valet retired. Immediately afterwards Paul Bolton was shown in, and stood, saluting the officer respectfully, until the valet left him alone with his master. Then he assumed an air of almost familiarity, and advanced with a proud step. 
                  The colonel had wheeled his chair round, and now sat facing him, with a calm and indifferent expression. 
                  "So-you are at liberty, I see," said the colonel. "I had some difficulty in arranging your affair." 
                  "I knew you could do it, Sir Ashley-and I felt safe when I saw you." 
                  "Really-well, my good fellow, I saw Captain Carney, but I could do nothing with him. From his quarters I posted to the Province House. How well I pleaded, your presence here testifies." 
                  "I am glad to find, Sir Ashley," replied the soldier, "that you have not forgotten the time when I did you some service." 
                  "If my memory serves me," answered the colonel, coolly, "I think that service was paid for at the time." 
                  "Partly," replied Paul. "But I think if I were to leave the matter to referees, they would award me something more yet." 
                  "I do not say that our accounts are squared yet," said the colonel. "But what I have done for you this morning shows at least my anxiety to balance them. What more do you want?" 
                  "This uniform wearies me-I am sick of the service." 
                  "Why did you enter it?" 
                  "I was forced to enter it." 
                  "Yet you had money enough to make you comfortable for life." 
                  "Look you, Sir Ashley," said the man. "It is easy enough to preach prudence to a fellow with five craving senses, but it is hard to persuade him that he should content himself with a bare pittance while others are rolling in luxury and wealth. You have fine apartments here." 
                  "You like them?" 
                  "There's three hundred pounds' worth of gewgaws in this very room." 
                  "You have the eye of an appraiser, Mr. Bolton. That sofa is very luxurious; wont you try how easy it is?" 
                  "Thank you, Sir Ashley," said the man, throwing himself at length upon the sofa. 
                  The colonel rose, approached the door and locked it. 
                  "My valet is of an inquisitive turn," said he. "And he might be somewhat surprised at our intimacy, not appreciating your free and easy manners, Mr. Bolton, and my indulgence. Now," he added, drawing a chair near the sofa, "we can talk business. You cannot doubt, after what has passed, that I remain your friend." 
                  "Doubtless, colonel. And you were no doubt equally surprised and delighted to meet me last night. Your tender heart must have been beset with apprehension on my account-and I make no doubt that if you had been assured of my death, you would have worn a crape upon your sword-hilt." 
                  "Pardon me, Mr. Bolton," said the colonel, "but there appears to be a slight shade of irony in your remarks. Surely, you cannot question the sincerity of my interest, when I interfered, as I have done, in your behalf. What prevented my letting your cause go by default, and allowing you to be strung up or shot like a dog for your assault on an officer?" 
                  "Simply this, Sir Ashley Glenville-fear the consequences." 
                  "Fear!" retorted Colonel Glenville, with a curl of his aristocratic lip. 
                  "Ay-fear. You bear a noble name, on which you would not suffer a suspicion of dishonor to rest. Now I have no noble name, but I have a tongue in my head and am not afraid to use it, and you know very well that before I was shot or strung up, I should probably disclose some little copartnership transactions, in which a laced coat and frieze jacket were intimately associated many years ago," said Bolton. 
                  "Who would have believed you?" 
                   
                  "Unfortunately for you, I could have brought forward some corroborative evidence, Sir Ashley." 
                  "Such as what?" said the colonel, quickly. 
                  "Ah, Sir Ashley, you have had some sharp practice in your life, but not quite so much as I have had. I am a poor man, sir, and not likely to part readily with a recipe for coining money." 
                  The colonel bit his lip. 
                  "At least," he continued, "hear what I am ready to do for you. I have procured your temporary release from duty. I will do more-I will pay for a substitute and purchase your discharge. I will then furnish you with money and enable you to leave this wretched place." 
                  "What! leave you, Sir Ashley? You, my friend and benefactor! Not for worlds!" exclaimed Bolton. "Ingratitude is no part of my nature. And as for the place-Boston is a quiet, comfortable town, although it does happen to be in a ferment just now. Besides, if it comes to blows-so much the better-I like the excitement. Moreover, if you gave me a large sum of money, it would go at once, as all the rest has gone before. I prefer to make you my cashier, and draw upon you as my necessities require. So it is settled, my dear Sir Ashley, that I remain in Boston just as long as you do and no longer. I have suffered too much, already, from the pangs of protracted absence. I have a tender heart, Sir Ashley-I have, indeed." 
                  "May the fiend seize your tender heart!" thought the colonel. But his countenance was unruffled as he answered, "As you please, my dear friend." 
                  "So-that question is settled," said Bolton. "And now, my dear banker-are you in funds to-day?" 
                  The colonel drew from a side pocket a green silk purse, through the meshes of which gleamed a handful of guineas. 
                  "Images of our gracious sovereign!" cried Bolton, with a flash of joy in his dark eyes. "How long since I have seen his blessed countenance set in gold." 
                  The colonel handed him his purse. 
                  "Pardon me, Sir Ashley," said Paul, detaining his hand. "I hardly like to question your taste-but it strikes me that you wear too much jewelry-and that ring upon your third finger is such a beauty." 
                  "It is an heir-loom," said the colonel. 
                  "Indeed! I shall prize it the more highly then. Permit me-" and he transferred the ring to his own hand, which was rather dirty, by the way. 
                  "You do me honor," said the colonel. "Is there anything else about my person that you covet? I am afraid your modesty prevents your speaking out. This shirt-pin, for instance, cost a hundred pounds. Or how would you like my watch?" 
                  "Fie! fie! Sir Ashley-do you think I mean to rob you? Learn to judge me better. Well," said the fellow, rising, "I must bid yon adieu, and, au revoir, as we used to say in France. The elegance of your toilet reminds me that I must attend to mine. A night in the guard-house is hardly calculated to improve a man's personal appearance. And I am confoundedly thirsty, too-my throat is parched up and my tongue is dry as a chip." 
                  "Bolton!" said the colonel, "beware of the wine-cup. One day or other, it will prove your destruction." 
                  "I thank you, colonel, for your good advice. It is exceedingly proper for a person so immaculate in every respect as yourself to read me lectures of morality. The source gives them a double weight. With many thanks for your benevolent and disinterested efforts in my behalf, I have the honor, Sir Ashley, to wish you a very good morning." 
                  The colonel unlocked his door, and dismissed his visitor, and then, with a smothered oath, threw himself into his arm chair, and groaned heavily. 
                  After leaving the colonel's quarters, Mr. Paul Bolton, as the reader might foresee from the glimpse given of his character and habits, made it his first business to visit an establishment where liquors of various potency and value were exchanged for current coin. He passed some time at this place, drinking and smoking, during which processes his visions were all of an agreeable nature. Thanks to the private relations which existed between him and his new-found patron, he saw before him a golden future, filled with all the earthly joys which money could command, and which were all that had any attraction for his debased and sensual nature. While he was considering mentally whither he should bend his liberated footsteps, an ill-dressed boy who had been lurking about the open door, stole up to him, and without saying a word, lipped a card into his hand, and with a gesture enjoining secrecy, glided away again. 
                  Bolton stepped aside, and glancing at the card, read: 
                   
                  "Radolph Zamorn, Fortune-teller and Astrologer, No.-Orange Street." 
                  "Well," thought the soldier, "this comes very apropos. I was thinking how to kill time, and here's the opportunity. It is a long while since I have witnessed an exhibition of the black art. Let us see how this mummer plays his part. He must be an adept, if he can cajole Paid Bolton." 
                  Leaving the liquor-shop, the worthy Bolton strode away in the direction of the house indicated by the card. It was an old two story building at the South-End, with its gable end to the street, the entrance being through a little strip of land, once a garden, but now overgrown with rampant weeds and bushes. A tap of the brass knocker brought a wrinkled old crone to the door, who inquired his business. 
                  "I want to see the great fortune-teller, my charming young girl," said the soldier. 
                  "Go right up stairs then and knock at the first door on the right-and don't give me any of your impudence," said the hag. 
                  "Reluctant to tear myself away from your agreeable society as I am," said the soldier, "I will yet obey your directions." 
                  He passed up the ricketty staircase, and knocked at the door which opened at the head of it. The rattle of a chain and the low growl of a dog was heard from within. 
                  "Very well got up, upon my word!', said the soldier, contemptuously. "Hullo! within there! magician! astrologer! diviner! dispenser of the oracles of fate!-can I enter?" 
                  "Come in!" said a deep voice. 
                  The soldier obeyed the summons. At first he could see nothing in the room he entered, the windows being hung with thick black drapery. Soon, however, he learned to distinguish objects by the light of an oil lamp suspended from the ceiling. The room was hung round with black cambric, on which the signs of the zodiac and certain hieroglyphical emblems, cut out of red cloth and gilt paper, were sewed. Enthroned in a high-backed oaken chair, before a table on which lay a skull, a cross, and several huge tomes, sat a man of venerable aspect, with a long white beard falling on his breast, and attired in a Jewish gabardine. He wore a tall red Armenian cap upon his head. 
                  Bolton approached the table. There was something in the aspect of the fortune-teller that impressed him with an involuntary awe. 
                  "Stranger!" said the man of science, in a deep and melodious voice, "come you to consult the stars?" 
                  "I called to test your skill," said the soldier, "But first, I suppose, before I show you my palm, I must cross yours with gold. What is your charge?" 
                  "The oracles of fate are priceless," said the sage. "I do not sell my wisdom. The offerings of seekers after truth are voluntary. Listen first to the words of the wise man-then set your own value on his oracles." 
                  "Well, that's fair," said the soldier, "and rather out of the ordinary line of doing business. Let us see if you know anything of the past before we question the, future. Do you work by palmistry? Ay! well, here's my hand then." 
                  The fortune-teller took his visitor's hand and scrutinized its lines carefully, looking sharp at the ring which sparkled on the soldier's finger. 
                  "You wear King George's uniform," he said. "But you do not like the life of a slave-you will be freer henceforth. You have been poor-you are now in the road to fortune. You have been in a great danger lately-now you are in safety. Yet you-have enemies-but you yourself are your greatest enemy." 
                  "By Jove!" said the man, "you can tell fortunes. Your art tells you what you never could have learned otherwise. I have passed through a great peril, but I was saved from it by the interference of a powerful friend." 
                  "Sir Ashley Glenville?" 
                  "Are you the foul fiend? This beats everything I ever heard." 
                  "Would you have me predict your fate? I cannot read that as clearly as I could wish. There are two cups before you-on one is written 'poison,' on another 'wine.' To you they mean one and the same thing. I see a pathway strown with golden guineas-it suddenly stops at the foot of a black tree, whose fruit is death-the gallows." 
                  "Well done!" said the soldier. "So I am to swing, after all." 
                  "Nay-to-day I do not see clearly. But I see your dangers and can warn you against them. Be not too confident of your fortune." 
                  "Speak on!" said the soldier. 
                  "This morning, you, lying in peril of your life, Sir Ashley Glenville sought Captain Carney." 
                  "By Heaven! it is true!" exclaimed the soldier. 
                  "Listen-and interrupt me not," said the fortune-teller tune-teller. "He urged him to make the strongest charge against you." 
                  "Can this be true?" 
                  "Hear me. Captain Carney told him that he had already seen General Gage-that they had concluded, in consequence of the doubtful character of your offence, for, while refusing to obey the captain's orders, you had stoutly defended your post, to release you after a night in the guard-house. From Carney's quarters, Glenville went to the Province House. He repeated what had passed-between him and Carney, and Barged the general to make an example of you. Gage replied that your offence was unknown, and that the example was not therefore needed, that it was an affair between yourself and Captain Carney, and that he had already given orders to release you. Then Sir Ashley changed his course. He applauded the general, said that what he had advanced had been from a stern sense of justice, that he had formerly known you, and meant to exert himself for you. The general seemed surprised at this inconsistency, but made no comment upon it, and afterwards, when Sir Ashley requested that you might be released from duty for a day or two, he readily gave his consent. Now this I know-I read it as clearly as you can read the newspaper. Doubt not my skill-but profit by my knowledge." 
                  "Here is gold for you!" cried the soldier, taking out his purse. "You have richly earned it." 
                  "Put up your money-I want none of it. It was not honestly gained," said the fortune-teller. "All I ask of you in return for my information is to say nothing of what has passed between us." 
                  "I shouldn't be likely to do that," said the man, with a grim smile". 
                  "When I shall send for you, you will obey my summons." 
                  "Always! you may command me," said the soldier. 
                  "Answer me one question;" continued the fortune-teller. "Know you aught of a certain Lady O'Halloran who has lately arrived in town, and hired a house in Tremont Street?" 
                  "I have barely heard the name." 
                  "Obtain some information of her if you can-and let me know what you gather." 
                  "I promise you, I will." 
                  "One word more. If you value your neck, keep clear of the wine-cup." 
                  "Don't press me too hard, old man. What's bred in the bone wont out of the flesh. Liquor and I have been too good friends for many years to part company so readily. Yet-curse it! it has brought me into many scrapes, as you must know, who know everything about me. Good-by, old man. Paul Bolton is a hard, wild fellow, but there's some leaven of good in him yet." 
                  Leaving the presence of the astrologer, Bolton made his way into the street. 
                  "The man is a conjurer, indeed!" thought he. "The accuracy of his knowledge, however he comes by it, cannot be doubted. Sir Ashley Glenville! look to yourself! I had some scruples about bleeding you. But now-if you don't share with me-if you don't pour out your gold into my hands without stint-beware! There's a mystery about your life that wont bear ripping up. Who can this Lady O'Halloran be, that the conjurer is so inquisitive about? No matter! He shall know all I can discover." 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VIII. 
                  LADY O'HALLORAN, AND WHO SHE WAS. 
                  TOWARDS evening of the same day, an officer, who was announced as Captain O'Connor, called upon Sir Ashley Glenville. 
                  "Upon my word, Sir Ashley," said he, after the first salutations had passed, "your quarters are the envy of the old campaigners. Illigant apartments! They're already the town talk." 
                  "Barely habitable, captain," replied Sir Ashley; "but such as they are, my comrades will be always heartily welcome." 
                  "And how did ye fit 'em up at such short notice, colonel?" 
                  "Simply by sending out orders and furniture a month in advance." 
                  "Why, ye make the campaign like an emperor. That's the charm of money, colonel. But I don't have half the plague in life that you do. His cloak, his sword and his kit, a pack of cards and a pair of pistols are all that Dinnis O'Connor bothers his head about. Light baggage, light heart." 
                  "And you manage to exist in this dull town, captain?" 
                  "Ixist, is it? 'Pon my soul, the most illigant tory society. As for the whigs, a red coat has the same effect upon them as an old woman's scarlet cloak upon a mad bull in fly time. Ah! but, colonel, you'll be asking after the ladies, for I know you're a lady's man. Well, then-ye have a neighbor, colonel, the most illigant woman I ever set my two eyes on, intirely." 
                  "Young?" 
                  "I can only tell the age of the craythurs by the test of the mouth, and Lady O'Halloran is quite above the range of a captain in the Royal Irish." 
                  "Is she maid, wife, or widow, captain?" 
                  "She's a widow-bless her for that same! If was rich enough to aspire to her hand, and her husband was living now, it would be mighty unlucky I had that pair of pistols I was speaking of just now; for the O'Connors are mighty nate hands with the tools, colonel, and there's no more flagrant outrage a man can be guilty of, in my opinion, than to monopolize the affections of a woman like my lady." 
                  "I suppose you throw out that delicate hint by way of intimidation, in case I should venture to enter the lists as a matrimonial client." 
                  "No, no, colonel; there would be a sort of poetical justice in your carrying off the enchantress. Upon my word, yon seem born for each other. She's fond of style, I tell you; a thorough bred; all the points of a fast-goer." 
                  "You excite my curiosity, captain, and if I could only find a gentleman to introduce me, I think I should be tempted to make her a call." 
                  "Wasn't it to offer my services in that way I bate your quarters up this pleasant evening, colonel? Upon my soul, nothing would give me greater pleasure than to be the means of making two such fine people acquainted." 
                  "Allons, then, captain. Let us sally forth, and pay our respects to this fascinating beauty." 
                  "With all my heart." 
                  The gentlemen took their hats and went forth. A short walk brought them to an aristocratic mansion in the same street in which Sir Ashley lived. 
                  The lady was alone, and they were shown at once into her presence. Sir Ashley could not avoid a start of surprise when he first saw her, while, on her part, she calmly welcomed her guests. 
                  "Shot through the heart at the first glance," whispered O'Connor. "Permit me, my lady," continued the captain, "to present to you my friend and companion in arms, the Right Honorable Colonel Sir Ashley Glenville, just arrived, with a regiment of his majesty's forces, to enliven our society with his presence." 
                  "I am very happy to see you, Sir Ashley," said the lady, speaking with a foreign accent. "Though our friends make up in quality what they lack in numbers, an addition to our circle is ever welcome." 
                  "We are extremely favored," said the colonel, "when a lady like yourself is willing to submit to an exile in this remote quarter of the globe." 
                  "O, the people are partially civilized," replied the lady, with a smile. "I have seen no Indians in the streets, and no symptoms of the war-dance at any of the balls I have attended." 
                  "But faith! the Indians sometimes attend tea-parties," said the captain. "Only they have a mighty disagreeable way of making their tay with salt wather." 
                  "The presence of his majesty's forces will prevent any such waste of souchong in future, I hope," said the lady. 
                  "We shall do our best to prevent it," said the colonel. 
                  "Do you know that it has become almost dangerous to drink tea?" said the lady. "Dr. Byles told me that he halted between his love of it and the fear of the consequences, quoting a line from the poet: 
                        'Nec te-cum possum vivere, nee sine te'"
                     
                   
                  "Ah! the rebels must look out for their necks," said Captain O'Connor, who did not understand Latin, and caught at the sound. "I'm afraid we shall have to fit the gentlemen with hempen cravats before we can bring 'em to reason." 
                  After chatting for about half an hour in this way, the gentlemen rose to take leave. As they were leaving the drawing-room Lady O'Halloran whispered to Sir Ashley: 
                  "Get rid of him, and return to me as soon as possible. I shall be denied to every one but you." 
                  Sir Ashley obeyed the hint. Having seen O'Connor to his quarters, and resisted his importunities to pass the evening with the mess, he retraced his steps, and again knocked at the door of the widow's house. Giving his name to the servant, he was not shown into the drawing-room, but into a smaller apartment, fitted up as a boudoir with exquisite taste. 
                  When the door was closed, Lady O'Halloran, who was reclining on a sofa, sprang up, and advanced to meet Sir Ashley Glenville. 
                  She paused just where the tapers of the chandelier threw down their softened lustre on her face and person. Her finely developed figure, her rounded arms, her ivory neck, the commanding beauty of her features, the lustre of her eyes, the soft flow of the curls that escaped from her lace cap, the rich embroidered brocade in which she was dressed, the costly laces that heightened the satin surface of her skin, made up an animated picture which would have impressed the coldest spectator. 
                  "Ashley," she said, holding out her hand, "we have not met for many, many years. I should have known you among a thousand. Am I changed from what I was when you first knew me, as the Marquise Cipriani?" 
                  "Time has pressed his hand more lightly on your brow than on mine, Agatha," replied the colonel. "What magic do you possess-by what charm have you stayed the hand of the arch spoiler?" 
                  "Hope was my talisman," replied the lady. "Come, give me your hand, Ashley; let me lead you to a seat, here on the sofa, while I sit at your feet, and gaze upon you. Have we indeed been parted twenty years?" 
                  "Twenty years!" echoed the colonel; "it is an eternity. Twenty years is long enough to dig the grave of the fondest love. In twenty years the fairest images crumble to dust. How is it that I meet you in this place, and under another name?" 
                  "The name I bear is that of Viscount O'Halloran, my second husband, an Irish nobleman." 
                   
                  "And after our wild love, our plighted vows, you could marry another!" 
                  "And you could remain insensible to my fate for years and years, Ashley?" 
                  "Did I say that I was insensible?" 
                  "The fact requires no confession. After that unhappy duel the marquis carried me to the East Indies, where he died. Left almost destitute, I was compelled, after my letters to you remained unanswered-" 
                  -"I never received them," interrupted the colonel. 
                  -"To accept the offer that was made me. But my heart was yours, Ashley, though my hand was another's. I escaped from the jealousy of one husband, to receive harsh treatment at the hands of another. The viscount took me to Ireland. What a life I led there, in the rude, wild society he loved-a hard-riding, hard-drinking set! The viscount was the wildest of all; he rode hard, he quarrelled, he fought, he drank and played. It is not long since death released me from his tyranny. But a second time I saw the future dark before me." 
                  "Yet you are surrounded with luxury here." 
                  "It was to welcome you as a woman worthy of your hand should welcome you. I collected the wrecks of my fortune, and laid aside my widow's weeds, came hither, and decked myself for your coming. At last! at last! after years of guilty sighing, the goal is reached. On a foreign land, we stand together at last-all the enemies of our happiness swept from our path-you wealthy and honored, I free to bestow my hand where I list. Do you not see the bright vista opening before us?" 
                  "I cannot look forward," answered the colonel, gloomily; "my glance is "riveted upon the past. Instead of bright anticipations, your presence to-night has evoked spectres. The ghosts of better days, of buried friends, of wasted hours, come trooping along in melancholy procession. I live the past over again. You remind me of my first visit to Paris, when I was poor, innocent, ignorant of the world! I saw you-you kindled in my heart the love of luxury. You taught me that life was nothing, if wine, and gold and music did not gild its every hour. Then, Agatha, I loved you, though you were another's." 
                  "Did I chide you for that love?" 
                  "No; you were my fate. You told me that were I not poor you would abandon the marquis, and fly with me to Italy. You painted the delicious retreats you had there visited-you told me of the Lake of Como, of the Bay of Naples, of a thousand retreats where we might pass the remainder of our lives in one long dream of passion. You, with your witchery, broke down the distinction I had made between right and wrong. You taught me that the marquis, old, decrepit, soured with the world, had no right to you. You made the guerdon of your unhallowed love the goal of my success in life. I could not study, I could not cultivate my talents. I saw but one image before me night and day an image of beauty, but a sorceress. I was guilty of the intention of flight with you, though poverty prevented. I was summoned to England. An unhappy event made me at once a wealthy man. I returned to Paris." 
                  "I remember, Ashley; you came back a changed man. And when I chid you for your coldness, you pleaded your bereavement." 
                  "But I was ready to fulfil our guilty compact. I was ready then to fly. The marquis surprised us in our preparations. Old as he was, he had the spirit of a chevalier. He challenged me to single combat. What would his palsied arm have been against my nerves of steel, if remorse had not shaken my hand and made my sword tremble like a reed in my grasp! He left me for dead, and wounded nigh unto death. I recovered by a miracle. Would that I had never done so-or that with restored life, the purity of thought that gladdened my days of poverty had come back to me. But the luxury you had taught me to love was thenceforth to be my only resource. I succeeded in stifling remorse. I lived the life of a sybarite. I sought to avoid all agitation-to glide from one charming scene and one delicious climate to another. My love for you was dead, but not my sensibility to beauty. At times something of ambition stirred within me. Moved by one of these fitful impulses, I purchased a commission and came hither. But I am only a holiday soldier. I feel that I should shrink from the fatigues of actual service-ay, and from its perils-for I have grown a coward. The blade that shook before the sword of the old marquis would waver now in the face of any enemy. We are again mysteriously united, Agatha; but I say to you-look! this is your work!" 
                  It was impossible for Sir Ashley, even if he had been less agitated, to have gathered the impression his word made upon his listener, for she sat with her eyes shaded while he spoke. Only the heaving of her bosom, and now and then a sigh, told that she was less impassive than the marble Venus in the comer of the room. 
                  "We meet," she said gently, at last, "under changed circumstances. "It is no longer wrong for us to love. Happy are they whose errors are confined only to intent. Who is there that has never thought evil in his heart? We are no worse than those around us." 
                  The colonel groaned heavily. 
                  "We meet free and unfettered," she continued. "Equal in rank-only you are rich and I am poor." 
                  "You are no longer poor," said the colonel, "My wealth is a burthen to me; I will gladly relieve myself of half its weight by bestowing it on you. Henceforth have no care of the future. Continue the style of living you have commenced; I will supply the means." 
                  "I do indeed attach importance to wealth," said the viscountess, "but it is because it commands the luxury I was reared in. But is that all you can bestow on me? Have you not a little love left for the woman who adores you?" 
                  "I gaze upon you, Agatha," said Sir Ashley, "and I find you beautiful-so is yonder statue-but my heart is not touched by it. More, the marble does not conjure up a train of spectral thoughts, to curdle my blood in my veins." 
                  "And I do!" 
                  "I have told you, Agatha, that in you I beheld the incarnation of the past-and that the past is fraught with horror." 
                  "Ashley! Ashley!" cried the viscountess, in a tone of agony, and kneeling at his feet; "do not tell me that you love me not." 
                  "You force the confession from my heart." 
                  "But your love was the dream of a lifetime. Do you know that when a woman loves, her entire soul is in her passion? That to check it is to check the current of her life?" 
                  "Rise, rise, Agatha," said the colonel, "You distress me; and I cannot aid you. This frenzy does not befit your years." 
                  "My years!" said the viscountess, as she stood erect. "I thank you for reminding me that I am no longer young. Yet my glass tells me I may still cope with younger rivals. As for you, you are probably reserving yourself for other conquests." 
                  "Agatha," said the colonel gravely, as he rose, "let us not quarrel. We can still be friends. Give me your hand. Remember that I shall ever have your happiness and fortune at heart." 
                  The viscountess passively received his offered hand, and even pressed it. The colonel turned to go; she did not urge him to stay, but calmly attended him to the door of the apartment. But could the colonel have surprised her look, when the door had closed, and she stood alone in the centre of the boudoir, that look, the features rigid as marble, with the stony gaze of the Medusa, his blood would have congealed within his veins. 
                  At last the marble lips unclosed. 
                  "Spurned! rejected! and by him! Sir Ashley Glenville, take good heed. There is but one step from love to hate-but one from hate to vengeance. I am ready to take the first-beware the second!" 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IX. 
                  PAUL BOLTON'S METAMORPHOSIS. 
                  MONTHS have passed. The green and bowery summer has changed to autumn, with its wintry winds and rainbow foliage. Another change! the golden and crimson leaves have strewn the earth, biting blasts have swept down from the northern mountains, the lakes and streams are fettered in icy bonds, the surrounding country is white with the garment of winter, and snow lies deep in the streets and on the roofs of Boston. 
                  In Colonel Glenville's drawing-room the huge fire-place is heaped with wood, diffusing a summer warmth through the apartment, Its wealthy master is seated in a luxurious chair, in a rich dressing-gown, his feet encased in embroidered slippers, languidly extended on the hearth. He is still as carefully preserved and artistically "made up" as when we first met him; but care has been as busily at work upon him as his valet's fingers. Lines, lightly traced as yet, are visible upon his ample forehead, are drawn from the nostrils to the corners of the mouth, and faintly buried at the temples. His eyes are as brilliant as ever, but there are dark purple semi-circles beneath them, which even pearl powder cannot conceal. 
                  Beside him, on a small oval light-stand, of polished mahogany, was a decanter filled with generous wine, and two glasses-for the baronet has a guest. 
                  In the splendidly dressed civilian who lounges in a deep-cushioned chair on the other side of the table, dressed in the height of the prevailing fashion, with large fretted gold buttons, claret-colored velvet coat, and gold embroidered vest, ample ruffles at his wrists, rings upon his fingers, diamond knee and shoe buckles, it is difficult to recognize Paul Bolton, late a private in the foot-guards. Yet it is no other. Paul is the constant guest of Sir Ashley Glenville. He follows him like his shadow. Doubtless his free-and-easy manners, his sparkling wit, his gentlemanly nonchalance, have commended him to the titled officer, and hence it is, perhaps, that he is received at all hours, even when others are denied, that he comes and goes when he chooses, that the servants obey his bidding, and that, in a word, he makes himself perfectly at home. 
                  "My dear friend," said this elegant gentleman, "I can never be sufficiently grateful to you for this generous treatment, and for the position you have given me. It was not enough that you procured my discharge from the service, you were kind enough to provide me with a patent of gentility, to assure the world that I belonged to an excellent family-the Boltons of Leicestershire-and that I had offended my family by my wild freaks in my youth, and was hence compelled to enlist, and that the death of a relenting relative had placed me in independent circumstances." 
                  "Don't speak of it," said the baronet, in a wearied tone, "I am tired of hearing my praises from your lips." 
                  "My dear Sir Ashley, you cannot bid me suppress the emotions of my heart. But if you will-we'll change the topic. How comes on your suit to the fair Eleanor Williams?" 
                  "I believe you know all my affairs." 
                  "You do not mistake the interest I take in them. I know that chance having thrown that fascinating young needle-woman in your way, your susceptible heart succumbed to the influence of her beauty. Lady Eleanor! it is a jump indeed from a milliner to a titled colonel's lady." 
                  "Pshaw! you do not think I mean to bestow my hand upon her"? 
                  "If you do, I know there is one fair lady who will break her heart at the event." 
                  "Who, for instance?" 
                  "Lady O'Halloran." 
                  "Do not mention her name. But what reason have you for supposing that she cares for me?" 
                  "She has never told her love it is true, but a woman's eyes betray her, though her lips are schooled to silence." 
                  "Never mind her looks," said the colonel. "But since you will catechise me so pertinaciously, I will tell you that Eleanor is as proud as a countess, that she has repelled my advances, and his forbidden me to address her. You know she never would allow me to call upon her, and indeed I have not dared to make the experiment, for I understand she is under the wing of a terrible old mother, a sort of cross between Cerberus and Argus. I have but exchanged a few words with her at the house of a lady where she was employed, and in the street My only hope lies in winning her by a coup de main." 
                  "And when did you attempt anything that you did not succeed in-at least with the assistance of your faithful and attached friend Bolton?" 
                  "You have served me well, and I have paid you well," said the baronet. 
                  "I find no fault, my generous patron. But tell me, are you for a walk this evening?" 
                  "What! leave this warm fire on such a hyperborean night as this?" said the colonel, stretching his limbs luxuriously. "Pas si bete, mon cher." 
                  "Then I must tear myself away from your fascinating society, my dear Sir Ashley," said Bolton, rising. "Your Pythias has a long walk to take-even as far as the Neck. But pray don't sit up for my return. Only tell John to see that there is a fire kept up here and in my room. I'm grown so luxurious since your bounty withdrew me from those horrid barracks. And I prithee, Sir Ashley, let a fresh bottle be set out, and a devilled kidney. I shall come back with the appetite of a wolf. Good night." 
                  "How long is this to last?" groaned the colonel, when he was left alone. "How long will this devil be yoked to me? If my resolution had not ebbed away long ago, one of us should have taken final leave of the other." 
                  Meanwhile the elegant Paul had descended to Tremont Street, well defended by a furred cloak against the inclemency of the weather. With what contemptuous arrogance he took the wall of a file of soldiers who were marching to their post to mount guard, with their freezing fingers scarcely able to grasp the butts of their muskets! 
                  He called at Lady O'Halloran's door, and, on giving his name, was shown into her boudoir. 
                  "Well, Mr. Bolton?" was her salutation. 
                  "Well, my lady," said the adventurer, throwing himself into a chair, after having laid aside his cloak and hat, "I have just come from the confessional." 
                  "To whom have you been confessing?" asked the lady. 
                  "I have been a listener, not a penitent, my lady." 
                  "And whose sins were poured into your ear?" 
                  "The tender errors of your friend, Sir Ashley Glenville." 
                  "Ah! and is he penitent for the past? He charged you to come to me with his regrets." 
                  "He did not even know that I intended making a call on you." 
                  The lady bit her lip. 
                  "You are very tantalizing." 
                  "I did not intend to be so, my lady. Suffice it to say that Sir Ashley is desperately in love, that is, if love be the proper epithet for his sentiment." 
                  "With that girl?" 
                  "Yes, my lady." 
                  "She must be got out of the way." 
                  "Pardon me; she detests our gallant colonel." 
                  "How do you know that?" 
                  "He confessed it." 
                  "And he gives up the pursuit?" 
                  "Far from it; he is more tenacious than ever. But it is my opinion that he will soon abandon the chase, and return to his first love." 
                  "If he do not," said the lady, "his fate is scaled. The blow I intended for him has only been delayed-so you tell me is your vengeance. O dared I confess all that I have done to liberate my hand," she paused shudderingly, and veiled her face with her hands. 
                  Bolton eyed her keenly, but was silent. When she looked up again, his eyes were averted. 
                  A miniature ease was lying on the table. 
                  "Will you permit me?" said Bolton, laying his hand upon it. 
                  "Certainly," said the lady. "It was painted many years ago." 
                  "Ah, in happier days," said Bolton. 
                  "My days have ever been days of sorrow," said the lady. "I can scarce recall the time when I was really happy." 
                  Bolton glanced at the miniature. "I can scarcely credit," said he, "that this is not the work of yesterday. There is a spell in the highest rank of beauty that Time dares not injure." 
                  "Take it," said the lady. "Sir Ashley may chance to see it in your hands; it may recall earlier feelings." 
                  "Believe me," said the visitor, "I will make good use of it. And now, I will bid you good evening, my lady, for I have yet another call to make." 
                  "Au revoir, Mr. Bolton." 
                  "She has told me but half her story," thought the adventurer; "but she knows only half of mine-enough, however, to make her trust me as far as I require confidence. This fortune-teller, I will secure him without committing myself too far. I must weave my net-work firmly, so that, should Sir Ashley play me false, there may be other agencies at work to seal his ruin, even if I do not live to accomplish it." 
                  Bolton's second visit was to the fortune-teller in Orange Street. He had to wait some time before he was admitted to his presence, and then he found him, surrounded by the paraphernalia of his calling, and attired in the same garb we have described him as wearing on a former occasion. His manner, however, was noticeable for a diminution of dignity, though he still employed an Oriental style of phraseology, which had probably become second nature from long practice. 
                  "You are welcome," he said to his visitor, as he motioned him to be seated. "Your star is still in the ascendant. Fortune has wrought marvellous changes in your condition since we first met. Still the malign influence has not perished. Your footsteps must continue to be wary lest you fall. Have you seen Lady O'Halloran, lately?" 
                  "I left her house this moment. You wished her portrait, here it is." 
                  "I thank you," said the fortune-teller. "She knows not the object for which you destined it?" 
                  "No; she thought I wanted it for myself." 
                  "This will serve my purpose almost as well as her presence. You think you can induce her to visit me when I give you notice that I am prepared?" 
                  "Without a doubt. I have only to inflame her woman's curiosity." 
                  "And Sir Ashley Glenville?" 
                  "He will come if I request him to do so. One word more before we part. It is known that the last husband of Lady O'Halloran was an Irish viscount, and that he died suddenly, of apoplexy. To-night, these words dropped unconsciously from her lips, when speaking of her love for Sir Ashley Glenville: 'Dared I confess all that I have done to liberate my hand!' If you had seen her look of terror and remorse as she uttered them, you would have attached some importance to the exlamation." 
                  "I do! I do!" cried the astrologer. "It gives me a clue to something that was dark before. Now leave me! I have that to do which will occupy me till day-dawn." 
                  Bolton obeyed the request, not sorry to return to the comforts which awaited him at Glenville's quarters. 
                  "O, could I indeed read the stars!" said the fortune-teller, when he was left alone. "How gladly would I lay down my life for the power to unravel this dark web of crime! But patience, patience. There is a power above that metes out justice in its own good time!" 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER X. 
                  OLD FACES AND A NEW ACQUAINTANCE. 
                  JANUARY was wearing away fast, the usual thaw had been succeeded by a sharp frost and a fall of snow, when, one fine afternoon, a country sleigh, drawn by a spirited horse, passed over the Neck on the way to town. The driver was a black of the deepest dye, dressed in a buffalo coat, and wearing a rabbit-skin cap, while a pair of comfortable mittens protected his hands from the cold. This sable personage was our old friend, Julius Csar. 
                  Behind him, well wrapped up in furs, sat a young man and a young woman. The former was Stanley-the latter a certain Miss Lucy Maywood, the daughter of Deacon Zephaniah Maywood of Lexington, to whom he was believed to be paying his addresses. He always sat by her at singing-school, and invariably, upon Sunday evenings, about half an hour after supper-time, the young fellow might be seen entering the deacon's house, not by the front door, which was never used, but by the familiar side door in the L. Those acquainted with his habits said that he was cordially welcomed by the old folks; that, after chatting awhile with Mrs. Maywood, he would enter into conversation with the deacon, who was very fond of recounting his exploits in the old French war, winding up with the attack on Louisburg, like a popular melodrama. The fall of Louisburg was the cue for the introduction of nuts, apples and cider, followed by pipes and politics. When the news of the preceding week had been fairly exhausted, Mrs. Maywood generally made a move bedward, and then the deacon, who complained of the "rheumatiz in his joints," weighed anchor, a pretty slow operation, and convoyed by his partner, retired for the night. It was often quite late after the departure of the old folks that Stanley took his leave, and it was observed by those of his young neighbors who encountered him when he went home, that he was always on those occasions in particularly good spirits. He was so now, and none who gazed at his companion could be at a loss for the cause. 
                  Lucy Maywood was about nineteen. Her rudely complexion and sparkling blue eyes betook, end the highest health. Few town ladies had such rosy lips and such pearly teeth. Her soft brown hair, untortured and undisguised by art, was suffered to cluster in rich curls on her fair neck. Her hood and cloak were of domestic manufacture, yet everything she wore seemed to derive a grace and harmony from her person. More than one young officer turned, as the sleigh passed, to glance back on the vision of beauty. 
                  "Dis 'ere colt holds out wonderful, Massa Stanley," said the black. "If I was to let him out now he'd fly away with us. Reckon er deacon con sets him at a pretty high figure, Miss Lucy." 
                  "I believe he does, Csar," said the young lady. "Have you any thoughts of buying him?" 
                  "Me! Golly, no, miss. 'Twould take more than I could save in ten years, I spect. But was t'inkin' it wouldn't be a bad 'peculation to sell him to one of the British ossifers." 
                  "What!" exclaimed Stanley, "would you sell so fine an animal to one of the enemies of your country?" 
                  "Yes, I would, Massa 'Tanley," replied the negro, "'wided I could git free times his worth; 'cause I'd be pretty sartin he'd break his neck in free days. Yah! yah! dese British ossifers don't know how to handle Yankee hosses. Dey 'tend to know a great deal more dan dey do, dat's a fact. You 'member dat old black hoss my friend Sambo used to drive in his sand-cart, eh, Mass' 'Tanlcy?" 
                  "I think I do, Csar." 
                  "Well, sir, wat you tink he tuffed him off on a hornet of dragoons for?" 
                  "Five pounds, perhaps," said Stanley. 
                  "No, massa; forty guineas! Tink ob dat. Wy, de hannibal was chest-foundered, an' 'pavined, an' sand-cracked, an' had de heaves. He wasn't worth forty shillings. But Gumbo fixed him somehow, and put him off on de red-coat. Las' time I see him, he was on de lead ob a baggage wagon, goin' on two legs and a half. Yah! yah! Woa, Robin." 
                  They had reached Mrs. William's house in Hanover Street. 
                  "I'll go on with you, Lucy, for a minute," said Stanley, "and then I must leave you, for Csar and I have got some shopping to do." 
                  "You men folks go a shopping!" said Lucy, as she stepped out of the sleigh. 
                  "Yes, Miss Lucy," said the black, who never allowed his tongue to rest. "Mass' 'Tanley and I wants to keep up wid de fashion. Perhaps we'll be wanting to gib balls one ob dese days, eh, Mass' 'Tanley? Den our hands aint dressed 'cordin' to fashion; must buy a leetle powder, eh? Yah! yah!" 
                  "Hush!" said Stanley. "That waggish tongue of yours will get us into trouble one of these days, if you don't look out." 
                  He passed into the house with Lucy, leaving the black to beat his arms and stamp his feet in the most approved fashion of congealing Jehus. 
                  "Mrs. Williams, Miss Eleanor," said Stanley, as he entered the widow's sitting-room, "this is Miss Lucy Maywood, one of our neighbors." 
                  "I am very glad to see you, my dear," said the widow. "Mrs. Stanley has often spoken of you." 
                  "And Henry too," said Eleanor, as she assisted the blushing girl in removing her outer garments. 
                  "Now sit down and warm yourself, Mr. Stanley," said the widow; "I'm sure you must be very cold." 
                  "I'm obliged to you, madam; but I haven't one moment to spare. Good afternoon, Miss Eleanor. Lucy, I leave you in good hands, and don't worry if I shouldn't return till late. There's a full moon to-night." And with these words he disappeared, and a jingle of bells announced his departure in the sleigh. 
                  The young women got acquainted immediately. Nearly of an age, with the same ingenuous and frank natures, no wonder that they were soon on good terms. 
                  The widow, sitting apart, watched them with melancholy interest. They were both beautiful, but her daughter entirely eclipsed the other in the intellectual character of her beauty. Both seemed formed for happiness; yet, while the future of one was pleasant and assured, Eleanor seemed doomed to a life of toil, sorrow and isolation. Her feelings became at last too painful for concealment, and making an excuse of domestic duties, she left the room. 
                  "Dear Miss Williams," said the rustic beauty, "I want to ask you one question." 
                  "As many as you like," said Eleanor, smiling. 
                  "Well, then-don't laugh at me; but did you ever have your fortune told?" 
                  "Never," said Eleanor. "I can read my horoscope myself." 
                  "What!" cried the girl; "can you calculate nativities and tell fortunes by the hand or cards?" 
                  "O, no," said Eleanor; "but I know very well what life I am to lead, without troubling the stars or cards." 
                  "But you don't think it wicked to go to them that do?" 
                  "O no, my dear; it is simply foolish. The whole pretended art is an imposture." 
                  "I don't know about that," said Lucy, mysteriously. "I've heard such strange things about these fortune-tellers; you can't think." 
                  "All delusions, my dear. But what put fortune-tellers in your head to-night?" 
                  "Why, I've heard ever so much about a fortune-teller that lives here in Boston, at the South End. I've got one of his cards, and I should so like to hear what he says! Why, my dear Miss Williams, they do say he knows everything about everybody in the world, and can tell you who you'll marry and when you'll marry." 
                  "I should imagine you wouldn't find it necessary to consult him about the most important event of your life. You know whom you are to marry, I fancy; and as to the time, of course you will name the happy day yourself." 
                  "O, dear! I can't tell anything about it," answered Lucy, blushing. "Henry don't talk near so much about such things as he used to. He talks much more with father than he does with me. And all this talk is of guns, and powder, and minute-men, and fighting. And O, I'm afraid something dreadful will happen before long." 
                  "I am afraid, my dear," said Eleanor, shaking her head, "that this fortune-teller can tell you very little about coming events of a public nature. I am told that the wisest heads, both provincial and British, are at loss here. Some think there will be great troubles-others that peace and quiet will soon be established." 
                  "Well, Miss Eleanor, I don't know; but I should so like to go to this fortune-teller. I didn't dare to say anything to, Henry about it, for he's something like you; he reads heaps of books and papers; and I know he would only laugh at me. But I'm sure you wont. O, dear Miss Eleanor, if you'll only be so kind and good as to go with me, I shall never forget it." 
                  "It is getting dark," said Eleanor, somewhat anxiously, "and I have reasons for not wishing to be out after candle-light. Still, with you, perhaps;-well, my dear, I'll go." 
                  "O, thank you, thank you! you dear, kind creature!" cried Lucy, jumping up and clapping her hands with childish glee. "Let's start right away." 
                  While the country girl was putting on her hood, cloak and moccasins, Eleanor left the room, and soon returned, dressed for a walk, with a veil drawn over her face. She told her mother she should be back in a short time. 
                  The two young girls walked briskly through the streets, without meeting with any adventure, and found the fortune-teller's house without much trouble. The old woman who kept it admitted them, and they were shown into the mystic chamber of the seer. Lucy gazed on the symbols and paraphernalia of the room, her large blue eyes wide open with astonishment, a not unpleasing sensation taking possession of her soul. The girls had agreed that they would not give their names, and would refuse them, oven if asked for them. 
                  "Fair maidens," said the fortune-teller, in his pretentious, professional style, "the seer awaits your bidding. What would you of the reader of the stars?" 
                  "O, dear!" whispered Lucy, "I'm so frightened and fluttered, I declare I've lost the use of my tongue." 
                  "Fear nothing," said the fortune-teller, whose keen eyes had taken cognizance of her emotion. "No harm can come to the good and pure of heart, who, with no evil intent, consult the oracles of fate. Come hither." 
                  The country maid plucked up courage and approached the table. "I suppose you want to see my hand, don't you?" she said, hesitatingly. 
                  "Ay," said the sage; "give me your hand." And he affected to study it for a few moments. 
                  "You love," he said, at length. "He whom you love is worthy of you." 
                  "That's as true as gospel!" thought Lucy. What a wonderful man!" 
                  "You are neighbors, Lucy," continued the sage. "You and Henry were brought up together. No dark shadow has as yet crossed your path-none will. The wedding-ring will race that slender finger, be sure of it-and that while still the bloom of youth is on your cheek and his-ere a line be drawn upon that lovely face or a silver hair woven in those shining tresses. But between the plighting and the bridal there rises a cloud. It is rent by fiery flashes-it is lighted up by the gleaming of steel. Fear not; the cloud will pass away, and sunshine, bright and unshaded, pour forth upon your path of life. Are you satisfied?" 
                  "Perfectly," answered Lucy, laying down a coin, and retiring from the table. 
                  "You have a companion," said the seer. "Will not she too listen to the oracles of Fate?" 
                  "My fortune is already told," said Eleanor, sadly. "Come, Lucy, let us go." 
                  "Your voice is gentle and sweet, lady-the pleasant voice of youth. Strange that its music is so sad. Come hither; my heart is strangely stirred at those tones. If you have nothing to ask of me, I have yet a boon to crave of you." 
                  The language and manner of the fortune-teller were so respectful, that Eleanor did not fear to approach him. She even gave him her hand, and begged him to consult it. 
                   
                  "'Tis a fair hand," said the sage; "and if," he added in a tone intended for her ear alone, "there be aught in this so-called science of palmistry, the lines betoken a happy future. I am sure, if an old man's prayers can avail aught, you will be happy. And now, for my request: will you not remove that veil?" 
                  Without hesitation, Eleanor removed the veil that concealed her fine features. It seemed as if the astrologer had not been prepared for the dazzling display of loveliness that burst upon his vision, or that he was extremely susceptible to impressions from female beauty. He appeared troubled, his lips moved, but his words were so inarticulate Eleanor could hardly catch their import. 
                  "Yes, she is beautiful indeed. I never saw but one face so lovely-and this reminds me of it. Strange illusions! how they spring up in our pathway, to bewilder and dazzle us! Is it not that the eye, filled with one image, imparts its features to every face we gaze upon? Fair maiden, my art is here at fault. I feel that the sadness impressed upon those features will pass away like the breath that dims a mirror; but I see darkly. You must aid me. The master must become the pupil. I would crave your name." 
                  "It is unnecessary to give it you, sir," answered Eleanor, with reserve. "I did not come to you to have my fortune told, and we part as we met-strangers." 
                  "True, true," said the astrologer; "there are no ties of affection or blood between us, and can never be. Bright faces come and go; fair forms appear and vanish in my dark chamber-that is not darker than the chambers of my heart. The pleasant smile is not for me; the warm hands I press feel no thrill passing from my pulses to theirs. They go from before me, and leave me a solitary old man. The darkest fortunes that I prophesy are not as dark as my own. Good night, fair maiden. An old man's blessing never harmed-and you have mine. May it be of good omen. Farewell!" 
                  He extended his trembling hand in benediction. Eleanor was much surprised and affected at the earnestness of his manner. She silently inclined her head, and withdrew with her companion. 
                  "Yes, I am half mad!" said the fortune-teller, rising and pacing the room, when his visitors had retired; "my reason is deserting me; my fancy is continually playing me tricks. What wonder that the bow, forever stretched to its utmost tension, should at last lose its elasticity! But these visions are growing too frequent not to be alarming. A tone, a smile, a look, carry me back to the past-wile me quite away from the present. That girl's features-her thrilling voice-a slight resemblance, perhaps, called up one whom misery has long since consigned to the grave. For the moment I was transported out of myself. I was young once more, and full of hope-life's currents racing madly through my veins, the future a fairy land, with every path bestrewn with flowers. O, dreaming youth! how soon and sad is your awaking. But the hour of dreams is past. Action! action! that is what I crave for. What though my own cup of bliss is dashed to the earth and shivered? I can yet do good to others; I can yet win a name, too, that will extort admiration and respect, even if I cannot carve out a fortune. How long must I play this mummer's part? I sicken of the calling. I am tired of disguise. O, that the hour were come to strike the blow! But patience, patience; we must watch and wait. The hour will surely come at last; and then, be it sooner or later, I am ready!" 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XI. 
                  AN UNWELCOME SUITOR, AND A FRIEND IN NEED. 
                  NIGHT had closed in before Eleanor and her companion reached the fortune-teller's, and it was quite dark, the moon not rising till late, when they left his house on their return. They hurried along therefore, well knowing that the widow waited supper for them. Lucy anticipated no adventure, but Eleanor, who had her own reasons for anxiety, urged the speed of her companion, and chided the slightest delay. They were passing along Common Street, when they encountered a British officer coming from the opposite direction. They moved to the right, in order to pass him, but he stepped to the left; when they changed their course, he still confronted them. Lucy was beginning to laugh, for she thought it one of those accidental obstructions by which persons wishing to pass each other, contrive sometimes, in their confusion, to baffle each other and defeat their object; but she was undeceived when the officer, raising his laced hat, saluted her companion. 
                  "Fair Eleanor," said he, "whither away so fast?" 
                  "I am going home, Sir Ashley; my mother is waiting for me." 
                  "But you can surely vouchsafe a word to your humble admirer." 
                  Eleanor looked him full in the face. The indignant answer that rose to her lips died away unuttered. Turning to her companion, she whispered: 
                  "Lucy, you had better go home without me. Tell mother that I shall be delayed for a little while, and not to wait supper for me. You needn't say I addressed this gentleman as Sir Ashley; the name has a strange effect upon my mother. Simply say that I am detained by a little business. I will explain everything to you by-and-by." 
                  Lucy nodded, and hastened away towards Hanover Street. 
                  "Now, Sir Ashley, I will devote a moment to you, if you will turn and walk on with me. The interview must be brief and final. Why do you continue to persecute me thus?" 
                  "Because I love you, Miss Williams." 
                  "I told you that I could not reciprocate your sentiments, sir. I have told you that I felt offended at the manner in which you addressed me. I am not used to these clandestine proceedings, nor will I be waylaid in the street." 
                  "By heavens! you shall hear me, cruel girl," said the baronet. "Since I have seen you I have known no peace. Your image has haunted me day and night. I feel that you are necessary to my happiness." 
                  "I regret it most sincerely, then," said Eleanor, gravely. "I have no heart to bestow on you. Were it otherwise, we are entirely unsuited to each other. Our stations are different, our tastes, our feelings. Believe me, Sir Ashley, it is imperative that you abandon all hope. Nothing can change my fixed determination. It was to reiterate my rejection of your suit alone that I made up my mind to remain and speak with you." 
                  "But when I tell you that I now offer you my hand and fortune!" exclaimed Sir Ashley. 
                  The blood instantly mounted to Eleanor's cheeks and temples. Then the fever flush as instantly subsided, and left her face pallid as marble, though the dark eyes flashed indignant light. 
                  "You now offer your hand and fortune! Am I to understand you as making that offer for the first time?" 
                  "My pride is subdued, Eleanor. I am willing to make you my wife." 
                  "Good God! And was it with other views you sought me out? me, a poor, friendless girl! And you call this love! Sir Ashley Glenville, before this, I rejected your addresses, calmly and dispassionately; I now repel them with scorn. Never dare speak to me again, or I shall find friends to take my part and chastise you as you deserve." 
                  "You shall not escape me thus!" cried Sir Ashley, seizing her hand; "you shall hear me." 
                  "Unhand me!" cried the indignant girl, "or I will call aloud for help." 
                  "No one will hear you but British officers." 
                  "There may be some gentleman, even among them," retorted Eleanor. "Unhand me, I say." 
                  "Nay, you shall hear me out," replied the baronet, with an oath. 
                  "Let go the lady, villain!" cried a young man, wrapped in a cloak, suddenly appearing. 
                  "Who are you, sirrah?" exclaimed the baronet. "I'don't have the pleasure of knowing you." 
                  "But I have the satisfaction of knowing you," retorted the stranger. 
                  "By what right do you interfere in my affairs?" 
                  "By the best right in the world, sir. This young lady is my sister." 
                  The baronet recoiled, while the stranger made a sign to the young lady, who was no less surprised, not to contradict his assertion. 
                  "I was not aware-" stammered the baronet. 
                  "That she had a friend, and so took advantage of my sister's helplessness to persecute her. You are a brave gentleman, Sir Ashley Glenville." 
                  "The insult I offered to your sister, sir," said the baronet, "was a tender of my hand and fortune." 
                  "I know not what answer she made," replied the stranger; "I presume from her manner it was a negative. Permit me to say that I most respectfully decline the honor of your alliance. Now go your ways, gallant colonel, and trouble us no more." 
                  "Perhaps you will hear from me again, insolent stripling," said the baronet, drawing his cloak around him. 
                  "I am ready to meet you on any except friendly terms," retorted the youth. "Good night, Sir Ashley Glenville." 
                  The baffled baronet turned on his heel and strode away, in a state of mind very different from his usually frigid temper. 
                  "And now, fair maiden," said the stranger, offering his arm, "allow me to escort you as far as your home." 
                  "I know not to whom I am indebted for this interference, nor why you claimed a relationship which does not exist," answered Eleanor, shrinking back; "and I much prefer to go home alone." 
                  "Fear nothing," said the stranger, drawing nearer to the young lady. "I seek not to harm you. I claimed to be your brother as the nearest way to intimidate your persecutor. It is a feminine stratagem-the prompting of a moment-that occurred to a woman like yourself." 
                  "A woman!" cried Eleanor. 
                  "Yes," said the unknown; "and were yonder rising moon but higher in the heavens, the light would confirm my confession, and reveal my sex, in spite of this masquerading garb." 
                  Eleanor no longer hesitated to accept the proffered arm of the stranger, and they walked along together in a northerly direction, Miss Williams so much engaged in listening to, and observing, her companion, that she did not know that two persons who passed them, scrutinized them closely, and that one of them uttered an exclamation on beholding her. 
                  When the two women had reached the door of a house in Tremont Street, Eleanor's escort paused and said: 
                  "I live here. If yon can bestow a few moments of your time on me, I should be very glad to have a little conversation with you. Fear nothing." 
                  Eleanor hesitated for a moment, and then, rather, we fear, to indulge the promptings of curiosity than from any more laudable motive, consented. 
                  The stranger produced a key and unlocked the door, then, entering the house, she took her companion by the hand, and hurrying her up a broad staircase, led her into a small and exquisitely furnished apartment on the second floor. Rich draperies fell before the windows, and a marble Venus, standing in the corner, was bathed in the soft flood of light that fell from a chandelier filled with wax tapers. Here, dropping her cloak upon the floor, tossing aside her laced hat and shaking down her glossy curls upon her neck, stood revealed, as bewitchingly beautiful in her rich male costume as in the garb of her sex, the Lady O'Halloran. 
                  "Do you recognize me now, girl?" she asked. 
                  "You are a woman, I see," said Eleanor, "but still a stranger." 
                  "What! have you never heard of Lady O'Halloran?" 
                  "O, yes, indeed! and have often wished to see her." 
                  "Why so?" asked the lady, quickly. 
                  "They said she was so beautiful." 
                  "And now that you have seen me, child-for I am the Lady O'Halloran of whom you have heard-what do you think of me?" 
                  "That your beauty exceeds my expectations madam." 
                  "I am not really hideous, then," said the lady, casting a gratified glance at the reflection of her fine person in the Venitian mirror. "Yet I have been rejected, girl; ay, rejected by one I wooed as fiercely as you were wooed to-night." 
                  Eleanor was silent. Beautiful as was the woman before her, there was something so unfeminine, so unhallowed, in the expression of her face, that her warm sympathies were chilled in her. 
                  "Sit down!" said the lady imperiously, throwing herself into a chair. Eleanor timidly obeyed. 
                  "Breathe not a word of what I say to you tonight. Better were it that you had never been born, if you betray the confidence I am impelled to repose in you." 
                  "I do not seek to penetrate your secrets, lady," said Eleanor, gently; "I would prefer to respect them, and thanking you for the protection you have afforded me this evening, bid you good night." 
                  "But I tell you that you must and shall hear me," said the lady. "Circumstances have in some sort interwoven our destinies. The man I love is the same who persecutes you with his addresses." 
                  "Sir Ashley Glenville?" 
                  "The same. I tell you, girl, that he belongs to me; ay, body and soul. Now answer me truly. Have you been playing the coquette with him-or are you in reality insensible?" 
                  "I do not love him, madam," answered Eleanor, simply. 
                  "It is well. He only marked you for his victim. You would soon have been cast aside like a withered flower." 
                  "But to-night," said Eleanor, "he offered me, as he avowed to you, his hand and fortune." 
                  "Did he? dared he?" cried the lady, passionately. "True I heard it from his traitor lips; but I thought it a false profession to avert the anger of a brother. Can he have preferred you to me? You will make me hate you. Yet let the world judge us together. Paris would have given the apple to me. But you have youth and owe nothing to art, while he knows that I and time are old friends. But he distinctly offered you his hand?" 
                  "He did, madam." 
                  "And I live to hear it!" cried the lady; "and O, shame on me, I love him still. "But," she added, "he only fancies himself in love with you. "I am sure he loves me; he cannot do otherwise; but he fears my, imperious nature-fears a soul with more true masculine spirit than his own." 
                  She rose and paced the apartment for some moments, apparently a prey to violent agitation. At last she reached a calmer mood, and resuming a seat beside Eleanor, said: 
                  "Had I found you a less ingenuous person, or a rival, I should have been a dangerous enemy. It is in my power to befriend you. You are alone and friendless, are you not?" 
                  "My mother and I lead quite a solitary life here." 
                  "Consequently the persecutions of so powerful a person as Sir Ashley Glenville may well cause you anxiety." 
                  "After the decisive answer I gave him tonight, he cannot surely presume to annoy mo further." 
                  Lady O'Halloran shook her head. 
                  "How little you know of the dark side of human nature, my poor child. But at all hazards you are anxious to rid yourself of the importunities of this person?" 
                  "At all hazards." 
                  "You may be surprised," said the lady, after a brief pause, "to hear me say that perhaps the best way of baffling the baronet is to assume a less decisive attitude towards him." 
                   
                  "I should be sorry to think so, madam, because deception is utterly repugnant to my nature and my principle's." 
                  "There may be occasions when it is necessary to sacrifice scruples. I say," continued the lady, "a contingency may arise in which it may be necessary to show a little less rigor to this person. It will only be a momentary occasion, believe me. My brain is now in such a whirl, my passions in such a state of excitement, that I cannot plan calmly and judiciously. Yet I have a glimpse of a scheme that may relieve you effectually, and decide the long struggle at once. I cannot long endure the life I lead; it is wearing out brain and heart both. I must end with triumph or-vengeance." 
                  "Lady," said Eleanor, as she rose to leave, "I have been taught to forgive and forget; the word vengeance jars sadly on my ear from the lips of a woman." 
                  "If I had had such a sister as you," said the lady, throwing her arm round the waist of the innocent girl, and pressing her lips to her reluctant forehead, "I might have been a different being. But alas! I never knew a mother's or a sisters love. Orphanage, a false system of education, fierce passions, crushed whatever germs of good there may have been born with me." 
                  "Is it too late to develop them?" asked Eleanor, timidly, shrinking away from the arms of her companion. 
                  "Yes, it is too late, my little monitor," said Lady O'Halloran, decisively. "The die is cast. All the waves of Lethe cannot wash out the record of the past. But I am not going to bur then you with the story of my former life. Let what I have already told and hinted suffice you, as I know it will. You must let me see yon again. I will contrive opportunities of meeting, for we are quite necessary to each other for a time at least. Goodnight. Will you need the protection of my masculine attire to your door?" 
                  "No, madam; it is but a step hence. Good night." 
                  A rapid pace soon brought Eleanor to her mother's house. She was destined to meet an unexpected guest there. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XII. 
                  SHADOWS ON THE CURTAIN-AND THE HEART. 
                  WHEN young Stanley left the widow's, he drove to another house in one of the by-streets, opening from Hanover Street, where he left the sleigh, after giving certain orders to the black, which the latter promised faithfully to execute. Entering the house without knocking, the young man went up one flight of stairs and entered a room at the head of the stairs, Clarence Grey, seated at a table covered with books and manuscripts, rose to meet him, and seemed by his manner to have anticipated his visit. 
                  "Well, my friend, how goes it with you?" asked Clarence. "Do you bring me good news of the temper of your people?" 
                  "They are prepared to resist further encroachments to the last extremity. We are collecting arms and ammunition in quantities, to which every day adds its tribute; and any attempts to disarm us would produce the consequences the British authorities seek to prevent." 
                  "It is well," replied Clarence. "I know that such an attempt will be made, and when the colonists are defenceless, Gage hopes to reduce them to submission." 
                  "But they never can be defenceless," said the yeoman, his eye kindling as he spoke. "He can never get possession of our arms and ammunition. But should he accomplish that-we have still nature to fight upon our side-rugged hills stern defiles, thick woods. Our agricultural implements would become, in the last extremity, formidable arms in the hands of freemen. The scythe and axe would make bloody work for on invading column, and secure an honorable death at least, if not victory." 
                  "Give me your hand, Stanley," said Clarence. "I see you have caught the true spirit of our leaders. Believe me, with such a spirit, and in such a cause, failure is impossible. Now hear me-the plan I hare hinted at will certainly be attempted. Troops will most certainly be sent into the adjacent country-to all those local centres where military stores arc likely to be found. But you shall not be taken unawares bold and vigilant spirits are at work in this town, who sleep not, neither night nor day. You shall have ample warning when the hour of action comes." 
                  "I long for the first dritm-beat!" said the young man. 
                  "You will hear it ere long," said Clarence Grey; "and now let me initiate you somewhat into the position and prospects of our cause." 
                  The young men passed a long while in an earnest conversation, the details of which would hardly interest the reader. When Stanley thought it time to go, Grey accompanied him, and so much did he still have to communicate, that, instead stead of going directly to the widow's in Hanover Street, they continued their walk along Tremont Street, towards the Common. It was here that they unexpectedly met Eleanor walking with the disguised Lady O'Halloran, and engaged in earnest conversation, so earnest, indeed, that she did not notice or answer the salutation of the two young men. 
                  "You know Miss Williams, then?" asked Stanley. 
                  "I have some acquaintance with her," replied Grey, making an effort to conceal his emotion. 
                  "Then perhaps you can tell me, Mr. Grey, who the young gentleman is that is with her. They seem very intimate." 
                  "I do not know him." 
                  "He is evidently a young fellow of fashion," said the young farmer, turning and gazing after him. "A rich laced hat and cloak. Probably some young cornet, for his dress is half military. I thought Eleanor sympathized too warmly with us to associate with our enemies." 
                  "A woman's heart is a riddle," answered Grey, bitterly. "How we deceive ourselves when we rank them but little lower than the angels. I dare swear her mother knows not of this new acquaintance." 
                  "Very likely. But let us turn back, Mr. Grey, if you please. It is getting late, and I really must be on my way. I feel a little uneasy, though I have a pass for the lines on the Neck." 
                  "Turn back, by all means," answered Grey, who secretly desired to follow Eleanor. The young men retraced their steps in silence, Grey keeping his eyes fixed upon the shadowy forms of the persons who had so deeply interested him. He traced them as far as Lady O'Halloran's door. The young men then passed on in company, until nearly arrived at Mrs. Williams's, when Grey halted and held out his hand, saying: 
                  "I will bid you good-night here, my friend." 
                  "What! I thought you were coming in." 
                  "I had forgotten a little business. Perhaps I may yet see you a moment before you start. Good night." 
                  As soon as Stanley had left him, Clarence returned directly to Tremont Street, and, without reflecting how idle such conduct was, posted himself opposite Lady O'Halloran's, and stood staring at the house, as if in expectation that some circumstance would reveal the mystery he so much desired to see enlightened. The house was dark, with the exception of one window on the second floor, and here the snow-white curtain that fell before it, framed in the heavier damask draperies, was brilliantly illuminated by the full, glare of the lustre within. 
                  On this curtain, after he had watched some time, fell the black shadows of two figures. The pure outlines of one could only be those of Eleanor-the other was the figure of a young man. They came close together. An arm encircled the slender waist Clarence had never dared to touch, and the lips of the male shadow were pressed to the young brow bent to receive the kiss. 
                  Smothering a deep groan, Clarence sprang from the accursed spot, with a darker shadow on his heart than that which had revealed the inconstancy of his mistress. He rushed in the direction of the widow's, and had entered her house, before he asked himself with what purpose he went there. Why should he tell the widow what he had seen? There were probably no secrets between mother and daughter. He had been rejected; but did that give him any claim to bar the advances of another? No; he must bear his burden-he must conceal his grief-he must strive, with the passion that unmanned him, and strangle it. If happiness were lost to him, labor and duty were before him yet. Hastily subduing the external traces of his emotion, he entered the parlor, and was soon engaged in careless conversation with the inmates. 
                  In a few minuses Eleanor returned. She started with surprise on seeing Grey; but her, emotion, though it tinged her cheek with scarlet, was far from being an unpleasant one. Indeed, the frankness of her nature did not allow her to disguise the pleasure that surprised her, and her words and manner betrayed her, as she greeted the guest cordially, and extended her hand to him. 
                  Clarence affected not to see the motion, and hoped, coolly, that Miss Williams was well. 
                  "I am quite well, thank you; but you, Mr. Grey, are looking quite pale and poorly. I'm afraid you study too hard." 
                  "I think so myself sometimes," answered Grey, fixing his eyes upon her. "There are cases where ignorance is bliss. The spirit of inquiry sometimes leads us to despair." 
                  "You are surely not going, Mr. Grey," said the widow, as her visitor rose. 
                  "I have engagements that cannot be put off," said the young man, once more turning his eyes upon Eleanor, and emphasizing his words with intention-"engagements of duty and honor, to which I am never false! Friends and foes know always where to find me!" 
                  "I trust you have plenty of the former and none of the latter," said Eleanor, speaking with effort. 
                  "It is often difficult to tell them apart," said Grey; and not trusting himself with further speech, he took his leave. 
                  In a few minutes more, the jingle of bells announced the arrival of Csar and the sleigh, Stanley and his fair friend were ready, and with a kind farewell to the widow and her daughter, they took their seats and were soon dashing swiftly towards the Neck, the balls flying from Robin's heels and bouncing against the dasher and the rough coat of the driver. Every now and then Csar laid the whip across the colt's back, notwithstanding he tightened the reins as he approached the guard-house on the Neck. 
                  "What are you doing that for?" asked Lucy. "Don't let him abuse the horse, Harry. One moment he whips him, and then he holds him in. He'll fret him so that nobody can do anything with him." 
                  "Am I right, Mass' 'Tanley?" asked the black, appealing to the young man. 
                  "Go ahead," said Stanley. 
                  "I thought you had more feeling for a horse, Harry," said the girl, reproachfully. 
                  "The black knows how to drive," said Stanley. "Let him alone." 
                  Lucy pouted and was silent. As they approached the lines, the gates were closed, as they expected. The sentinel challenged them, and Stanley replied by exhibiting a pass. The corporal of the guard turned out and came to the side of the sleigh. He wore a foraging cap, and was smoking a long pipe, just lighted, the wind, as he came into the open air, sweeping a long trail of sparks from the bowl. As Csar turned suddenly round on his seat to look at the newcomer, he awkwardly struck the pipe with his whip and broke it. The bowl fell shattered to the earth, and the fire was immediately extinguished on the snow. 
                  "You stupid black dog!" said the corporal; "what do you mean by that?" 
                  "Berry sorry, Massa Redcoat; nebber do so nex' time." 
                  "I'd rap you on the head if I didn't think it was labor lost," said the corporal. 
                  "Try 'um massa-better, p'raps," said the negro, grinning. 
                  "Silence, you imp of darkness!" said the soldier. "Well, Mr. Stanley, if that's your name, you know I can't let you pass without examining the contents of your sleigh." 
                  "We have nothing here to speak of," said Stanley, opening the buffalo robes; "a few bundles of dry goods and a bandbox full of women's knicknacks. 
                  "It's all right, I dare say," said the soldier; "but I must have an eye to your baggage, for all that. So I'll lead your horse to the light." 
                  He stepped forward and laid his hand upon Robin's check. A furious shake of the head, a plunge and a sweeping side-stroke from the animal's near fore leg was the unexpected result of this manuvre. 
                  "What the deuce is in the horse?" cried the soldier, recoiling. "You get out and take hold of him, darkey." 
                  "Golly, Massa Redcoat, nobody can take hold ob his head in de night time. He's bound to go home; and I'd vise you, as a Christian frien' and brudder, to open dem are gates, or he'll charge troo 'em, to de intricate peril ob our lives." 
                  As if in corroboration of the assertion, the fiery horse stood nearly bolt upright on his hind legs and shook himself furiously, coming down upon all fours again with a snort. 
                  "What an ugly brute!" cried the corporal. 
                  "Yes, Massa Corporal, he's a fiend in garnet," replied the negro. "Woa! ho! ho! Robin." 
                  High reared the horse again. This time he struck the gate with his feet and shook the whole structure. 
                  "Away with you, in the fiend's name!" said the soldier, flinging wide the gate. 
                  No shaft ever flew swifter from a steel crossbow than that horse, as he dashed through the gateway, and covering the ground closely, like a greyhound coursing, made play over the snow at a tremendous rate; the snow-balls flew from his heels against the dasher in a continuous volley, as, with ears laid back and neck stretched out, he darted over the whitened road, now gleaming a broad silver path in the full rays of the high risen moon. 
                  "Dat's you, Robin!" shouted the black, cracking his whip; "hie 'way, hie 'way, hie 'way, dah! Yah! yah! dem's 'um, Mass' 'Tanley, Hurrah for our side!" 
                  "You see now, Lucy," said the young man to his companion, "why Csar treated the colt with such apparent cruelty on the Neck." 
                   
                  "I see that he rendered him almost unmanageable at the time." 
                  "Very true; if it hadn't been for that the corporal would have overhauled our sleigh." 
                  "Well, I guess he wouldn't have disturbed my calicoes and ribbons." 
                  "No; but there are other dry goods in the sleigh." 
                  "Five hundred ball cartridges and a hundred pounds ob powder, Miss Lucy!" cried the black. 
                  "Good heavens!" cried the girl. 
                  "All right now, Miss Lucy. But I tell you, I felt a kind of streaky wen I see dat British hoss-a-fire lumberin' up to de sleigh, smoking a pipe in de high ole wind. I see him out ob de corner ob my eye-which is built bulgin', like a bull's, at my 'tickler request, so that I can see both fore and aft-and I kind ob slapped my whiplash ober backwards, slantin'dicularly, and obliterated de whole smokin' arrangement. Den you see, I've taught de colt when I say, woa, ho! ho! ho! with a tickler nemphasis, to rare and pitch; it's only fun wen folk tinks he's in a tearin' passion. And dat's de way we got off. Now, Miss Lucy, please don't tell de deacon how I licked de colt; and please don't say nuffin' about my teachin' him to rare, and nuffin' whatsomdever 'bout the rate I streaked him at, 'cause it wont hurt him no how, and afore I go to bed dis night I'll rub him down as dry as a bone." 
                  The young lady promised silence, and the party, continuing their course at a high rate of speed, reached home in some minutes less than two hours from the time of leaving Boston. Lucy was escorted home by Stanley, and, before they retired for the night, he and the black had secured their dangerous cargo in a place of safety. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XIII. 
                  THE PROJECTED FLIGHT. 
                  THE same slovenly boy who had handed Paul Bolton the card which led to his acquaintance with the fortune-teller, might have been seen prowling about the door of Sir Ashley's quarters, in Tremont Street, one winter morning, varying his lurking guard by turning cart-wheels and summersets, walking on his hands and standing like a reversed caryatid, head downwards, against the wall of the King's Chapel burying-ground. 
                  Mr. Paul Bolton sallying forth to take an airing, was saluted by a prospect of the soles of the boy's boots, and fearing the young gentleman might die of apoplexy, took him by the ankles, set him on his feet, and then asked him what he was doing there. 
                  The gymnastic young gentleman jerked his right thumb over his shoulder and replied that he wanted him, and being required to specify the individual answering to the pronoun, condescended to reply the "fortune-teller." 
                  "Very well," replied Mr. Bolton, eyeing the diminutive and old-headed being before him with a contemptuous glance: "perhaps I'll look in there in the course of the day." 
                  "That wont do, master," said the urchin, planting his feet apart, setting his arms a-kimbo, and looking up saucily in Paul's face. "You're to go there, straight off. Something important." 
                  "O, very well!" replied Paul, "be off with you and say I'll follow hard upon your heels." 
                  The Mercury of the Fates threw half-a-dozen consecutive summersets, and then taking to his legs, ran off with the speed of a greyhound. Mr. Paul Bolton followed more leisurely. More than one laced hat was touched in answer to his nod, and more than one fine lady smiled a recognition as he passed. As for two vulgar dogs of soldiers who used to be his room-mates, and now saluted him cordially-he didn't know them. 
                  In this way, patronizing aristocrats and scorning the canaille, Paul marched to the fortuneteller's, where, after enraging the virago who waited upon the door with his usual ironical compliments, he made his way into the sanctum of the diviner. 
                  "You sent for me, and I am here," said the adventurer, throwing himself into a chair, and eyeing with satisfaction his elegantly polished English boots, and the swelling contour of his lower limbs. 
                  "Yes," replied the fortune-teller, "I have some intelligence that may possibly surprise you!" 
                  "My dear friend," said Bolton, "nothing you can tell me can possibly surprise me. In the great world in which I move, to be surprised is the absurdest of solecisms-and we of the upper circle hear of the death of a horse or the loss of a friend with the same unruffled equanimity of temper." 
                  "I congratulate you on your being able to bear the loss of a friend," said the fortune-teller. "For you are about to lose one who professes to be such." 
                  "As how?" inquired Paul, raising his eyebrows incredulously. 
                  "Sir Ashley Glenville is going to Halifax." 
                  "Impossible!" cried Bolton, with an oath, springing to his feet, and forgetting his late boast as he resumed his barrack-room expressions and gestures. "Has the old scoundrel dared, without consulting me?-but this is nonsense-you are jesting." 
                  "I never jest!" said the fortune-teller. "And you know that my information is always accurate. Sir Ashley is certainly going to Halifax." 
                  "Then I go with him, that's all," said Paul, settling himself into his chair again. 
                  "Pardon me," said the fortune-teller, "that, I fear, will be more easily said than done. He has made his arrangements for the passage without mentioning your name." 
                  "Then I'll engage a passage for myself on board the same vessel." 
                  "Sir Ashley has been too deep for you. He goes on board a government vessel-the Spiteful cutter, as bearer of despatches to the commandant at Halifax. He solicited the employ, being desirous of absenting himself for a short time from Boston. The despatches are scaled-but I have read their contents." 
                  "You!" 
                  "I can read through foolscap and vellum, you know," said the fortune-teller, smiling. 
                  "You can read through stone walls, I believe," muttered-Bolton. 
                  "Well then," continued the fortune-teller, "you will credit me when add that Sir Ashley Glenville has engaged a state-room for a female companion." 
                  "A female companion! Her name?" 
                  "That I could not mention." 
                  "It can hardly be the girl. Lady O'Halloran-he has seen more of her of late," he muttered, half to himself. "Can she have played me false and connived at Sir Ashley's giving me the slip? Fools! they little know the man they would hoodwink! I thank you, my old friend, for this information. What service can I do you in return? I am well aware there is no such thing as disinterestedness in this world." 
                  "Promise that if possible, you will prevent Sir Ashley's leaving Boston-that you will aid me in trying to prevent it." 
                  "Old man!" said Bolton, dashing his hand upon the table, "he shall never leave town-without me-alive! Rely on that. And now let me go, I must probe this affair to the bottom." 
                  Paul Bolton retraced his steps from the fortune-teller's with much more speed than he had used in approaching it. He noticed no one in the street, and soon the brazen knocker at Lady O'Halloran's front door pealed with his vigorous alarum. 
                  He was admitted immediately, and without stopping to ask a question of the servant, bounded up the staircase, and flung himself into the boudoir. The hostess, though taken by surprise at the abrupt entrance of the visitor, was perfectly calm and unconcerned. Bolton dropped languidly into an arm-chair. 
                  "Upon my word, my lady, those stairs take a man's breath away." 
                  "I thought you looked agitated." 
                  An affection of the heart-madam-but that must be quite an ordinary complaint with those who visit you". 
                  "My dear Mr. Bolton, you overwhelm me." 
                  "I don't see, my lady," continued Bolton, "how you can contrive to exist in this wretchedly dull town-where there is nothing more attractive than the society of a set of officers all built on the same model and trained in the same school. Don't you regret London-with its balls and routes and drawing-rooms?" 
                  "I know very little of London life." 
                  "Well-Paris then! Don't you regret Paris! dear, delightful Paris!" 
                  "I am contented here." 
                  "Really?" asked Bolton, scrutinizing the lady closely, as he spoke. 
                  Really and truly, sir." 
                  "And have no intention of leaving it?" 
                  "None whatever, I assure you." 
                  "Then I shall have to push my inquiries elsewhere," said Bolton. "You can't probably answer the question I was about to ask you." 
                  "Let me hear it at least. I can judge better then." 
                  "Well, then, I wanted to know why Sir Ashley Glenville was going to leave Boston suddenly?" 
                  "Sir Ashley Glenville going to leave Boston!" exclaimed Lady O'Halloran, turning deadly pale in spite of the rouge upon her cheeks. 
                   
                  "I thought perhaps it might be a bridal trip-though he had not imparted any matrimonial project to me." 
                  "A bridal trip-and why a bridal trip?" cried the lady. "I command you to speak out." 
                  "Why, then, my lady, if I must, I must. To make a short story of it, I have learned-no matter when or how-that Sir Ashley Glenville is on the eve of sailing for Halifax in the Spiteful cutter, and that he has secured a state-room for a lady." 
                  "Eleanor Williams!" exclaimed Lady O'Halloran. "He hopes to win her. But he mistakes her character and heart. Were he to throw millions at her feet, she would never accept him. She loves another. Now hear me, Paul Bolton; this matter is of dear concern to me. Let me manage this affair-I promise you that I will not lose sight of your interests, if you are true to mine. You shall not be parted from Sir Ashley, except by your own volition, and on terms entirely satisfactory to myself. I knew the cutter was about to sail-though they keep her movements secret. If the wind serves she weighs anchor this evening. She lies now at the end of Long wharf, and is fully equipped for a cruise. Dare you trust me with the management of this affair?" 
                  Paul Bolton preserved a thoughtful silence for sometime and then he said: 
                  "Yes, I'll trust you, my lady." 
                  "And obey my directions?" 
                  "To the letter." 
                  "Very well. Don't let Sir Ashley suspect that you have the slightest knowledge of his projected movements. Tell him you are going out of town for the rest of the day, and may not be back at night. Then communicate with me again, and soon." 
                  "I will do as you direct, my lady." 
                  Leaving Lady O'Halloran to plan and scheme, Paul returned to his patron, who received him with a wearied and uneasy smile. 
                  "My dear patron and benefactor, how do you find yourself to-day?" inquired Bolton, with much appearance of interest. 
                  "I am quite well, Mr. Bolton. Don't I look so?" 
                  "Rather pale and feeble," answered Bolton, shaking his head. 
                  "I haven't felt better or younger for years," said the colonel, with animation. 
                  "My dear Sir Ashley, I am delighted on two accounts; first, because your health is as precious to me as my own, and always interests me-and secondly, because, to-day, I was planning a little excursion into the country which might detain me over night." 
                  "Well, I'm sure there's nothing to prevent your going," said the baronet, briskly. 
                  "My dear Ashley, you forget that it is as hard for me to leave you as for a lover to quit his mistress even for a single day. You know my soul is wedded to yours." 
                  "I beg, Mr. Bolton, you will not think it necessary to tie yourself forever to my footsteps, like my shadow," said the colonel, rather impatiently. 
                  "Ah," answered Bolton, with a hypocritical sigh, "I place a stricter construction on my duty. The Germans have a pleasant tale that is apropos. A certain man, living in a certain house, was haunted by an imp-a very unpleasant character, with cloven feet, forked tail, and horns-and addicted to the ungentlemanly practice of substituting brimstone for tobacco. My German friend was so annoyed by the constant presence of his familiar, that he concluded, at last, to change his residence, and accordingly, he placed all his household effects in a cart and started for his new home, congratulating himself that he had got rid of his pertinacious acquaintance in the horns and tail. But as this thought passed through his mind, the cover of a churn was lifted, and the omnipresent imp poked out his head, nodded, and remarked pleasantly, 'I'm going too.'" 
                  "What do you mean by that story?" asked the baronet, looking daggers at his friend.
                   
                  "Nothing-Sir Ashley, nothing-unless to add, that for fear you should regard me as the German did his familiar, I meant to absent myself a whole day." 
                  "Be careful of yourself, Bolton." 
                  "For your sake, certainly." 
                  As Paul passed down the stairs and into the street, he muttered to himself: 
                  "Leave you! Never till death do us twain part. Ha! ha! does he think to whistle me down the wind at his pleasure? Colonel Sir Ashley Glenville, you may go to Halifax, if you please, but like the imp in the legend, 'I'm going too.'" 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XIV. 
                  FLIGHT OF SIR ASHLEY GLENVILLE. 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              
                                  
                                    SIR ASHLEY GLENVILLE TO ELEANOR WILLIAMS. 
                                 
                               
                              "DEAREST, ELEANOR:-For why should I not give you the epithet coupled with your name in all my thoughts, sleeping or waking? How often have I deplored the rudeness of my bearing when I last accosted you. But could you look into my heart-could you read there its hopes and wishes-could you but see your image there enshrined like a Madonna, you would pardon my want of self-control, for you could understand it. You would know, too, that no thought of mine ever wronged you. Did I say aught at our last meeting that conveyed a different impression? If so, charge it to a confusion of ideas, that did not permit me to control my utterance. 
                              "Eleanor, I know that in offering you my hand and fortune, I tender you that which is valueless for that which is above all price. The world may regard my name and gold as a rich guerdon for a humble maiden; but I shall not share their views. The richest gifts the devotee can heap upon the altar do not enhance its purity or measure its value. And you may despise these worldly gifts. I can picture your look of serene disdain when your eyes rest on this allusion to worldly goods. And yet, Eleanor, it is this same gold that sharpens the steel of the assassin, spurs the zeal of the politician, commands the smile of beauty, and strings the sinews of war. Gold and steel divide the empire of the world. But gold has its mission of good as well as evil. It sometimes comes like a ministering spirit. If we have a right to despise it for itself and for ourselves, we cannot reject its agency of good to others. You will pardon me if I allude to your circumstances; but I am, well aware that your mother is poor, and dependent upon your exertions for her support. Suppose you fail her-it is not always youth that outlives age. Ah! Miss Williams, what a painful subject is there for contemplation! Secure for her protection, secure for her declining years, peace, comfort, luxury. As your mother she will be as dear to me as my own. 
                              "Were I not certain that your hand and heart are free, I would assume your disdain as a fixed feeling and a permanent rejection of my suit. But I know that your fate is linked to that of no human being save your mother. You are then free to accept or to reject me. Pause, reflect, I conjure you, before you adopt the latter alternative. I am older than yourself, it is true, but time and care have drawn no furrows on my face. It is not in despair of conquest that I turn from the brilliant circle to which my name is the password, and address myself to you. I am unaccustomed to the frown of beauty, and I fear it not. But I turn from the world, wearied and worn out with its perfidy-from that glittering carnival where every face wears a mask, and every ery voice is disguised-yearning for better natures whose souls irradiate their features, like the flame within an alabaster lamp, whose free voices utter the words that rise spontaneously to their lips. I have had enough of greatness, enough of fashion-I sigh for truth and nature. I am standing now on the brink of an imminent crisis. It is life or death with me. I am surrounded by enemies-I know not that man or woman I can safely call my friend. They press my hand, they smile upon me, their eyes brighten as I approach; but I trust them not. It is my gold they love, not me-the rank they count, and not the man. I am weary of this sycophancy and mendacity. I crave a purer atmosphere, I crave a companion who will aid my efforts at regeneration, who will help me to begin the world anew. To such a one I can give much-the means of doing good, the position to wield power, the devotion of a life. 
                              "More I could say, but I would not trust to paper what my lips should utter. But I have said enough, I trust, to convince you of my sincerity. And now I will dare to solicit-or rather I claim-an interview. I am watched, my every motion scrutinized; I am no longer my own master. Therefore I must be cautious till I can throw off all reserve and defy all enmity. The time for doing that will depend upon yourself. My destiny, my life is in your hands. This evening at eight o'clock I shall be at the southeast angle of the wall on Copp's Hill. Let me see you there, if only for a moment, even if you here make up your mind to a final rejection of my suit. Even if I am doomed, I must learn it from your lips. If such be your sentence, I will withdraw without a murmur, and my shadow shall never cross your path again. 
                              
                                 Faithfully and ever yours, 
                                 GLENVILLE."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  "It is well worded," said Glenville to himself, after he had dismissed a trusty messenger with the letter, "the case is well put. It is earnest, for I am in earnest. Perhaps if I have one fond young heart to lean upon, these evil shadows that beset me will fly from the sphere of her pure influence. She may save me from myself and from the hereafter. I have pleaded passion, I have offered gold, my name and rank are temptations; I do not utterly despair, at least of the meeting. Once in my power I can compel her to accept my hand. Captain Transom I can rely upon, and the rest of them are sure." 
                  He threw himself upon a sofa, took up the weekly Gazette, and resolved to wait patiently for the return of his messenger. In less than half an hour there was a tap at the door. He opened it eagerly, and tossing a guinea to the messenger, tore open a little note. It ran as follows: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "I have received your letter and grant your request. At eight o'clock I will be at the appointed place. 
                              
                                 ELEANOR."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  "She is mine!" cried the baronet, "mine! If she were not disposed to accept my suit, she would not have written me. The wind is fair-I shall soon have left this accursed town forever. Now, Paul Bolton, I can at last defy you!" 
                  The night-wind, cold and gusty, was sweeping over the brow of Copp's Hill, as, half doubting his good fortune, Glenville, wrapped in his furred cloak, took post at the rendezvous at the appointed hour. A servant was in waiting with a dark lanthorn, which he was directed to throw open at a signal from his master. Hard by, a chariot drawn by two horses was stationed in charge of a coachman. 
                  Glenville had not long to wait. A light footstep announced the approach of a lady; a figure enveloped in a cloak approached the officer; a sweet, low voice, modulated to a whisper, breathed his name. 
                  "Eleanor!" he exclaimed, advancing and taking her hand, which she did not offer to withdraw. "Is it life or death?" 
                  "Why did you write me that letter, Sir Ashley?" replied Eleanor. "Why did you take advantage of that proneness to pity which is our sex's weakness? I wept over that letter-I hesitated-I am, here." 
                  "Then you no longer disdain me; you believe in my sincerity-you forgive my errors!" cried Glenville, passionately; "you are willing to trust me?" 
                  "My presence is a sufficient answer." 
                  "You encourage me to tell you all. I am going to leave town to-night, for Halifax. Official business affords a cloak for my departure. They shall not say I fled the town. Once in Nova Scotia, I think it very unlikely I shall return to my command." 
                  "You leave me, then, at the moment you become dear to me." 
                  "No, dearest, we do not part again. Come with me. Our brief voyage ended, my first act on shore will be to claim your hand." 
                   
                  "To fly with you to-night!" said Eleanor, shrinking back. 
                  "Do not hesitate," cried Sir Ashley, "time presses." 
                  "But my mother-" 
                  "In one hour she will receive a letter from me explaining my intentions and enclosing a remittance; in one month she shall meet Lady Glenville in Halifax." 
                  "Lady Glenville!" cried Eleanor: and the keen sense of Glenville detected exultation in the tone. 
                  "Ho, there! Louis!" he cried to his servant. "Open your lantern, and send the carriage hither." 
                  Before Eleanor had realized to what she had consented, the carriage was driven up, the door flung open and the steps let down. It seemed as if a will superior to her own influenced her actions. She stepped unresistingly into the carriage and threw herself back on the seat. She was conscious that Glenville entered too, she heard the door closed and her companion say: "Remember my instructions, Louis, Long Wharf!" The next moment the carriage was dashing through the darkness. A few moments' rapid driving brought them to the water-side. Here and there the rays of a lamp flashed out on the gusty waves that were rolling moodily away from the shore. They rapidly glided past a row of low stores, and then their speed was suddenly checked, the carriage whirled round, the door opened, and Glenville springing out, aided his companion to alight. 
                  She gave him her hand as her foot touched the ground. They were now at the extremity of the pier. The tall masts, yards and rigging of a man-of-war schooner, dimly lighted by battle-lanterns at the gangway, rose like a huge black skeleton before her eyes. The tide was going out and the schooner lay low, but a gangway plank, with side ropes manned by sailors, afforded a safe descent on board. As Eleanor and her companion went down the vibrating platform, the sentinels presented arms, and an officer in naval uniform raised his laced hat, presented his hand and aided the last footsteps of the lady. This was Captain Transom, the commander of the cutter. 
                  "You had better go below, Sir Ashley," said the officer, "and be out of the way of the noise and confusion. I will pay my respects to you when we are in blue water." 
                  Glenville bowed, and the captain led the way to the cabin. 
                  "This, Eleanor," said Glenville, when they were below, pointing to a door on the starboard side, "is your state-room. Mine is on the other side. You will find in your room a wardrobe as ample as I could procure on short notice. I had hoped to secure the services of a maid to attend upon you-but in that I was disappointed." 
                  "You are truly generous, Sir Ashley. But you will pardon me when I tell you that I must now bid you good night. The emotion-the surprise of this sudden step-the agitation I have been in ever since receiving your letter require repose. Good night, then!" 
                  "Good night! is that all, Eleanor?" 
                  She offered her hand. Glenville raised it to his lips and kissed it rapturously. The little hand was suddenly withdrawn, the graceful figure vanished into the state-room, and the click of the lock as it secured the door showed that the lady had no intention of re-appearing again that night. 
                  Glenville threw himself upon the transom. 
                  "Mine!" he murmured to himself. "Mine! a beautiful, pure young being-guileless and confiding. She shall have no cause to repent the confidence she has reposed in me. But that woman's heart is a riddle-her acts as uncertain as the course of a weather-vane-I should have been surprised at the event of this evening. But she must have loved me secretly-yes! I will believe she loved me-and it is not from a dazzling estimate of the worldly benefits of the match, that she has placed her happiness in my keeping. She shall not repent the step she has taken. My future shall redeem the past-if redemption at this hour is possible." 
                  Meanwhile the crew of the Spiteful had not been inactive. The gang-plank had been hauled on board, the fasts cast off, and the bows of the little cutter, yielding to the helm and the action of the tide, swung off, while the sails one by one expanded overhead like dark wings, soon exerted their full power of propulsion. Standing steadily up before the strong west wind, she dashed through the bay, her prow sheeted with foam, her white wake in the groaning water marked by myriads of phosphorescent sparkles. 
                  "The wind is blowing almost a gale, pilot," said Captain Transom to the helmsman, a tall man, with his great coat buttoned close to his throat, the huge collar drawn up, and his sou'-wester pulled well down to ward off the fury of the pitiless winter blast. "It is rather hazardous to put her under so much canvass." 
                  "The wind is unsteady," answered the pilot, after a glance at the weather quarter, "and will chop round before long, and then I think we shall have dirty weather. We must make the most of it while it holds, and get a good offing. Time enough to ease her half an hour hence." 
                  "You'll catch cold here," said the captain, advancing to a gentleman wrapped in a cloak, who stood leaning against the bulwark. "Don't let your politeness keep you up here. Go down into the cabin, I'll rejoin you before long." 
                  "Very well, captain," replied the stranger. "I was just thinking of running off." 
                  Bowing to the officer, the gentleman descended to the cabin, where, dropping himself upon the transom, he threw off his cloak and hat, and nodding to Glenville, exclaimed: 
                  "My dear friend-how are you?" 
                  The baronet sprang to his feet in amazement and indignation. 
                  "Paul Bolton!" he exclaimed. "Villain! how came you here?" 
                  "Softly, softly. By the same course that you took, my dear friend," replied Bolton, coolly. "Only that I came on foot, while you rode in your carriage. Do you recollect the little German tale I told you this morning? 'I'm coming too.' Ha! ha! Sir Ashley. Give me the credit of adroitly managing an agreeable surprise!" 
                  "But-but-" stammered Glenville, "how did you know of my proposed departure?" 
                  "Ah, Sir Ashley-that is my secret. Suffice it to say, your faithful Paul learned of your project, and he is here to share your fortune. It matters not where I live, in Boston or Halifax, so that I enjoy your society. And I trust that your bride will have no objection to mine." 
                  "And this fiend to be beside me forever!" thought Glenville. 
                  "I thought I would make myself known in private," said Bolton, rising and resuming his cloak and hat, "as it was quite unnecessary to let Captain Transom into the secret of my taking you by surprise. Because I was obliged to inform him that I was associated with you in your mission. Otherwise I could not have secured my passage. And now you must excuse me. I know I must tear myself from you for a few moments, for it is blowing rather hard, and I am anxious to see how the cutter carries sail." 
                  Blowing a kiss to the astounded Glenville, Mr. Bolton lightly ascended to the deck. 
                  "That man is my evil genius!" groaned the baronet. 
                  "And am not I your good angel?" said Lady O'Halloran coming out of the starboard stateroom. 
                  "Agatha!" cried Glenville, recoiling in despair. 
                  "Ay, Ashley-Agatha! you cannot escape me, any more than you can escape that man. Know that she to whom you addressed this passionate letter this morning," and with a smile of triumph she produced Glenville's letter to Eleanor, "despises, fears and loathes you, as much as it is in her nature to do. Were her heart free, I she would never bestow her hand on you. Nor is she formed to make you happy. Your passion was a wild, delusive dream. Had your plans been crowned with success, you would have wearied of your conquest. Your vacillating, broken will requires strength of mind to lean upon. I possess that resolution and that fixity of purpose that you want. Fate has brought us together-we cannot part." 
                  "I would that this hour were my last!" said Glenville, gloomily. 
                  "You wish no such thing," said Lady O'Halloran. "You have not the courage to meet death. Listen! Do you not hear the wrathful roar of the wind through the rigging-the rattling of the blocks-and the trampling of the seamen overhead? It is a wild night. A single mischance may precipitate us into eternity-are you prepared to die?" 
                  "No, no, Agatha," answered Glenville, cowering, "God knows I am unprepared-and-and-I am afraid. It is, as you say, blowing hard. Do you think there is danger?" 
                  "Danger? yes!" replied Lady O'Halloran, with a wild laugh. "And I glory in it. My spirits always rise with peril. Give me your hand-poor trembler-I have courage enough for both of us." 
                  As Glenville stretched forth bis hand to meet hers, as she stood there, triumphant in her beauty, her eyes glittering like a serpent's, with a wild and strange fascination, there came a sudden shock that nearly threw them from their feet. 
                  "What is that?" exclaimed Glenville, trembling violently. "O, Agatha, we are lost!" 
                  "Come with me, quick!" cried Lady O'Halloran. "Something dreadful has happened. We must go on deck." 
                  Obeying the strong will of his companion, Glenville sprang up the cabin stairs. 
                  "Dog! villain!" he heard Transom exclaim, as he came out on the flush deck. "You shall meet your deserts!" 
                  The exclamation was addressed to the pilot. He had run the cutter aground on the bar off Long Island head. The captain cocked a pistol in his wrath. But the pilot had not stopped to listen to his words. The moment the schooner struck, he abandoned the helm, dropped over the side and gained his boat which was towing astern, cut the rope, and drifted away. The plash of his oars was distinctly audible. 
                  "Hurrah for the sons of liberty!" were the words borne from his lips by the blast as he made his escape. Transom fired his pistols after the fugitive, but his shots were wasted. 
                  "Hard and fast!" he exclaimed with an oath; "blowing like fury-and no chance of getting off till the next tide." 
                  He was about issuing his orders to take in sail, when the dismal cry of "fire!" was heard from the crew. Alarmed at this new danger, he rushed forward. Smoke and flame simultaneously poured out of the main hatch. A moment's examination satisfied the captain of the imminence of the peril, and the impossibility of saving the vessel. It was useless to inquire how the fire originated. It was enough to know that it had got under way to such an extent that only instant activity could save their lives. The boats were launched, there was still water enough on the bar to float them, though the tide was falling, rapidly manned, and the passengers and every soul of the ship's company embarked. They hurriedly put off from the schooner, and pulled vigorously for some minutes, while almost as rapidly as a piece of firework is ignited, the flames darted like hissing serpents up the rigging, coiled up the masts, ran along the yards, and kindled the sails into a blaze. Soon two pyramids were seen swayed to and fro, sometimes blended in one mass, waving and crackling and scattering showers of sparks, like stars over the troubled waters. 
                  "Are the guns shotted?" asked Bolton of the captain. 
                  "Yes," was the reply, "but we are out of their range. Ha! there goes the starboard battery!" 
                  As he spoke, the heated guns on the starboard side exploded in quick succession-followed by the roar of the port guns, sending their harmless shot richochetting over the waste of waters. 
                  "Now, pull lads, for your lives!" cried Transom. "I would give a thousand guineas if we were half a mile further from the cutter." 
                  Every eye was fixed intently and fearfully upon the burning wreck. Huge folds of flame, like the surging drapery of a blood-red banner suspended in the air, waved to and fro, while below, streaks of bright orange and yellow blazed with intensity, and lit up the islands, the bay, the ocean and the distant town. All at once, a dull, crushing thunder blast, followed by shooting spires of flames, radiating in all directions, and suddenly quenched by utter darkness, announced the explosion of the magazine. Nothing but a few gleaming coals, indicating the fragments of sundered knees, remained of the gallant little cutter, that had so lately swept through the channel like an osprey. 
                  "Poor little Spiteful!" said the captain. "She was as saucy a craft as ever swam. I shall never find a better sea-boat." 
                  It required hours of hard pulling against wind and tide, to bring them to the wharf. They encountered several boats which had been sent to their relief, and quite a flotilla pulled up to town in company. A carriage was procured to take Lady O'Halloran home, and on parting from her at her door, Glenville, bowed down by disappointment, fatigue and despair, promised to see her in the morning, feeling sensible that henceforth he was an instrument in her hands. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XV. 
                  THE NARROW ESCAPE OF MR. PAUL BOLTON. 
                  SOME time has elapsed since the incidents recorded in the last chapter and we have now to ask our readers to accompany us once more to the habitation of the fortune-teller, and to stand within that darkened chamber wherein it is the sage dealing out the oracles of wisdom, or the charlatan imposing on the credulous, according to the varying opinion of the public. 
                  A lady stood alone in the mystic chamber-the person who had accompanied her, having retired. This time, a heavy, black curtain fell directly behind the place where the diviner usually sat, while the dim lamp flickering in its socket-every ray of daylight was excluded by thick curtains-faintly illuminated the figure of the fortune-teller, as he stood, drawn up to his full height, gazing with eyes she felt, rather than saw, at his visitor. But Lady O'Halloran was, as we have seen, a high-spirited woman, and though she acknowledged that the scene was well got up, yet she shook off the strange feeling of awe that was insensibly creeping over her, and said: 
                  "Mr. Zamorn, or whatever else you call yourself, I came here to oblige a friend, and to have my fortune told. You will oblige me by going through the form immediately, as I have little time to waste in such folly. So I request you will examine my hand, or shuffle your cards." 
                  "Your ladyship," said the fortune-teller, "will not humiliate me by supposing I will subject her to the quackery of palmistry and cards. I suit my oracles to the taste of my patrons. You are a fine lady-you know what tableaux vivants are." 
                  "I have often performed in them myself," replied Lady O'Halloran. 
                  "Well, then, I will give you a pictured vision of the past, and if you then will it, of the future." 
                  "Proceed with your mummery," said the lady, impatiently. "I told you I had no time to waste." 
                  The fortune-teller bowed and disappeared behind the curtain, while the single lamp died away after a few flashes, and left the room in utter darkness. In a very few minutes, however, the curtain parting in the centre, was drawn to one side, and a strong light from behind was thrown upon what seemed the wall of an elegant apartment. Through the aperture of a large window appeared the roofs and chimneys of a city, and in the distance rose two square structures which Lady O'Halloran recognized as the towers of Notre Dame. If the scene was painted, it was so skilfully done that the illusion was complete, and she fancied that she was gazing once more upon the spires and battlements of Paris. Ere she could recover from her surprise and hal lucination, a female figure glided in. She could scarcely suppress a scream when she recognized in the stately form and fine profile of the face, her own image, as the mirror had reflected it in her eyes twenty years before. A male figure richly attired, but the face concealed, now entered and knelt at the feet of the fair image. The gestures were those of a lover. The mimic Lady O'Halloran pointed to the wedding ring upon her finger. But the suitor yet continued his mute wooing. Then the lady bent forward, raised him, pressed her lips to his forehead. The curtain closed. 
                  "How like you my first tableau?" asked a voice. 
                  "I do not understand it," replied Lady O'Halloran, with a voice which was the firmer since the darkness concealed the expression of her agitated countenance. "Have you finished?" 
                  "Not, yet," replied the fortune-teller. "One more scene of the past ere we attempt the future." 
                  After a long interval, the curtain was again withdrawn. The scene represented a chamber, very dimly lighted. Through a gothic window the stars were seen shining in a midnight sky. It was sometime before Lady O'Halloran could distinguish a bed whereon lay some person writhing as if in agony, the whole face and figure concealed by a white sheet. Again that appalling image of herself entered in a white dress, and carrying a night-lamp in one hand and a wine-glass in the other. The figure approached the bed, removed the bedclothes, and bending over, seemed to administer the contents of the glass to the occupant of the bed. She then replaced the sheet. A convulsive struggle of the recumbent figure, and then silence and rigidity indicated death. The spectre-lady turned from the couch, and as she tore the wedding ring from her finger the curtain fell for the second time. 
                  The fortune-teller came forward with a lamp and placed it on the table. He then advanced to question his visitor, but Lady O'Halloran had fallen from her seat with her face to the floor. 
                  "The arrow was well aimed!" said the fortune-teller, as he raised the fallen lady. "She could not stand the test!" 
                  He touched a bell, and the old housekeeper appeared. 
                  "Margaret," said the fortune-teller, "is the carriage still in waiting at the door?" 
                  "Ay, master; the coachman is swearing outside because I wouldn't let him in." 
                  "That's well. Now dame, help me down stairs with this bit of painted flesh, while she is yet unconscious." 
                  The fortune-teller, assisted by the old woman, now lifted the lady carefully and bore her down the staircase to the hall where they placed her in a chair. The fortune-teller then put a small phial in the old woman's hand. 
                  "Apply this to her nostrils," said he, "and the moment she begins to revive, leave her to herself. After she has gone, you can admit the person I described to you, if he calls." 
                  As soon as the fortune-teller had disappeared up the staircase, the old woman applied the open phial as directed. The contents must have been powerful, for the lady had no sooner begun to inhale them, than she sat up and opened her dark eyes; whereupon the old woman instantly hobbled away with all the speed she could muster. Lady O'Halloran gazed round her for a few seconds in astonishment, unable to recognize the locality or recall her wandering senses. At last, her recollection apparently returned to her-she rose, moved to the door and opened it. The bracing air without soon revived her, and she walked with a firm step to her carriage. 
                  Not long after she had driven away, a second visitor was admitted to the presence of the fortune-teller. The long furred cloak he wore could not conceal his profession, for his spurs jingled as he walked, and the steel end of a scabbard appeared below the garment. 
                  "You are Rudolph Zamorn, the pretended fortune-teller?" said his visitor. 
                  "Sir Ashley Glenville shall judge of my skill with his own eyes," replied the fortune-teller. 
                  "I confess that I am incredulous," said Glenville, somewhat vexed at being recognized. "In what does your skill consist?" 
                  "In reading the future by the past," returned the magician. 
                  "You don't pretend, fellow, that you know all my antecedents?" said the baronet, haughtily. 
                  "I know not that I know aught of them. My skill can conjure up images and visions of the past-whether they are true or false is for those reflected in the pageant to decide." 
                  "Well, well, cease thy jargon-and let me see the show," said Glenville, impatiently. 
                  "Directly, Sir Ashley." 
                  The fortune-teller disappeared behind the curtain. It was soon drawn aside, and a gothic chamber was displayed to view. Sir Ashley started, for he thought he recognized the pictured furniture, the portraits on the wall, the cabinet, the bedstead-nay! the figure, though the face was turned away, of a man kneeling with clasped hands, before the portrait of a lady. Anon a masked figure stole upon the scene. He suddenly approached the kneeling figure-a knife gleamed aloft in his hand-and the other figure started to its feet. A death straggle ensued. The mask fell from the face of the assassin just as he dealt a deadly blow. The victim put out his hands exclaiming, "brother! brother! spare me!" But the fatal thrust was given; murder was committed. The curtain fell. 
                  "Villain!" shouted Sir Ashley, beside himself with passion, and with his drawn sword in his hand, he sprang forward and pushed aside the curtain. Only the fortune-teller was there, and he too was armed and masked. 
                  "Dog!" said the baronet, "who are you? No matter! you have offered me a deadly insult, and you shall answer for it at the sword's point." 
                  "Cypriani did not fear your sword, Sir Ashley, nor do I," replied the fortune-teller as he threw himself on guard. 
                  Glenville dropped his sword-point. 
                  "Cypriani!" he echoed. "What know you of him? He died long ago." 
                  "My dealings are with the dead and living," answered the fortune-teller, "Come on! or do you decline the combat?" 
                  "With you-a juggler, a mountebank-of course," muttered Glenville, restoring his sword to its scabbard. 
                  "Very well, Sir Ashley. You wished to know who I was. The secret I refused to betray when the sword was at my throat-I have no longer a desire to keep it. Look on me! but first, I warn you to make allowances for the ravages of time and misery." 
                  Stepping a pace farther forward, the fortune-teller slowly raised his mask. If the action had disclosed a grinning death's head, Sir Ashley Glenville could not have exhibited more amazement. 
                  "You here?" he cried, after a long pause. "You! I never thought to look upon your face again." 
                  "Nor I on yours." 
                  "Yet it is to me you owe yew life," said Glenville. 
                  "And to you I owe it that my life has been accursed." 
                  "Why do you rise before me like a spectre?" 
                  "Why did you come hither in the host that seeks to carry fire and bloodshed through this peaceful land? Why do you come among us armed? I sought you not. Chance has brought us once more together." 
                  "I warn you not to darken my path," said the baronet; "there is danger in it." 
                  "Danger!" said the fortune-teller, smiling contemptuously. "Talk of that to one who fears death!" 
                  "But there is shame." 
                  "Talk of shame to one who has a family to be blighted by exposure. I stand alone in the world, Sir Ashley; a blighted, wasted man. You can no longer harm me." 
                  "I do not seek to harm you. Nay, I would befriend you. Are you poor?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Then take, this as an earnest of what I will do for you provided you will leave the place I dwell in, provided that you will put at least a thousand miles between us." 
                  The baronet, as he spoke, extended a heavy purse, through the green silk meshes of which a mass of gold glittered in the light. But the fortune-teller pushed it back scornfully. 
                  "I want not your gold," said he. "I would not have it if I were starving. It is not yours to bestow. While I live the honest labor of my hands will support me. You ask me to leave you-I tell you to begone! I have learned enough of you this night. Fear not that I shall haunt you-horror and scorn will keep me from your side." 
                  Glenville had not a word to answer. He glided away from the presence of the fortune-teller, and hurried into the street. 
                  Meanwhile the latter was pacing the room to and fro. He had pulled down the curtains from the windows, and the full glare of day fell upon the painted hangings, the theatrical dresses, the waxen masks and all the litter which had served him in his tricks and delusions. 
                  Thank God!" he exclaimed, "every doubt is now driven from my mind. I now know that this man was my deadliest enemy. I now know that to him I owe a life of shame! But the legal proofs! Can they exist? If so-where? All is yet dark and mysterious. But in that Providence which never has forsaken me I will still trust-and still hope on." 
                  Leaving the fortune-teller, Sir Ashley Glenville went directly to Lady O'Halloran's, and was admitted to her boudoir. 
                  "You cannot imagine where I have been, Agatha!" was his first exclamation. 
                   
                  "You have taught me, Ashley, that I must no longer watch your footsteps." 
                  "I have been-laugh at me as you will-to the fortune-teller's." 
                  "The man is an impostor," said Lady O'Halloran. 
                  "Impostor or not-he can read the past if not the future," replied the baronet. 
                  "It is easy enough for an impostor to learn facts about a man like yourself." 
                  "But-but-Agatha!" said the baronet, shuddering, "he showed me the image of events I thought known only to God, to the dead and to myself." 
                  Lady O'Halloran turned deadly pale, as she drew her chair closer to Glenville's, and whispered: 
                  "I have been to him myself." 
                  Glenville went on, without heeding her, speaking fast as if the words poured from his lips defiant of his control. 
                  "He showed me the past, I tell you-the past! a word and a world of horror! He pictured forth a crime I committed for your sake." 
                  "Ashley!" said Lady O'Halloran, "hear me in turn. To free my hand that I might bestow it on you, I too, committed a nameless crime. The innocence of one will not sever us hereafter-shall not the guilt of both unite us here?" 
                  "Agatha! Agatha!" cried Glenville, "Do you never, in broad daylight, see a dark shadow stealing into your room?" 
                  "Never!" cried Lady O'Halloran. "I can see nothing but your image. I have a braver heart than yours." 
                  "Give me your hand," said the baronet. "It does not tremble. No! you are fearless." 
                  "Tell me, Ashley," said the lady, suddenly withdrawing her hand, "did you visit this conjuror of your own accord?" 
                  "No-Bolton urged, or rather insisted on my going." 
                  "And he induced me to go," said Lady O'Halloran. "My life upon it-that man is in league with the fortune-teller, and is our deadliest enemy." 
                  "He knows too much for my safety," said the baronet, shuddering. "How much, I cannot conjecture." 
                  "When you go home, will you tell him that I shall be happy to see him here?" 
                  "For what purpose? Do you wish to question him about me?" said Glenville. 
                  "No, Ashley. Your own lips shall tell me all." 
                  "I will tell you all, Agatha. I must have a confessor." 
                  "And I am one who will shrive you in advance." 
                  "Agatha!" said Glenville, taking her hand, "I feel now that you are essential to my existence. The film has fallen from my eyes-fate has brought us together. Yet I can but offer you the lees of a wasted and unhappy life." 
                  "Pledge me your word, Ashley, that when this momentary excitement and passion have passed away, you will not reconsider your offer." 
                  "I will not, so help me heaven, Agatha! If I live, I will atone for my past neglect and inconstancy." 
                  "Enough! enough! And now away-and send Bolton here." 
                  Half an hour afterwards, Mr. Paul Bolton was in the lady's boudoir. She received him with great gaiety and cordiality. 
                  "My dear Mr. Bolton," said she, "I can never be too grateful to you for the amusement you procured me this morning. Your fortuneteller is a dear creature-the most amusing fellow in his line I ever saw." 
                  "I am glad he treated you favorably, my lady," replied Bolton, eyeing her closely, as he spoke. "He sends away some of his visitors looking rueful enough." 
                  "Ha! ha! the creature failed of making any such impression on me, I assure you. He undertook to show me my past life-but it was a failure, a failure, mon cher." 
                  "I repeat that I am very glad of it, my lady. Sir Ashley gave me the same account of his visit-he said the fortune-teller was an impostor-but he shook like a leaf while he was speaking. Did he give you the same account?" 
                  "Much the same." 
                  "It is strange that he should come here just after his visit. I thought recent occurrences would keep him away from you-that he would never forgive your going on board the cutter in disguise!" 
                  "O, that's all made up." 
                  "Indeed!" 
                  "We were never better friends-but I suppose he'll tell you that-you, his bosom friend and companion, Mr. Bolton." 
                  "He is rather reserved to me of late." 
                  "O, by the way, Mr. Bolton. Let me offer you a glass of liqueur. I have some very fine. You wont refuse it, if I am your cup-bearer." 
                   
                  "I never refuse," said Bolton, smacking his lips in anticipation. 
                  There was a little French liqueur case on the mantel-piece, and Lady O'Halloran going to it, took out a small wine-glass and a case bottle. Her back was turned to Bolton, and he could not have known her movement, if a mirror hanging at an angle from the wall over the mantel-piece had not reflected her image clearly. By the aid of this reflection, then, Bolton distinctly saw Lady O'Halloran pour a white powder into the glass intended for him before she filled it with cordial. Then, pouring out a glass for herself, she took the prepared glass, in her right hand, and the other one in her left, and advanced with a smile to her guest. 
                  Bolton received the glass with a bow. 
                  "Your health, Mr. Bolton," said the lady. 
                  Bolton raised his glass to his lips, while the lady drank off hers, and then he paused without swallowing a drop. 
                  "On second thoughts," said Bolton, "I remember my physician told me never to drink French cordial. Have you taught your lap-dog to drink liqueurs?" 
                  "Certainly not," said the lady. 
                  "It's a great pity. If I could only make him lap it up, I think it would do him good," said Bolton, glancing at the animal that always sat beside the lady's chair. 
                  "I don't wish any one to drink against his inclination," said Lady O'Halloran, and snatching the glass from his hand, she threw the contents in the fire, and replaced it on the mantel-piece. 
                  "Lady O'Halloran," said Bolton, rising, "I advise you to have that glass thoroughly cleansed before you offer it to a friend again." 
                  "What do you mean, Mr. Bolton?" said the lady, turning deadly pale. 
                  "O, nothing! only that this morning I'm an obstinate fellow who wont take his medicine, though disguised in wine, and offered by the whitest of white hands." 
                  He raised the lady's hand to his lips as he spoke, imprinted a kiss on it, and then sauntered out of the room, leaving Lady O'Halloran confounded and conscience-stricken. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XVI. 
                  THE VOLUNTEER.-A SECRET KEPT. 
                  EARLY in the evening (it was Tuesday, the 18th of April, 1775), Sir Ashley Glenville was pacing restlessly to and fro in Lady O'Halloran's drawing-room. It was now no secret that they were to be united; in fact, the banns of marriage had been already published at the King's Chapel, and Sir Ashley's frequent visits to the lady no longer excited remark. He passed very little of his time at the regimental quarters, neglected his military duties, and avoided his residence, because there he was constantly annoyed by the presence of Paul Bolton, who was fast losing the self-restraint he had exhibited when first launched into good society, and resuming his former habit of hard-drinking. His behaviour, when under the influence of liquor, was rude and insolent, and as the baronet dared not rebuke or chastise him, he fled to Lady O'Halloran, on whose strong mind his weak nature had learned to lean. 
                  He was now, as we have said, pacing the drawing-room to and fro. 
                  "Yes, I repeat, Agatha, they begin to treat me as if coward were branded on my forehead." 
                  "Is it not your morbid sensitiveness that is ever causing you to suspect evil, Ashley?" 
                  "No; there are stories afloat to my discredit. My projected voyage to Halifax was construed into a flight. They dare to hint that I wished to avoid a danger which I suspected to be imminent." 
                  "It must not be said that the man Agatha O'Halloran weds is a coward, Ashley," said the lady, gravely. "I would rather weep over you, dead, than see you living tinder that imputation." 
                  "What can I do?" 
                  "Can you not fasten the slander upon some individual?" 
                  "No. They deal in innuendoes. Their thoughts are expressed in their cold manners, their want of cordiality. In a word, my situation is very uncomfortable. Gage himself has ceased to treat me with consideration." 
                  "Very well, then, I should go to the fountain-head. It is pretty well known in our circle that some military movement is oh foot." 
                  "I shall not be designated to take part in it," said Glenville. 
                  "You must go to Gage, Ashley, and that without delay, and offer him your services. If you volunteer, it will put a stop at once to any idle gossip injurious to your reputation." 
                  "I believe your advice is judicious," replied Glenville. "To-morrow I will see the commander-in-chief." 
                  "To morrow may be too late. Go to-night-go at once." 
                   
                  It is so chilly and unpleasant." 
                  "Do not play the childish Sybarite, Sir Ashley. Be a man! Your honor requires it of you, Good heavens! if I were a man I should not hesitate a moment." 
                  "You should have been a man!" said Glenville, half-admiringly; "you would have been brave, high-spirited one. Well-good night, Agatha. If I do not return this evening, it will be because I have placed myself under another's orders." 
                  Wrapping his cloak around him, the baronet sallied forth into the street, and, calling at the Province house, was admitted, after some delay; to an audience with Gage. 
                  After some unimportant phrases, Glenville said: 
                  "General, I think I have some reason for believing that some movement of troops is contemplated." 
                  "I do not remember that I ever mentioned anything of the kind, Sir Ashley," answered Gage, coldly. 
                  No, sir; but the common rumor runs to that effect." 
                  It is the duty of the soldier to await and obey orders," answered Gage, drily." I have not thought it necessary to issue any orders to you, Sir Ashley. It is well known that you have occupations enough to fill up your time without recurring to the rude and vulgar toil of arms." 
                  Without noticing the implied sneer, though his consciousness of it heightened his color, the baronet replied: 
                  "I came, sir, with the view of offering my services in any operation that may be attempted. If my sword has been idle, it has been from no fault of mine; and if I have no particular fondness for drill and camp duty, I am no less ready to brave dangers in the king's cause than the veriest martinet in the ranks." 
                  "Spoken like a true Briton!" said the general. "Why did you not come to me before? You might have had a command. As it is, I have issued my orders to Smith." 
                  "Then there is something going forward?" 
                  "Ay; we march to-night upon Lexington and Concord, to seize the cannon and ammunition these rebels have been collecting. There is no knowing how many of them there are, though I doubt whether the dogs will fight. But it is wise always to be too strong. Hence I have detached eight hundred grenadiers and light infantry-a body strong enough to sweep the province." 
                  "Then I am too late with my offer?" said Glenville, with an air of mortification, but secretly rejoiced that he should not be called upon to leave his comfortable quarter for field-service. 
                  Not so!" said the general, as he sat down to the table and penned a hasty line. "Here, take this to Colonel Smith-he is now mustering his command upon the Common. You can serve him as a volunteer aid. Good night, Sir Ashley; you have no time to lose." 
                  Glenville bowed, and wrapping his military cloak around him, left the commander-in-chief's audience chamber, and descended the steps of the Province House. On his way to the rendezvous he called upon Lady O'Halloran and briefly informed her of the interview. He then hastened towards the camp. As he was passing a dark archway that pierced one of the old houses in Tremont Street, leading to the garden in its rear, a figure, closely wrapped in a cloak, quickly emerged from the darkness, and laid a hand upon his arm. 
                  Make haste, Sir Ashley Glenville," said the stranger. "Tell Lieutenant Colonel Smith to push on his column to Concord with all speed. You have a fine march of eighteen miles before you; but you will be too late, after all. You will never get our arms." 
                  "Your arms, dog! Who are you?" cried Glenville, throwing off the stranger's arm and unsheathing his sword. But the instant the stranger had spoken, he turned and glided away in the shadows of the houses, with a speed that baffled all pursuit. 
                  "Our plans are already known," thought Glenville. "General Gage must be informed of this." 
                  Retracing his steps, he waited upon the commander-in-chief and informed him of the incident we have just named. 
                  A troubled expression passed over the general's countenance. 
                  "Have we spies and traitors in our ranks?" he exclaimed. "This must be seen to. I will look to it that none o the rebels leave town to raise the country. But go to Smith at once and tell him to hasten his march. It is getting late already, and he has a long road before him." 
                  Again taking leave of his commander, Glenville ville hastened to report to Lieut. Colonel Smith, whose command was already under arms. 
                  "I must order my charger saddled, colonel," said Glenville. 
                  "Your order has been anticipated, Sir Ashley," said a voice behind him. "Just see if these stirrups suit you." 
                  "You here!" cried Glenville, as he turned and recognized Paul Bolton, booted, spurred and cloaked, mounted on one of his horses and holding his favorite charger by the rein. 
                  "O, yes, Sir Ashley," replied Bolton, carelessly. "Receiving an intimation, no matter from what quarter, that you were going with the column, and thinking it a fine night for a ride, I made bold to saddle the horses. I go as an amateur, and to keep you company, my dear friend." 
                  Glenville made no reply-but mounted. Soon afterwards, the column began to move. No drum-heat timed its steps; but with the measured tread of second nature they moved silently down to the place of embarcation on the west side of the town, opposite to Lechmere's Point. 
                  Meantime the stranger whose salutation had so startled Sir Ashley Glenville, made his way with all possible speed to the north end, where, giving a peculiar knock at the door of a house, in a side street, he was instantly admitted. The person who opened the door to him was no other than our old acquaintance, Clarence Grey. He was dressed as if for a journey-booted to the knee and spurred. A horseman's cloak, clasped round his throat, opening as it fell, disclosed a pair of pistols secured in a leathern belt. 
                  "What news, Forrester?" 
                  "A detachment of eight hundred men is ordered to march for Lexington and Concord." 
                  "It cannot be!" 
                  "I heard the order given, with my own ears." 
                  "Then the committee must be informed." 
                  "They know it already. But you must away, Clarence, before your retreat is cut off. A horse is ready for you in the shed of the Black Bull in Charlestown. You will find a man waiting there; he will ask you 'what news?' Your reply will be 'liberty or death.' He will then give you the horse. Mount and ride for life to Lexington." 
                  "Shall I not give the alarm upon the road?" 
                  "Other messengers are entrusted with that. Two lanterns in the belfry of the North Church will give notice to our friends of the embarkation of the troops. Rouse the minute-men at Lexington. Tell Stanley I will join him ere night. Away, away! I tell you; every minute is precious." 
                  "But you-" 
                  "Take no thoughts of me. I know how to take care of myself. One word more. There are squads of British officers patrolling the roads. Don't let them stop you. If need be, give them steel and lead!" 
                  "Fear not, Forrester," said the young man. "I know my duty." 
                  He hastily extinguished the light, and sallied out into the street, where, with a firm grasp of the hand, he took leave of his companion. Hastening down to the water's edge, he approached a little cove, overhung with bushes, where a small row-boat lay concealed. After looking cautiously round him, he gave a shrill, peculiar whistle. Instantly two men sprang out of the bushes. 
                  "Mr. Grey!" said one of them. 
                  "All right, my friends," replied the young man. 
                  "Do you wish to cross to-night, sir?" asked the man who had spoken. 
                  "Yes, with all possible speed." 
                  "Jump in, then, sir," said the man, "and we'll shove her off." 
                  Grey sprang into the stern. Wading beside it, the two boatmen, uniting their strength, pushed the boat into deep water, and leaping in, put out their oars and pulled lustily, but silently, towards Charlestown. They had wound cloth round the thole-pins, and not a creak, not a plash betrayed their movement. The dark boat and dark figures gliding over the water would have baffled keener eyes than those of the drowsy sentinels and watch on board the Somerset, that lay in the channel, her topmasts beginning to glisten dimly in the first rays of the rising moon. 
                  "Give way, lads-give way!" whispered Clarence, impatiently, "Every minute is worth untold gold." 
                  But the faithful oarsmen required no stimulus. Their light boat flew like a sea-gull over the water, and as the keel grated on the opposite shore. Clarence sprang over the bow and bounded up the bank. He hastened to the tavern and entered the shed to which he had been directed. A man instantly advanced from the shade, with the salutation: 
                  "What news?" 
                   
                  "Liberty or death," whispered Clarence. 
                  "All right," said the man; and stepping to the back part of the shed, he returned, leading a powerful black horse. 
                  "This beast will go till he drops," said the man. "Give him his head and he's good for a thirty mile rush. But if he feels the spur he'll fly away with you." 
                  Clarence patted the glossy neck of the superb animal, as he stood snorting and pawing up the ground with his fore feet, and then sprang into the saddle. When he felt a hand upon the rein, the horse reared, but the moment his fore feet struck the earth, finding no attempt made to check him, he dashed off at a swift trot, leaving a trail of fire behind him on the stony street. Crossing the Neck at this rapid gait, Clarence turned his horse's head in the direction of Cambridge, and was dashing along with a slack rein, when half a dozen horsemen, suddenly emerging from a clump of trees, drew up across the road and barred his passage. The light was sufficient, and the party near enough to show Clarence that the horsemen, though wearing cloaks, were British officers in uniform. 
                  "Halt!" cried one of them; "there's no passing here." 
                  "Who are you, and what is your business?" asked another. 
                  Without waiting to reply. Clarence wheeled his horse to the right, and gave him the spur. The fiery animal cleared a stone wall that bounded the road, at a flying leap, and alighted on the margin of a narrow clay-ditch, filled with water. This he crossed flying, and rushed upon the Medford road like a frighted deer. Turning in his saddle, Clarence saw that he was pursued. But four of the horses balked at the wall and ditch; two, however, cleared them gallantly, and came thundering up in his rear, the arms of the riders gleaming in the moonlight. 
                  "Now, then," cried Clarence, addressing his horse, "let's see what metal you are made of. Hie away! hie away!" 
                  And slacking the reins, waving his hand and pressing the rowels to the flanks of his horse, he urged on his flight. The animal answered the call. Stretching out his nose and laying back his ears, he broke into a dead run that carried his rider over the ground with the speed of an Indian arrow. The pursuers were soon distanced, but the horse refused to slacken his pace. Up hill and down hill, through mire and over stones, he held his way with the fleetness of a hunted stag. Sometimes horse and rider plunged into deep woods. The rapid beat of hoofs marked their course through the darkness, and brought them like a flash out into the light again. Clarence had never rode at such a pace before, nor had he ever been carried so lightly. Ere he anticipated he was in the streets of Lexington, and rousing the inhabitants from their slumbers. 
                  "To arms! to arms! The British are on the march!" 
                  From house to house, just pausing to rattle on the door with his riding-whip, and then the stern cry, "to arms!" roused every sleeper from his dreams. The captain of the minute-men was roused, and the drummer hurried on his clothes and braced his instrument. Lights passed from window to window, and in a few minutes the whole town was astir. 
                  Having accomplished his mission by giving the alarm, Clarence rode straight for the Stanley homestead. Here, without dismounting, reaching up from his saddle, he tapped with his riding wand on the window of the room in which he knew Stanley slept. In a moment the window was opened, and the young man appeared at it. 
                  "Who are you," he inquired, "at this time of night?" 
                  "Hush! a friend-Clarence Grey." 
                  "What has happened?" 
                  "Gage has ordered a column of troops to march to Concord and destroy the stores. They are now upon the road. As I left Charlestown, I saw the lanterns in the tower of the North Church, the signal we agreed upon to give warning of their movement. Dress yourself quickly. In the meanwhile I will get my horse out of the air; he's very warm." 
                  Riding up to the barn, Clarence Grey dismounted. As he was fumbling with the latch of the door, he heard a footstep, and looking round, saw Julius Csar, half-dressed, and rubbing his eyes. 
                  "What dis, mass'r, I hear? Redcoats comin' to Lexington?" 
                  "Such is the fact," answered Clarence. 
                  "How many of 'em?" 
                  "About eight hundred." 
                  "O, golly!" 
                  "Does that alarm you?" 
                  "Not exackly alarms-only dissatisfies me," answered the black. "Why dey no gib us fortnights warnin', mass'r? Den we might show 'em odds. Neber mind, I aint tickler. Hullo! old Egypt, dat you?" 
                  His last remark was addressed to the horse, and accompanied by a slap of the negro's broad palm on the animal's flank. The game creature, notwithstanding his sharp run, was playful as a kitten, and yerked out his hind legs in reply to the salutation. 
                  "So you know him?" said Clarence. 
                  "I knowd him well 'nuff when I was down to de Black Bull. And you see he know me fast 'nuff. Dat ere pigeon-wing wid de hind feet was meant for 'how are you, Csar? I'm bery glad to see you.' Yah, yah! But you run into de house, mass'r. I'll rub de horse down. I see Mass'r 'Tanley has got a light in de kitchen. So we's gwang to hab a crack at de redcoats, hey? I don't know wedder I'se glad or sorry. But run in de house, mass'r. I'll be in de house 'fore long, and fetch my old king's arm and bag-gernet. De redcoats comin'! Well, if dat aint, news, I gib it up." 
                  Leaving the black to converse with himself and his dumb charge, Clarence Grey went into the house. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XVII. 
                  REVELATION AND REUNION. 
                  ON reaching the kitchen of the farm-house, Clarence found that Stanley had raked open the fire on the hearth, and thrown on an armful of dry wood, and the genial blaze was peculiarly grateful after his ride through the chilly night air. 
                  "They are on the march, then?" were nearly the first words of the young farmer. "What time will they reach us?" 
                  "Not for two hours yet. I rode here on the spur," answered Grey. 
                  "And their numbers?" 
                  "Some eight hundred-so Forrester informed me." 
                  "Forrester! he is still in town, then. He has almost abandoned his old haunt in the wood. He should be with us now." 
                  "He intimated that he would join us. I have notified Captain Parker-your comrades are mustering." 
                  "I must join them," said Stanley. "One word to my mother, and I am ready." 
                  He was absent a few moments, and then reappeared, his fine face glowing with enthusiasm. 
                  "God bless her!" said he, while a tear sparkled in his eye. "Such a spirit would put a lion's heart in a coward's breast. Not one tear, only an exhortation to do my duty like a man." 
                  As he was speaking, the young man took down from the hooks on which it rested on one of the cross-beams of the low ceiling, a heavy, old fashioned musket, and carefully examined the flint and lock. He next buckled round him a broad belt of untanned leather, to which a pouch well filled with ball cartridges was attached, the priming-wire depending from a chain. When his preparations were completed, Clarence rose to accompany him. 
                  "Let me go with you, Stanley," said he, throwing his cloak around him. 
                  "Remain where you are for the present, if you please. If Forrester succeeds in getting out of town, he will come here first, and you had better see him. I do not wish to leave the house entirely alone. If I do not return in half an hour, you will find me at the public house in the village." 
                  "You are going directly to the village, then?" 
                  "There is one person I must see first," said the farmer. "You will not wonder," he added, in a low tone, "that I wish to speak a word to one who would have made me the happiest of men, if we had lived in different times." 
                  "You are happy, Stanley, as it is," answered Clarence, with emotion. "It is happiness enough to be loved by one true heart. I feel it; I, who have no one in the wide world to love me." 
                   
                  He sank into a seat, dejectedly, as he made this expression. 
                  "Mr. Grey," said the young farmer, "there is one person beneath this roof to-night, who, I am convinced, loves you as fondly as my Lucy loves me; and who is as worthy of your love as Lucy is of mine." 
                  "Eleanor Williams?" exclaimed Clarence. 
                  "Yes, Mr. Grey. Mother and I persuaded Mrs. Williams and her daughter to leave town while they had the opportunity-to escape the troubles we foresaw, and the attentions an officer of rank insisted on forcing on Miss Williams." 
                  "An officer of rank!" 
                  "Yes-Sir Ashley Glenville." 
                  "Yet it was not Sir Ashley Glenville with whom I saw her on that most unhappy evening." 
                  "No; that was a female in disguise; an old flame of Sir Ashley's, and now, I am told, like enough to marry him." 
                  "And I wronged her in my thoughts-repulsed her innocent welcome when she ran to meet me! O, I have deserved the misery I have suffered." 
                  "It will be all made up to you, Mr. Grey," said the farmer, kindly. "Things may take a better turn; and who knows but two weddings may come about the same time." 
                  Clarence smiled sadly, and shook the young farmer's hand. 
                  Just as Stanley turned away to leave the room, a door leading into the woodshed opened, and an extraordinary figure made its appearance. This was no other than Julius Csar, ex-hostler of the Black Bull. On his head he wore an enormous bearskin cap, a second-hand blue coat, very much too large for him, enveloped his body in its loose folds, the broad flaps descending nearly to his heels; a pair of stout cowhide boots encased his legs; an enormous cartridge-box was suspended by a cross-belt, and he carried on his shoulder a ponderous ducking gun. 
                  "Here we am, Mass'r'Tanley," said the black. 
                  "Where did you get that old muff on your head?" asked Stanley. 
                  "I purchased it, mass'r, long while ago, at a vandoo in Boston." 
                  "You'll be a marked man if there happens to be any firing," remarked Stanley. "I advise you to wear your old hat." 
                  "No, Mass'r 'Tanley; it don't look sogerly. I'se been takin' a surreptitious glance in de lookin'-glass, and it strikes me de 'fec of dis bearskin am wonderful fine, mass'r." 
                  "I fancy that the effect of a bullet just about four inches below the brass plate will be yet more striking." 
                  "Pshaw! who's afraid, mass'r? Not dis nigger, anyhow." 
                  "Well, come along, Csar." 
                  "For'ard march!" shouted the black, and he followed his employer out of the house. 
                  "Eleanor here!" said Clarence. "And yet I cannot see her, and may never see her more. It is a hard, hard fate!" 
                  He pressed his hand upon his forehead, as if to still the painful throbbings of his temples. The sound of a light step roused him from his sad reverie. He looked up quickly, and to his joy and surprise, beheld the object of his thoughts. She smiled mournfully, and held out her hand to him. He seized it and pressed it to his lips, in spite of her efforts to withdraw it. 
                  "I little thought to see you here to-night, Clarence-Mr. Grey, I mean," said Eleanor. 
                  "Call me Clarence, Eleanor," cried the young man, "as in those brief days of sunshine, when there was no reserve between us." 
                  "I thought you had forgotten them. The last time we met, you repulsed me." 
                  "I was mad, Eleanor-beside myself; I knew not what I said or did. But that is passed. I recognize my error and deplore it. Can you forgive me?" 
                  "I never harbored a harsh thought of you, Clarence." 
                  "God bless you for that word. Sit down, Eleanor. Let us talk of old times-let us lay out plans for the future." 
                  "The future! We are not sure of the present," answered Eleanor, evasively; yet yielding to the charm of Grey's presence, and sitting down beside him. "We are in the midst of public troubles." 
                  "What are they to me, Eleanor? The sight of you banishes all public questions from my mind. Let us be free, or let us be enslaved; the submissive vassals of King George, or our own masters, I am your slave, and happy in my chains." 
                  "Is this a time to speak of love?" 
                  "Is it not? We are alone together; the stars are looking down on us-and the hush of midnight shall hear our plighted vows." 
                  "The hush of midnight!" repeated Eleanor; "I hear the beat of a distant drum." 
                   
                  "Your ear is correct-they are beating to arms in the village." 
                  "And you, can say that calmly?" 
                  "Eight hundred British troops are at this moment marching on Lexington and Concord." 
                  "And you will sit dreaming here by the fireside?" said Eleanor, reproachfully. 
                  "No, Eleanor-no! The sight of you lapped me for a moment in Elysium. But I am going forth to meet the enemy, come what may. I rode hither with the news. I came to offer my life in defence of the rights of my adopted land." 
                  "But do you think there will be bloodshed?" 
                  "I fear there will. But we shall not be the aggressors. Woe be to him who sheddeth the first blood." 
                  "I chided your indifference just now, Clarence," said Eleanor, "but now I repent of what I said. O, fly! save yourself. I cannot bear to think of your danger. 
                  Before I thought of seeing you to-night, I had but one thought," answered Clarence. 
                  "And that?" 
                  "Was to seek an honorable death. What had I to live for? I thought you had abandoned me. It was as if the sun had suddenly sunk from the zenith at high noon. My hopes were dashed in a disastrous eclipse. But I am no longer indifferent to life. Why, I ask, looking through the vista of present troubles, may we not look for happiness hereafter?" 
                  "Never! never on this earth, Clarence!" said Eleanor, rising. "Forget not what a dark shadow lies ever between us-a shadow that becomes a gulf the moment we approach it from either side." 
                  "I see not the shadow," said Clarence, impetuously, "I behold only the prize." 
                  "Your generous enthusiasm could not last forever; it would fail you when my heart needed it the most," answered Eleanor. "The time would come when the consciousness of a blot upon our name would awaken the bitterest regret." 
                  "Never, Eleanor, never! So help me, heaven, I believe your father guiltless of the crime for which he suffered." 
                  "His memory must be cleared before the world, before his daughter can clasp the hand of an honest man," replied Eleanor, firmly. "Farewell. I would have avoided the mingled pangs and joys of this meeting, Clarence; but my heart overmastered me. Good night, and God bless you." 
                  Clarence caught the fair girl's hand, and drawing her near him, imprinted a kiss upon her lips. 
                  "It was the first," he murmured, as she fled from his embrace, "perhaps the last: no matter-I shall be happy." 
                  A heavy footstep sounded on the floor. 
                  "Is this a time for toys and dalliance?" said a stern voice. "Awake, and be a man!" 
                  Clarence Grey turned fiercely on the speaker. "Who are you, that plays the spy upon my actions?" he exclaimed. 
                  "One who is embarked in the same great cause with yourself," replied Mark Forrester, flinging himself into a seat and resting his rifle against the wall. "But unlike you in this," he added, "that my whole heart is devoted to that cause." 
                  "My answer to your implied reproach shall not be given here, Forrester," replied Clarence: "my actions shall vindicate me." 
                  "Forgive me," said Forrester. "Your speech is that of a resolute man. I doubt you no longer; yet I confess I was surprised to find you wooing at an hour like this." 
                  "Ah, Mr. Forrester, you have never loved!" 
                  "Never loved!" echoed Forrester. "You little know the man you address." He hastily dashed a tear drop from his eye. "Tears, tears!" he muttered, half angrily. "I thought I had mastered every weakness: but poor human nature will be human nature still. Well, young man," he added, after a pause, "the die is cast. The hour I predicted five years ago in King Street has come to pass. No more dallying; no more petitioning; no more secret plotting or scheming on either side. But war-open war! What miseries are in store for either country-desolated homes; wasted fields; houses burned; widows' and orphans' tears mingling together: but it must be!" 
                  "Startling as your opinion is," answered Clarence, "I am fain to regard it with respect, for you have studied the times deeply, and are certainly familiar with the actors on both sides." 
                  "You may well say that," replied Forrester; "I have racked my brain and perilled my life to obtain accurate information. Where, think you, I obtained information of the movement to-night?" 
                  "I know not." 
                  "You would never guess," replied Forrester, with a grim smile. "In the very heart of the enemy's camp-in the Province House." 
                  "The Province House!" 
                   
                  "Ay-and from the lips of Gage himself. You stare; yet I am telling you no fable. Listen. I have been a spy at headquarters for months. I have mingled with the menials of Gage's household: gold will gain admittance everywhere, and the friends of the cause kept me well supplied. But I possessed a secret worth untold gold to us. In the Province House there is a secret passage, constructed for what purpose I know not, from the cellar to the second story, behind the very wainscotting of the general's reception room. It matters not how I became acquainted with it: but I was able on several occasions to make good use of it. I am afraid I spoiled the eyes of an old portrait on the wall by boring holes through the woodwork into the eyes; but a spy in my position has little reverence for works of art." 
                  "It was in this way you were a witness of my interview with Gage, when he tried to win me over," exclaimed Clarence. "Your knowledge of that interview startled me beyond expression." 
                  "To-day, and for the last time, I made use of my secret. Henceforth, as I told you, there will be an end of stratagems. As another means of obtaining information, I assumed the disguise of a fortune-teller, and made good use of it. But it suits me not to work in the dark, nor to plot instead of act." 
                  "I thank you for your confidence," replied Grey. "My interest in you prompted no unwarrantable curiosity. We should know each other, since we are to stand shoulder to shoulder in the same cause. To-night you have surprised a secret of mine. I love Miss Williams, the young girl who was here when you came in." 
                  "I could almost envy you your happiness," answered Forrester, with a sad smile. 
                  "My happiness!" replied Clarence, sorrowfully: "none need envy me. We can never be united." 
                  "And why not?" asked Forrester, quickly; "do her parents object?" 
                  "She has but one parent-a widowed mother. Eleanor herself is the bar to our union. She withholds not her love-but her hand-from a scruple that I cannot but respect, while I deplore it." 
                  "Explain yourself, young man." 
                  "Eleanor's father died upon the scaffold. She believes him inncoent, but yet he died an ignominious death." 
                  "Many a man has fallen by the arm of the law," replied Forrester, "when it punished most unjustly. What are the circumstances of this case?" 
                  "Eleanor's father was attached, in some capacity, to a noble household in England. One night, when his wife was absent, the lord of the-manor was murdered; the weapon with which the deed was done-the property stolen-fixed the guilt upon the steward." 
                  "He was tried and condemned," cried Forrester. 
                  "Ay, and executed for the murder of which he protested his innocence." 
                  "And he was innocent," cried Forrester, grasping the arm of his companion convulsively. 
                  "How do you know that?" exclaimed Clarence. 
                  "I am the man!" cried Forrester, springing to his feet. 
                  "You!" 
                  "Condemned-sentenced-but not executed. On the eve of my execution, the jailor, bribed by an unknown hand, aided my escape. But I was forced to fly from England. But I had still friends there: I wrote from my exile. O, God! my wife had disappeared-no one knew whither. But I have yet a wife and child! O, God! thou art merciful: thou hast heard my prayers of agony. I have not borne the cross in vain: long years of suffering are to be atoned for now. The true criminal will be brought to justice, and the name of Julian Redland, cleared from every stain, shall be once more borne proudly in the light of day." 
                  "Julian Redland! who speaks that name?" cried a quivering voice, as Mrs. Williams, pale and agitated, tottered into the room, supported by her daughter. 
                  "I, Martha!" cried Forrester, rushing forward, throwing off his hat and putting back his gray hair from his forehead. "I-the wanderer! I! saved from the gallows for twenty years of misery, and a moment of joy worth a lifetime of suffering." 
                  "O, God of mercy!" cried the wife, falling on her knees. "I thank thee!" 
                  Forrester-or Redland, as we must now call him, knelt beside her, and clasping her hands, prayed with her silently, but long and fervently. Over them stood their beautiful daughter, her hands pressed together, her eyes, streaming with grateful tears, raised to heaven. At length husband and wife rose from their kneeling posture. 
                  "Julian!" said Mrs. Redfield, "our youth has passed-but here is one who will remind you of what I was in happier days." 
                  Redland folded his daughter in his arms. 
                  "Dear, dear child!" he murmured, "I do not even know her name." 
                  "I called her Eleanor," said the happy wife. 
                  Redland was completely overcome. The stern man-the inflexible champion of popular rights-the sworn soldier of the province, wept like a child. 
                  Standing apart, entirely forgotten in the overwhelming emotions of this event, Clarence contemplated the group with a pleasure that was entirely unselfish. He forgot that this strange and happy meeting of those whom fate had tried so sorely, secured his own happiness-self was entirely, set aside in his generous sympathy. 
                  At last he was noticed. Mrs. Redland held out her hand to him. 
                  "Pardon me, Mr. Grey," said she, "if I forgot you in an hour like this." 
                  "Forgive me, rather," replied Clarence, "for not withdrawing myself. But I could not deny myself the pleasure of witnessing your joy." 
                  Redland shook his hand. 
                  "You are a noble young man," said he, "and Eleanor may well be proud of your attachment." 
                  "Then you give me hope, sir, that I may become more nearly connected with you than by friendship?" 
                  "Yes-you may hope," said Redland. "But remember that my name is not yet cleared from an infamous stigma. My child must carry to her husband no dowry of shame. Till the real criminal is detected, your union must be deferred." 
                  "And that is hopeless," answered Clarence, sadly. 
                  "Not so," rejoined Redland. "I can point my finger to the man-would that I could lay my hand upon the proofs!" 
                  "And whom do you suspect, dear father?" asked Eleanor. 
                  "Sir Ashley Glenville!" answered Redland, sternly. 
                  "The murderer of his own brother!" exclaimed his wife. 
                  "The key to that brother's gold was the steel of the assassin." 
                  "It is too horrible to think of," exclaimed Eleanor. 
                  "Not more horrible to think, than for the murderer to fix the guilt upon an innocent man-doom him to shame, exile and misery." 
                  A pause ensued-but it was broken by the distant beat of a drum. 
                  "Do you hear that, Clarence?" cried Redland, grasping his arm. "Our duty summons us." 
                  "You are not going to leave us, Julian?" cried his wife. 
                  "Seek not to detain me, Martha," answered Redland. "It is hard to part-but I know that I shall see your pleasant face again. Farewell, beloved wife-and you, dear child of my love-pray for us-we are engaged in a holy cause." 
                  In a moment Clarence was ready. Nearer and nearer came the drum-beat. Redland tore himself from the fond arms that sought to detain him, and snatching up his rifle, accompanied by Clarence, sallied forth to join the minute-men who were hurrying to the midnight muster. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XVIII. 
                  AN APRIL DAY IN 1775. 
                  WHAT American knows not by heart the events of the 19th of April, 1775? What son of Massachusetts can hear without a thrill the names of Lexington and Concord? Who that has drawn his first breath in Boston, or in the pleasant vales of old historic Middlesex, is unfamiliar with the route of the invading troops, the green where the first murderous volley rung upon the air, the road flanked by the exasperated yeomanry, which witnessed the flight of the royal troops as they rushed along the highway through the withering fire of American skirmishers? We shall not attempt to repeat the story of that great day; our tale deals, with the domestic fortunes of individuals, and is only incidentally connected with the public events which are mentioned only when necessity requires it. 
                  In that chilly hour preceding the dawn when the night is darkest, the roll of the drum assembled a small body of resolute men upon Lexington common. Though all of them were familiar with the use of arms, few of them had much idea of military discipline. Their manual was far from perfect, and a martinet would have smiled at the irregularity of their movements. Yet no veteran officer, who could have scanned their intelligent, resolute and animated countenances, would have failed to acknowledge that he beheld before him the material for the finest troops in the world. There was none of the savage, bulldog look of the professional throat-cutters, no trace of that licentious air noticeable in a hireling soldier, no mark of that fierce spirit which is only compressed by iron discipline, and which would scarcely note the difference between friend and foe when blood was up and plunder and revenge in view. On the still morning air, as the men fell awkwardly into line, came the sound of distant bells. Those village bells! How often had they made sweet music in the hush of a Sabbath morning, calling the inhabitants to prayer and thanksgiving? How often, mournfully melodious, had they tolled the passing knell of the spirit passing to a better world! But now their voice was peremptory and alarming. It was the tocsin! Women who heard it clasped their infants to their arms; old men, shaking with the palsy, listened with a strange fear; while the young sprang to their arms, and hurried forth in stern excitement. Here and there in the distance the fainting rays of moonlight on the verge of the horizon were traversed by the angry gleams of beacon fires, suddenly shooting up their warning spires, while the hills reverberated to the dull thunder of alarm guns. 
                  "The country is roused," said the captain to Forrester, who stood leaning on his long rifle. "Yet we have no tidings of the British, Do you think, sir, they may have been dismayed by the beacons and alarm-bells, and have turned back?" 
                  Forrester shook his head. 
                  "We shall only see them too soon, Captain Packer," he replied. "The commander dared not disobey his orders, and British pluck will carry him through the work cut out for him." 
                  "But none of our scouts have returned," said Parker. 
                  "They may have been captured," said Clarence Grey. "I will go down the road and see if I can learn something of their position." 
                  "Hole on, Mas'r Grey," said Csar, "I tink I hear a hoss's huffs dar." 
                  "No talking in the ranks!" said Sergeant Munroe. 
                  The suspense of the little band was not long. A horseman galloped up at furious speed, shouting: "the British are upon us!" and without stopping for further explanation or comment dashed forward towards Concord. 
                  "Stand fast! men!" said the captain, in the deep tones of command. "Close up there! Whatever comes of this-remember to do nothing without orders." 
                  It was a moment of intense anxiety. Some of the town's people, who had come out merely as spectators, began to move towards their homes, others retired to procure weapons. 
                  Daylight, misty and uncertain, had begun to break along the hills and the range of vision widened. The captain ordered his drum to beat, and at its sound, stragglers from different houses were seen moving across the green to join the ranks of their comrades. 
                  At this moment the head of the British column of infantry appeared in sight. Composed of flank companies, picked men, uniform in size, splendidly armed and equipped, drilled to perfection, till the obedience of orders was instinctive, they advanced in quick time, presenting a formidable front, designed to inspire terror and obedience. Opposed to them were a mere handful of irregular militia. On one side all the pomp and pride of war-on the other a burlesque of military organization. Onward they came. Major Pitcairn, of the Royal Marines, who commanded the detachment, galloped to the front, surrounded by the regimental staff in splendid uniforms, mounted on blooded chargers. The audacity of the colonists in venturing to cross their path in battle-array, enraged them. 
                  "Disperse, ye rebels!" "Lay down your arms!" "Home with ye, villains!" were words that broke from their lips. 
                  Were those British troops who pushed forward in double-quick time obeying orders, or was it the tiger-thirst of blood that impelled them to use their murderous weapons? Be that as it may, the first ranks dropped their muskets into the hollow of their hands and fired. The crashing volley rang through the peaceful village-again and again, tube after tube belched forth their fatal flames. As the smoke rose heavily the ranks of the yeomanry were seen to be disordered. Here and there a gap-here and there a fallen man writhing in the agonies of death-or stark and motionless upon his native soil. 
                  The continentals broke up before the murderous fire. Resistance was hopeless-death stared them in the face. A few returned the fire. Forrester levelled his piece at Major Pitcairn and pulled the trigger. A sudden frantic plunge of the officer's charger showed that he was struck by the ball, but the rider was unhurt. 
                  "There is no chance now!" he muttered hoarsely to Grey, as they followed their retreating comrades, "but the hour of vengeance is near at hand." 
                  As they retired from the fatal field, they beheld the aggressors, flushed with their deeds of blood, forming into line and firing feu de joie in honor of their victory. Clarence Grey and Redland separated from their comrades, and posted themselves upon a woody eminence, from which, secured from all observation, they could command a view of the road to Concord. 
                  "A melancholy day!" said Clarence. 
                  "A glorious day!" cried Redland. "It witnesses the birth of liberty. From this hour there is an end of compromise-the Gordian knot of policy is severed by the sword. The king in grasping at too much has lost all." 
                  "Hark!" said Clarence. "The British bands are striking up an air of triumph. They have commenced their march. Do I not see their scarlet uniforms blazing through the trees?" 
                  "Yes," replied Redland. "Here come the light infantry from their murderous work. There is Pitcairn. But for the swerving of his horse at the moment I fired, the marines would be marching without a leader. And here come the tall caps of the grenadiers." 
                  "Who is that officer on the white horse, riding on their left flank?" 
                  "That is Lieutenant Colonel Smith, who commands the whole detachment. And there-there is Sir Ashley Glenville-my deadly enemy-Glenville, who murdered his brother. A ball from my rifle would avenge both him and me. There is Bolton, too, his shadow. Shall I fire? No-let him live his little hour out. Ride on, titled assassin!" 
                  The British column marching at quick time were soon out of sight by a turn of the road. 
                  "Are you sure that Glenville is guilty of the crime you charge him with?" asked Clarence, when the troops had passed. 
                  "Morally sure? yes-but for proofs-I have them not. The murdered baronet was rich, Ashley was poor. The infant heir was missing when the murder was discovered. But for the proofs of guilt found upon me, suspicion would inevitably have fastened upon him. True, the news of the murder found him at Paris. But then just about the time of the murder, as I have ascertained, he was absent from Paris. Could he not have returned secretly from France and done the deed? Or was it not done by an accomplice? I leaned to the former supposition, and I put it to the test. You have heard of the fortune-teller, Rudolph Zamora?" 
                  "Ay-often." 
                  "I was that fortune-teller. It was part of my business to probe Glenville's mystery and put him to the test. Having procured a likeness of Glenville and of Lady O'Halloran, with whom I knew he had intimate relations, an ingenious artist fashioned me two wax masks in their very image. By the aid of associate performers well instructed in their parts, I applied the same test to the suspected persons which Hamlet employed to 'catch the conscience' of the king. Both of the criminals betrayed themselves by their agitation." 
                  "But you spoke of the infant heir, Redland. What became of him?" 
                  "Murdered, doubtless. He has never been heard of. The first step in guilt taken, the second becomes easy. Murder begets murder. Yonder oppressors have shed innocent blood at Lexington-they will shed more yet at Concord." 
                  "But not with impunity," cried Grey, grasping his arms. 
                  "No! the country is rising. Every village-every hamlet for twenty miles about, will send forth ministers of vengeance. And we, Clarence-we-must forget our private griefs and private hopes, to do our duty in this day's work." 
                  And nobly they did. When, in the afternoon of that day, the tide had turned, and the troops that marched out in arrogant triumph, returned in headlong flight, Redland and Clarence, with hundreds of men as brave, hovered on their flank, and maintained an incessant fire on their decimated ranks. More than one regular bit the dust before Redland's deadly rifle. At last, their ammunition nearly exhausted, they were retiring to procure a fresh supply at the hut so long occupied by Redland, when a horse, running wildly at full speed, leaped the stone wall that bordered the road and came careering towards them. An armed, uniformed man was in the saddle. Grey had levelled his musket at him when Redland struck up the muzzle of his piece. 
                  "Don't shoot!" said he, "this is Paul Bolton. What ho!" he cried, placing himself before the rider, "yield yourself a prisoner!" 
                  "That voice!" said Bolton, reining in his horse. "Methinks I have heard it somewhere." 
                  "Yes-and you have seen me too, Bolton, though somewhat disguised." 
                  "Zamorn, the fortune-teller-as I live!" 
                  "I once assumed that name," said Redland, "when necessity required it; and I have borne others too. But there is no longer occasion for disguise. My real name is Julian Redland." 
                  Bolton started. 
                  "Julian Redland!" he repeated. "It was Julian Redland, steward of Sir Robert Glenville, who was sentenced to death for the murder of his master!" 
                  "A murder committed by his brother Ashley, as you well know, Bolton." 
                  "May the curse of Heaven light upon him!" cried Bolton. "Yes, he murdered his brother for his gold and title-and this day he would have slain me, the accomplice of his guilt. Listen! when at the base of yonder hill the fire of your men had thrown our column into the utmost confusion, a shot from the rear grazed my cheek. I knew it was no rebel shot-wheeling my horse instantly, I saw Sir Ashley Glenville returning his pistol to the holster." 
                  "But why did he seek to assassinate you?" asked Redland. 
                  "Why? I am his evil genius. I was his tool. And though he knows it not, I have the damning evidence of his guilt in my possession-he knows that if I choose to criminate myself, I can ruin him." 
                  "You have the proofs!" exclaimed Redland. "Then you must surrender them to me. My name must once more stand pure and unstained in the eyes of the world. We stand here two to one-and by the heaven above us, by fair means or foul, you shall give up the proofs of my innocence." 
                  "You are mad," answered Bolton. "Think you I carry documents of such priceless value about me? They are safe in Boston-but you shall have the proofs, I pledge my word of it." 
                  "Your word!" said Redland, with a scornful smile. 
                  "Ay," replied Bolton, proudly. "It was never broken to friend or foe. Now hear me. Some twenty years ago I was the leader of a gipsey band in England. Chance brought me into the neighborhood of Glenville Hall, and there we were encamped in the woods for weeks. One night the devil prompted me-I was always ambitious-to rise from petty pilfering to noble burglary. Knowing that the lord of the manor had some costly jewels belonging to his deceased wife in the hall, I thought it would pay to help myself to them. I was always a dare-devil fellow. I chose a dark night for the execution of my purpose. I approached the wing of the hall which the baronet occupied stealthily. Judge of my surprise when I found the window of his apartment open, and a ladder resting against the wall. I know not what strange impulse prompted me to ascend it and enter the chamber. I found the baronet weltering in his blood, but still alive. He shuddered as his eyes rested on me as if he feared further violence. A word from me reassured him. He laid his finger on his lips and pointed to an open door. I kneeled down beside him and asked him for an explanation. 
                  "He essayed to speak, but blood choked his Utterance. He pointed to the table on which were writing materials. I understood him. I brought them to him. With a desperate effort he grasped the pen, and on the page of paper which I held before him, he traced feebly, but legibly, a few words. 'I die assassinated. The murderer is my own brother Ashley. Save my child-my heir.' There were other expressions scarce legible. He signed his name-fell back and died. I concealed the paper, and hearing footsteps approaching effected my retreat. But I had not time to secure my escape-I was in the act of climbing the park palings, when I was seized. My captor was Ashley Glenville-the baronet's brother and his assassin. What passed between us will be remembered hereafter to my condemnation. He offered me gold-he tempted me by brilliant promises to aid him in carrying out his infernal schemes. The guilt was to be fastened on another-a child was to be got rid of. The wild life I had led-the impetuosity of my craving passions rendered me the easy tool of a desperate villain. Damning proofs of guilt were to be fastened on an innocent man. A knife bearing your initials, which you had left in the baronet's room, had been used as the instrument of murder. That was one link in the chain of evidence. Jewels, gold-while you were sleeping the sleep of innocence, were stealthily conveyed to your cottage, which I entered by false keys. From that house I stole the child-it was committed to my charge-I was to end its brief existence." 
                  "Villain!" cried Redland, raising his gun, "you murdered it." 
                  "No-I could not bring my mind to the shedding of infant blood, depraved as I was," continued Bolton. "I carried it to London, and left it at the gate of the foundling hospital." 
                  "I, too, was thus exposed in infancy," said Clarence, who had listened with the deepest interest to this narrative. 
                  "You!" exclaimed Bolton. "You were thus exposed!" 
                  "What if," said Redland, as a thought suddenly flashed upon his mind, "this young man to whom I seemed to be drawn by a mysterious influence-" 
                  "There is a likeness, certainly," said Bolton, eyeing Clarence closely. "I noticed it when I first beheld him-but I cared not to push inquiries further. I was too richly bribed by this villain. But that the child-the heir-might not be lost without some clue, I noted carefully its person. On the right shoulder it bore a tiny cross and star imprinted in the flesh." 
                  "You are right," said Redland. "My wife told me of this. It was a fancy of the baronet's. Speak, Clarence, have you that token on your person?" 
                  "I have," answered Grey, falteringly. 
                  "My poor master!" cried Redland. "Is it indeed your son and heir that I have unwittingly made my associate in a strange land and in a time of peril?" 
                  "The heir of Glenville," cried Bolton. "Lost and found! For God's sake-let me go! I shall know neither sleep nor peace till justice is done, and long years of guilt atoned for. The proof must be recovered." 
                  "I am bewildered at this discovery," said Clarence. "It seems like a strange dream." 
                  "It is no dream!" said Bolton. "And justice shall be done, though I dangle from the gallows for my share in the guilt." 
                  "Go-then!" cried Redland. "You are free. Remember that you owe life and liberty to me." 
                  "And forget not that I once saved you from an infuriated mob," said Clarence. 
                  "I forget nothing. I swore, to repay it one day-and I will. Farewell. You will hear of me at the Anchor Tavern in Ship Street. But how can we communicate now that the war has commenced?" 
                  "Where there's a will there's a way," answered Redland. "I would contrive to enter Boston though it were invested by a besieging army. Join your column-I wish I could give you a talisman against our marksmen." 
                  "Providence will save me for the sake of the atonement I purpose," answered Bolton. "Remember! the Anchor Tavern." 
                  He clapped spurs to his horse, leaped the wall, and dashed along the highway at frantic speed. 
                  "Poor Eleanor!" said Redland. "Her dream happiness is over." 
                  "It is just commencing," answered Clarence, with a smile. "Of what avail is my English parentage in times like these? I can never claim my property. And I am content to labor for a livelihood, if Eleanor but smile on me and fortune crown the arms of the provinces." 
                  "The foe is in full retreat," said Redland, grasping his hand. "The firing has almost ceased. Let us hasten to our poor tremblers at the homestead. And Heaven grant that Stanley may join us safe and sound, after this day's business." 
                  They hastened to the farm-house and were welcomed by its inmates with tears of joy. Before nightfall the circle was completed by the arrival of Stanley, accompanied by the faithful black. Tears were shed in many a late happy home that night over dear ones killed in battling for their country's right-tears, too, flowed in the farm-house for the woes of others, but the night closed with fervent thanksgivings to the God of mercies for the immunity that little circle shared. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XIX. 
                  THE BATTERY UNMASKED 
                  SOME days have passed since the events described in our last chapter. In the interim an event had occurred which may have been anticipated by those who have followed thus far the fortunes of our characters. Agatha O'Halloran was united to Sir Ashley Glenville. Not in private, not in presence of a few friends. They were married in the King's Chapel, before a glittering concourse of British officers and tory ladies and gentlemen. The British commander gave away the bride. And gloriously she looked in her splendid attire-the maturity of her beauty heightened by every adventitious aid. She affected no coyness-she neither blushed nor wept, but while she stood calmly before the altar there was a flash of triumph in her eyes, and her voice was calm and unfaltering she uttered the responses. Paul Bolton was present, and he noted with inward satisfaction that the bride-groom was pale and haggard, that his voice faltered and his hand trembled as he placed the ring upon the finger of the bride. 
                  "I could have broken off this match," he muttered to himself. "But it is better as it is. The blow will strike down two instead of one. That fiend in woman's shape coolly remorselessly sought my life-as he did. But I have them in my grasp; it is but tightening my fingers, and they are gone. They itch to be at work." 
                  Yet he planted himself in their way as they retired from church. Lady Glenville saw him, and though her cheek paled beneath its rouge, her eye flashed defiance and triumph in reply to his insolent glance. Sir Ashley caught his gaze-smiled faintly, and bowed. Bolton took no notice of the salutation. 
                  The next day he applied for admission at Sir Ashley's door-who had taken possession of the viscountess's house-but was not admitted, though the servant handed him a letter. It ran as follows: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "SIR:-The change in my circumstances compels me to drop many of my bachelor habits. The intimacy between us must now cease. I enclose you a draft for a thousand pounds. Regard this as a final settlement of our accounts. I counsel you to make the most of this, and to retire with it to some place on the continent of Europe, where you are unknown, and where that capital, with your own abilities, energetically exerted, will place you above want. 
                              
                                 GLENVILLE."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  Bolton contented himself with returning both the letter and the money in an envelope. 
                  It was the following afternoon, when Sir Ashley Glenville and his bride were seated in their drawing-room, that they were disturbed by a violent noise in the lower hall. A moment after wards the door was burst open, and Bolton walked in with flushed face and unsteady step, and slammed the door behind him. Both Sir Ashley and Lady Glenville started to their feet at this intrusion, and gazed upon Bolton, the former in alarm, the latter in indignation. The momentary silence was broken by Bolton. 
                  "How are you?" cried he, with a bitter smile. "No welcome for your friend? I came to wish you joy. I haven't yet shaken hands with you, Sir Ashley, nor saluted your bride." 
                  And he staggered towards Lady Glenville. 
                  "Stand back, sir!" said she, sternly; "do not dare to approach me." 
                  "O, very well, my lady. I am no loser by your anger. But, by your leave, I'll sit. It isn't the first time I've been here." 
                  And he threw himself upon the sofa. 
                  "Will you suffer this, Sir Ashley?" asked Lady Glenville, indignantly. 
                  "How comes it, sir," asked the baronet, mustering up resolution, "that you dare intrude yourself, after having been forbidden the house?" 
                  "O, I dare do anything, Sir Ashley," returned Bolton, "except murder, for wealth and rank!" 
                  "What do you mean?" 
                  "Nothing, nothing," answered Bolton. "I'm a strange, rattle-brained fellow, and talk half the time at random. I merely stepped in to have a quiet half hour's chat with you. Your fellow tried to stop me at the door, but I soon silenced him. I knew that Sir Ashley Glenville could never have given orders for the exclusion of his old and best friend. I knew the note you sent me the other day must have been a jest, and here I am." 
                  "I desire you to leave the house," said the baronet. 
                  "I will not leave it, Sir Ashley." 
                  "Then I shall employ force," said the baronet. 
                  "You had better not, Sir Ashley. I have been drinking, as you may perceive, and what with the fumes of the wine, and anger at insult, I might use language that you would not care to have stranger ears imbibe." 
                  "What shall I do?" half whispered Sir Ashley to his wife. 
                  "Grant what I ask-a few minutes' conversation," said Bolton. 
                  "If Sir Ashley takes my advice," said Lady Glenville, angrily, "he will not permit you to pollute this house a moment longer." 
                  "In-deed!" drawled Bolton, stretching himself at full length upon the sofa. 
                  "If you can endure this," said Lady Glenville to her husband, shedding tears of rage as she spoke, "I cannot;" and she hurried out of the room, slamming the door behind her. 
                  "Now then!" cried Bolton, springing up, locking the door and putting the key in his pocket, "we are alone." 
                  "What do you want?" cried Sir Ashley, springing to the bell-rope. 
                  "Halt!" shouted Bolton, drawing a pistol from his breast. "Lay a finger on that rope and you are a dead man." And he cocked the pistol and covered the baronet with the sight. 
                  Sir Ashley sank into a chair, shivering in every limb, his eyes glaring upon the intruder with an agonized expression of fear. 
                  "Do you mean to murder me?" he gasped between his chattering teeth. 
                  "Five days ago," said Bolton, still covering the cowering baronet with the pistol, "you discharged a weapon like this with the intention of killing me like a dog." 
                  "You-you are mistaken," faltered the baronet. "I never sought your life." 
                  "You lie, Sir Ashley Glenville," answered Bolton. "But fear not; only in an extreme case will I raise my hand against your life." And he let down the cock of the pistol, and returned the weapon to his breast. "It is not written that you are to die by my hand. That office belongs to the hangman." 
                  "Insolent!" 
                  "Silence! and hear me." 
                  "Hear me," said the baronet. "I offered you a thousand pounds the other day." 
                  "For what purpose?" 
                  "To purchase your absence." 
                  "I rejected it." 
                  "The sum was too small. Very well. Will twice the sum content you?" 
                  "No." 
                  "Five times?" 
                  "No." 
                  "Ten times-half my fortune?" 
                  "No, no, no! Gold has no longer any temptation for me." 
                  "What then?" 
                  "Vengeance!" 
                  "Vengeance! Paul Bolton, your threats are impotent, and you know that you are playing on my fears when you utter them." 
                  "Do I? You shall hear. I have been drinking, it is true; but my memory is unshaken. You cannot have forgotten how we first met?" 
                   
                  No; you came to commit a robbery." 
                  "Ay; and you, to do murder." 
                  "Villain!" cried the baronet, starting up. 
                  "Sit down!" said Bolton, imperiously, "and let me say my say. My designs were baffled-yours were not. When you laid your hand upon my shoulder, at the park gate-which neither of us can forget-that hand was red with blood. The steel of the assassin had slain his brother for that brother's gold!" 
                  "It is false," said Ashley; "false; you have no proof of the charge;" but he shuddered as he said it. 
                  "I have the strongest proof-proof that will consign you to the doom you merit-the dying declaration of your victim." 
                  "I believe it not," said Sir Ashley, desperately. "But if so, you are as deeply steeped in guilt as I am. For a paltry sum of money, you murdered my brother's child." 
                  "False! false as your hopes, Sir Ashley. I could not do the deed-that you commanded and paid for. The child, the rightful heir of Glenville, lives; and the same fatal paper that gives him rank and fortune, consigns you to the gallows." 
                  "It cannot be," gasped Sir Ashley; "it cannot be. You are an adept in fraud, and you have fabricated this tale to beggar me. Stay," he added, opening a drawer in his secretary. "Here are bills-gold-a set of diamonds, take them all, and only as an earnest, too. I am ready to make any sacrifice. You shall be a rich man; you shall roll in wealth; you shall command every luxury: take all; but leave me my ancestral name untarnished. Think of the honor of my house." 
                  "What do I care for the honor of great houses? What do I care for your honor? My secret might have died with me-but you sought my life; you proud piece of guilty flesh-she for whom you did the damning deed, attempted my life. Partners in guilt, you shall be partners in punishment, if there's Jaw in England or the province. We may not meet again, and I could not resist the temptation of witnessing your agony. Half my vengeance is achieved-but only half. Soon the proofs I speak of will be in the hands of justice. They have been a weary burthen to me." 
                  "Kill me, merciless villain! kill me, and end my misery," said the baronet, clasping his hands in supplication. 
                  "I will not kill you, because I am merciless," said Bolton, with a bitter smile. "Farewell; I leave you to your reflections." 
                  The last words, however, were uttered to a heedless auditor; Sir Ashley heard them not; his senses seemed to forsake him; his head sunk upon his breast, his eyes closed, his hands hung idly by his side. He knew not at what moment Bolton left him; but when a light hand was laid upon his shoulder, he sprang as if stung by a serpent. Looking up, he beheld Lady Glenville standing beside him, and he stretched out his hand to her, with a wan and weary smile upon his lips. 
                  "Agatha!" he murmured feebly. 
                  "Be a man!" said Lady Glenville, answering the weak pressure of his fingers with a firm grasp. 
                  "You know not-you know not what that man-that fiend, has been telling me, Agatha." 
                  "I heard every word, while guarding the door that no servant might approach it. The intoxicated ruffian took no pains to moderate his voice." 
                  "Then you heard him charge me with murder?" 
                  "I heard him distinctly." 
                  "And you heard me deny it?" 
                  "That was well." 
                  "And you believed my denial?" 
                  "What is past is past," said Lady Glenville, with ashen cheek. "You needed gold-there was but one way to procure it. When a life stood between me and my hopes, I removed the obstacle." 
                  "O, God! to strive to endure this burthen of remorse: to see by day and night a pale, denouncing spectre; to strive to utter words of prayer, and know them rejected. O, Agatha, Agatha, the weight is unsupportable." 
                  "Then go and make confession of your sin. You know the penalty. Indulge the vile rabble with the spectacle of a noble criminal undergoing the sentence of the law: hasten, or your accomplice will anticipate your movements." 
                  "Then you believe he has proofs, as he asserts?" 
                  "As surely as I do that yonder sun is shining in the sky." 
                  "Merciful Heaven!" 
                  "Heaven is not merciful. Let us defer as long as possible the hour of its certain vengeance." 
                  "Yes, yes, any respite, however obtained. But how to win it! You heard that he refused all bribes." 
                   
                  "Ashley," said Lady Glenville, "hear me. He has not yet denounced you. You have still time to act. This night at least is yours. Think you, suspecting this man, as I did, that I have let him pass unwatched? No! I have been acting while yon were dreaming. One of his haunts, where he goes to satisfy his base love of drink is the Anchor tavern, in Ship Street. I have seen the landlord-" 
                  "You, Agatha?" 
                  "Yes; there is nothing I would not stoop to for your sake. By dint of liberal pay and promises, and by hinting that this man was an object of suspicion to the British government, I made the landlord act as a vigilant spy upon all Bolton's actions. The other day he engaged a private room, and there had along conference with a stranger. The landlord concealed himself in the room and heard every word they said. Though they believed themselves quite alone, they spoke very guardedly. Bolton spoke of a paper he had, and appointed this evening to meet the stranger at an old house he occupies in Ann Street, of which I have the number. The meeting was fixed for nine o'clock this evening. The stranger was to gain admittance by tapping three times at the chamber door: and Bolton agreed to deliver a certain paper, which I persuaded the landlord was a proof of some treasonable conspiracy, but which my heart told me was something that more nearly concerned us." 
                  "Well, what can I do?" asked the agitated baronet. 
                  "Do? Go there before the appointed hour, and possess yourself of that paper, by fair means or foul." 
                  "But Bolton will be on his guard." 
                  "He will be incapable of resistance. You see that he has been drinking already. He is incapable of managing himself, however great the stake for which he is playing. He goes hence unerringly to the Anchor Tavern, and there the landlord will ply him with temptations that he cannot resist." 
                  "Agatha!" cried Sir Ashley," you have saved my honor-my honor! and if eternal gratitude and love-" 
                  "No protestations, Ashley. Leave them for the hour of success. This villain foiled-his proofs destroyed-we will fly to some happier land, where not an object will recall the past. I will teach you to stifle remorse as I have learned to stifle it myself. Courage; all will yet be well with you." 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XX. 
                  RETRIBUTION. 
                  BETWEEN half past seven and eight o'clock, that evening, Sir Ashley Glenville, disguised completely in a horseman's heavy cloak, and with a broad-leafed hat drawn down over his eyes-a costume made to resemble as closely as possible that which the landlord of the Anchor Tavern had described as the dress of Bolton's mysterious visitor, repaired to the house in Ann Street in which the object of his pursuit resided. Bolton's apartment was described as being a back room, the door of which opened from the head of the first flight of stairs. The street door stood ajar, and entering the house on tip-toe, Sir Ashley found himself in total darkness. Feeling for the stair-rail, he groped his way upward without making the slightest noise. Arrived at Bolton's door, he paused to reconnoitre. Looking through the key-hole, he saw the object of his search sitting listlessly by a table, on which burned low in its socket a single flickering candle. A bottle and glass and a broken pipe showed that he had been indulging in his old habits. There was a vacancy in the man's face, a dropping of the lids and a relaxation of the facial muscles, which led Sir Ashley to believe that he had nearly sacrificed his reason to his potations. Somewhat encouraged by these indications, he knocked three times at the door. At the first knock, Bolton attempted to rise from his chair, but he relinquished the effort, and waiting till the signal had been repeated, in a thick voice, bade his visitor enter. 
                  Sir Ashley availed himself of the invitation, and, not without some trepidation, found himself in the presence of his enemy. Bolton motioned him to a seat, and Sir Ashley drew a chair to the table, keeping his face in the shade. 
                  "Throw off your cloak, Mr. Redland," said Bolton, gazing with lack-lustre eyes at him, and speaking thickly and with great difficulty. 
                  "Excuse me," said the baronet; "I am cold." 
                  "Cold, cold!" ejaculated Bolton; "why, I'm on fire. Well, then, if you're cold, there's fire in that bottle; warm yourself. Fill up, man." 
                  Thinking it best to humor him, and perhaps requiring some stimulant, Sir Ashley obeyed the invitation, and swallowed a glass of the fiery liquor. 
                  "Now, then," he ventured to say, "to business." 
                  "Business!" muttered Bolton, pouring out a glass for himself, with an unsteady hand. "Who talks of business? Hang business. You're my guest. We'll make a night of it. I've got another-bottle-ay-who talks of business?" 
                  "But my time is precious." 
                  "What-you're afraid of the redcoats, eh? They'd never nose you out here. Come, be sociable ciable. Lay aside your hat and cloak. I want to see your face, old boy." And Bolton plucked across the table at Sir Ashley's hat. 
                  "Some other time, my good friend; I'm in a hurry now." 
                  "Hullo! your voice sounds queerly to-night, somehow or other!" 
                  "I have a bad cold," said Sir Ashley, assuming a husky voice. "I hardly know the sound of my own voice." 
                  "A cold! Then fill up again. 'Tis a sovereign remedy." 
                  "No, no; I can't drink any more." 
                  "Then sing! sing us a roaring song, while I drink for you. It's the regular forfeit, you know." 
                  "Mr. Bolton, the paper! the paper!" 
                  "Ay, that's safe enough, here," said Bolton, slapping his breast. 
                  "Are you sure?" 
                  "Quite sure. Don't that look like it?" 
                  With this he drew from his breast pocket a soiled page of paper, opened it and held it towards the light. The baronet shuddered as he saw the faltering characters traced by a hand whose blood he had congealed-a hand that had many a time clasped his own in token of brotherly affection. Yet he mastered his emotion, and stretching forth his hand, said: 
                  "Give it me-quick!" 
                  "Not so fast, comrade," said Bolton, restoring the paper to his pocket. "You can't use it, you know, at least just yet. You're a rebel, and young Clarence is a rebel-and everybody's a rebel but me. Hurrah for king George!" 
                  "Give me the paper; it is safer in my hands." 
                  "You mean to insinuate," stammered Bolton, "that I'm-incapable-of taking care of my property?" 
                  "The paper-the paper!" cried Sir Ashley, forgetting the caution he had all along observed. 
                  "Eh?" Zounds!" cried Bolton, starting up, and holding on by the table. "A spy in the camp! You're not Julian Redland. Who are you?" 
                  "You shall know, dog, soon enough!" cried Sir Ashley, throwing off his cloak and unsheathing the sword he wore under it. "Drunk as you are, you must know that I am desperate; and I will have that paper, if I kill you to obtain it." 
                  A sense of his danger partially sobered Bolton. As he saw the point of the baronet's sword glittering within an inch of his breast, he sprang back, and drew a pistol. 
                  "Look you, Sir Ashley," he said, with an oath; "I'm better armed than you are. Stand back, or I pull trigger!" 
                  At this moment three knocks were heard at the door. 
                  Come in," cried Bolton, backing as he spoke. Redland entered on the summons. 
                  Villain!" said he, confronting Sir Ashley, who cowered before his piercing gaze, "do I meet you face to face again? You, the destroyer of my reputation, my honor and my peace; you, who were the means of my cruel separation from the wife of my bosom. Why are you here?" 
                  "A deep game, Redland," growled Bolton. "He wanted to get possession of the evidence." 
                  "And you, too-drunk!" said Redland? reproachfully. 
                  "I'll keep my word, though," said Bolton. "Here, take the paper, and away with you." As he spoke, he handed the paper to Redland, keeping an eye? as he did so, on Sir Ashley's movements. 
                  "Kill me!" said the baronet, throwing himself on his knees. 
                  "Kill yourself, if you're tired of life," answered Bolton; "you have a weapon in your hand." 
                  Sir Ashley looked upon the cold steel and shuddered. Rising, he sheathed his sword and folded his arms upon his breast. 
                  "Take me, then," said he, gloomily. "I surrender myself." 
                  "I have no authority to arrest you," said Redland; "nor even, after all that has passed, do I thirst for your life. This paper will soon be in the hands of your wronged nephew. It is for him to avenge his father's death. Come, Bolton," said he, "you must go with me: you are incapable of taking care of yourself, and leave this bad man to his reflections." 
                  With these words, Redland, grasping Bolton firmly by the arm, left the chamber. For a moment the baronet entertained the insane project of rushing upon them on the staircase, and making one more desperate effort to regain the document on which his life and honor were staked. But he abandoned the wild idea, and after a half hour of agony passed in solitude, wended his way home, and recounted to his partner the failure of the project. 
                  Lady Glenville listened to the narrative, calmly, without a word of comment, until it was ended. 
                   
                  "You played bravely for the stake, Ashley," she said at length; 'but the fates were against you." 
                  "Do you see any hope?" asked Sir Ashley. 
                  "None," was the deliberate reply: "all is lost-happiness, honor, life." 
                  "I would have fallen on my sword, but I had not the courage." 
                  "It is a violent mode of suicide. And you should not have thought of dying away from me." 
                  "That will be my fate, Agatha," said the baronet, shuddering. "I must mount the scaffold alone." 
                  "Why choose that mode of death?" 
                  "What do you mean, Agatha? Choose! Is there an alternative?" 
                  "Perhaps. But you are weary. You need some refreshment," she said, soothingly. "Postpone all thoughts of this dismal affair till tomorrow. The soldier sleeps upon the eve of battle, the condemned criminal the night before his execution. You are not yet denounced. Lay aside your heavy cloak, and hat, and sword." 
                  A sudden thought flashed on Sir Ashley's mind. He rushed to the window that looked upon the street and tore open the shutters and the heavy curtains. The young moon gave light enough that evening to define objects out of doors with some distinctness. He saw two men in cloaks stationed on the opposite sidewalk and evidently watching the house. 
                  "Too late for flight!" he muttered, as he threw off his outer garment. 
                  Meanwhile Lady Glenville had brought from the buffet a decanter and two goblets. 
                  "Come, Ashley," said she, as she led him to a seat, "you will not refuse to drink a glass of wine with me." 
                  She filled the two goblets and presented one to her husband. Mechanically he raised it to his lips and drank off the contents, while she pledged him in the other glass. 
                  Exerting her utmost efforts to fascinate and divert his mind, Lady Glenville gradually, aided by the wine she forced upon his acceptance, won his thoughts from the contemplation of his fatal position. He seemed spell-bound, and obeyed a will stronger than his own. He spoke of happier days and other scenes; of foreign lands; of strange cities he had visited, with singular animation; though ever and anon he paused, and placed his hand upon his heart, while a shudder ran through his frame. At last his flow of thought and language ceased. 
                  "I am weary," he said; "yet it is too early to retire." 
                  "Lie down upon this sofa, Ashley," said Lady Glenville. "I will smooth the pillows for your head." 
                  He rose, tottered to the sofa, and reclined at length upon it. Lady Glenville placed herself on a cushion beside him, and taking his hand, rested her head upon his shoulder. 
                  The next morning, a servant girl, entering the parlor, started back on seeing her master stretched upon the sofa, while her mistress was sleeping beside him. She retired, and mentioned the circumstance to the other servants. Some hours passed away, and then the footman ventured to knock at the door. Receiving no answer, he entered the room. Sir Ashley and Lady Glenville had not stirred from the attitudes described by the housemaid. Throwing open the shutters, the man, alarmed, admitted the full light of day upon the scene. His master and mistress were both dead! 
                  The news spread like wildfire, and the excitement in the town was intense. When it was found that the wine, of which they had evidently partaken, was poisoned, suspicion fell upon the household, and the servants were arrested and examined; but not the slightest circumstance appeared to criminate them. The theory of suicide was then reluctantly admitted. But the motive? Long afterwards, when the public troubles were all over, and the colonies had been emancipated from the British yoke, the testimony of Paul Bolton, with the corroborative evidence he was able to adduce, vindicated the character of the steward, and stamping with guilt indelible the memory of Sir Ashley Glenville, explained the reason of his death. But none knew that when his resolution faltered, the guilty woman, who had pushed him on to the commission of crime, had with her own hands prepared the draught that sent them both to their final account-thus persistent to the last in evil-doing. 
                  The rightful Heir of Glenville, united to the fair Eleanor, visited England but once after the recognition of the independence of the colonies. With the avails of his inheritance he established himself in Lexington, where his wife's father and mother also took up their abode. Harry Stanley and his wife (Lucy Maywood that was) were frequent guests at the mansion-house, where he and Glenville, who had served with distinction throughout the war, fought their battles over again, to the great delight of their better halves. The immortal Julius Csar vibrated between the two establishments, and his stories about the surrender of "Burgwine" and Corn-wallis were none the less interesting because highly colored by his fertile imagination. 
                  It is pleasant to record the virtues of this happy circle, since we have been forced to dwell somewhat upon characters that exhibited the darker side of human nature. We should be glad to add that Paul Bolton became a reformed and penitent man; but truth compels us to say that he died a victim to his intemperate habits. We must find our consolation for his unhappy fate in the reflection that those of our characters who were true as steel and pure as gold, enjoyed at last the happiness they merited. 
                
             
             
                
               THE TORN ALMANAC:-OR,-CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE. 
               BY A MISSIONARY ON THE PRAIRIES. 
               THE prairie over which my road lay was just mingling its sea-like outlines with the purple haze of the horizon, and was becoming so indistinct to the vision that it might have been taken for the ocean in the twilight obscurity; while groups of oaks here and there looked like dark islands. A few stars had begun to tremble, and over the level expanse of prairie was visible the bright light of a blacksmith's shop, shining like a planet just risen. The path was lonely, and as lonely I felt in my saddle as I had once before felt in an open boat at night on the star-lit sea. 
               My pony quickened her pace as she saw the light, and after a mile's smart riding I could see the outline of a low roof on the verge of a little wood, just where the prairie bended towards the river. 
               At this moment two persons drew near on horseback, coming towards me. They were a young man and young woman, and were conversing in low tones. The girl was mounted upon a large white horse, and her companion rode a handsomely-formed mule. 
               "Good evening, sir," said he, in a cheerful tone, as we met each other. 
               There was not light enough for me to see their features, but there was an indescribable air about the female that convinced me she was very fair. As they went on I heard them talking and laughing, and more than once the sweet, clear laugh of the girl reached my ears. 
               "Lovers, I dare say," I said, in my thoughts, "and are going to the next plantation." 
               This I had passed about four miles back across the prairie; and besides the planter's house were a woodman's hut, a rude country meeting-house in the trees, and one or two residences of neighbors; a prairie hamlet. 
               In a few minutes I reached the blacksmith's open door. The fire was not now blazing, but going down, and Wat Cameron, the young smith, was walking up and down his shop with a hasty and angry step; and the gleaming coals of his furnace cast a wild glare upon an angry brow. 
               He was so absorbed in his own gloomy thoughts that I approached unheard, and heard him mutter, "They shall never see the day!" 
               At this moment the footfall of my pony rung against a fragment of iron on the ground, and he looked quickly up. 
               "Who's there?" he demanded, almost fiercely. 
               "It is me, Cameron," I answered; for I was known to him, having only the week before had my pony shod by him on my way up, and twice lodged at his neat little cabin near his shop, for the blacksmith entertained belated travellers with such accommodation and fare as he had, though, being a young bachelor, his housekeeping was rather of the border sort; but as he was a good huntsman, and game was plenty, venison and wild turkey were seldom wanting at his board. 
               Cameron's father had been an old Indian fighter, and after the wars had settled in a rough, unthrifty kind of way upon a body of rich land bordering the prairie; but what with his own free habits, and the wild life of his son Watkins, in dissipating every few weeks at the river town of Aberdeen, fifteen or eighteen miles distant, there remained but a few acres after the old man's death, which took place at a shooting-match over the creek, for having lost at every shot, and enraged by drink, he quarrelled with the winner, and was only prevented from killing him dead with his rifle by the quick eye and hand of the other, who fired half a second before him. Wat, his son, was absent at the time, but on his return took up the feud, and not being able to kill his father's murderer, quarrelled with his son, a fine, cheerful, brave young fellow, and not being able to provoke him to hostilities, one day fired at him as he passed his shop, but missing him killed his horse. 
               "Well, Wat," said the young man, quietly, as he disengaged himself from the saddle, "I hope you will let my mare go as an offset to the old man. I could not well afford to lose her, but let it stop here and be even-tie." 
               Cameron made no reply, but sullenly dropping his rifle into the hollow of his arm, he passed through his shop and out into the woods. 
               This occurred two years prior to the evening on which I drew rein at Cameron's door. In the interim, within a few months past, the daughter of a farmer, in good circumstances, who had been to one of the lower counties to school for four years, returned in all the bloom and grace and intelligence of a sprightly young lady, and was soon recognized as the belle of the prairies. Cameron, who was himself a tall, good-looking fellow, with a bright black eye and jet hair, first saw her as one day she rode by with her father, both on horseback. He stopped to speak with Cameron about a plough, and the daughter, being introduced, the young smith was instantly bewildered by her beauty, at the same time annoyed at the cold and scarcely recognizing nod whereby she acknowledged his deferential bow. 
               In that country, aristocracy of occupation is wholly unknown, and a young blacksmith of good character could sit an equal at the cotton grower's table. Among country people, labor and mechanical employment does not degrade. "A man is a man for a' that." 
               Paul Randolph, at whom Cameron had shot, was a small planter, but on his road-side he carried on a wheelwright's trade also; so the young men were on equal social footing. A few days passed and Watkins Cameron resolved to make some errand to the house of the prairie beauty, for he had done nothing else but think of her, and dream of her, and build palaces of the imagination, in which she was to reign the queen. 
               Mounted upon a fine horse, and dressed in his best apparel, Cameron alighted at the gate one Sunday evening, and was received by the farmer with a cordial shake of the hand. The young lady, Katherine Deerfield, or "Kate," as she was termed, did not recognize in the well-dressed and handsome young wooer the blacksmith in his shirt sleeves and leather apron, and received him with a grace and civility that greatly flattered him. She had not heard his name distinctly, but half an hour afterwards when it was spoken by her father, a change immediately came over her face, and coldness and reserve took the place of her previous frankness. It was too apparent to Cameron not to be felt, and without being able to divine the cause, he vainly tried to converse with her, but finding her answers brief and repelling, he arose, deeply mortified and vexed, and took his leave, haughtily and angrily bowing to her. 
               He galloped homeward across the prairies in a rage. His horse was white with foam, and panting as if he had run a race, when he drew rein at his own door. 
               "Proud minx! she scorns the blacksmith!" he muttered, as he entered his cabin. "I will humble her! She did not know me at first, it seems. So, perhaps she has an admirer, and can do without me. Whoever it is, we are foes to the knife-hilt!" 
               Not many days afterwards, Cameron's suspicions cions were confirmed. Kate Deerfield had an admirer, and he was none other than Paul Randolph, a man he loved not well. From the hour this intelligence reached, him he became gloomy, sullen and unsocial. He kept his secret in his heart, but those who had occasion to go to his shop were heard to say that, "Wat would do his work, but never a civil word gave he to any comer, high or low." 
               It was not the mere "blacksmith" that Katherine treated coldly on the Sunday evening we have before alluded to, but the assassin, the man who had fired, with intent to kill, at Paul Randolph-for Paul was already received as her admirer before the visit of Watkins-and her frank, generous nature led her to show at once her contempt of a man of a spirit and temper like that exhibited in Cameron's character. 
               There was also another lover; a young merchant of the next village, who pretended business with her father in order to make suit to the daughter; but she had but one heart, and it was given to Paul, who had been her "lover" when both were children, and before she left her father's roof to go to the boarding-school from which she had returned the beauty of the prairies. All the young men, to be sure, who saw her at the country church, fell in love with her, and she was more talked of and visited than any other maiden of the prairies. She was attractive by her amiable temper, beauty of features, goodness of heart, intelligence and fine spirits. She was so agreeable to all (save Cameron) that every youth fancied that himself was the only one favored with her sweetest and most winning smile. Yet Kate was not a flirt. Her good nature made it hard for her to treat with coldness any one who sought her society. Her whole heart was Paul's; but her smiles were like the sunshine, dispensed to all within her influence. Being an only child, she was an heiress for that part of the world, and probably would bring a "fortune" of fifteen thousand dollars to the successful suitor for her hand. But the young men thought only of her beautiful face; and Paul had not a selfish feeling in his heart. Cameron's motives were not apparent; but the young merchant evidently had an eye to the fifteen thousand dollars and "enlarging his business;" at least that was whispered, for he was a parsimonious and "hard man." 
               Having thus initiated the reader into the antecedents of the parties to my narrative, I will now resume the thread of the story which I have to tell. 
               Upon alighting at the shop of the blacksmith, he said in a growling and very disagreeable way: "You had better go on! I don't want any travellers in my house to night." 
               "I have ridden hard to reach here, Mr. Cameron, and can go no further, as it is ten miles to the next place that entertains people; and the rain storm, now rising in the west, will be upon me before I go three miles." 
               The man looked at me steadily a moment, and then said, sharply: 
               "Alight! But I have no supper." 
               "It matters not so I have shelter," was my cheerful reply, as I led my horse through his shop towards a small stable in the rear, where my pony had lodged before, when the master of the place was in better humor than he seemed to be now. I found his own horse there with his foot bound up, and very lame. 
               "You met a couple of people riding across the prairie?" he said, as I came back and was asking him about his horse's lameness. 
               "Yes." 
               "Did you know them?" 
               "No. They were a young man and woman." 
               "Were they riding fast?" 
               "No; at a walk." 
               "Yes," he muttered, "they will take their time! They will not hurry! Lovers love to dally!" 
               "Who were they, Cameron?" 
               How should I know? It was dark when they went past here," he answered, with a rude and savage tone. "But go in-go in! I will see after your horse!" 
               Thus speaking, he led the way at a quick step into the small log dwelling that stood in the yard next to his shop. The house consisted of two rooms only, plainly furnished. In one of the rooms were three beds. As I was to have no supper, and as there was no light but that of the stars, I had no notion in sitting up; and being fatigued with a long day's ride, I at once went to bed, while he went out, closing the door, and saying: 
               "Don't feel uneasy about your horse. I will feed her well, though I have got nothing for you." 
               I soon fell asleep on one of the narrow mattresses filled with pine-leaf stuffing; but I was suddenly awakened by I know not what startling dream-for though I found myself sitting up in bed, I could not recall any part of the dream that must have made me wake so singularly. All was quiet; but the room was at intervals illumined by vivid lightning, and I heard distinct peals of sharp thunder. The flashes soon became so incessant that I could not sleep, and the thunder drew nearer and grew heavier, so that the house trembled. I looked at my watch by a flash of lightning, and saw that it was but half past eight o'clock. I had not been in bed therefore three quarters of an hour. I got up and dressed, and finding a pine knot, lighted it by a match from a box that I always carried in my saddle-bags. I then took from them a book, and began to read. The wind now began to be heard, and desirous that my pony should be well sheltered from the gathering storm, I went to open the outer door to go out, but found it fast on the other side. Cameron was not in his bed, and had evidently locked me in without thought. Finding that I could not open the door, I raised a window and stepped out, but had no sooner touched the ground than two large dogs sprung towards me ferociously and compelled me to regain the window for safety. It soon commenced raining in torrents, and I continued quietly to read by my pine knot, supposing that Cameron might be in his shop doing some late work, though I had heard neither the sound of hammering iron nor the ring of anvil. 
               I read for an hour and a half, and the storm having gone over, the thunder ceased, and the skies bright with stars, I yielded to a returning disposition to sleep, and was about to go into the room where my bed was when I heard a fast galloping along the prairie road towards the shop. I looked out through the low window and saw a man throw himself at a leap from a white horse, and disappear with it round the angle of the shop. In the obscurity I could not tell who it was, but I thought the horse, being white and small, looked very much like mine; that is, I did not expect it to be mine, but I thought of my pony when I saw it. In a few seconds I heard Cameron's horse neigh, as if another horse had joined him in the stable. 
               "It is some wet rider who has been out in the storm," I said, mentally; "and I will make up a fire for him;" and adding a few pieces of fat pine to my blazing knot, I kindled a bright fire in a moment upon the hearth. I had hardly done so, when I heard a quick tread on the gallery, the door was unlocked and flew open, and Cameron entered. 
               His appearance startled me. His face wore an expression unlike that I had ever seen on human features; his eyes were fiery, and his whole figure looked as inspired with a demon. 
               "What are you up for?" 
               "The rain would not let me sleep, Cameron," I answered. "Here is a fire to dry you; I see you are wet through." 
               "Dry me! How do you know I hare been out?" he asked, furiously. "Have you been watching me, you confounded spy?" and he advanced, as if he would seize me by the throat. 
               "No, Mr. Cameron, I have not been out. You locked me in too securely for that," said I, smiling. 
               "Then you tried to get out, hey?" and his clenched fists approached my face, and as they did so, I saw that the shirt wristband of one hand was red with blood. 
               The idea instantly occurred to me that he had been fighting with some one, and hence this blood, his rage, and angry appearance. 
               "I was going out to see that my pony was well sheltered from the storm." 
               "You were, hey?" he said, with an indescribable evil look. "You have not been out, then?" he said, in a more calm tone. 
               "No." 
               "Well, it is good you did not, for my dogs would have torn you to pieces! That is the reason I locked you in-for your safety, you see!" and he tried to laugh, but the effort produced the glare of a devil's smile. 
               His language, his violent manner, the wild-ness of his disordered appearance, made a disagreeable agreeable impression upon me. I thought it best to be silent and retire at once-especially when I saw him take a bottle from his cupboard, and pour out a tumbler-full of whiskey, and drink it down. He made no objections to my retiring, and in order not to be intruded upon by him in the night I locked my door. For an hour or more I heard him walking up and down the floor, talking incoherently, and sometimes breaking forth into the most appalling curses. 
               Suddenly a horseman hailed the house from the road. He started, and I heard him cock his rifle before he opened the window to reply. 
               "Can I lodge here to-night?" asked the traveller, in a shrill, thin voice. 
               "No. Don't open my doors for anybody after dark. All in bed; been in bed since sunset! Nobody goes out or in after night on these premises. Ride on. Aint you Mr. Bassett?" 
               "Yes," said the shrill voice. "I've hurt myself by falling." 
               "Then be off, or I'll set my bloodhounds on you!" 
               The man was heard to gallop forward in haste, and Cameron, shutting the window, muttered audibly: 
               "Miserable shop-keeper! He dare to look that way! Let him go on and get her to bind up his hurts! He'll find a night's lodging there! Go-Satan sent him this way!" 
               I heard nothing more. Sleep overcame me. In the morning I was roused by his hoarse voice: 
               "Come, get up, stranger! It is time you were travelling." 
               In a quarter of an hour I was in my saddle, and on my way towards the town. Cameron had saddled my pony for me, and brought it to the door as if wishing to see me off. The money I offered him for my lodging he refused with a curse; but as I was moving off he said, fixing his eyes upon my face: 
               "You know I was at home all night-remember it, will you?" he added, in a menacing way, that surprised me. "If any one asks you if you met Bassett the traveller, you can tell him he passed by here last night, riding across the prairie on his way to Deerfield's." 
               About noon I reached town, and had forgotten by the next morning my stormy night at Cameron's, when I was told by one whom I met in the street, that Katherine Deerfield had been found murdered on the prairie, a mile from her father's house, and that Paul Randolph had been arrested as the murderer. The intelligence filled me with surprise and horror. A short time before I had passed the two riding home ward, both in the liveliest spirits; and now to hear that one was murdered and the other a murderer, almost petrified me with surprise. 
               Upon particular inquiry, I learned that Paul's horse had come galloping up to the house of farmer Deerfield in the midst of the storm, a sight which alarmed the family, and immediately Mr. Deerfield and two of his servants started to see what had become of Paul and his daughter, whom he was expecting under his escort. Half a mile from the house they met Paul on foot. He was in a state of the wildest excitement, and immediately reported that about half an hour before, as he and Kate were riding along within a mile of home, and were about to quicken their pace to escape the storm, a horseman, mounted on a small white animal, rode rapidly up, passed them by a wide sweep in the prairie, and then meeting them, raised a rifle and fired at him. That he was wounded in the hand, and dropping the rein, his horse startled by the shot, leaped and cast him headlong upon the ground. 
               "In a moment," said Paul, "I was upon my feet, only to see the assassin with the rein of Kate's horse in his grasp, and riding off with her at full speed straight out into the open prairie. My horse was gone, and although I pursued they were soon lost to view in the obscurity. I still held on in pursuit, when in a different direction I heard a shriek afar off, and the report of a gun or pistol. Bewildered, faint from bleeding, and not knowing in what direction to seek her, I made my way hither to give the alarm and get horses to recover your daughter." 
                
               This was the account given by Paul. Mr. Deerfield having without delay mounted Paul on one of the servant's horses, and sent him back to call others to assist in the pursuit, the party rode swiftly in the direction in which Paul had heard the second shot and the shriek. The father and lover were intensely excited. But few words were spoken as they dashed onward at the highest speed of their horses. When they reached the place about where the shriek had been heard, they shouted and called the maiden by name; but there was no sound heard in response. Almost beside themselves with their suspense and the danger surrounding her, they rode rapidly in various directions across the prairie, at intervals calling, and then listening. 
               Suddenly they heard a distant neighing, and galloped precipitately in the direction whence it came. They had not ridden a quarter of a mile, when they discovered a dark object on the open field, and drawing near they saw that it was a horse. In a moment they were at its side. 
               "My daughter's horse!" cried the father, with emotion. "Now, where is my child?" 
               "What is that upon the ground?" exclaimed Paul. 
               Both discovered the object at the same instant, and both sprung to the ground. By the star light they could see that it was a female form. Paul and the father rushed forward. They stopped, and recognized Katherine Deerfield! Her pulse was still!-her heart cold! Her bosom was wet with blood. She had been shot through the heart! 
               We draw a veil over this scene of grief and horror; the father's anguish, the lover's grief and rage, pen and ink cannot express. 
               They took her up and laid her lifeless form upon her horse, and walking beside it bore her to her home. 
               It would be impossible to describe the feeling which agitated the neighborhood when the sad news flew from ear to ear. The house was thronged all the next morning. The lovely dead girl was robed in white and laid in the hall, and all eyes that gazed wept; and none more free than those of the numerous young men, who, hearing of her murder, had come to see her, and learn the dreadful particulars. Among the visitors was Watkins Cameron, carefully dressed, and full of condolence; nor did he fail to lay great stress upon the fact that he had seen her pass the evening before with Paul Randolph, just before the storm. 
               In the absence of any definite direction in which to look for the author of such a murder, it was easy for envy and jealousy to think of and speak of this fact, till at length the suspicion so grew that the young lover, who was overwhelmed with grief, and had sought the private apartment of the house to weep with the father, was intruded upon and arrested, charged with the murder. His amazement made him dumb, and his silence and confusion were construed into positive guilt. 
               At length the day of trial came. The court was crowded to suffocation, for the whole county was deeply interested. Paul had been kept in prison. He was in good cheer, save the sorrow that the cruel death of her he loved caused to weigh down his heart. Singularly enough, no suspicion had been directed towards Cameron, except by me-for in the moment I heard of the murder, I said in my heart, "Cameron is the murderer." And when I afterwards recalled carefully all the circumstances of the night I spent beneath his roof, and his strange words and conduct, then, so unaccountable, I was as well convinced of the deed being done by his hand, as if I had been an eye-witness. 
               He, himself, influenced by the suspicion that always is attached to guilt, and fearing lest Paul might clear himself, had talked a great deal about Bassett's having crossed the prairie. And so frequently did he speak of it, that those friends of Paul, who disbelieved his guilt, suspected Bassett the trader to be the guilty person-for they knew he had been rejected by the maiden, and therefore might have a motive in avenging himself. Therefore there were two parties suspected by the public, but Paul was the only one under arrest. 
               But Bassett, hearing of the suspicion, proved by two gentlemen that they had overtaken and joined him at the smith's, and that they had kept on together in the storm and reached Okolena, and put up at the same inn, an alibi to which the innkeeper bore testimony. This fact being established, Paul was regarded as the guilty man; even his friends were beginning to falter in their confidence, believing him to have been the murderer, actuated to the deed by some unaccountable impulse of jealousy. It was easy for his accusers to account for the wound in his hand by charging him with inflicting it upon himself to give color to the deed he had done. On this circumstantial evidence, Paul, after suffering two months' imprisonment, was arraigned to answer for life or death. 
               The trial continued to the afternoon of the second day, and every step seemed to fasten the guilt of murder upon the lover, who had been last seen with her. I was in court, also, having been summoned as a witness to state what I heard and saw when I met them on the prairie. But had I not been summoned I should have been present from another motive, as the sequel will explain. The prosecution on the part of the State having got through with its part of the evidence, all of which was purely circumstantial, but which seemed to carry full conviction to the minds of the court and spectators of the guilt of the prisoner, Paul's counsel now took up the line of defence on the part of his client. He spoke eloquently of the excellent character of the accused, of the well-known attachment existing between him and Miss Deerfield. He stated that the marriage was soon to have taken place, and the idea that a sudden quarrel, as suggested by the plaintiff, while they rode along in lively humor, could not have ended in such a tragical and dreadful way. The murderer must be looked for otherwise! Were there no motives which could lead any person to do the deed? Had she never given mortal offence to any young man? Lovers rejected are more likely to be enemies to a maiden, than a lover accepted-a husband betrothed and on the eve of marriage. Had the deceased Miss Deerfield offended any one? Young men of honor and right feeling do not harbor malice because a young girl expresses her choice of another. But there are unprincipled and heady young fellows who hate where before they admired! The records of criminal courts contain many reports of trials where lovers rejected have in revenge taken the life of the rejector of their suit, especially when another has been preferred. The circumstances connected with the late murder show that it was a twofold murder in intention. It looked like a discarded lover's vengeance, for he first attempted the life of her wooer, and then destroyed her! Who in this community was likely, from what is known of his antecedents, to have been a revengeful lover? Who has been heard to use vindictive language against both the deceased and the prisoner at the bar? Who is well known to have been rejected by her, and also to have been long an enemy to the defendant-nay, once attempted his life? I see that some eyes turn towards my friend, Mr. Bassett, but public opinion, as well as his examination before a justice, has showed that he had no part in this deed. (Glances, not a few, were also directed towards Cameron, who was in court.) But he would bring forward his testimony, and keep them no longer in suspense. 
               The counsel for the defendant then called in succession four witnesses, young men, all of whom testified that at various times, and more than once, they had heard Watkins Cameron utter oaths, when in his cups, against Paul Randolph and Katherine Deerfield. One testified that he hoped that some good rifle would put a ball through his head before he married her! Another testified that he had said that he would rather see her drowned in the Red Sea before she should marry a man that he hated as he did Paul Randolph. A third testified that one day he was in Cameron's shop, and saw him running bullets, as he said, to kill deer; but taking up one of the bullets that had burned him, he showed it to witness and said, "That he would be a happy man to see that bullet go through Paul Randolph's heart!" A fourth, among other testimony, gave evidence that he was having his horse shod one day by Cameron, when Mr. Deerfield and his daughter rode past. "There goes a girl I will either marry or murder!" said Cameron, who was then somewhat under the influence of drink. 
               The eyes of the court were by this time fixed upon the young blacksmith, who sat with a stern face and iron brow, not moving a muscle, endeavoring to appear wholly unconscious and indifferent. But a volcano of rage burned beneath his bosom. 
               This testimony, however, did not weigh against the fact that Paul was last seen with her, and that blood was on his hand. My testimony was at length called for, and under oath I gave a detailed account of the events of the night passed by me at Cameron's house. I was closely and fiercely cross-questioned, but the testimony remained the same. The court and audience at the conclusion of it were evidently as clearly convinced of the guilt of Cameron as I had beer from the hour I heard of that night's deed of blood. Paul's friends began to smile on him as a general reaction of opinion was rapidly taking place in the court room, when Cameron rose, and in the most violent and indescribable manner, denied all I had said, with terrible oaths and execrations, and was beginning to charge me with not having reached his house until after the storm, and that if Paul Randolph was not the murderer of the girl, I was. 
               At length the court compelled him to be silent and sit down; but he had to be held in his sea by two constables, as he foamed and writhed like a chained tiger, and swore he would have my blood and the life of every witness who had testified against him. 
               A complete revulsion was now effected. But, though suspicion had now a new object, yet the prisoner had not been able to prove his innocence. The strongest efforts were made by the attorney for the prosecution-as if his own honor and credit depended on hanging the prisoner at the bar-to turn the tide again against Paul. The court seemed to be dividing and hesitating, when the counsel for the prisoner called up another witness. It was Bassett, the trader. He testified that after leaving the blacksmith's shop, on being refused shelter, and being soon afterwards overtaken by the two travellers, they rode on rapidly together, putting their horses to canter to get shelter from the storm as soon as could be. About a mile before reaching Deerfield's house, he said that seeing something whitish on the black ground of the prairie, he thought it looked like a dollar, and he stopped and got down to see. But it was a piece of paper, and as he thought it might possibly be a bank note-he could not well see-he put it into his waistcoat pocket to examine it when he should get to light, for he never passed any pieces of paper without looking at them. (Here there was a slight smile observed on the faces of some who knew the trader's parsimony and love for money.) 
               "I was not a minute behind my companions; nay, as was proved before at the justice's court, one of them stopped with me to see what I got down for. The next morning I had forgotten the paper, and thought no more of it until I heard that a murder had been committed on the prairies. This reminded me of what I had picked up, and looking at it I saw that it was crumpled and burnt with powder, and was a piece of an almanac. It also had a part of a name on it." 
               Here a visible start made by Cameron drew the eyes of many towards him, and they saw that he was pale as death. 
               "I showed the paper to no one for I had my own thoughts, but went with it directly to the counsel, who I heard had been engaged by the prisoner at the bar, and placed it in hit hand, as I thought it might lead to the discovery of the person who fired the shot. Upon going with the lawyer to the place where I picked it up, I found that it was where Paul Randolph had said he had been shot. After consultation with the lawyer and sheriff we took an opportunity when we knew Cameron was in town, to ride out to his house, for the words written on the piece of wadding were 'MERON.' This was, of course, guide enough for our surmises. We entered the house and found hanging above his mantel-piece, an almanac, on the back of which was written 'WATKINS CA,' and putting the pieces together we found that they matched perfectly, both as to the writing and the printed parts, which had been torn. There was also another portion torn out which we then knew nothing of!" 
               A murmur mingled with excitement now ran through the court room. There was not a human eye that Cameron was not the abhorrent object of. He hung his head, with all his bravery; and when Paul's counsel, taking from his pocket-book the torn almanac, and held it up and placed the piece where it belonged, the excitement in the court-room was so great that the sheriff had to aid the bench in calling the multitude to order. 
               It was now objected that though it could be proven that it was Cameron who fired at and wounded Randolph, this was an old feud, and could have nothing to do with the death of the young girl; that her murder was quite another and distinct affair, and was not of necessity committed by the one who fired at Paul Randolph. This argument, however, was silenced by the production of Dr. Charles M-, as a witness for the defendant. His testimony was that he had extracted the ball, which had been proved to fit Cameron's bullet-mould exactly. (And here the bullet was exhibited to the court, and shown to fit the mould.) In opposition to this evidence it was suggested by the prosecuting attorney that another person might have got possession of one of those bullets; that a ball from Cameron's bullet-mould might have been fired from the prisoner's gun. 
               But the counsel for the prisoner was not yet defeated. The coroner was called by him to the stand and testified that he had taken from the dress, near the wound, the wadding of the gun, and that he had kept it, as likely to be of use in the trial; that he had seen the torn almanac, and that it proved to be the other part which had been torn off. Here the wadding was produced. It fitted the second page of the almanac letter to letter! 
               "What need of further witness?" cried the counsel for the prisoner. And turning to the jury, he said: "Is the prisoner at the bar guilty or not guilty?" 
               Before the court could interpose to check this irregularity, the jury rose and shouted: 
               "Not guilty!" 
               "Not guilty!" cried the people, with loud enthusiasm; and while some rushed towards Paul, who was almost overcome with surprise and joy, others made a leap towards Watkins Cameron, who was desperately trying to reach an open window to make his escape. 
               In vain the call of the court to order! In vain the struggles of the blacksmith! He was seized by a dozen infuriated hands, and cries of "Lynch him! hang him to the next tree!" rung through the court house. 
               In a moment he was dragged out through the front door, followed by half the people, whose rage and vengeance were as irresistible as a stormy sea breaking its bounds. Paul's friends gathered about him with the deepest joy. The court was broken up, rather than adjourned, and for a few moments congratulations, mingled with execrations against Cameron, prevailed. 
               Suddenly there was a cry outside that they were hanging the blacksmith! A rush was made for the door! The judge shouted for order, and to the sheriff and officers to arrest the man, and hold him in custody for a fair trial. But their voices might as well have been thrown at the ears of a whirlwind! In an incredibly short space of time the mob, consisting mostly of young men, excited by ungovernable rage, had taken a rope from a horse, tied by it to a tree, and slipped it in a noose around the wretched man's neck, who implored, and begged, and entreated, and finally shrieked for mercy. Heedless of his cries and terrors, they knew neither mercy nor compassion. 
               "You would have hanged Paul Randolph, you double assassin!" cried one. "Hang now yourself!" 
               "You showed no mercy to her! You have none from us! All ready there, men?" cried another. 
               "All ready!" was the response from a dozen. 
               "Up with him, then!" 
               In an instant he was raised off the ground by the line, strongly run within the hands of some of his executioners, and his cries for mercy-for time to say a prayer-were suffocated in his throat. A loud shout of revenge accomplished filled the air as he swung between earth and heaven. In a few moments the body ceased to struggle, and hung dead from the limb. 
               Leaving the blackened corpse to swing in the night wind, the crowd escorted Paul to his house with mad rejoicings. 
               Thus terminated one of the most extraordinary trials, and the most fearful tragedy, that the southwest country has known. It occurred many years ago, and illustrates a case of circumstantial evidence against circumstantial evidence such as seldom occurs in the history of criminal trials. The proceedings in the courts of that day were not marked exactly with that regularity of progress and order of taking evidence which would have pleased Chief Justice Hale; but these things are now improved and the courts of this region are at the present time conducted by the same rules that distinguish those in the older portions of the Union. Lynching is also abated, and the authority of the law is everywhere respected and recognized. 
               THE END. 
             
         
       
       
          
             
            CHEAPEST MAGAZINE IN THE WORLD! 
            FOR EYERY DOMESTIC HEARTH. 
            NORTH OR SOUTH, EAST OR WEST. 
            BALLOU'S DOLLAR MONTHLY MAGAZINE. 
            THIS work, the cheapest which has ever been offered to the public, contains one hundred pages of reading matter in each number, forming two volumes each year of six hundred royal octavo pages, or TWELVE HUNDRED PAGES of reading matter yearly, being more than any of the Philadelphia three dollar magazines, for ONE DOLLAR. 
            As the proprietor is resolved to furnish good and interesting reading for the million, at a price which all can afford. 
            BALLOU'S DOLLAR MONTHLY is filled with entertaining and popular stories, by our best writers, with sketches, poems, scraps of wit and humor, and a miscellaneous compound of the notable events of the times in both hemispheres, forming an agreeable fireside companion. 
            Each number is elegantly printed on clear new type and fine paper, and is enriched by  
                  TALES, 
                  BIOGRAPHIES, 
                  HUMOROUS SKETCHES, 
                  POEMS, 
                  MISCELLANY, 
                  NEWS, 
                  WIT AND HUMOR. 
               
             
            Forming ONE HUNDRED PAGES in each number, of delightful reading matter, and making at the close of each year, TWO SPLENDID VOLUMES, richly worth binding, the cost of which is ONE DOLLAR! 
            Any person enclosing ONE DOLLAR to the proprietor, as below, shall receive the Magazine for one year. Any person sending a club of TWENTY shall receive a gratis copy. 
            FOR SALE AT ALL THE PERIODICAL DEPOTS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY, FOR TEN CENTS THE COPY. 
            M. M. BALLOU, PUBLISHER AND PROPRIETOR, CORNER OF TREMONT AND BROMFIELD STREETS, BOSTON. 
          
          
             
            NEW WORKS JUST PUBLISHED BY SAMUEL FRENCH 
            No. 121 NASSAU STREET, NEW YORK, 
            And for sale at all the Periodical Depots in the United States and the Canadas. 
             
               WHOLESALE AGENTS. 
               WM. V. SPENCER, 128 Washington Street, corner of Water Street, Boston. 
               A. WINCH, 116 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. 
               HENEY TAYLOR, 111 Baltimore Street, Baltimore. 
               J. A. ROYS. 43 Woodward Avenue, Detroit. 
               E. K. WOODWARD, Corner Fourth & Chesnut Streets, St. Louis. 
               W. W. DANENHOWER, 123 Lake Street, Chicago, III. 
               W. W. SHAW, Cleveland, Ohio. 
               C. P. KIMBALL, Long Wharf, San Francisco, California. 
             
             
               The Sea-Witch: or, The African Quadroon. By Lieutenant Murray 25 cts. 
               The Queen of the Sea. A tale of Love, Strife and Chivalry. By Ned Buntline 25 cts. 
               The Gipsey: or, The Bobbers of Naples. By Lieutenant Murray 25 cts. 
               Nell Noell, the Light-Keeper's Treasure. By George P. Burnham 25 cts. 
               Aurora: or, The Sharpshooters' Scout. By Ben: Perley Poore 25 cts. 
               The King of the Sea. A tale of the Fearless and Free. By Ned Buntline 25 cts. 
               Alice, the Fisher Girl: or, The Old Man of the Wreck. By Austin C. Burdick. 25 cts. 
               The Prince Corsair. A Tale of the Indian Ocean. By Augustine J. H. Duganne 25 cts. 
               The Law Student: or, The Struggles of a Heart. By Oliver Bounderby 25 cts. 
               The Infant Bride of Truxillo. By Sylvanus Cobb, Jr 25 cts. 
               Bianca: or, The Star of the Talley. By Augustine J. H Duganne 25 cts. 
               The Juggler of Nankin: or, The Grandee's Plot. By Sylvanus Cobb, Jr 25 cts. 
               The Duke's Prize. A story of Art and Heart in Florence. By Lieutenant Murray 25 cts. 
               The Roman Soprano: or. The Captain of the Swiss Guard. By Charles G. Rosenberg 25 cts. 
               The Royal Greens: or, The Scout of the Susquehanna. By Dr. J. H. Robinson 25 cts. 
               Henry La Nuit: or, The Foundling of the castle of Estella. By Austin C. Burdick 25 cts. 
               The Royal Yacht: or, Logan the Warlock. By Sylyanus Cobb, Jr 25 cts. 
               The Russian Guardsman. By Ben: Perley Poore 25 cts. 
               Ivan, the Serf: or, The Russian and the Circassian. By Austin C. Burdick 25 cts. 
               The Magician of Naples: or Love and Necromancy. By Lieutenant Murray 25 cts. 
               Olivia Trevett: or, The Patriot Cruiser. By Sylvanus Cobb, Jr. 25 cts. 
               The Maid of the Ranche: or, The Regulators and Moderators. By Dr. J. H. Robinson 25 cts. 
               The Ocean Martyr: or, The Hunster Spy of Virginia. By Austin C. Burdick 25 cts. 
               The Naval Officer: or, The Pirate's Cave. By Lieutenant Murray 25 cts. 
               Lionel Ainsworth: or, The Young Partisan's Doom. By Mrs. Caroline Orne 25 cts. 
               The Red Revenger: or, The Pirate King of the Floridas. By Ned Buntline 25 cts. 
               Fanny Campbell: or, The Female Pirate Captain. By Leutenant Murray 25 cts. 
               The Black Avenger of the Spanish Main. By Ned Buntline 25 cts. 
               Drosendorf: or, The Wild Mountain Chieftain. By Sylvanus Cobb. Jr. 25 cts. 
               Rosalette: or, The Flower Girl of Paris. By Lieutenant Murray 25 cts. 
               The Golden Eagle: or, The Privateer of '76. By Sylvanus Cobb. Jr. 25 cts. 
               Claude the Artist: or, Rivalries of Art and Heart. By Ben: Perley Poore 25 cts. 
               Angela: or, The Convent of Santa Clara. By Dr. J. H. Robinson 25 cts. 
               The Rival Brothers: or, The Corsair and Privateer. By Henry P. Cheever 25 cts. 
               Rosina Meadows, the Village Maid: or, Temptations Unveiled. By William B. English 25 cts. 
               The Sea Lion: or, The Privateer of the Penobscot. By Austin C. Burdick 25 cts. 
               Roderick the Rover: or, The Spirit of the Wave. By Lieutenant Murray 25 cts. 
               The Silver Bell: or, The Heir of Moteombe Manor. By Dr. J. H. Robinson 25 cts. 
               Hildebrand: or, The Buccaneer and the Cardinal. By Austin C. Burdick 25 cts. 
               Conrado de Beltran: or, The Buccaneer of the Gulf. By F. Clinton Barrington 25 cts. 
               The Knight of the Silver Cross: or, Hafed the Lion of Turkestan. By Edgar W. Davies, Jr., Our $1,000 prize tale. 280 pages. Price, in paper, 50 cents; in cloth 75 cts. 
               Paolina; or, The Sybil of the Arno. A Tale of the Time of Cosmo III. By Martha Ann Clough. Our $500 prize tale. 280 pages 50 cts., 
               Dark Sybil: or, The Fortunes of the Catherwoods. By Aria Ashland 25 cts. 
               Hermione: or, The Founding of St. Antoine. By Fred Hunter 25 cts. 
               Gregory's History of Mexico, from the Earliest Time to the Present. By Samuel Gregory, A. M. 25 cts. 
             
            All the above-named publications may be obtained at all the Periodical Depots, and of the News Agents in any part of the United States and the Canadas. 
            EIGHT of the 25 cent books will be sold for $1 00. Select from the above, and the books will be sent according to wish, either by mail or by express. 
            All orders will receive prompt attention at either of the above places. 
          
       
   
